Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3168-YEM
Development Credit Agreement
(Second Public Works Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated February 12, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3168-YEM 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated February 12, 1999, between the REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) 
and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
A new paragraph (12) is added to Section 2.01 to read as set forth below, 
and the existing paragraphs (12) through (14) of said Section are accordingly 
Page  2
renumbered as paragraphs (13) through (15):
“12.
‘Participating Country’ means any country that the Association 
determines 
meets the requirements set forth in Section 10 of Resolution No. 
183 of the Board of 
Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 
1996; and ‘Participating Countries’ means, 
collectively, all such countries.”
(b)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories 
of any country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by a 
decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth, and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“Environmental Management Plan” means the Borrower’s environmental 
management plan dated November 4, 1998, aimed at assuring: (i) the adequate 
development of a screening process to identify any potential negative environment 
impact under the Project and undertake mitigation measures to reduce any such impacts; 
(ii) the implementation of a practical monitoring program to determine the 
effectiveness and timeliness of said interventions; and (iii) the carrying out of 
effective capacity building and training activities so as to improve environmental 
awareness and sensitivity among Project staff, counterpart agencies and beneficiaries;
(b)
"Investment Program" means a quarterly investment program consisting of 
Subprojects (as hereinafter defined) identified and appraised in accordance with the 
Manual of Procedures (as hereinafter defined) and referred to in paragraph (3) (b) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(c)
"Manual of Procedures" means the manual of the PMU (as hereinafter 
defined) specifying the managerial, financial, administrative, engineering and 
environmental policies and procedures for the execution of the Project and the 
eligibility criteria for selection of Subprojects (as hereinafter defined);
(d)
“Performance Indicators” means the performance indicators agreed with the 
Association to be utilized by the Borrower to measure the progress in the carrying out 
of the Project and the degree to which the objectives thereof are being achieved, and 
referred to in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(e)
"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established by the Borrower for 
the implementation of the Public Works Project (Credit Number 2878-YEM) and referred 
to in paragraph 3 (a) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(f)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(g)
"Staff Service Rules" means the rules issued by the Steering Committee 
(as hereinafter defined) dated July 14, 1996, specifying the employment and personnel 
policies of the PMU;
(h)
"Steering Committee" means the Committee established and operating 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 3 of 1996, and referred to in paragraph 2 (a) of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(i)
"Subproject" means a specific development activity to be carried out 
under Part A of the Project utilizing the proceeds of the Credit.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to thirty five million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR35,600,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 1 and July 1 commencing July 1, 2009, and ending January 1, 2039. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on January 1, 2019, shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
Page  4
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five (5) years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, community, engineering, environmental, financial, managerial and 
technical practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project.
(b)
Furthermore, before November 1 of each year commencing November 1, 1999, 
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its review and comments, an 
estimate of: (i) the operational costs of the PMU for the subsequent year; and (ii) 
the counterpart funding required to be provided by the Borrower out of its own 
resources for Subprojects to be carried out during the subsequent year.
(c)
Taking into account the comments of the Association, the Borrower shall: 
(i) ensure that adequate annual budgetary allocations are made prior to February 1 of 
each year to cover the counterpart funding required for the Subprojects to be 
implemented during such year; and (ii) deposit each quarter into a separate bank 
account the counterpart funds identified in the quarterly Project management reports 
referred to in Section 4.02 (a) of this Agreement.
(d)
Moreover, the Borrower shall carry out the Environmental Management Plan 
with due diligence and efficiency and take all actions required on its behalf to 
ensure the effectiveness thereof.
(e)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and 
(d) of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation 
Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the works, goods, and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Page  5
Association, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements, all in accordance 
with accounting standards acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
adequate to reflect its operations and financial condition and to register separately 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts for the Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, 
(A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section, for 
such year as so audited, 
and (B) an opinion on such statements and report of 
such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association 
shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records, 
accounts and financial statements, and the audit 
thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one (1) year after the Association has 
received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) 
evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
Section 4.02.  (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of 
this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to 
the Association for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to 
in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than 
March 1, 2000, or such later date as the Association shall agree, to prepare quarterly 
Project management reports, acceptable to the Association, each of which:
Page  6
(i)
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit during the period covered by said 
report and 
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by said 
report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than forty-five (45) days 
after the end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana’a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address:
Telex:
CENPLAN
2266 CENPLAN YE
Sana’a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Page  7
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN 
By /s/ Ahmed M. Sofan 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jayanta Roy 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
  30,200,000
85%
(2)
Goods
     350,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 95% of local 
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
   2,900,000
100%
Services
(4)
PMU’s 
   1,800,000
100%
Operational Costs
(5)
Unallocated
     350,000
   _________
TOTAL
  35,600,000
  ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for works, goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  8
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
and
(c)
the term “operational costs” means expenditures under Part C of the 
Project incurred to finance the staffing and functioning costs of the PMU, the 
procurement and acquisition of office equipment, supplies and vehicles therefor, fuel 
and maintenance of vehicles, and travel and per diems of the members of the Steering 
Committee for attendance of its meetings.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (i) works, under 
contracts costing less than $200,000 equivalent each; (ii) goods, under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; (iii) services of consulting firms and 
services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $50,000 
equivalent each, and (iv) Operating Costs, all under such terms and conditions as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower to carry out poverty 
alleviation measures, targeted to the country’s poor communities, to create jobs and 
to provide needed infrastructure so as to improve services and environmental 
conditions affecting in particular women and children.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Community Infrastructure
Carrying out of Subprojects in selected rural and urban areas to construct, 
upgrade, rehabilitate and maintain community infrastructure, including: (i) potable 
water reservoirs and small water systems; (ii) sewerage, storm drainage and flood 
protection systems; (iii) roads and sidewalks; (iv) schools and health centers; and 
(v) other high-priority small-scale development activities.
Part B:
Technical Assistance
Provision of technical assistance to design and implement a program aimed at 
ensuring the sustainability of Part A of the Project, including: (i) assistance to 
concerned local communities and governments in the preparation of proposals to 
adequately identify Subprojects for financing; (ii) preparation of feasibility 
studies, engineering design and tender documentation for Subproject proposal; (iii) 
supervision of construction during Subproject execution; (iv) benefit assessment 
surveys; (v) support for auditing of PMU; (vi) training and workshops in the area of 
Project implementation for consulting firms and contractors; (vii) preparation of 
environmental assessments and design of mitigation measures and monitoring systems 
thereof; and (viii) other technical advisory services necessary to improve the 
Borrower’s capacities in community infrastructure sustainability, including training 
to the PMU staff.
Part C:
Project Management
Implementation of a program designed to strengthen the administrative, financial 
and technical management capacities of the PMU and thereby further improve the 
selection, appraisal, supervision and post-evaluation of Subprojects and the overall 
positive impact of the Project, including provision of office equipment and vehicles.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
Page  9
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) in January 1995 and 
revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Other Procurement Procedures
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 4 of this Part B, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 3 of this Part B, goods shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Community Participation
Works required for Subprojects estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent 
each and to be carried out by community-based organizations, may be procured in 
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association, as set forth in the Manual 
of Procedures.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to each contract for: (i) works, estimated to cost the equivalent 
of $200,000 or more; and (ii) goods, estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part C, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Page  10
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for technical assistance under Part B of 
the Project, estimated to cost less than $200,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for under Part B (i) of the Project which are estimated to cost less 
than $50,000 equivalent per contract, may, with the Association's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for under Part B (iv) of the Project and tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part D, the 
Page  11
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall carry out the Project through the Steering Committee and the 
PMU in accordance with the Manual of Procedures, as such Manual may be updated from 
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association.
2.
(a)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper coordination and execution of the 
Project, the Borrower shall maintain the Steering Committee throughout Project 
implementation, with membership and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Association.
(b)
The functions of said Steering Committee shall include, inter alia:
(i)
responsibility for investigation and recommendation of solutions 
to issues 
arising in the course of carrying out the Project;
(ii)
entering into and termination of contracts for high-level staff of 
the PMU in 
accordance with the Staff Service Rules as stipulated by the 
Steering Committee;
(iii)
review and approval of the annual budget for the operation of the 
PMU and of 
Investment Programs;
(iv)
review each contract for the provision of goods and the carrying 
out of civil 
works with a value of $200,000 or more prior to conclusion 
thereof by the PMU;
(v)
appointment and termination of auditors and review of auditor's 
reports; and
(vi)
review of annual staff performance reviews to be carried out in 
accordance 
with the Staff Service Rules by January 31 of each 
Fiscal Year.
3.
(a)
For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision of the execution of 
the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU throughout Project implementation 
with organization, staffing and terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU will:
(i)
prepare quarterly Investment Programs consisting of Subprojects 
that have been 
appraised in accordance with the Manual of 
Procedures;
(ii)
prepare summary environmental assessments identifying any 
potential adverse 
environmental effects to be produced by proposed 
Subprojects;
(iii)
furnish to the Association proposed Investment Programs for its 
approval;
(iv)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to review such 
proposed Investment 
Programs;
(v)
conclude contracts for the provision of goods and the carrying out 
of civil 
works whose value shall be less than $200,000 without the 
need to seek prior 
approval of the Steering Committee;
(vi)
exchange views with the Borrower and the PMU on said proposals; 
and
(vii)
thereafter, carry out said Investment Programs, as approved by the 
Page  12
Association, including measures to screen and 
mitigate any adverse 
environmental effects.
4.
For purposes of Part A (vi) of the Project, the Borrower shall, from time to 
time:
(a)
propose to the Association, for its review and approval, the financing 
out of the proceeds of the Credit of other activities that have a high labor content 
and positive impacts on the Borrower's economy, social development, education, health 
and environment; and
(b)
upon the Association's approval of any such proposal, the Borrower, 
through the PMU, shall arrange for the identification and appraisal of the 
corresponding Subprojects, to be submitted for the Association's approval as provided 
in Paragraph 3 (b) of this Schedule.
5.
(a)
The Borrower shall enter into agreements satisfactory to the Association 
with governmental organizations (including any local government agency of the 
Borrower), non-governmental organizations, community organizations, or private firms 
that are selected for the purposes of carrying out Subprojects, providing, inter alia, 
for: (i) the institutional and operational arrangements to be undertaken for the 
preparation of the Subprojects; (ii) their obligation to carry out the Subprojects 
with due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate managerial, 
administrative, engineering, environmental and financial practices; and (iii) the 
establishment and maintenance of separate records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operation, resources and expenditures 
in respect of each Subproject.
(b)
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not 
amend or fail to enforce the provisions of the agreements referred to in paragraph (a) 
of this paragraph.
6.
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; and
(b)
without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Sections 9.01 
and 9.06 (a) of the General Conditions, furnish the following reports, of such scope 
and in such detail as the Association may reasonably request:
(i)
quarterly reports on the progress achieved in the execution of the 
Project, 
including quarterly audit reports, within one (1) month 
after  the end of each 
reporting period;
(ii)
not later than January 31 of each year of Project implementation, 
a report 
integrating the results of the aforementioned 
quarterly progress reports, 
including a review of the 
Performance Indicators and setting out the measures 
recommended to 
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the subsequent period;
(c)
review with the Association, not later than February 28 of each year 
until completion of the Project, or such later date as the Association shall request, 
the report referred to in subparagraph (b) (ii) hereof, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient implementation and completion of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of said report and the Association's views on the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
Page  13
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of works, goods and services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $4,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the Association 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, 
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit 
into the Special Account 
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and 
as shall have been 
shown by said documents and other evidence to have been 
paid 
out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such deposits 
shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
Page  14
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be 
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that 
all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, 
no further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
