Page  1
August 2, 1999
H. E. Dr. Ahmed Mohamed Sofan 
Minister of Planning and Development 
Ministry of Planning and Development 
P.O. Box 175 
Sana’a,  
Republic of Yemen
Re:
Second Public Works Project (Credit No. 3168-YEM)
Amendment to Development Credit Agreement          
Excellency:
We refer to the Development Credit Agreement relating to the Second Public Works 
Project (the Project) between the Republic of Yemen (the "Borrower") and the 
International Development Association (the "Association"), dated February 12, 1999 
(the "Credit Agreement").  We also refer to the Borrower's request dated July 3, 1999, 
to allow the Project to disburse according to Project Management Reports.  
Accordingly, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:
1.
Section 1.02 is modified as follows:
(A)
Paragraph (f) will read as follows:
""Special Account" means the account referred to Part B of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement";
(B)
In paragraph (h) the word "and" at the end is deleted;
(C)
In paragraph (i) the period "." is deleted and a semicolon ";" is added; 
and
(D)
New paragraphs (j), (k) and (l) are added to read as follows:
"(j)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1), (2), (3) and (4) set 
forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(k)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for works, goods 
and services 
referred to in Section 2.02(a) of this Agreement; and
(l)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in 
accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement."
2.
Section 2.02 (b) is deleted
3.
Sections 4.01 and 4.02 are amended to read as follows:
"Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management 
system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements 
in a format acceptable to  the Association, adequate to reflect the operations, 
resources and expenditures related to 
the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred 
to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and 
accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards 
acceptable to the Association, consistently applied, 
by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
Page  2
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any 
case not 
later than six months after the end of each such 
year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial statements 
referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for such year as 
so audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning 
such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and 
concerning said 
auditors, as the Association may from 
time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the 
Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with 
paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts 
reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has 
received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the 
annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that 
the report of 
such audit contains a separate opinion 
by said auditors as to whether 
the Project Management Reports 
submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall prepare, in accordance with guidelines 
acceptable to 
the Association, and furnish to the Association not later than 45 
days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, a Project management report for 
such period, which:
(a)
(i)
sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and 
applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered  by said report and (ii) shows separately 
expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the 
Credit during the period covered 
by said report and expenditures proposed to be financed out 
of the proceeds of 
the Credit during the six-month period following the period covered by 
said report;
(b)
(i)
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and (ii) 
explains variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(c)
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, as at the 
end of the period covered by 
said report."
4.
Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows:
"SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit 
Page  3
A.
General
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works 
   30,200,000
85% 
(2)
Goods
      350,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures (ex-factory
cost) and 95% of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
(3)
Consultants’
    2,900,000
100%
Services
(4)
PMU’s 
    1,800,000
100%
Operational Costs
(5)
Unallocated
      350,000
   __________
TOTAL
   35,600,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for works, goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower;
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for works, goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
and
(c)
the term “operational costs” means expenditures under Part C of the 
Project incurred to finance the staffing and functioning costs of the PMU, the 
procurement and acquisition of office equipment, supplies and vehicles therefor, fuel 
and maintenance of vehicles, and travel and per diems of the members of the Steering 
Committee for attendance of its meetings.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in United States dollars a special deposit 
account in its Central Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.  
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.  Payments out of 
the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.  For each 
payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such 
time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
2.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, after the Association has 
received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been duly opened, 
withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special 
Page  4
Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account shall be 
supported by a Project Management Report.
(b)
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the 
Credit, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit 
Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (i) the 
amount so requested; and (ii) the amount which the Association has determined, based 
on the Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be 
deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period 
following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, 
when added to the amount indicated by said report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $7,000,000.  Each such deposit into the 
Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account under 
one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Association determines at any time that any Project Management 
Report does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 
of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Association determines at any time that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01(b)(ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account or (B) 
the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
4.
The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any 
time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in 
whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account 
pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  Upon such notification, the 
Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the 
Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
5.
(a)
If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, 
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the 
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such 
payment.
(b)
If the Association determines at any time that any amount outstanding in 
the Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) 
of this paragraph 5 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal 
or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Development Credit 
Agreement.
Annex to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals Are Made 
Page  5
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Association may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into the 
Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. 
Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from 
the Credit Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Credit Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the 
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and 
deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so 
requested; and (b) the amount which the Association has determined, based on the 
Project Management Report accompanying said application, is required to be deposited 
in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the 
date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to 
the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special 
Account, shall not exceed the equivalent of $7,000,000."
5.
Schedule 5 is deleted.
6.
All the terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement that have not been amended 
hereby shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect. \0c Please confirm your 
agreement with the foregoing by signing and dating the confirmation on the enclosed 
copy of this Letter Amendment and returning it to the Association.
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Tufan Kolan
Acting Country Director
Middle East Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
AGREED AND CONFIRMED:
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Ahmed Mohamed Sofan
Signed by /s/ Vice Minister MOPD
Date:  August 8, 1999
