Document of
The World Bank                    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2976-SU
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
March 4, 1981
This docment has a restricted distbution and may be used by recipients only In the perfornance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authsorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit          X  Sudanese Pound (LSd)                    100 piasters
Official Market                                Parallel Market
US$1.00  = LSd 0.50                             US$1.00  =  LSd 0.80
LSd 1.00 = US$2.00                              LSd 1.00 =  US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fd)                 =  1.04 acre               =  0.42 hectare (ha)
1 Kantar (K) (seed cotton)   =  143.5 kilograms (kg)   -  316 pounds (lbs)
1 Kantar (cotton lint)        =  45.4 kg                  =  100 pounds
1 litre                       =  0.26 US gallon           =  0.22 Imperial Gallon
1 metric ton                  =  1000 kg                  =  2202.6 lbs
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF        -   African Development Fund
ARP         -   Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
BNAC        -   Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation
BOS         -   Bank of Sudan
CPC         -   Cotton Public Corporation of Sudan
EAP         -   Export Action Program
EMC         -   Earthmoving Corporation
GOS         -   Government of Sudan
MOA         -   Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
MOI         -   Ministry of Irrigation
PAPC        -   Public Agricultural Production Corporation
PDU         -   Planning and Development Unit of BNAC
PPPR        -   Policy Planning and Performance Department
PEWC        -   Public Electricity and Water Corporation
SOC         -   Sudan Oilseeds Company
TCU         -   Tenants' Credit Unit
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government established a dual exchange rate
system: An official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound and parallel
market rate of US$1.25 per pound. Valuation of virtually all imports for
customs purposes was changed to the new official rate (LSdl= US$2.00)
from the previous official rate (LSdl - US$2.50). On September 21, 1980
the Government moved to the parallel market all exports except cotton and
all imports except wheat, sugar, petroleum products, medicines and inputs
for cotton production.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEME REHABILITATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Beneficiary:        Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation; and Public Electricity
and Water Corporation
Amount:             SDR 25.1 million (US$32.0 million equivalent)
Terms:              Standard
Onlending Terms:   To BNAC, at 9 percent per annum, for 20 years including
5 years of grace and to PEWC for the same period at 12
percent interest.
Project             The proposed project would, over a five year period, facili-
Description:       tate the rehabilitation of the Shasheina Region and provide
agricultural machinery and workshops for cotton cultivation
in the rest of the BNAC area. The project, situated on
both sides of the Blue Nile river from about 30 kms upstream
of Singa to Sennar, would cover 52,500 feddans and about
50,000 feddans respectively inside and outside the Shasheina
Region. The project would improve levels of productivity,
particularly for cotton (in both regions), sorghum, ground-
nuts and vegetables and introduce fodder crop for livestock
(in Shasheina only). As a result, cotton exports would be
increased, incomes for the BNAC and the tenants would rise
and the schemes would once again be placed on a sound
management and financial footing. This would be achieved
through provision of (i) agricultural machinery, equipment
and spare parts; (ii) new pumphouses and improved irriga-
tion distribution systems; (iii) buildings for administra-
tion, workshops and staff housing; (iv) operating vehicles
and a telecommunications network; (v) service roads and
potable water supply; and (vi) technical assistance and
consultancy services for strengthening management for
project implementation and operation. The success of the
project will hinge on the attainment of the projected
yield3, especially for cotton and this factor constitutes
the !rreatest risk. Other risks include the assumption on
cotton prices, delays in project benefits, the size of the
cotton area and finally organization of the debt and cost
recovery system. Adequate provision has been made in the
project design to minimize these risks.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Summary of Project Costs:
Major Elements                                  US$ Million
Local     Foreign      Total
Water Supply, Irrigation and Water
Distribution Improvements                    8.7        12.8        21.5
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment           0.9         6.1          7.0
Buildings                                      3.2         3.2         6.4
Roads                                          0.1         0.3         0.4
Potable Water Supply                           0.2         0.3         0.5
Electrification                                0.3         0.8         1.1
Telecommunications                              -          0.1         0.1
Operating Vehicles and Miscellaneous
Equipment                                    0.5         1.6         2.1
Management, Administration and Studies         0.1         3.5         3.6
Incremental Farm Inputs                        0.5         1.5         2.0
Total Baseline Costs                          14.5       30.2         44.7
Contingencies
Physical                                    1.7        3.0          4.7
Price                                       9.1        8.8         17.9
Total Project Costs                           25.3       42.0         67.3
Financing:                                    US$ Million
Local Foreign Total
IDA                                  -      32.0    32.0
AfDB                                 -       10.0    10.0
Government                         25.3        -     25.3 1/
Total                           25.3     42.0    67.3
Estimated Disbursements for IDA Credit:
US$ Million
IDA Fiscal Year:           1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
Annual                       2.0    6.8    7.8    7.9    5.5    2.0
Cumulative                   2.0    8.8   16.6   24.5   30.0   32.0
Rate of Return:    32 percent
Appraisal Report: No. 3085-SU, February 27, 1981
Map:                IBRD 15217
1/   Includes project induced duties and taxes estimated at US$8.0 million
equivalent.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND REC:Th$VSNDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
FOR THE BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit for the SDR 25.1 million (US$32 million equivalent) to the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan to help finance the Blue Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilita-
tion Project. The credit would be on standard IDA terms. Most of the
proceeds would be onlent to the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC)for
20 years, including 5 years of grace, with interest at 9 percent per annum;
the remainder would be onlent to the Public Electricity and Water Corporation
at 12 percent per annum for the same period. The African Development Fund
(AfDF) is providing cofinancing, on a parallel basis, totaling about US$10
million equivalent on the same terms as the IDA Credit.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic updating mission visited Sudan in November, 1978 and
in mid-1979; its report (No. 2652-SU) was circulated on October 24, 1979.
Major conclusions are reflected in this report along with the principal
findings of an economic mission which visited the country in January/February
1981. The report of the latter mission will be issued shortly. Summary
tables of social, economic and financial data are presented in Annex I.
Background
3.        Sudan, with an area of 2.5 million square kilometers, is the
largest country in Africa.  It has a population of about 17 million and is
classified by the UN as a least developed country. Per capita GNP is
estimated at about US$370 (1979 Atlas methodology) 1/. Much of the country
is unoccupied or very sparsely populated and there is relatively little
population pressure on the land.  Although much of the country is desert or
semi-desert, the Sudan has great untapped potential for agricultural develop-
ment. About two-thirds of the total land area is suitable for crop or
pastoral production, but only a small fraction of this land is under inten-
sive use. The economy is heavily dependent on exports of cotton, the major
commodity from irrigated land, and on groundnuts, sesame and gum arabic.
The manufacturing sector is relatively small and is limited to processing
agricultural commodities such as cotton, oil seeds and sugar and to the pro-
duction of consumer goods and building materials. A development of potential
1/   Based on the official exchange rate, which now applies only to a limited
group of products (ref. para. 16). Per capita GNP values at the parallel
exchange rate would be about US$220.



- 2 -
significance to Sudan's prospects is the discovery of oil reserves in the
southwestern part of the country. Proven reserves are not large enough for
export production. However, they are large enough to help satisfy part of
the country's domestic requirements and a development project to meet this
objective is now being considered. The public sector has long been important
in the Sudanese economy. It embraces all modern irrigation facilities, the
railways, virtually all power and water supply and a significant proportion of
industry, commerce and finance. Although some industrial enterprises are
being returned to the private sector, about half of the GDP is still generated
within the public sector.
Past Performance
4.        Following the Addis Ababa accord of 1972, which brought an end to
the civil war in Sudan, the Government began to focus on the country's develop-
ment needs. Government's development objectives were stated clearly for the
first time in 1973 in an Interim Action Program, which aimed mainly at removing
the severe infrastructural bottlenecks, attaining self-sufficiency in a number
of consumer goods and expanding agricultural exports to increase foreign
exchange earnings. Prospects for financing this program through external
assistance looked very hopeful, particularly from Arab oil-exporting countries,
which at the time regarded Sudan as the future "breadbasket" of the Arab
world. Government development expenditure did expand rapidly, from LSd 42
million in 1973/74 to around LSd 170 million per year on average during the
last three years, and it was generally directed towards high priority sectors.
Substantial amounts of foreign capital were forthcoming -- over the five years
1974-78 total commitments amounted to almost US$3 billion --, but the amounts
fell short of what was required, while limited absorptive capacity slowed
disbursements and delayed seriously the completion of the projects. Today,
despite several years of accelerated development effort, GDP is now virtually
stagnating and the country is financially much worse off than when the develop-
ment thrust began.
The Current Crisis
5.        The most immediate problem facing Sudan is the balance of payments
crisis. Between 1973/74 and 1975/76, the deficit on current account increased
from US$65 million to about US$550 million and remained between US$450 and
US$550 million until 1980 when the combination of a doubling of oil prices and
a serious decline in cotton production pushed the current account deficit to
over US$700 million. In spite of high levels of external aid commitments,
disbursements actually declined between 1976 and 1978. Gross official reserves
have fallen from a level equivalent to two months' imports in 1974 to only a
few days worth of imports today. External payments arrears had accumulated to
a level of about $1.2 billion by September 1979, and have probably increased
since then.
6.        The crisis is largely the consequence of inadequate economic manage-
ment policies compounded by external factors, such as the sharply increased
cost of petroleum imports, which have constrained Government's ability to



respond quickly with effective remedial action. Adverse developments in
foreign trade were accompanied by other adverse forces -- reduced flows of
external capital after 1976, mounting debt problems and absorptive capacity
difficulties.
7.        The rapid increase in the value of imports came about partially
because of the sharp increase in oil prices and the steep rate of interna-
tional inflation, particularly in 1974 and 1975. Though there was a sharp
rise in real terms between 1974 and 1975 imports have increased at the much
more moderate pace since then of about 2 to 3 percent a year on average.
Exports, however, declined in real terms by some 13 percent between 1970 and
1977. The decline was concentrated in cotton and this occurred because of a
shift from cotton to other crops and also because of falling cotton yields.
The volume of cotton exports today is about one third lower than in 1971.
Transport difficulties and other infrastructural problems contributed to this
decline, as did declining maintenance in many public irrigation schemes.
8.        The rise in development expenditures after 1973 was financed in
large measure by external capital but because of the absorptive problems
disbursements of this capital declined unexpectedly after the first few years
dropping from $563 million in 1974 to $156 million in 1977. Because of the
slow disbursements and accumulating arrears, external donors became less
willing to make new commitments. Sudan faced a difficult choice: either to
cut back on projects just started or to maintain the projects by running down
foreign exchange reserves and borrowing from banks or other sources abroad.
The Government decided to try to sustain the development effort by using
reserves and by borrowing heavily on relatively hard terms. Gross interna-
tional reserves declined from $124 million at the end of 1974 to $33 million
at the end of 1979/80, enough for only a few days of imports. As foreign
reserves ran out, the accumulation of arrears became unavoidable. Meanwhile,
annual external public debt service obligations increased from $55 million in
1973 to about $300 million at present. The debt service burden as a propor-
tion of exports of goods and services increased in those years from 12 percent
to over 30 percent. The reasons were (a) the huge amount of external borrow-
ing in 1974-77 and (b) the fact that a large proportion of the borrowing was
on relatively hard terms. This unfavorable debt profile has not only led to a
very difficult debt service burden but also has critical implications for
future debt service obligations (ref. para. 23).
9.        Sudan's balance of payments problems reflect a number of fundamental
deficiencies in absorptive capacity, and in economic policies. For example,
the inadequacies and unreliability of the transport system, which in a country
the size of Sudan is absolutely crucial for effective development, remains a
serious constraint on implementation capacity. Because of the scarcity of
foreign exchange, maintenance of the capital stock has been insufficient.
These and other infrascructure bottlenecks have been exacerbated by an exodus
of qualified Sudanese managers and craftsmen to the oil producing Arab coun-
tries.



- 4 -
10.       A major reason behind Sudan's current troubles has been the wide-
spread price distortions in the agricultural sector, which have hampered
expansion in output, particularly of cotton. This, in turn, has jeopardized
export performance and resulted in a net drain on the central government
reserves for the past five years. Although the exchange rate has been
adjusted several times in recent years, cotton has generally received a
relatively unfavorable effective rate compared to other products.
11.       The system of explicit and implicit disincentives to growing cotton
also has helped make the situation worse. For example, under the historic
profit sharing formulae, in the main irrigation schemes, the expenses of all
crops are generally deducted from the proceeds of cotton sales alone. Returns
from other crops, accrue to the tenant, giving them a strong disincentive to
growing cotton, despite the fact that the country's international comparative
advantage is greatest in that crop.
12.       The structural weakness in Sudan's public sector finances became
increasingly pronounced during the course of the 1970s. Sharp increases
in expenditures were not matched by increases in revenue. The consequent
sharp rise in public sector demands on the domestic banking system led to a
rapid acceleration in the growth of money supply, which peaked at 43 percent
in 1976/77. This in turn contributed to an acceleration in annual price
increases from 6 or 7 percent in the early 1970s to over 20 percent in
more recent years. Most of the increases in current expenditures have been
for social and community services, transfers to local government and general
administration. The sharp increases in general administration expenditures
are due in large part to wages and salaries of civilians in the central
government, cost of living subsidies and extra-budgetary expenditures. On the
revenue side, tax revenues have increased over the past few years; since
the tax system is relatively inelastic, this increase has been made possible
only with frequent new tax measures.
13.       Another contributing factor to Sudan's current crisis is the poor
performance of the public enterprises, which dominate all non-traditional
activities in the country. These enterprises have not contributed to economic
development as expected. Instead of yielding surpluses, they have relied
on the central Government and domestic borrowing to cover their deficits.
A study of the public enterprises was carried out in 1977 by a team consisting
of Government, University of Khartoum, private sector and Bank Group represen-
tatives; the final report was issued in April 1978. The main shortcomings of
the public enterprises, as portrayed in the report, included poor management,
inadequate internal organization and control, contradictory and unclear
objectives and often changing relations with ministries and departments.
Policy Changes
14.       Against this background of serious payments imbalances and general
economic crisis stemming from structural maladjustments in production and
trade, the Government in the last two years has taken several significant
decisions aimed at re-establishing financial equilibrium and restoring the
economy's development momentum.



- 5 -
(a) Financial Stabilization and IMF Agreements
15.       In June '978, a stabilization program was announced as part of an
agreement with the IMF that involved a drawdown of 51 million SDRs. The
agreement included a devaluation of the Sudanese pound, effectively by 25
percent, and declarations of intent by the Government to keep deficit financing
and short and medium term foreign borrowing within certain limits. Also, the
Government announced that the pricing system in the irrigated agriculture
sector would be reformed and that land and water charges would be imposed on
most crops. In May 1979, agreement was reached on a set of policy actions to
be taken by Government in order to obtain access to a three year Extended Fund
Facility (EFF) for SDR 200 million. The policy actions involve essentially an
extension of those agreed as part of the Fund standby in June 1978. Simul-
taneously with these developments, the Government has taken steps -- abolition
of the cotton export tax, institution of land and water charges, revamping of
agricultural production relationships -- which should help considerably to
recast the pattern of financial incentives in the agriculture sector along
lines that are consistent with Sudan's comparative advantage in international
trade.
16.       On September 16, 1979, the Government enacted additional significant
measures with respect to the exchange rate system. These were as follows:
(i) establishment of an official rate of US$2 per Sudanese pound, with valua-
tion of all imports for customs purposes changed to the new official rate;
(ii) abolishment of a special incentive rate for remittances and establishment
of a parallel exchange market with an initial rate of LSd 1 = US$1.25; and
(iii) agreement to allow residents and nonresidents to have current accounts
with Sudanese banks denominated in foreign exchange. Under this system,
some 90 percent of exports, 70 percent of imports, and all official invisibles,
cash loans and debt service were to have come under the official rate while
all other transactions would be under the parallel market rate. It is believed
that the availability of interest-bearing domestic accounts denominated in
foreign currency will encourage the flow of private sector funds to the Sudan,
especially from expatriate Sudanese working abroad. On September 21, 1980,
the Government decided to apply the parallel market rate to all exports except
cotton and all imports except petroleum, wheat, sugar, medicines and inputs to
cotton production.
17.       Subsequently, on November 12, 1980, the Fund Board approved a
second year program under the EFF. The program includes important measures
to improve the incentives for cotton production, to reform further the ex-
change system and to limit credit expansion in the economy to a level which
is consistent with a substantial reduction in the rate of inflation. The
exchange system reform involves basically a further widening of the scope
of operations under the parallel market (ref. para 16); the proportion of
exports channeled through the parallel market has been increased from about
6 percent to about 64 percent and of imports from about 48 percent to about



- 6 -
56 percent. The objective of the second year financial program under the EFF
is to achieve a further reduction in the rate of inflation to about 12 percent
by June, 1981. Approval of the second year program means that Sudan now has
access to a further 176 million SDR's under the EFF, 76 million of which was
disbursed immediately upon approval by the Fund Board and the remainder to be
made available in tranches, depending on Government performance.
(b) Export Promotion and Public Investment Programs
18.       An essential ingredient in the Government's stabilization program
is a concerted drive to increase foreign exchange earnings through increased
exports. This is being carried out under the Export Action Program (EAP),
initiated in mid-1979. The EAP is designed to raise the volume of cotton
exports at an average rate of 7 percent per annum during the period 1979-91.
Investments and actions towards this goal would also contribute to larger
exports of groundnut and sorghum, since these crops would also capture some of
the benefits of the program. The EAP comprises (a) a series of urgently
needed investments aimed mainly at satisfying immediate requirements for spare
parts, replacement equipment and inputs of various types, principally in the
major irrigation schemes where the chief export crops are grown (proceeds of
the recently approved Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP) (Credit No.
1000-SU) would help fulfill this aspect of the EAP); (b) a series of rehabi-
litation projects to be carried out in the 1980's, also in the irrigated
subsector (the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, (Credit 1022-SU),
approved in May, 1980 was the first of these); and (c) policy and other
actions such as institutional reform and revision of cost recovery systems
intended to provide a conducive framework for accelerated production. Some
of these actions have already been taken; others are being implemented as
part of the ARP Credit, still others will be done in the context of planned
rehabilitation projects.
19.       Simultaneously with the EAP, the Government has reduced the overall
development program, as reflected in the six year plan, to a more realistic
framework consistent with expected external and domestic financial resources.
The Government in 1979 completed the Three Year Public Investment Program,
for the period 1978/79-1980/81. The program has recently been updated to
cover the years 1980/81-1982/83. A central objective of this program is a
significant redirection in Sudan's development effort to those activities
that hold greatest promise for increasing exports and revenue. To that end, a
new interim strategy has been adopted which sets essentially two criteria for
the selection of development projects: (i) concentration on the completion of
ongoing projects, particularly those in the most productive sectors; and
(ii) limiting new undertakings to those that rehabilitate existing produc-
tion schemes or that help alleviate the major infrastructural bottlenecks.
The revised three year program also provides for a substantial reduction in
the total investment that had been envisioned in the plan for the three years;
this has brought resource requirements into line with resource availabilities.



-7-
(c) Public Corporations
20.       For sometime, a special inter-ministerial committee has been dis-
cussing the recommendations of the study group on public enterprises (ref.
para. 13); the Government has begun to take some action to help remedy the
situation. For example, in September, 1979, the Government announced the
abolition of a cumbersome and overly centralized corporate setup in agricul-
ture, and replaced it with more autonomous agricultural entities. Organiza-
tional changes are expected shortly in the industrial and commercial sectors
as well. This is only a beginning, however, with more reforms expected
in the near future.
(d) Management of External Debt
21.       As indicated earlier (ref. para. 8), Sudan's external debt burden
has been quite heavy for a number of years. The total disbursed outstanding
external debt at the end of 1978 amounted to more than US$2 billion and
scheduled debt service payments (principal and interest) for 1979 were almost
US$300 million (excluding payment of arrears). Until very recently, the
authority to engage in foreign borrowing and the administration of foreign
loans was scattered among many different ministries and agencies. The absence
of a central authority or unit which had a complete picture of the total debt
and which could render sound judgments on the appropriateness of various
foreign borrowing options further compounded the external debt problem. This
inefficiency has now been ameliorated through the decision to vest sole
authority for foreign borrowing with the Ministry of Finance. Also, a new
debt management unit in the Ministry of Finance became operational in 1979.
22.       Equally significant, however, are the moves to deal with the severe
debt and arrears problems. In November 1979, a Paris Club meeting was held on
the rescheduling of Sudan's debt. Participating countries (Austria, Belgium,
Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland, the
United Kingdom, the United States) and the Government reached agreement on (a)
a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts falling due before October 1, 1979
and not paid (arrears); and (b) a rescheduling or a refinancing of amounts
payable between October 1, 1979 and June 30, 1981 inclusive and not paid
(future debt service obligations). This will apply to loans from governments
or public agencies which had original maturities of more than one year and
which were concluded before January 1, 1979.
23.       The Paris Club accord involved rescheduling of about $350 million
worth of arrears (out of a total of about US$1.2 billion) and about $150
million of future debt service obligations. While the Paris Club agreements
were more generous in terms of period and percentage of debt service covered
than other such Paris C7ub agreements and reduced the country's financing gap
to more nearly manageat'e proportions in 1980 and 1981, they still fall short
of resolving Sudan's medium term external payments problems. For example,
negotiations must still be completed on the rescheduling of debt to commercial
banks. Such an agreement is expected in the near future, but even if all



-8-
external debt not covered by the Paris Club were to be rescheduled on the same
terms as those agreed by the Club in November 1979, Sudan's debt service ratio
for 1980 would be 20-25 percent; more conservative estimates of the reschedul-
ing terms indicate a debt service ratio of around 35 percent. Under either
set of assumptions, there would be a substantial improvement compared to the
ratio of over 50 percent that the nation would probably otherwise have faced.
As part of the effort to help the Government obtain the foreign assistance
required to maintain the development effort, the Bank Group convened a meeting
of the Sudan Consultative Group in Paris from April 9-11, 1980.
24.       The Bank/IDA share of Sudan-s medium and long-term debt service is
about 3 percent (based on scheduled liabilities for 1979) and of debt out-
standing and disbursed is almost 9 percent. We estimate that the Bank/IDA
share of debt service will drop to 2 percent in 1985 when the Bank/IDA share
of debt outstanding and disbursed would be about 15 percent.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE SUDAN
25.       World Bank Group gross commitments to Sudan to date total US$715.1
million. Of this, US$32.9 million are IFC commitments. There have been eight
loans (two on Third Window terms) and 25 credits for a total of 29 projects.
Nineteen projects are under implementation as well as one planning assistance
project, funded by UNDP and executed by the Bank. About 45 percent of the
total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development: three irriga-
tion projects; three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three smallholder
development projects, two in the southern region and one in the west; a live-
stock marketing project; an agricultural research project; an Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program and the New Halfa Rehabilitation project. Projects in
other sectors include: three power projects, two education projects, two
highway projects, a domestic aviation project, four railway projects, a port
project, a technical assistance credit and two credits to the Industrial Bank
of Sudan. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits
and IFC investments as of January 31, 1981 and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects.
26.       Physical progress in implementing development projects in Sudan has
been poor. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement,
fuel, timber, of which there are periodic shortages.  Belated delivery of
equipment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most
projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to the Middle
East oil rich states, where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on
effective preparation and implementation of projects. Largely as a result
of these problems, the Savannah Development Project (Credit 718 of June 24,
1977) has had to be redesigned into a much smaller pilot project; this pro-
posed change will shortly be submitted to the Executive Directors. Also, the
Domestic Aviation Project (Loan 1287-T; Credit 643 of July 7, 1976) has
encountered a serious cost overrun problem and may have to be terminated. The



- 9 -
future of this project is now being discussed with Government.  Beyond these
difficulties there are other shortcomings traceable to inordinately cumbersome
Government procedures. For example, there have been protracted delays in
getting parliamentary ratification of agreed development projects and, sub-
sequently, in obtaining legal opinions from Government. There have also been
inordinate delays in meeting effectiveness conditions, mainly because of
problems in establishing new institutions or project accounts, hiring key
staff, completing necessary legal documentation or concluding required co-
financing arrangements. These problems have been brought repeatedly to the
notice of Government authorities, and efforts are being intensified to help
resolve them.
Strategy
27.       Bank Group lending continues to emphasize agricultural and infra-
structural investments. For the near term, and in accordance with the Govern-
ment's current economic and development objectives, more importance will be
placed on the rehabilitation and intensification of existing irrigation
schemes and on helping to alleviate key infrastructure bottlenecks. The
objective here will essentially be to help the country generate increased
export earnings to support the recovery effort. The emphasis in Bank Group
lending will be in support of those activities that contribute prominently
to the rehabilitation of the economy, in particular those that help increase
exports and expand government revenues. In the interim, less emphasis will be
placed on equity considerations or on regional balance in investment programs.
Recent experience has demonstrated that projects that were designed in large
part to help meet equity, as well as productive and regional balance goals,
will very likely take much longer to implement because of problems of inade-
quate infrastructure, lack of skilled manpower, absence of reliable institu-
tional support.
28.       This lending strategy is fully consistent with the Government's
policies, as reflected in the Export Action Program and the Three Year
Public Investment Program (ref. paras. 18, 19). An Agricultural Rehabilita-
tion Program Credit and the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project, both
with the objective of helping the country generate increased export earnings
in order to help carry it through the stabilization period, and a third power
project were approved in FY1980. The presently proposed project, intended
to improve overall production in the pump schemes along the Blue Nile, repre-
sents a continuing effort to rehabilitate existing irrigation schemes.
Rehabilitation of another pump scheme project on the White Nile is being
proposed. Other projects under consideration include rehabilitation of the
Gezira irrigation scheme (Sudan's largest), an agricultural services project,
a second technical assistance credit to emphasize project implementation, a
second port project, a petroleum development project, a sugar rehabilitation
project and a river transport project.
Previous Bank Group Lending in Agriculture
29.       Since the first loan of US$15.5 million was approved in June 1960
for the Managil Irrigation Project (an extension of the Gezira scheme), the



- 10 -
Bank Group has approved a total of 14 lending operations totalling US$297.5
million for agriculture in Sudan. These operations have touched virtually
all subsectors: Irrigation (the Managil, Roseires and Rahad projects, the
last involving two separate credits totalling US$62 million for a new cotton
and groundnut scheme); rainfed mechanized farming (one loan and two credits
totalling US$32.3 million, the most recent approved in July 1978); Smallholder
Development (a credit of US$17 million for the Savannah Development Project;
two projects in the Southern Region involving credits of US$10.7 million and
US$15 million, the most recent approved in May 1979); Livestock (a Credit of
US$25 million approved in June 1978); Research (a credit of US$15 million
approved in July 1978); an Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (US$65 million
approved in March, 1980) and the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
(US$40 million approved in May, 1980). Projects in the agriculture sector
have experienced the same kind of implementation problems described earlier
(ref. para. 26). However, because agriculture is the backbone of the economy,
the problems of foreign exchange scarcity, inadequate maintenance, lack of
spare parts and equipment, and poor infrastructure support tend to be partic-
ularly acute in this sector. A Project Performance Audit affecting the
irrigated subsector was completed on the Roseires project (Sec M 74-490) and
circulated on July 10, 1974. It concluded that the decision to build a dam
at Roseires was correct, given the high priority of irrigation for the develop-
ment of Sudan and particularly the high profitability of cotton production in
the Blue Nile area. Although the original justification of the dam was based
solely on irrigation benefits, its large hydroelectric potential alone was
significant enough to have justified the investment. An Impact Evaluation
Report on the Roseires Irrigation project (No. 3051, dated June 30, 1980) also
has been completed. It concluded that, from the viewpoint of Sudan as a whole
or the Blue Nile region in particular, the economic impact of the dam has been
marginally favorable. The report also states that construction of the dam
should have been delayed for five years because of the delay in construction
of new pump schemes and the benefits of the Nile Waters Agreement between
Sudan and Egypt. According to the report, neither of these factors were
considered at appraisal, although at that time the delay in the pump schemes
would have been difficult to foresee.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
30.       The agriculture sector in Sudan contributes about 40 percent of the
country-s gross domestic product, is the source of virtually all exports,
provides employment for over two-thirds of the labor force, and supplies
inputs for a large proportion of industrial activity. The Bank completed an
agricultural sector survey in 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU of May 18, 1979).
31.       Cotton is the major cash and export crop, accounting for some 56
percent of all exports in recent years; groundnuts, sesame, and gum arabic
follow at 10, 7.5, and 7 percent, respectively. Recent crop diversification
has also concentrated on import substitution, with considerable expansion in
wheat and sugar output, in part at the expense of cotton. Incomes are rela-
tively low in the agricultural sector. Of Sudan's total population of about



- 11 -
17 million, an estimated 85 percent, live in rural areas. To augment their
incomes, many small subsistence farmers hire themselves out on mechanized or
irrigated tenancies to harvest cotton, groundnuts, sesame and cereals. They
form a highly mobile labor force of about one million people. Even so, labor
shortages have occurred in recent years for operations such as cotton picking.
32.       While the data are incomplete, it is estimated that perhaps 10 to
15 percent of total Government revenues are directly attributable to taxes
from farmers as producers. Although these revenues increased from ESd 23.5
million in 1970/71 to ESd 40 million in 1975/76, budgetary support to agricul-
ture increased even faster, from ESd 29 million to ESd 77 million over the
same period.
The Irrigated Subsector
33.       Over the last 50 years, Sudan has developed over 4 million feddans
of irrigated land, principally from the Nile waters; it has accomplished
this by using 16.8 km /year of water of its share of 20.35 km /year as
measured at Sennar under the 1959 Nile water sharing agreement with Egypt.
34.       Sudan's agricultural development has for many years largely depended
on the irrigation subsector, which produces over 50 percent by value of the
nation's exports. Over the last decade, the area of irrigated land increased
on average by 3.5 percent a year; at the same time, the area devoted to
cotton, Sudan's most remunerative export crop, fell by nearly 20 percent.
Average cotton yields declined from 4.3 to 3.5 kantars of seed cotton per
feddan, and the total volume of cotton exports fell by 35 percent from 1971
to 1977.
35.       It is apparent that the performance of existing schemes has suffered
from the overall economic malaise in Sudan and higher priority given to develop-
ment of new schemes. Sudan's economy should now be reaping considerable
benefits from its previous irrigation investment, but Gezira, the Pump Schemes
and New Halfa are all currently performing below expectations and require addi-
tional funds to cover their budget deficits. This is largely due to low pro-
ductivity, and static or declining yields. Technical, financial and institu-
tional constraints have been the major contributing factors. These have
included the absence of land levelling or drainage, insufficient water at the
proper times, spare parts and other inputs and increasing neglect of mainten-
ance, as well as a profit-sharing system which stifles farmer incentives.
The Government recognizes these problems and as part of the new Export Action
Program and current Three Year Public Investment Program (ref. paras. 18, 19),
has embarked on a new strategy of rehabilitating/modernizing existing irriga-
tion schemes and reforming marketing and incentive policies.
The Project Area
36.       The area covered by the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC)
occupies about 200,000 fd of cultivable land on both sides of the Blue Nile



- 12 -
river from about 30 kms upstream of Singa to Sennar (ref. map). The Shasheina
region, as defined under the project, would cover about 52,000 feddans at full
development. The pump schemes were developed privately between 1950 and 1965
and were nationalized in 1968. They are now administered by BNAC.
37.       The population in the BNAC area was estimated at about 300,000 in
1979. Shasheina region alone contains about 61,000 people. The number of
tenants who would benefit directly from the project will amount to about
17,000 or a population of about 85,000 people. Originally 15 feddans com-
prised one tenancy but now pressure on land has reduced this holding so that
many tenants hold half-tenancies of 7.5 feddans.
38.       Present cropping in the BNAC area is based on a three course rotation
of (a) long staple Barakat cotton, (b) free choice crop -- usually either
sorghum or groundnuts, and (e) fallow. Although the schemes had recorded
satisfactory cotton yields in normal years, cropping intensity has declined
and cotton yields have gone down considerably in the last four to six years
with yields falling from 6.3 to 4.1 kantars per feddan in 1972/73 to 2.4 to
1.8 in 1978/79. The reasons for the deteriorating yields include shortage of
picking labour, late planting because of shortages of tractors and fuel,
irregular irrigation water supply and delayed payments to tenants.
39.       The standard farming system is to divide the tenants' holdings into
five feddan tracts of land called "hawashas" and several hawashas are grouped
together to form a "number" or "field" which is fed by a single field channel.
Irrigation is done through the flooding of small basins made in the hawashas.
Water is applied until it is free standing throughout the field. The irriga-
tion distribution system in each of the schemes consists of a main canal
conveying water from a pumping station to minor canals which feed water
to the field channels mentioned above. The Shasheina Region is presently
served by four river pumping stations. Many of the pumps, though well
maintained, are past their working life. It is difficult to obtain spare
parts, either because of insufficient foreign exchange or because the pumps
and engines used in the stations are no longer manufactured. This situation,
coupled with irregular supply of diesel fuel, has resulted in disruption
of water supplies; consequently large areas do not receive adequate water.
The matter has further been aggravated by lack of agricultural equipment and
inadequate drainage to eliminate storm water.
40.       Until 1979 BNAC was a sub-corporation of the Public Agricultural
Production Corporation (PAPC) under the Ministry of Agriculture (MOA). When
PAPC was dismantled, BNAC and several other organizations became independent
although they could still draw on the services of MOA's Corporation Services
Administration if they wished. BNAC was formally established as a separate,
semi-autonomous corporation through a Presidential Decree issued on
January 23, 1980.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background and Project Description
41.       Consolidation and rehabilitation of pump schemes along the Blue Nile
River has been a Government objective for about 10 years. A specific proposal
for achieving this was contained in a comprehensive Blue Nile Water system
study completed in 1978. Government subsequently decided to proceed with
preparation of a first phase project. The project report, financed by an
advance from the Project Preparation Facility, was presented in October 1979.
42.       The proposed project is one of a series of rehabilitation/moderni-
zation efforts (after the recently approved Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program, which includes some limited financial assistance for certain urgently
needed spare parts and equipment in the major irrigation schemes including
Blue Nile; the New Halfa project, and the proposed White Nile project) under
the Export Action Program, which is designed to increase cotton export earn-
ings by means of stepped-up production in existing irrigation schemes. The
project was appraised in November/December, 1979; the staff appraisal report
(No. 3085-SU, dated February 27, 1981) is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. The Credit and Project Summary is at the beginning
of this report and a supplementary data sheet is at Annex III. Negotiations
were held in Washington from January 5 to 7, 1981. The Government delegation
was headed by Dr. Omer Alamin, Minister of Agriculture.
43.       The project would, over a five-year period, rehabilitate the
Shasheina Region of the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC) and provide
agricultural machinery and workshops for cotton cultivation in the rest of the
BNAC area. Specifically, the project would include:
(a) Rehabilitation of the irrigation system in the Shasheina
Region, including the construction of two new pumping
stations, remodelling of the irrigation canals and improved
control structures plus an improved drainage system;
(b) Buildings for administration headquarters, two workshops in
Shasheina and three field workshops in the rest of the BNAC
area and staff housing;
(c) Agricultural machinery including 125 75-80 HP wheel tractors
for the Shasheina Region and 90 75-80 HP wheel tractors for
the rest of BNAC areas, as well as related agricultural equip-
ment and farm imputs;
(d) Farm Service roads, potable water, electrification and tele-
communications system;
(e) Operating vehicles and equipment;



- 14 -
(f)  Technical assistance for management of the project and
for training; consultancy services for financial manage-
ment and accounting, for studies on full rehabilitation
of other BNAC areas and for strengthening of the Depart-
ment of Planning in the Ministry of Agriculture.
Project Costs
44.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$67.3 million of
which US$42.0 million, or 62 percent is the foreign exchange component. The
total cost includes taxes and duties estimated at US$8.0 million. The cost
estimates are based on January 1980 prlces adjusted to September 1980 price
levels. Allowance has been made for physical contingencies as follows: 15
percent for road component, 12.8 percent (average) for irrigation and drainage
works, and 10 percent for the other components except management, administra-
tion and training for which no provision have been made. Price escalations
for all components have been estimated at the following inflation rates:
(a) For the foreign exchange component 12.5 percent for first year, 8.0 per-
cent second year, 7.0 percent third year, 7.0 percent fourth year and 7.0 per-
cent for fifth year; (b) For the local component 35 percent for the first
year; 15 percent second; 10 percent third; 7 percent fourth and fifth each.
An advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) totaling US$340,000
was approved to help prepare the project.
Proposed Financing
45.       The proposed financing plan is as follows:
Local    Foreign          Total
Cost     Exchange      US$ Million
IDA                     -        32.0           32.0
AfDF                    -         10.0          10.0
GOS                   25.3          -           25.3
Total Project Cost   25.3        42.0           67.3
46.       The proposed Credit would be on standard terms to the Government
and would finance 54% of the net project cost. Government would finance all
local costs totaling US$25.3 million equivalent including taxes and duties
estimated at US$8.0 million equivalent. AfDF would contribute 17% of the net
costs, and would finance, on a parallel basis, agriculture machinery and
vehicles. Signing of the AfDB loan agreement is proposed as an additional
condition of effectiveness.
47.       BNAC was formally reconstituted by a  presidential warrant on
January 23, 1980. It is expected that in the first three years of the project
the Corporation would suffer losses due to low levels of cotton production.
Funds (totaling about 3.6 million Sudanese pounds) to maintain the solvency of



- 15 -
the organization would thus be provided by Government through the Bank of
Sudan until Corporation revenues and debt and cost recovery mechanisms produce
cash inflows in excess of outflows (expected in year four). In addition to
the above, the Corporation would have to provide cash advances to the tenants
for labour involving ESd 2.3 million, ESd 2.7 million and ESd 3.0 million for
1st, 2nd and 3rd year of operation respectively for periods of up to 9 months.
It is proposed that, as an additional condition of credit effectiveness,
Government make appropriate arrangements to open a special bank account in
the name of the project and to arrange for a line of credit for the account
through the Bank of Sudan of not less than ESd 1.0 million (Ref. Section
5.01(c) Draft Development Credit Agreement). Thereafter, during project
execution, Government would arrange for transfers of funds to this account
quarterly, based on estimates contained in an annual work program (Ref. para.
58 and Section 3.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
48.       Onlending Arrangements.  The Government would onlend US$28.9 million
of the credit to BNAC and US$1.2 million equivalent to PEWC. Another US$1.6
million of the Credit would finance consultancy services to help strengthen
the Department of Planning in the Ministry of Agriculture; the remaining $0.3
million would refund an advance from the PPF. Subsidiary loan agreements,
incorporating appropriate onlending arrangements between Government and BNAC
as well as PEWC are proposed as additional conditions of effectiveness (ref.
Sections 5.01(a) and (b) Draft Development Credit Agreement). The subsidiary
agreements would specify that IDA funds be onlent for 20 years including a
grace period of 5 years, repayable at 9 percent interest for BNAC and 12
percent in the case of PEWC. The 9 percent corresponds with that normally
charged to public agricultural entities by the Bank of Sudan while the 12
percent rate is similar to that applied in the case of the recently approved
third power project. BNAC would continue to provide seasonal credit to
tenants in kind (machinery services, aerial spraying, fertilizer, seed, sacks
and cotton marketing and processing) and cash (labour advances). All credit
extended to tenants would be recovered through the individual tenants account
for each particular crop. The general principles governing relations between
BNAC and the tenants would be spelled out in Tenants Lease Agreements and
annual Credit and Service contracts between BNAC and the tenants which would,
among other things, contain provision for an interest rate of not less than
12% per annum from the date of provision of cash loans to tenants, or for
deferred collections on other forms of credit (Schedule 1, the Draft Project
Agreement). This 12% rate compares with an inflation rate in Sudan that is
currently estimated to be about 25 percent for 1980/81 and is estimated to
decline to perhaps 7 percent by 1984/85. Interest rates charged in the
project would be reviewed annually to ensure that appropriate levels are
being applied, taking into account inflation and other factors (ref. Schedule
4, Section C(e), Draft Development Credit Agreement). Responsibility for
financial relations between BNAC and the tenants would rest with the strength-
ened financial division of the Corporation's Planning and Development Unit
(ref. para. 58). In addition, a new Tenants Credit Unit (TCU), reporting
to the head of BNAC, would review individual cases of tenant default and
recommend appropriate measures for recovering overdues. It has been agreed



- 16 -
that the TCU be established no later than June 30, 1982 under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association (ref. Section 2.10, Draft Project
Agreement). Pending establishment of the TCU, the present system of recover-
ing credit by adjustment against payments due on the cotton account would
continue.
Project Implementation and Detailed Features
49.       The project would be implemented by the Blue Nile Agricultural
Corporation (BNAC), which, as indicated earlier, was formally established in
January 1980. BNAC is under the jurisdiction of the Minister of Agriculture.
50.       In order to promote effective coordination of project activities
within and among Government agencies and to help ensure adequate local
financial recourses, a high level Project Steering Committee, and headed by
Minister of Agriculture, would approve the Annual Work Programs for the
project to be prepared by BNAC's Planning Development Unit (PDU) (Ref. Section
3.05, Draft Development Credit Agreement). The Committee would include
representatives of the Ministries of Finance, National Planning, Irrigation,
BNAC, Agricultural Research Corporation and the Bank of Sudan.
51.       BNAC would administer the project though its headquarters office
at Sennar (ref. map). Field operations would be implemented through
three regional offices. One of the regions will be the newly created
Shasheina Region covering Shasheina, Suki, Wad Salman North and the Wad
Salman South schemes, which would be fully rehabilitated under the project.
52.       BNAC would determine which crops should be grown in each hawasha
with the exception of the one-half feddan plots, which each tenant would
cultivate according to his preference. In addition, BNAC would determine the
agricultural operations to be carried out by the tenants and the timing. It
will also be the responsibility of BNAC to train its own staff and provide
agricultural extension service for the main crops, farm inputs and aerial
spraying in the cotton areas. With the facilities and equipment provided in
the project, BNAC will be able to operate and maintain the agricultural
machinery and roads.
53.       MOI would be responsible for implementation of the irrigation
rehabilitation works including survey, design and supervision of the construc-
tion for pump houses, canals, embankments and hydraulic structures which will
be carried out by contractors or the Earthmoving Corporation. In the estab-
lishment of BNAC in January, 1980, the Corporation was given responsibility
for the operation of pumping stations and the canal and drainage system in the
project area.
54.       Construction of buildings and small earthworks, would be supervised
by BNAC. BNAC management would be strengthened through provision of technical
assistance: in financial management and procurement, in operation and main-
tenance of agricultural machinery and in the cultivation of irrigated cotton



- 17 -
and through establishment of a Planning and Development Unit. The latter would
be responsible for preparing annual work programs and for monitoring and
evaluation. It has been agreed that BNAC would, not later than July 1, 1981,
employ a financial analyst on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association (Section 2.11 (a) and (b), Draft Project Agreement).
55.       The responsibility for implementing the electricity supply component,
including installation of substation and transmission lines, would be with
the Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC). PEWC would also provide
adequate electric power for the operation of the pumping schemes.
56.       Tenant participation and positive response, which have been problems
in the past, would be stimulated by financial reforms, including announcement
of cotton prices before the harvest and prompt payment to tenants for cotton
delivered by them. The tenants would generally benefit from improved corpora-
tion services.   BNAC would enter into new lease agreements of 20 years and
annual credit and services contracts with tenants (ref. Section 2.08 and
Schedule 1, Draft Project Agreement) in order to establish the corporation/
tenant relations on a more stable basis.
57.       Annual Work Programs.  The principal tool for implementation of the
project would be a detailed annual work program, prepared in draft by BNAC,
reviewed and confirmed by the high level Project Steering Committee (ref.
para. 50) and submitted to the Association for approval (ref. Section 3.05,
and Schedule 4, Draft Development Credit Agreement). The objective would
be to facilitate a full annual review of progress in project implementation
jointly by Government and IDA and to make possible technical, financial or
institutional modifications or adjustments of the project as experience is
gained. This is particularly important with respect to cost recovery aspects
(ref. para. 69).
58.       The annual work programs would provide a detailed description of
the work to be performed for the ensuing fiscal year including (a) the sched-
ules of activities, equipment requirements, staffing needs and training plans;
(b) a budget for the period including proposed capital and recurrent expendi-
tures as well as a comparison of the proposed investments with actual expendi-
tures for the previous year; (c) a financing plan and detailed quarterly cash
flow projections; (d) supporting information on the Tenants Lease Agreement,
the cost recovery system; and (e) proposed cotton prices to producers.
Criteria to be used in evaluating the proposed work programs include the
relationship of the annual program to agreed project objectives and are set
forth in Schedule 4, Part C, Draft Development Credit Agreement. The first
work program, covering the period ending June 30, 1982, would be submitted to
the Association within four months of signing of the Credit (ref. Section
3.05(a)(i) Draft Development Credit Agreement). Subsequent programs would be
submitted by May 1, covering the year commencing the following July 1.
59.       Consultancy Services, Training, Maintenance and Studies.  BNAC is
generally deficient in managerial and skilled staff, due to their shortage in
Sudan; at the same time there is a surplus of unclassified staff. Over the



- 18 -
project implementation period, some staff in this latter category would be
trained to meet some of the skilled needs of the Corporation. The total
number of unclassified staff would be reduced in due course, through redeploy-
ment into more skilled jobs or through attrition. To strengthen the manage-
ment in critical positions funds would be provided for recruitment of the
following international experts: A financial analyst, an agricultural
machinery expert and an engineer experienced in irrigated cotton -- plus a
procurement expert. Average man-month cost is expected to be about US$10,000.
Because of the importance of the financial controller's post to effective
project implementation it is proposed that this position be filled no later
than July 1, 1981 (ref. Section 2.11(b), Draft Project Agreement). One
man-year of short term consultancy services also would be provided to assist
with discrete tasks such as pump station design. The qualifications of these
internationally-recruited specialists, along with the proposed terms and
conditions of their employment, would be subject to review by the Association
(ref. Section 2.11, Draft Project Agreement).
60.       In addition, a total of 10 man-years of consultancy would be pro-
vided to help strengthen the Department of Planning in the Ministry of
Agriculture. This department would serve BNAC as well as other public agri-
cultural corporations. The estimated total cost of this consultancy is about
US$1.2 million, based on an average man-month cost of about US$10,000. So
far as studies are concerned, about 56 man-months of consultancy services,
at a total estimated cost of about US$600,000, would be provided to help
prepare a possible follow-up project for the rehabilitation of the rest of
the BNAC region outside the Shasheina area.
61.       Training courses would be provided through the project in several
areas, including in-field operational and mechanical engineering skills
required by agricultural machinery operators. Other courses would cover
workshop skills. Most of the training courses would be held at BNAC head-
quarters with assistance of the Department of Labor's ILO-supported Vocational
Training Center, located in Khartoum. Agricultural field training would con-
tinue to be directed by the Ministry of Agriculture throughout the project
area at village level. However, the scope and quality of training would be
upgraded by the project and monitored by the Planning and Development Unit,
which would have overall responsibility for coordinating training functions.
Improved maintenance will also be provided through establishment of well stocked
workshops and through special maintenance training courses. With the estab-
lishment of the PDU, the Corporation would be in a position to prepare detailed
training and maintenance programs and it has been agreed that by December 31,
1981 BNAC would furnish to the Association for its review and approval, a
comprehensive training and maintenance program (ref. Section 2.13, Draft
Project Agreement).
Cost Recovery
62.       The cost recovery system for the project would enable Government and
the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation to recover all costs incurred on the
schemes -- investment, inputs and services -- from project beneficiaries over



- 19 -
the project life (20 years). The basic principles underlying the cost recovery
system would be (a) promotion of economic efficiency by diverting a larger
share of scarce resources to those crops (i.e. cotton) that promise better
economic returns; (b) to enhance incentives for the growing of cotton by the
tenants and BNAC; (c) to generate larger public savings for the economy as a
whole. These principles are set forth in Schedule 2 of the Draft Project
Agreement and would be enforced through long-standing cost recovery mechanisms
that have recently been modified (ref. para. 66) in an effort to encourage
tenant incentives and increased productivity in the irrigated subsector.
63.       Historically, a profit or crop-sharing system has been used in
Sudan's cotton growing schemes, under which a clear delineation of respons-
ibility is made between the Corporations that administer the schemes and the
tenants who work them. In addition to distributing irrigation water, the
Corporations undertake land preparation, supply seeds, fertilizers and sacks,
and arrange aerial insecticide spraying for pest control. Tenants are respons-
ible for all manual operations such as irrigating the fields, planting, fer-
tilizing, weeding, picking and transporting the crop to buying stations. The
seed cotton is then taken over by the Corporations for ginning and eventual
sale of the seed and lint through the Cotton Public Corporation of Sudan.
64.       For years, a Joint Account System has operated in the Corporations
under which all revenues from cotton have been shown as receipts, and produc-
tion expenses incurred on cotton such as machinery operations, irrigation,
pest control and weeding have been shown as expenditures. Net proceeds have
been divided as follows: Tenants 47 1/2 percent; BNAC 45 1/2 percent; Social
Welfare Fund 5 percent and local Government taxes 2 percent. The tenant's
share of the Jont Account is distributed on the basis of the quantity and
variety of cotton supplied. this is credited to his individual account, to
which is debited tenant-specific items such as cash advances and services for
non-cotton crops. The net receipt on this account is paid in cash to the
tenant.
65.       Over the years, several distortions have crept into this system.
When new cash crops -- groundnuts and wheat -- were introduced into the
schemes they were not incorporated into the crop sharing system, even though
the Corporation provides water and some services for these crops, which are
charged against the cotton crops. This development, together with certain
distortions in the tax system (export taxes on cotton, depressed receipts and
an overvalued exchange rate, which adversely affected the domestic competi-
tiveness of cotton) had the effect of deflating tenants revenues from cotton
relative to other crops (i.e. groundnuts and sorghum) and encouraged them to
concentrate on these latter crops, which they marketed on their own. The
problems have been compounded by the fact that remittances to tenants from
the sale, by Government, of their cotton have often been delayed a year or
more after harvesting. The situation has been made worse by the growing
economic crisis in Sudan and the attendant serious shortage of foreign
exchange which has contributed greatly to the deterioration in the cotton
growing schemes.



- 20 -
66.       In the last two years, Government has attempted to come to grips
with these problems by taking a series of measures - devaluation, modifica-
tions in the traditional joint account mechanism, announced prices for cotton
before harvest and prompt payment to producers -- designed to strengthen
incentives for tenants and to improve overall productivity of the schemes.
67.       Under the system agreed with Government for this project, costs
would be identified and measured; systems would be established to recover
costs through project operations and for debt recovery; each crop would bear
its full costs of production, including overheads and investment. The
project would strengthen the finance and treasury department of the Blue Nile
Corporation to enable it to gather cost data and accurately compute all cost
items. All costs incurred by BNAC would be fully recovered over the project
life of 20 years. Individual tenant crop accounts would be opened separately
for each crop and each crop would bear its full costs of production, including
overheads and investment.
68.       BNAC would be able to meet all costs initially through loans from
the Government and a line of credit from the Bank of Sudan (ref. para. 47).
In order to ensure that tenants have adequate incomes, the full recovery
of BNAC costs would be introduced in a phased manner. Farm input costs,
excluding irrigation, would continue to be fully recovered. The full costs
of irrigation services and overhead expenses would not be recovered until year
five. Labor incomes, in constant prices, are projected to rise from a net
level of 1.2 Sudanese pounds per man-day of labor for cotton and sorghum in
project year one to about three times that level in project year six. This
increase reflects a sharp improvement from currently very low levels of yield.
Post-project tenancy incomes would be adequate to motivate tenants to partici-
pate in the production process.
69.       A comprehensive package of measures to improve cost and debt recovery
performance has been, or will be, undertaken as follows:
(a) As already announced by Government (June 1980), cotton
prices payable to the producing Corporations would here-
after be announced before harvest and tenants would
be paid promptly on delivery of the crop at the collection
center. In subsequent years, Government has agreed to
(i) announce the agreed prices not later than December
1 each year; and (ii) ensure that payments are made
promptly to BNAC for cotton (ref. Section 3.08, Draft
Development Credit Agreement). It has also been agreed
that on or before August 31, 1981, BNAC would issue
regulations, satisfactory to the Association, emboding
procedures for prompt payments to tenants for seed
cotton delivered (ref. Section 2.12, Draft Project
Agreement).



- 21 -
(b)  As already announced by Government (June 1980), Individual
Tenant Accounts would be opened for each crop. All costs
attributable to a crop would be debited to the Tenants
individual account for that crop.
(c) Systems and procedures for accurate unit costing of inputs,
services and cash advances would be installed by the
Finance and Treasury Department of BNAC, strengthened
under the Project;
(d) The Annual Credit and Services Contract (para. 56) would
indicate the charges that would be collected for various
inputs and services extended to tenants, and the dates
on which such costs would be due for recovery;
(e) In the case of cotton, BNAC would recover costs directly
from the tenants share of the proceeds of the crop. For
other crops, tenants would be required to make payments in
cash to BNAC, after harvest, for costs recoverable from
them for such crops from year 3 onwards; until then, and
pending establishment of the Tenants' Credit Unit, such
costs would continue to be met from cotton revenues.
(f) All cash loans to tenants and tenant overdues would bear
interest of not less than 12% per year (para. 48);
(g)  As already announced by Government (June 1980), unpaid
tenant debts to the BNAC's predecessor corporations would
be consolidated and paid over ten years beginning 1980-81;
(h)  Cases of default by tenants would be referred to a Tenants
Credit Unit established under the Project. The functions
and responsibilities of the Unit would be laid down in
Regulations issued by BNAC in accordance with the powers
conferred on it under Section 20 of the Public Corporations
Act 1976, and would, inter alia, include: (i) review of all
cases of failure by individual tenants to conform with the
provisions of Tenants Lease Agreement; (ii) specific
recommendations to the management of the Corporation on the
action to be taken in each case; and (iii) establishment of
an efficient debt recovery mechanism; and
(j) The Annual Work Program (paras 57-58) would provide the
mechanism for consultations between Government and IDA
on specific cost recovery issues each year during the
implementation period.



- 22 -
Procurement and Disbursement
70.       Contracts exceeding US$500,000 for civil works would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group guide-
lines. Such works would qualify for a 7-1/2% domestic preference under ICB.
The works for the pumping stations and the construction of building, totalling
about US$9.8 million, would be procured through ICB. Because of the dispersed
nature of the irrigation and drainage works (US$6.1 million) and the five
years over which construction would be spread, it would be impractical to
group the works into an international contract and they would be carried out
after local competitive bidding using local contractors or by negotiated
contract with the Ministry of Irrigation's Earthmoving Corporation, as in
other projects. For the same reason, the construction of roads (US$0.4
million) would be implemented by BNAC using local competitive bidding proce-
dures, which are satisfactory to IDA, or, where not possible, by force
account. The potable water supply component (US$0.5 million) would be
carried out by force account through the Rural Water Corporation of the MOA,
which is experienced in this type of construction. Contracts exceeding
US$100,000 for mechanical and electrical equipment for the pumping stations
(US$6.7 million) would be subject to ICB. Thus about 70 percent of the
Credit would be subject to ICB. Contracts for less than US$100,000 and in
aggregate totalling no more than US$3,000,000 would be procured through local
competitive bidding in accordance with standard Government procedures which
are acceptable to IDA. Local procedures permit foreign participation. For
contracts under US$10,000, up to a total of $200,000, comparative shopping or
purchasing off-the-shelf would be used. Spare parts would be procured
directly by negotiated contract or by quotations from dealers as appropriate.
Local suppliers of equipment, spares and materials would qualify for a 15%
domestic preference under ICB procurement. Agricultural machinery and
equipment and operating vehicles and equipment, to be financed by AfDF on a
parallel basis, will be procured in accordance with AfDF procedures. Fertil-
izer, pesticides and sacks would be procured in accordance with the existing
normal procedures of the Government or other appropriate procedures in
consultation with IDA.
71.       Disbursement of funds from the proceeds of the Credit would be on
the following basis:
(a)  100 percent of foreign expenditures for electro-mechanical
equipment for pumping stations (US$9.8 million);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 75 percent of total expendi-
tures for other machinery, equipment and electrical power
lines including spare parts (US$1.2 million);
(c) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 51 percent of total
expenditures for civil works, irrigation structures, canal
works service roads and construction materials (US$12.0
million);



- 23 -
(d) 100 percent of foreign expenditures or 68 percent of total
expenditures for annual farm inputs, including fertilizers,
pesticides, seeds and sacks (US$20 million);
(e) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for technical assistance
and consultancy services (US$3.4 million);
US$0.4 million of the Credit would refund an advance from the PPF and the
remaining US$3.2 million would remain unallocated. Disbursement would be
fully documented.
Accounts and Audits
73.       BNAC as reconstituted on January 23, 1980 would begin the 1980/81
fiscal year with a balance sheet including only those assets and liabilities
appropriate to its future operations and would not include assets (e.g.,
amounts due from tenants) which are unrealizable or liabilities which relate
to activities of the BNAC predecessor Corporation. Under the direction of
the internationally recruited financial analyst, BNAC-s accounting system
would also be strengthened, especially at the headquarters level, and the
funds provided under the project for short-term consultancies would be used
as needed for this purpose. Improvements in the accounting system would
include the institution of a uniform system of accounting by headquarters
and the field offices for the idenfification of expenses and the introduction
of standard costs for farm operations including variance analysis and cost
improvement techniques. The Financial Analyst would also be responsible
for arranging training for accounting staff, both formal and on-the-job.
BNAC would keep a comprehensive set of accounts for the Corporation, including
a separate set of accounts for the expenditure and recovery of Project funds,
that are acceptable to the Association. The accounts would be audited annually
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association. The audited accounts,
together with the auditor's report, would be submitted in English to the
Association annually, no later than nine months after the end of the financial
year. BNAC-s initial audited accounts, relating to its position at the time
it was established, would be submitted along with the auditor-s report not
later than December 31, 1981 (ref. Section 4.02, Draft Project Agreement).
Environmental Impact
74.       Pest control by spraying cotton with insecticide has been practiced
extensively in the Sudan for over 30 years, and would continue to be used
under the project. All chemicals currently employed are tested by residue
analysis and for compliance with the prescribed specifications. Chemicals
are also subjected to field tests and, if found acceptable, are registered by
the Pesticide Committee if the Ministry of Agriculture, which controls the
importation and use of T,esticides. These procedures are considered adequate.
Application is normally carried out by aerial spraying by experienced con-
tractors with well-maintained equipment. However, the extensive use of
pesticides will continue to pose long-term risks until safer alternative drugs
become available at suitable costs. Meanwhile, it would not be profitable to
produce cotton without chemical pest control.



- 24 -
Benefits, Justification and Risks
75.       The project-s main benefit would be increased cotton and groundnut
production. Net foreign exchange earnings would total about US$27 million a
year at full development. The yields in the Shasheina Region would be improved
as follows: longstaple seed cotton from 8,400 metric tons without the project
to 19,500 metric tons with the project; groundnuts from 1,250 metric tons to
22,000 metric tons; sorghum from 2,500 tons to 4,500 tons; vegetables from
2,000 tons to 4,000 tons and fodder will be introduced for an output of 28,000
tons per year. In the rest of the BNAC area yields for cotton are estimated
to increase as a result of the project from 25,000 tons to 32,000 tons;
groundnuts from 3,700 tons to 5,200 tons and sorghum from 7,400 tons to 8,880
tons.
76.       About 17,000 farm families (about 85,000 people) would benefit from
the scheme. Opportunities for farm labour would expand and the incomes of the
tenants would increase from an estimated US$50 per capita to about US$235 per
capita in the Shasheina area and to about US$120 per capita in the rest of the
BNAC area over a period of five years.
77.       The economic rate of return is estimated at 31 percent for Shasheina
and 38 percent for the rest or an average return for the whole scheme of 32
percent. These estimates reflect the existence of a large amount of sunk
capital in the project area, the sizeable production increases expected from
the project and real increases of about 25 percent in the cotton export price
during the decade of the 1980's. The following main assumptions have been
made in the analysis: (a) both the costs and benefits of investment made in
the Blue Nile project under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (Credit
1000-SU) have been taken into account in the "without" project situation;
(b) the economic life of the project is assumed to be 25 years for the
Shasheina area and 10 years of the rest of BNAC; this reflects the longer
useful life of the main investment in the Shasheina area (irrigation and
drainage system, water supply); (c) Border prices for traded items were
calculated on the basis of export or import parties using the present parallel
exchange rate of fSd 1 = US$1.25, while local prices for non-traded items were
converted to border prices by applying a standard conversion factor of 0.7 -
equal to the ratio of the parallel rate to a shadow rate of US$1 = ESd 1.15;
(d) the going market wage rate of ESd 1 per day was applied to all farm
family labor.
78.       The estimated rates of return are generally resistant to adverse
movements in the key variables. For example, the overall project would still
be justified even if (a) costs increased by 71 percent and benefits declined
by 41 percent; (b) cotton lint prices were 66 percent less than forecast.
They are most sensitive to assumptions about cotton areas and yield since
cotton accounts for about two-thirds of the benefits. However, given the size
of the increments involved and the investments proposed, the probability of
cotton areas or yields falling below their expected values is minimal.
Project risks include (a) the threat to Corporation financial viability and
tenant incentives caused by cotton prices to producers lower than anticipated



- 25 -
levels; (b) shortages of and delays in the flow of local currency require-
ments; (c) shortfalls in foreign exchange needed for current operations. The
preparation of annual work programs and their review by a high level Project
Steering Committee would help ensure a more effective basis for budgetary
subventions, better access to funds from the banking institutions and adequate
foreign exchange allocations. No major risks are anticipated from tech-
nological or social factors. Logistical problems and administrative slack
are also pose risks; however, the project would help mitigate these through
technical assistance and training and through recruitment of skilled personnel.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
79.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of the Sudan and the Association, the draft Project Agreement between
the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation and the Association and the Recommendation of
the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of
Agreement of the Association, are being distributed separately to the Executive
Directors. Special features of the Draft Development Credit Agreement and the
Draft Project Agreement are referred to in Section 3 of Annex III.
80.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
81.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by
Washington, D.C.                                           Ernest Stern
March 4, 1981



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
TABLE 3A                                                            Page  1
SUDAN - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                           REFERENCE GROUPS (IFIrNTED AVER/CES
LAND ARE   THAND SQ. KM. )                                                               - MDST RFCFNT ESTIIATE )
TGTAI,           2505.8
ACRICULTUh.AL     315.0                                    MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOMF
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SALHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHAPA
GNP PER CAPITAIUS$)                     140.0         170.0     370.0                  260.0                     868.0
ENERGY CDO I'MPTION PER CAPITA
(X'I.L:I,'II'' Oi COAL ECUUVALENT)     52. 0       130.0      172.0                   80.0                    699.4
POPU3i!ATIO) AID VITA' STATISTICS
Ft'PULAIION, NDS-YAR (MIL LIUNS)       11. 3        14. 1      17.4
URBAN  i'lULATION  (PERCENT Of TOTAL) 10.3          16.4       23.0                   17.3                     2B.9
POPELATI[,i PROIFCTIONS
Pu'l)UIATiON  IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                        31.0
STATIO:ARY iPOPULATION (MIILLI-ONS)                          88.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                      2135
POPtULATICN DENSITY
PER SQ. y}H.                          5.0          6.0        7.0                   27.4                     61. 7
PER SQ. KM. ACRICULTURAL LAND        37. 0        46.0       55.0                   82.6                    126.0
POPUL,ATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                            44.3         45.3       44.0                   44.9                     45.5
15-64 YRS.                            53. 0        52.0       53.1                   52. 2                    51.6
65  hRS. AND ABOVE                     2. 7         2. 7       2.9                    2.8                      2.8
POPULATION GROiTH RATE (PERCElT)
TOTAL                                 1.9          2. 2       2.6                    2.7                      2. 7
URBAN                                 7.0          6. 9       7.1                    6. 8                     4. 9
CRUDE BIRTH RATF (PFR THOUSAND)        47.0         46.0       45.0                   47.4                     46.8
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        25.0         21.0       18.0                   19.6                     16.4
CROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                  ..          3.4        3.2                    3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..              ..
fOOI AND NIUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (Iqb9-71-'O0)            92.0         100.O      109.0                   91.8                     94.n
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CAIORIES (PEPCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                      71.0         86. 0      93.0                   90.2                     92. 7
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)             53.0         61.0       65.0                   53.0                     53.0
OF WHICH ANLMAL AND PULSE          23.0         19.0       19.0                   18.4                     15.6
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALIl'Y RATE       46.0         38.0       31.0                   27.7                     21.3
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANICY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    39.0           43.0       46.0                   45.3                     50. 1
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
rTOUSAND)                                ..        132.O0jc
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..           ..       46.0                   23.2                     31.0
URBAN                                  ..           ..       49.0                   58.0                     66.8
RURAL                                  ..           ..       45.0                   16.8
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                  ..         16.0       22.0                   28.9
URBAN                                  ..           ..         ..                    67.0
RURAL                                  ..           ..
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            27876.0/d   14708.0    6696.0                  30910.4                  14508.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        3041.0JL     1750.0    1336.0                  5793.2                   3279.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                               951.0/de.  93 7. O1    998.0                  1198.9                   1141.5
URBAN                               118.0/d.e   176.Oje
RURAL                              4479.0/dO e  5237.01,
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED              ..           ..       16.9
HOUSIN(i
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                  ..          5.1
URBAS                                  ..          5. 7/f
RURAi                                  ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBILR OF P'ERSONS PER ROEM
TOTAL                                  ..           ..
URBAN                                  ..          2. 5/f
RURAI                                  ..           ..
ACCETSS TO El ECTi ICITY (PElRCENT
OF UWFLLIlNG'i)
lOT'A) I. t t                                     26. /f       .
'11HAN                                 ..           ..         ..                     .
HURAL                                  ..           ..



_27 -                                               ANNEX I
Page 2
SUDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
SUDAN                       REFERENCE GoRUPS (WEIGHTED AVERES
- NDST RECENT MSTIMATE)
MOST IlCEZOT         LW INCONE              MIDDLE INCOME
1960  A    1970 k ESTYMATI k   AFRICA SOUrH OF SAIIARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIKARSY    TOTAL                25. 0       33. 0     41. 0                57. 7                 61. 7
MALE                 35.0       41. 0     47.0                 74. 2                  69.2
FEKALE               14.0       26.0      34.0                 54.1                   51.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                 3.0         7.0      13.0                 10. 0                 20.6
KALE                  5.0        9.0      17.0                 13.7                   29.2
FEOALE               1.0         4.0       9.0                  7.1                   14. 7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (S OF SECONDARY)  3.0         1. 4j     1. O/ h              6.8                   7.0
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          41.0        47.0      39.0                 45.0                  36.6
SECONDARY                        20.0        17.0      22.0                 25.2                  24.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)      13.1        15. 0A    20.0                 25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        1. 1        2.0        *                   3.6                  38.8
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       17.0        71.0      73.0                 31.5                  83.5
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        0. 8        2.9       5. 3                1.8
NHJSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST') CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                 4.0          ..       8.0                 4.6                   24.2
CINEMA AEIAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0. 8         ..       0. 7                 ..                    0. 7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3731.6      4623.1   5582.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                  9.6        10.2    I1.0                  33.5                   38.1
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)            85.7        82.0      79.0                80. 7                  54.3
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                6.2         7.8       9.0                 8.1                   17.8
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              33.0        32.1      31.5                 42.2                  38.8
MALE                               59.1        56.9      55.8                55.1                   48.4
FEKALE                              6.4         6.6       6.7                29.5                   29.4
ECONOHIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1. 4        1. 5      1. 5                1.2                    1. 3
INCONE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGKEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   20. 9        *11  ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  50. 1li    49.52J)
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.02       5.
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.9_1     14. 5j/.
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIiiATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCONE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
UItRBAN                            ..          ..     137.0                138.2
RURAL                              ..         ..       80.0                86. 1
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..     115.0                107.0
RURAL                              ..         ..      100.0                65.0
ESTIMATED POPULATION BEIOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCQIE LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                              ..          ..
RURAL                              ..         ..       85.0                66.9
Not available
Not applicable.
NOaTES
a   The group average& for each indicator are population-meaihted aritheetic means.  Coverqge of countries
_ong the indicators depetAs on "ailabillty of data and is not unifom.
/b Unless otherose noted, data for 1960 refer to any year b.twwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Host Recent Estimate. bet_-n 1974 and 1978.
/c  1970-73 average;  /d 1962; le Government hospital establishments;  /f 1965; /R Beginning 1970, the
duration of Renera- econdary education wa reduced fr- 8 to 6 years; /h Includes programs of 5
training centers operated by Dept. of Labor and 17 short-term centers operated by Min. of Youth and
Sport; /i 1966; /J 1963, Omdurman "urban;" /k 1967-66.
Most recent eastlate of GNP per capita is for 1979, all other data are as of April, 1980.
October, 1980



- 28                                                                      AM
Page 3
DEFINfITIOS OF SOCIA INDICATORS
Nrot-   Altbough  ith. data ore draw  ft-o sour-.   "enoall  lag. Id t eah    t  Iuhrt          a  ro1iable, It shold also be otet that they -y not ho ine-
natotalycomarblobeaus  ofoh  lak  f octerdMy tot tItiossN ant  ne.pt. ..dt by differ-a  -ootto                  1- oltifg tb. tot.,  The daa  ra  s
th.l., ufatu  to doacnth  oro of _agntote, indi.t.t otatd., .ot ohu-t-ri..  -tori. -lo  diiffroeco. ho.,                     otbtros
Ti.  oforeco  roup  are(1)  he e    coutry  roo  of M.t subject ooootf  We (2) a oantry goup with  asbohigh., aveag  incm   tham  teM aestr,y,
oftht sbj,c   Oar   oop   o   'Cepital Sorpla. Oil tootoo  trop sitar  "Siddiw  I-oos  Nort Afir. an  Ilidtla 1.0t to obe. b..oe   of stoW.
.0iOouto1 effi iti..).  1r the -of-reo   grop data the  -veegS.  -repOputim weighted  rithtuato  se-   for  -hoi todiosta  ad sham  ly  sb et
...at half o f the  -osot,ee I  A gRou..p h.. date for that L.41tict.  Si-u   h  covra-      o   -Oetre.  .-I the tatt-aer  deped  as the AvI.Lility of
d ..d t  is  -a u_if.r_, .auti_o _tt be _exaroleot it.ratitg  -voags.  of-o.idti.tor to another   Thes. ovrgaeoly  -afta1 in oerie   a.o wei
of 000 dot--o at a rca amon  the c-utr  co  ref-eor  groups.
LODE  ARIA (thaoeod eqk. .)                                                                 poA92..Trg0   -opintio  ttvtta  by mr0preotosag Pay-
T.0.1 -Total.. eufac. ar-  oomriisgI. lot 50   oa  blOo.d watere                .           oiaeaqoelf edfrm   aaia   cele   mrriylvl
Aarluliral- tsieto  f qtcutu...  area. ...d temporaril  orposmoat 1            Posuiftio  -o  Mersis  Pere-   Pop.tt            divde  by  Aer ef p-.itagng
for crope. paatures, sait sad kitohao gardota oro  II  fallow; 1977 dta..                -la aad f-1. gretaaasoo    praotias sare. ad aaeinn   HWHHB.
05FP    APITA 1      GNP-10  par capita sstieato atcurra.  .arhet priae  cal-             =ra-strMl)dvddb   herrmetv                              ofn-   heepina be..
oulattbdh  encovrsowmthot  sOrd  Oask Atla  (1977-79 bata); 1960,                         evalabl. L. p.blir aet privat. gamal med seBUe   sptla 
1970, co  t979dt0.                                                                        ttablir.ti.u   c-ter.-    oopirala er  -.W=.~.ptmtystt
rzny  OUIMTI8  tOCAPITA -drulcs.oo   ?c                  oa       tory I(oa            C---  ar  Ot isol,ddt.  gorel bopitala. bho. I-eI.d  teIsh  Mt -1Ua-I
ea  inta   ordam    caa  g A""al  hyr-  suloratI                  othere .10                -test. nor poraoaly 0sf fed by a physi.na1 (hint bye din                 a.
ttrioy ) io. ilorSa of coul eqoirels  Par t_pit.; 1960  1970, art 1979ose   idoifo. oto.)  bhtth offer io-p"OAet ac-S                                     d   eda
data.                                                               un~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~idtd ramg  of settal  aoIIItI...  Vo   ncisie  ps -    9-~  Ww
POPMLATIOSS AND VITAL, STATISTICS                                                            he.lpitale 1. D.1 or rrspl  $-ept.I  d         -ndico  ad                 _Igy
T.t.1 PoruL.tio. Kitd-!..r (mllliou) - A.. of July 1; 1960, 1970. aod 1978              Adodpit.are  Sooita le -. Total 5sda ef a"l .ea.tot ow dnt               m
Udaa                                                                                     from  hoPital. diVIded by7 the ota   of beta.
Tb- P-ocltiro (-erot of totaI) - Rtool of urha to Otel. Populaioo;
differast defirtito-e of urb  -arse  eoy  Wfr  tomparbtilty of data                   USI
a oag tootrio; 196..  1970.   t1978 dart..                                         AVHraz  Si. of Ssoah'l"   esn   a   eehlt     oa.ah.   d~
popultto  ista   09-Creoppltonpeetaaehed0   90                                            oat their Hato  _1al.  A boarde  or lodSer nay or -y met be iecOnde  in
total population by Sg. at.ac  ud their  -trnlitp ad fartilityrte                     the ho..ehhold for stattela        pea
P-Jectioo par-tors for motality ratos oompriae ofthree lav-aua.a                    A-arj oober of Ferson  p0? roa  -total.                     -,a aAme    A-"P
itS life aupoteay at birth i-ore-ins with Costr' P-r -aPita isoom                     her of peco-  p.r sam  L. all orbo,  HHdrol seidaomiI
level  ar 1femlelire.    t-cooy atabil.iais  at 77.5 yearn.  Th. parc-                delss   opuiay    elig   eld   o-awm    totOaa
mot:re fo  rer-iloty  aeae 1Ihave thre. loal  ajmie ,toin  is                        udollaige.t parts. y. _liS _,                             Jd          I-
"'h,c"o"'" In thus aefignod. ro   f thea.- olas  -obieatioea of mrtalit                ZovsIona,deing. wi9-th elotn-1ioit   inliig          _O.rron   erc
statioeary ooou.Itiot-Io .tat-utary d-1ilation Lhtro iayuo growth sqacs
rhohith rate ie equa  toVta death rtet, eat alec the g.          tutr   o
a   -s co tes.TIa  e hive  only afte- far,tility teto    aieto                   dotdEnlmntato
t.h. raplannt 1-1e of oslo nt ruP-drtuIn rat.. d obsoeao               - gartio       Pr1todr  oE-l -, Ltonl   oeaaOna-Ow   oal.lta     
cf one  rplaea  osif hootly.  Th"tnoar=oo:ioyis'                                 erlnn  of allt ags  a  the  friasoy la-              aom~ao   epa
"P"'ta  o  th  htsof tepooTht oltareotrioie ofthe pouain                           pityeooleepplton;eeel   nlde   klrmae   -
10     Y... yer2000, Aot the rtot ofI cin   ffotlt          thO 00popltOe-              yor.o.eiae  fo  differe -s l             1-h ofpriOy           o  'cti   fatS
mastd local.-tliy                                                   .p..                 c     Letio  with -i-arol  dtaction amrelin   na  ece  ION  er-ot
Year- aOtbonarp 2ooolatbw  Is rectath   - The year  it  etetionar  p.pulati_                ic    npteor   emo   bv   h  of fic ,,y  j-heal qe.
etpas.i haa heo  recedhoosa    Ibo  - -tota. alo ad feel. - C-m-Ct -a shve   ared
Porulakt   . - Dasidy-   ...         e-qt   il t~(0 .tt)oduction rqoire et 1eat 8oa  year of apprave  ptlmy imatwetia;
P.r so.be. - tld-yoo popuation  er oqeao illueter 100 itrtarn)  f   prorios scorol., o=atio -l. ortOaOhnrtrainig  tottwetid  at eyi
tra '  r.I                                                                              uo-al1  of 12 to 17 year  of ag; oorrepoodame-         ni   r  g.-11y
Pot so  .                 Iaiuo Al as  - Cmpoted aa shov  for- rrlorlls          clu. ded.
MI..                                                                            Vteloe(eP"'-'           fart  f aa.dov  -Po.t.n. esi                      P-i
Fooaletionr  ASruur  lest)-Ciltra  (G-14 yera) ,  -orise-ag. (15-                            tlaeaolo.  narIaL' or                Whrponeikaeeaidp
64yera       d s  rtirtld 165 yaaotco)o  pacst.aeS  or sit-yac  ftOP.-                    dotly or aa daparteam oef sceayaaiei
-oultonioni too(oetr                   A otl- 1dtta  gowh rat.. of total mid-         prsr   deoecylvl    ivie  by  ;erT o  aoeei 
year population fer 1950-tO. 1960-70. cat 1970-79.      oourospondlng levele.~        ~    ~ ~ ~ - o  t.-j    1. a
latoe  or190-0   590-70. ,   19607,-  7008 78n  a-pordsaso  otloetpylatnen.5  aea    vr
Crud Bith tots1x  Itsr t9ousuot) -An.b- -iv hAu1   parh thouan of m-d- yeart  i-                             ..               i-         .-  .2   .-.          d-
polt ion.;f 195060,1-70190   ed17   19to. C7EIPI
Irde  ot  os(e  toael-Ota  toa-   perth ~thhe ....d of stpa                            Fedec-                ofCon (oa   t doast   pole lOl-~    "Wao   rar y- evi - st
pultion; 1960  1970  at 1978 data..                                                oar   aatr  le  ta   ig.  ara.;soedoDs a.Noe
iron RoPrtod-io.r to      --Atna   oobo- of da-ghters a  oa   ill hea  I0                  military  -nhicl   t
0001 uorm.l roprodutive Perood if olbo.       bao   raotaes.cfC  fer-                 ratio  oavasfa  thaseaad oona.tio   - All tybpo of rosoive   farrd
Vili -cte   aoly f iv-y-o  -vsraaa   ndin   i1901970, oat 1977.                         bitruatonta 00 -e-rI pblio per th-temd of poplatian; aminde  emit-
ail  ioio-A"cpos  to    (thooacdn) - A-o-I uub"r of acaptots                    c.s.o  -ncev-r  I. coatie da L. yeal osan roitrat ofa -eic a
of  ith-cat-l devices. otte       .upitoe  ofntil fosIy Pl-"Si  ProScam                 onIs  ffact; data foo rocat pea-  map ma he o- abia e.- meat
famol Pla1-s  -  ar     -focn   ,f earne.d wcr-   -i Pwrc Ara  of  -.rird                    otiaeoibtiontg
tuns  f  hl-inatugug  (5-4  yar)  ho cobirh-cotrol d.vice. 00              TV R..iae  er h  a           powrtlti-)n  - TV ra-i-nre for brna -talt
Oil attiod  sonon it e050 aae OtOOP                              ge~~~~~~~~~~~~Acrl Public P.r ObIadpplto;aoem            ...oma W  V ra-1ve
A00ND1 NUTRITIO0N                                                                         Is  --Lorto  ar  is pear  them reg"atreo   of TV met no1 inffort.
iooca Ciroalttnfath adramai) (-  q                ar the evep of reh
Isto  of  oot  rototioruscCarie (1h9-7100(- Ode  of P-.r cpita  Stll        tico  f 'dalty samaun  inar=   eePwpr.:  taO td a apHVIadIta  Peb-
Prouti-t of el  fon  coa-diti.e.  Proicio ecldtr e.o..d -d fOt Oat                      licotto  devted prianrily toI.    reoring gsm-a    -     It L.  -16.ded
lles  c             benaryaohel.  C.-doti.e  cove  pri-ac  goodse.getaaa                sondai ittaparatlo  fwti owo.
ootlo    strgo prIducer prict oishtte.;1 -5  190,ad 1978 datO.                          admhlscl
Pe-cpita euoyo   oota(rc o             f ouirm.t)   Coptt tramil  -t.
seargy Yquivalot of not food auppli.e ovilablsi t oonr  p ..cPit.                 LABOR FoORC
ouda.   Avulablr  upplian comot. d-asic prodoc-iOu   noO   Ieotal taro~ Y.r.. (tito....e -. Soo-mo-al  active P--em. isolatin
eop-rt.  at chegr  Ir etolk.  fs.t ..PPlieo eaclud  o animal        - ea, sede        arm    fore  as t cloy.Id hot ea11tin  he. v. and-t., t.0.
trtiie doe  Is foot proco.e... L ut 'W ne I,J:in dietribotion.  Requite--        Defli.tiona  -s eno     otatri.a. -      t II  abl.; 1960. 1970 -
ewtb os  aoetth  PAU b-d otphy.iolg _alont  ft.oo n.0  uO5O                             E tnt
rity ott health  -oidrriuesoionO              - ep-r-u-  body otlighto. a           ZkAoooO             F-1P.l laho  force  - poroanag  of tota  Lar fen.
ead ee  tiotrihutios of popula.tion, "1t7allowig 10 peooo"t for wota at                             rot- Labor foro  In fa.dg. foretry. bHng1 ad
hotooolt lrsI;1961-5, 190, a d177 trt                                        fiabo  no tporensag  of totl Labo  forte..; 1960. 1970 ad 1975  aa
Pertait erol o  rotlo  arin  ot dy)-  roe-        ocottIt of par -0pita       Lsnr     act-tbor for-  in mng.-osntottom.                       fm
net .opply of foot P   d.ryu.  0eV eupply of foot etfst        n   hr . r-            Adlatittp             coat gee  a par-et," o0f toal lebe  fwwe  0960.
quiram-t  ft flual  c.o-tin.                  USDAsh    t 05  prvdo for mOnisa         90at .7   a
.,Ioa-. of 60 Sron  of total.. prteit.r to y and 20 gre.. of asisa    d               197 Patiiaro 19r8 dtacetl t     o tal eels, ad feel. - Porsisitiam 
pole. pootoi, of which 10 gram. ehold ha  oina1 proraio.  Thos  -tas-                 ac.tivwityrae  are iosrto   oal   eo   dPm]  ee   e
acts Ir-lw     than those of 75 Hra. of tota  proti  and23 amHamas  o   otl   al ooff.  .nlso oP_.~rtiay
Ionlprti  a   natoa  for the writ, uropoeed by FMO Is the Thirt                      1 p.    .   ftt...   df-.   p t-  fU*
OoldFot  uve;  96-6.190  nd097tocI190  1970, eadI975 data.  Thao ac  ILO'. pnmniopaniam  rate  nodletU
Per- ot   roi  ..pply from asi-a eat pul.e -Pr-oin supply of food -                     egeao trutorte of the poplition, ad 1    ng   rr td.  A Pam ess-
riced f ro  -snuear-     ocr  to oam  Psr day; 1961-65, 1970 ar  1977 dOt..   Soei Owatvratio  - Rto   of poptl,it,o .-o   15 ad 65 ad
Cidaa1-41 iotylt  Rtot  (p,r the-ed)   Ausoo1 dteh. Per thesa.ed Ie                to the  toal labo  f-ro
aHge-rop 1-u   r,tor ohildtr  10 tha ag  grou.P; for net  oarpiog  oe--
trlee data dar-doft ru  lifo  tebl.,; 1960. 1970 at 1977 da'ta.                     ENCONE DISTRIBUTONf1
HEALTH                                                              Psuoma~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1ctes  IfPiv.     I-on fba thi  caa  ad kind) - nr-lved by o1j t
HE.1T o oatnve    it  yas       vrg   obro   or   fit   aano                                   por-et. rioea  20 peroct. pearet 20 pmr-t. ad Pe-a  60                  m
of hoeoale
atbro' 1960, 1970 Ha198data.
mOat tiZ       nt,t ratr (or Itb9u.cd) -   .1ua  toohs of i.foot. unt- IIe Y.ar   POnT  TARGET GROUPS
contoSfeb ater deroet_  of ot_oattu_) - totaltab. -      etrra: ddnlt p- vnrtA   inon I                       ave  in that Bor  ltl               h          -.   t
Iaaber of peple  ttl  urban. at rura) with reaunbls aua.to eafe                         outririon1ly  dtqat. tint pl- natio  a-food rLn.e na
rItr su.pply (IIcludee  -tretd euracmte. or  ---tad hat ootamntdt                        affurtdbla.
sator  eo a..   than ftru  Prt.co-d  .torbls..  apriogo. est .-it-to   wrlle)_a.        ti tdltw  Pset, noe1on  09er aio       b    a t
p.r..osaaoe of their u-p-ci-w uoolati ne   In so unab-rs   pbilic                         re  rlt1ive povety               -1nlvll  ontldo e.,e         per tagita
-intt  o   tasdpoet Ilo..tot ro  -r  then 200 Not.r foun a h..e. nayh                  p-r.na  Ieon  of she cetry.  Orb- I.avm  10 torOn  foe  rh. r-el
=ooid-r   sb hoto  within  -eonbla ...... If that h.ae..  It rurlj aa.                  leve  stitb otjua fa t fo   if    ea   f-lvn   nob-  -u
reasbecaswrld imply tha       he..ie-if. or ecobr  or  h         _ nholt     EaittPtlto   aemAelt  eet   a                           .vm   LEoat   ni
do tot have 00 aped a diepr-pori-ot  part of the day to fotchiog the                 aEtirual  Psrtao of A=lto     ra    droelse~~he~5
family' 5 wet- nat.d.                                                                    w -         
-uo1 - (Sober of p..pl. (toftal  uutco        royalt= ) earvat iyt, ooot
dipoela po     rcntl  o  of their  -Tetlv- population.  torrota die-                                                  Sonmi   d Sail Dmt Divini-
Posol -Y include the colcio       dn dirvel   ish or ritheforett so                                              tO-.,.i ASalyin ad   owl i  Dp-terant
ot huma  eacrts ad waeOotrby  --be-hn   setam  or the  Zoo orfreor1
pit putrisaatCnir  oslai



29                                           AN1=  1
Page 4
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT IN 1977/78 -t                                    ANNUAL RATE OF CROWTH (2, constant prices)
US$ Mln.           X                                     1972/73-1977/78
-5P at Market Prices          5,561.0           100                                          0.6
vross Domestic Investment        912.5          16.4                                          8.1
Gross National Saving            445.0           8.0
Current Account Balance          467.5           8.4
Exports of Goods, EFS            575.5          10.3                                          0.1
Imports of Goods, NFS         1,165.5           20.9                                          7.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1974/75
Value Added -                   Labor Force -t                  V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln n.       %              Ml.             1                US $              Z
Agriculture                     1,681         41.2             3.25           68.7               517             59.9
Industry                          657        16.1              0.30            6.3             2,190            253.8
Services                        1,745        42.7              1.18           24.9             1,479            171.4
Total/Average             4,083        100.0             4.73           100.0               863            100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government - 1979/80
(LSd. Mln.)                      % of GDP -
Current Receipts                                 643                             15.4
Current Expenditure                              672                             16.1
Current Surplus                                  -29                             -0.7
Capital Expenditures 4/                          164                              4.4
External Assistance (net)                        238                              5.7
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES                     1974/75      1975/76        1976/77       1977/78      1978/79       1979/80
(million LSd outstanding end period)
Money Supply                                 292.5         369.6         530.0          669.1        877.0        1,047.5
Bank Credit to Central Government            212.8          300.8        466.0          593.5        913.7        1,130.2
Bank Credit to Private Sector and            296.7         393.3         432.5         490.8         652.9          814.3
Parastatals
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index (estimates)                21.1           1.6          17.9          16.7          37.4
Bank Credit to Public Sector                   37.6         41.4          54.9          27.4          54.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector                 48.4          32.6          10.0          13.5          33.0
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
lt This is the last year for which reasonably reliable GDP data by expenditure are available.
2I Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation. "Unallocated" consists mainly
of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
3/ At market prices.
4/ Expenditures from Development Budget (includes some capital expenditures by other public entities).
Not available.
Not applicable.
EA2DB
February 1981



ANNU 1
Page 5
SUDAN - COUNTRY DATA
TRADE BALANCE AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS ESTIMATES                                                       MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1976/77-78/79)
1976/77   1977/78   1978/79   1979/80                                           US $ Mln.      :
(Millions US $)
Exports Goods., NFS                739        710        708        845             Cotton                         328.2      56.3
Imports Goods, NFS               1,397      1,360      1,345      1,600             Cum Arabic                      41.3       7.1
Resource GAP                      -658       -650       -637       -755             Groundnuts                      57.9       9.9
Sesame                          43.8       7.5
Interest MLT Debt (net)            -75       -244       -247       -250             Other                          111.8      19.2
Other Factor Payments (net)        187        428        416        432                Total                       583.0    100.0
Transfers                           24         --         10         69
Current Balance                   -522       -466       -458       -504
Public Grants                       21         --         --         --             EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Public MLT Loans, disb.            338        132        405        509
Public MLT Loans, amort.           -51        -67        -57        -89                                                  US $ Mln.
Total Public, net                  308         65        348        420             Public Debt, incl. guaranteed          2,075.5
Increase in Arrears                345        325        116        121            Non-Guaranteed Private Debt            ____
Total Outstanding and Disbt.rsed
Change Net Foreign Assets           52         76         -6        -50/            DEBT SERVICE RAIO FOR 1978
-  increase)                             .                                                                   x
Errors and Omissions b/           -183         --         --         13            Public Debt, incl. guaranteed           35.0 d/
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt              ..
Gross Reserves (end year) c/        23         22         27         33             Total Outstanding and Disbursed
RATE OF EXCHANGE e/                                          IBRD/IDA LENDING, (Jan. 31, 1981) (Million US $):
Annual Averages    End Period                                                           IBRD           IDA
1977      1978   Aug 79  Sep 79       Outstanding and Disbursed                       128.5         196.7
Official;                                                    Undisbursed                                      30.7          326.3
LSd 1 - US$          2.872    2.662   2.500   2.000        Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                   159.2         523.0
Effective:
LSd 1 = US$          2.500    2.225   2.000        --
Parallel Market:
LSd 1 - US$             --        --      --   1.250
a/ Includes use of IMF resources.
b/ Includes short-term and private capital movements.
c/ Based on IMF statistics (line 1. d of IFS) which accounts for the variations between this line and the reserves
implicit from the proceeding line.
d/ Based on amounts owed, not what was actually paid.
e/ Prior to September 1979, the official rate differed from the effective rate by the amount of export tax/subsidy
charges.  After September 1979, these were abolished and a parallel market rate was established for transactions
other than a limited category including government purchase and a few "essential" items.
Not available.
EA2DB
February 1981



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS - SUDAN
(as of January 31, 1981)
Amount (US$ Million)
(Net of cancellations)
Credit No.       Year    Borrower   Purpose                  Bank   IDA  Undisbursed
Six Loans and seven Credits fully disbursed:                 127.2 109.7
Credit 311       1972    Sudan       Mechanized Farming II          11.3       4.1
Credit 364-1    1975    Sudan        Rahad (Supplement)             20.0       5.7
Credit 547       1975    Sudan       Education II                   10.0       4.9
Credit 564       1975    Sudan       Power II                       23.0       1.1
Credit 589       1975    Sudan       Industrial Bank of Sudan II   7.0         2.3
Credit 614       1976    Sudan       Technical Assistance            4.0       1.1
Credit 643       1976    Sudan )                                     9.0       8.5
Loan 1287T       1976    Sudan )    Domestic Aviation         20.0    -       20.0
Credit 718       1977    Sudan       Savannah Development           17.0      16.8
Credit 727       1977    Sudan )                                     8.0       4.9
Loan 1467T       1977    Sudan )    Railway IV                12.0    -       10.7
Credit 781       1978    Sudan       Port                           22.0       9.8
Credit 782       1978    Sudan       Livestock Marketing            25.0      24.1
Credit 804       1978    Sudan       Mechanized Farming III         16.0      15.8
Credit 834       1978    Sudan       Agricultural Research          15.0      15.0
Credit 882       1979    Sudan       Highway II                     41.0      35.5
Credit 904       1979    Sudan       Southern Region
Agriculture Project         15.0      12.6
Credit 1000      1980    Sudan       Agricultural Rehabilitation
Program                      65.0     59.6
Credit 1006      1980    Sudan       Third Power Project            65.0      65.0
Credit 1022      1980    Sudan 1/   New Halfa Rehab. Project        40.0      40.0
Total                                                  159.2 523.0
of which repaid                                       82.3   6.9
Total now outstanding                                   76.9 516.1
Amount sold                                   5.8
of which repaid                            5.8          -      -
Total held by Bank & IDA 2/                             76.9 516.1
Total Undisbursed                                       30.7 326.3    357.0
1/   Not yet effective.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(as of January 31, 1981)
Fiscal                                                    (Amount in US$ Million)
Year                  Obligor                            Loan   Equity   Total
1964 and     Khartoum Spinning & Weaving Co.
1972         Textiles                                   1.9    0.3        2.2
1976        Cotton Textile Mills                          8.7    1.3      10.0
1978        Seleit Food Production Ltd.                  11.2    1.2      12.4
1978        Gezira/Managil Textile Co. Ltd.               6.7    1.4       8.1
1980        Promotional Cement Company                    -      0.2       0.2
Total gross commitments                     28.5    4.4      32.9
Less cancellations, terminations
repayments and sales:                    6.9    0.2        7.1
Total commitments now held by IFC           21.6    4.2      25.8
Total undisbursed by IFC                     2.3    0.8       3.1
C.  PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
The Bank and IDA have so far made eight loans and twenty-four credits
to the Sudan. Disbursements are either in progress or about to commence for
the following projects.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
Credit No. 547   Second Education Project:  US$10.0 million Credit of
May 16, 1975; Effective Date: September 30, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The first education project (Credit 122) has been completed and
undisbursed funds ($200,000) have been cancelled. The second project is some
25-30 months behind the original 1975 appraisal schedule. The delay is due
to the lack of a viable construction industry, transportation difficulties
and weakness in project management. Some change in project scope has been
necessary in surmounting these difficulties. Physical execution of the
project is improving, with the award of the bulk of the construction con-
tracts, although transportation remains a constraint. Close monitoring of the
project is to continue.
Credit No. 311   Second Mechanized Farming Project; US$11.25 million Credit
of June 12, 1972; Effective-Date: April 24, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Since October 1977, the total number of farms allocated has remained
stable at about 245 (88% of appraisal estimate), although steps are now being
taken to bring this up to the full 280. The road construction program has
made little progress due in part to difficulties in getting spare parts for
MFC's heavy equipment. Repayment of loans by farmers at Umm Seinat has
improved but remains unsatisfactory at some 22%. Explanations given by
management include adverse climatic conditions and unwillingness by farmers
to repay loans received. Repayment at Habila is said to be satisfactory
however - more than 95%. The Tozi Farm Machinery Training Center has made
some progress. Almost US$4.0 million remains undisbursed and both the
Government and the Mechanized Farming Corporation have been informed that
unless firm proposals are submitted for use of the proceeds, consistent with
project objectives, cancellation will be considered.
Credit No. 364   Rahad Irrigation Project; US$62.0 million Credit of March 30,
and            1973 and July 11, 1975; Effective Dates:  August 29, 1973
364-2           and November 17, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The Rahad Irrigation Project commenced agricultural production
in 1977 with cotton grown over 50,000 feddans (15 percent of the total
project); cotton yields for the first year were already close to the appraisal
estimate for full project development. Major project civil works have now
been substantially completed on some 206,000 feddans, with 154,000 feddans
under cultivation; both are short of the planned target of 300,000 feddans.
Project implementation has been delayed because of continuing managerial,
financial and logistical problems. A revised allocation of funds to priority
activities has been agreed. The project is undergoing careful review in an
effort to identify mechanisms to minimize the risks to this and other projects
in the agricultural sector in the future.



-34 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
Credit No. 718   Savannah Development Project; US$17.0 million Credit
of June 24, 1977; Effective Date: August 31, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
Due to organizational delays and logistical and financial con-
straints, this project as well as the parallel ODA/Abu Dhabi Fund-supported
Southern Darfur project, cannot be implemented as envisaged at appraisal.
The Government proposed that both projects be rephased, reduced in scope and
consolidated into a single operational unit. Appraisal of the consolidated
project has just been completed and the proposal will shortly be submitted
for consideration.
Loan No. 1467T   Fourth Railway Project; US$12.0 million Loan of July 8, 1977
and          and US$8.0 million Credit of July 8, 1977; Effective Date:
Credit No. 727   January 12, 1979.  Closing Date:  December 31, 1982.
Procurement under the project is progressing well, with nearly
two-thirds of the credit/loan already committed. Rapidly rising prices, along
with a protracted delay between signing and effectiveness of the project, may
necessitate some reduction in project scope. Co-financing is being provided
by the Kuwait Fund, Arab Fund, Abu Dhabi Fund, and European Development Fund.
Loan No. 1287T   Domestic Aviation Project; US$20.0 million Loan of
July 7, 1976 and US$9.0 million Credit of July 7, 1976;
Credit No. 643   Effective Date:  January 11, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
Management problems have resulted in delays in project implementa-
tion; in addition, the project has encountered serious financial problems.
Tenders for construction of the Wau and Malakal airports came in at levels
far above the appraisal estimate and retendering was initiated, based on
revised design and bills of quantities. However, the new tenders also came in
at levels greater than available financing. The future of this project is now
under discussion with the Government, including the possibility of cancellation.
Credit No. 589   Second Industrial Bank of Sudan Project:  US$7.0 million
Credit of November 11, 1975; Effective Date: April 16, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Funds under the first Industrial Bank of Sudan project (Credit 447)
have been fully disbursed, and the credit was closed on June 30, 1979. Under
the second project (Credit 589), US$5.3 million has been committed and US$4.4
million disbursed. There have been problems with overall management respon-
sibility and effectiveness within IBS and doubts about IBS' future role in the
industrial sector. These issues have been brought repeatedly to Government's
notice but no appropriate action has been taken. Consequently, consideration
of a proposed third line of credit for IBS has been postponed.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Credit No. 564   Second Power Project; US$23.0 million Credit of June 25,
1975; Effective Date: October 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Contracts for supply, erection and commissioning of generating
plant, transmission lines and ancillary equipment were placed mostly accord-
ing to the program. However, delays in award of contracts for civil works at
the Burri diesel station, Roseires hydroelectric station and the Juba diesel
station are likely to delay commissioning of various components of the Project
by about two years. The project cost estimate is now 53% higher than at
appraisal and the Government has received a loan of US$9.5 million from the
OPEC Special Fund to help meet the foreign exchange cost overrun. PEWC has
increased its electricity tariffs by 100 percent and its water supply tariffs
by 200 percent. The Government changed the composition of PEWC's board of
directors, removed PEWC's departmental managers from the board and replaced
them with ministerial under-secretaries.
Credit No. 614   Technical Assistance Project;  US$4.0 million Credit of
April 7, 1976; Effective Date: October 5, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The project, supported by IDA and the Kuwait Fund, is helping to
finance preparation studies of high priority projects to facilitate Sudan's
public investment. The Project Preparation Unit has been established, but is
only moderately effective. Overall project progress has been good, however.
Credit No. 781   Port Project:  US$22.0 million Credit of June 9, 1978;
Effective Date: February 2, 1979. Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project provides for expansion of the capacity of the existing
berths in Port Sudan and mechanization of cargo handling and movement, improve-
ment of layout and working surfaces, and improvement of bulk, container and
roll on/roll off facilities, as well as management assistance and training.
Project works are well underway.
Credit No. 782   Livestock Marketing Project:  US$25 million Credit of
June 16, 1978; Effective Date: July 9, 1979
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The Project provides market and transport infrastructure, technical
assistance, a headquartxrs building and additional staff for the Livestock
and Meat Marketing Corjoration (LHMC), which is implementing the project.
Construction of the LXIC headquarters is 50 percent complete, and selection
of sites for 13 markets and 10 holding yards has been finalized. The Sudan
Railways Corporation has contracted to purchase livestock wagons, vans and
underframes, as well as light locomotives.



_ 36 _
ANNEX II
Page 6
Credit No. 804   The Third Mechanized Farming Project:  US$16 million
Credit of July 13, 1978; Effective Date; August 13, 1979
Closing Date: March 31, 1984
The project objectives are to (a) help present users of mechanized
farming methods become more productive, and (b) support programs designed
to develop mechanized farming methods for smallholders. These objectives
will be pursued through improvement and expansion of the extension activities
of the Mechanized Farming Corporation (MFC), programs of adaptive trials
and related research, access road building, importation of spare parts for
the mechanized dryland farmers and reorganization and strengthening of the
MFC. The project became effective eight months later than expected. Late
appointment of staff and delayed procurement will prevent full implementa-
tion of agronomy and farm machinery trials during the 1980/81 season. A
draft study of MFC's future functions is being discussed with Governent.
Credit No. 834   Agricultural Research Project; US$15.0 million Credit
of July 27, 1978; Effective Date: March 21, 1980;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1985
Over a six year period, the project would develop the research
capability of the Agricultural Research Corporation (ARC) in Western Sudan,
implement research programs in this region and strengthen ARC's new Khartoum
headquarters. The research program would be concerned with integrated live-
stock and crop production systems, pure livestock production systems and water
and land use management. USAID is co-financing the project. In order to
limit projected cost escalation, reductions in staffing and housing have been
agreed. USAID is considering additional funding.
Credit No. 882   Second Highway Project; US$41.0 million Credit of
March 16, 1979; Effective Date: January 23, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1984
The first highway project (Credit 331) was closed on June 30, 1980.
The second project will facilitate the transport and export of agricultural
production through construction of the Jebel Aulia to Ed Dueim road along the
White Nile; improve accessibility of currently settled but isolated areas;
provide access to new areas of agricultural development; develop appropriate
organizational, planning and technical skills in the Roads Department of the
Southern Regional Ministry of Communications, Transport and Roads, particularly
with respect to highway maintenance; and provide detailed engineering for
future priority roads. The contracts for road construction and supervision
have been let, and construction work has recently started. Selection of the
consultants for technical assistance to the Southern Region has been completed.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Credit No. 904   Southern Region Agriculture Project:  US$15.0 million
Credit of May 11, 1979; Effective Date: February 14, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1984
The present project, a follow-up to the earlier rehabilitation project
(Credit 476), will assist the Southern Regional Government to implement part
of its regional agricultural development program by strengthening agricultural
services, planning capacity and management and improving physical infrastructure.
Credit No. 1000 Agricultural Rehabilitation Program: US$65.0 million
Credit of March 25, 1980; Effective Date: May 12, 1980;
Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The objective of the project is to provide foreign exchange financing
for high priority imports (spare parts, fertilizers, etc.) to help increase
utilization of productive capacity in the irrigated agriculture subsector from
which Sudan derives the bulk of its foreign exchange earnings. The project
will also encourage macro economic and agriculture sector policy and institu-
tional reforms and provide financing for technical assistance to help implement
the program. An EEC Special Action Fund Credit of about US$11 million will
supplement the program.
Credit No. 1006 Third Power Project: US$65.0 Million Credit of April 17,
1980; Effective Date: August 14, 1980; Closing Date:
December 31, 1985
This project will help expand power supply and distribution in
Sudan's Blue Nile grid through the provision of hydro, thermal and diesel
generation. The project will help meet the expected increased demand through
1986. The Overseas Development Administration (United Kingdom) and the
Ministry of Economic Cooperation (Federal Republic of Germany) are cofinancing.
Credit No. 1022 New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project: US$40 million
Credit of May 15, 1980; Effective Date: Not yet effective;
Closing Date: June 30, 1986.
This is the first of a series of rehabilitation projects in the
irrigated subsector designed to support Sudan's Export Action Program. It
will revitalize the second largest irrigation scheme in the country, where
cotton and groundnuts are grown. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development and the African Development Fund are cofinancing.
Technical         Planning Assistance and Training:  US$1.8 million Credit;
Assistance        Effective Date:  July 1, 1977;  Termination Date:
June 30, 1983
This technical assistance project, funded by the UNDP and executed
by the Bank, provides the services of seven advisers to the Ministry of
National Planning to assist in national, sectoral and annual planning and
improved project identification and preparation. The advisers have encoun-
tered some difficulties in trying to introduce appropriate systems for annual
planning and monitoring, as required by their terms of reference, but other-
wise the project is making satisfactory progress.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time Taken to Prepare Project: Nine months
(b) Preparation by: FAO-World Bank Cooperative Program
(c) Initial Discussions with Association: September, 1978
(d) First Bank Mission: February, 1979
(e) Appraisal Mission Departure: November, 1979
(f) Completion of Negotiations: January 7, 1981
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: July 1, 1981
II.  Special Bank Implementation Actions
$340,000 Advance from PPF
III. Special Conditions
Proposed conditions of credit effectiveness:
(a) Opening of line of credit by BOS for the project on behalf
of BNAC of not less than Lgd one million (ref. para. 47);
(b) Ratification of Subsidiary Loan Agreement between
the Government and BNAC and between Government and
PEWC satisfactory to the Association (ref. para 48);
(c) Signing of the AfDF Loan Agreement (ref. para. 46);
Other major conditions include:
(c) BNAC to establish a Tenant's Credit Unit no later than
June 30, 1982 (ref. para. 48).
(d) The Government, through a Project Steering Committee, to
prepare annual work programs to be submitted by specific
dates for Association review and covering an agreed range
of activities (ref. para. 50).



- 39 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) BNAC to issue new cotton price regulations on or before
August 31, 1981 (ref. para. 69).
(f) Government to announce cotton prices to producers
each year before December 1 and ensure that payments
for cotton are made on a timely basis to BNAC
(para. 69).
(g) BNAC to employ a financial analyst not later than
July 1, 1981 (para. 54).






I BRD 15217
33303'         T0Khcrtoum                                                 A34N00                                                         SEPTEMBER  1980
ll   //   8  -                                                        ~~~~~~~~S U [DAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES
REHABILITATION PROJECT
I Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation(BNAC)
4 Shasheina Region of BNAC
lz   . {,Rivers
lX N-   E .Existing main canals
-} \)    - Proposed main canal
I      Existing pumping station
t3    Proposed pumping stations
-1400'0                                                                                 -5 .+--- - Railways                                                    14000
-~~~             Roads
HagAbdullah          '                                                                       -          220 kv transmission line
110 kv transmission lines
-2-  -                                     ~~~~                       ~~~~~~~~~~0 10  20  30
f ~ ~ ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~     0 ---                                                     ___________________--_____
i (4 gt ,0X . X -<t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K iliometers
0          10                   ~~~~~~~~20
Miles
, . %          1    lA              i(D  SUKI   CORPORATION
5' ~          0     ,z-     ,'''s      /Y      , '  ,t      
) AR
1           _ t                    \, ,08\                                                                                                                  13.30,
0  -       -      - --- <>t a;a" <HH
-                              ena                     . , '<01
1300    ~\                       (                                        ,/                                    30       ETRL\\EHOI
3330  ukDrtrnraz/n 4 ;.\< X/gS  v                                     X          KENY
ARAB RIEPU~i
I KI,artou
ASUDAN
-13,00,                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ETHIOPIA
Th,s snp has been prepared by the World Bank s taf e-n-os,oy for the csynecAFRICAN REP.t,,
of the-reders f the rpsot to wh O t satahed. rhe dnm,, nat-on used-ad the                                                        ..u
b-uda-e shons tn*s map do s-t-ply on th. part sf the Wsrld Bank and Its
affih,ates anY judgment on the legal stat-s of any terrItoy or any endorsemeto
acceptance nf s-h Woudar-s                                                                                                                     UGANDA
330 30                                                 To Dasazs    L                                                      AR                     KENYA



