Document of                         C
The World Bank                 FILE CO PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3085-SU
SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
February 27, 1981
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Northern Agriculture Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS 1/
Currency Unit      =     Sudanese Pound (LSd)       =      100 piasters
Official Market                                   Parallel Market
US$1.00 = LSdO.50                                 US$1.00 = LSdO.80
LSdl.OO = US$2.00                                 LSdl.OO = US$1.25
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 feddan (fd)                = 1.04 acres (ac)        = 0.42 hectares (ha)
1 kantar (K) (seed cotton)  = 143.5 kilograms (kg) = 316 pounds (lbs)
1 kantar (k) (cotton lint)  = 45.4 kg                 = 100 (lbs)
1 liter (1)                  = 0.26 US gallons        = 0.22 imperial gallons
1 metric ton (mt)            = 1000 kg                = 2,202.6 (lbs)
1 K/fd                       = 0.34 mt/ha
ABBREVIATIONS
AfDF  -   African Development Fund
ARP   -   Agricultural Rehabilitation Program
BNAC  -   Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation
OS   -   Bank of Sudan
CSA   -   Corporation Services Administration
CPC   -   Cotton Public Corporation of Sudan
EAP   -   Export Action Program
EMC   -   Earthmoving Corporation
GOS   -   Government of Sudan
MAFNR -   Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources
MOI   -   Ministry of Irrigation
PAPC  -   Public Agricultural Production Corporation
PDU   -   Planning and Development Unit of BNAC
PEWC  -   Public Electricity and Water Corporation
SOC   -   Sudan Oilseeds Company
TCU   -   Tenants  Credit Unit of BNAC
Government Fiscal Year
July 1 - Tune 30
1/   On September 16, 1979, the Government established a dual exchange rate
system. An official rate of US$2.00 per Sudanese pound was adopted along
with a parallel market rate of US$1.25 per Sudanese pound. Valuation of
all imports for customs purposes has been changed to the new official
rate (LSd 1 = US$2.00) from the previous official rate (LSdl = US$2.50).
On September 21, 1980 the Government moved to the parallel market all
exports except cotton and all imports except wheat, sugar, petroleum
products, medicines and inputs for cotton production.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
SUDAN
BLUE NILE PAMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.  BACKGROUND   ...................................................                                                        1
A.      The  Agricultural  Sector   .................................                                                  1
B.      Bank  Group  Lending   ......................................                                                 2
C.      Project  Formulation   .....................................                                                  3
II. THE PROJECT AREA    .....................................                                                                4
A.      Location,  Topography  and  Soils   ..........................                                                4
B.      Climate   .................................................                                                   6
C.      Population  and  Employment  ...............................                                                  6
D.      Present  Land  Use   ........................................                                                 7
E.      Land  Tenure   .............................................                                                  8
F.   Existing Irrigation System ..............................                                                        9
G.   Existing Infrastructure ................................                                                        10
H.      Processing  and  Marketing   ................................                                                10
I.      Institutions   ............................................                                                  10
III.  THE  PROJECT   ..................................................                                                      13
A.      General  Description   .....................................                                                 13
B.      Detailed  Features   .......................................                                                 14
C.      Project  Costs   ...........................................                                                 18
D.      Proposed  Financing   ......................................                                                 20
E.      Corporation  Cash  Requirements   ...........................                                                22
F.      Procurement   .............................................                                                 24
G.      Disbursement   ............................................                                                  25
H.      Accounts  and  Audit   ......................................                                                26
I.      Environmental  Effect   ....................................                                                26
IV.  PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION   ......................................                                                     27
A.      Organization  and  Management   .............................                                                27
B.  Annual Work Programs .........................                                                                  30
C.      Training  and  Maintenance   ................................                                               31
D.      Monitoring,  Evaluation  and  Reporting   ....................                                               31
E.      Tenant  Relations   ........................................                                                 32
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Sudan in
November/December 1979 comprising Messrs. Kuffner and Lister (IDA) and
Messrs. Fellhauer, Kerkhoven and Yogarajah (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Table of Contents (Continued)                                          Page No.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES ....     ...........    33
A.   Production   ..............................................    33
B.   Marketing   ...............................................    35
C.   Financial Prices ........................................    36
VI. COST RECOVERY AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS ........................    37
A.  Cost Recovery ..................                               37
B.  Credit and Debt Recovery ................................    40
C.   BNAC  Cash  Flow    ........................................  40
D.  Government Cash Flow ...................................    41
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ...........................    41
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMM.ENDATIONS .....................    43
CHARTS
1   -    Implementation Schedule
2   -    Organization Chart
TABLES
1  -    Metereological Data
2   -    Irrigation Requirements
3   -    Average Monthly Pumping Volumes and Static Heads
4   -    Build-up of Agricultural Services, Cropped Areas,
Yields and Production
5   -    Commodity Price Projections
6   -    Income from Average Tenancy
7   -    BNAC Projected Cash Flow With Project
8   -    Direct Financial Transactions between Government
(including Bank of Sudan) and Implementing Agencies
9   -    Incremental Government Cash Flow
10   -    Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
11   -    Economic Costs and Benefits
12   -    Net Costs-Benefits and Internal Rates of Return for Net Streams
13   -    Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEXES
1   -    Cost Recovery System
2    -    Annual Work Program
3    -    Tenant's Lease Agreement
4    -    Documents and Data Available in Project File
MAPS      BNAC Area (IBRD 15217)
Shasheina Region of BNAC (IBRD 15284)



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. The Agricultural Sector
1.01      The agricultural sector in Sudan contributes about 40% of the
country's gross domestic product, is the source of virtually all exports,
provides employment for over two-thirds of the labor force, and supplies
inputs for a large prop^'rtion of industrial activity. Cotton is the major
cash and export crop, currently accounting for some 56% of all exports;
groundnuts, sesame, and gum arabic contribute 10%, 8% and 7%, respectively.
Recent crop diversification has concentrated on import substitution with
considerable expansion in wheat and sugar output, in part at the expense
of cotton.
1.02      Incomes are low in the agricultural sector.  Of Sudan's total
population of about 17 million, an estimated 65%, or some 11 million people,
are engaged in agriculture. To augment their incomes, many small subsistence
farmers hire themselves out on mechanized or irrigated tenancies to harvest
cotton, groundnuts, sesame and cereals. They form a mobile labor force of
about one million people, but even so, labor shortages have occurred in recent
years. There are financial and institutional obstacles in the way of payment
of competitive market wage rates needed to enhance the supply of labor.
1.03      Sudan's agricultural development has been characterized by the
following features: (a) a continuing emphasis on relatively capital-intensive
projects, particularly in irrigation and mechanized farming; (b) a lack of
maintenance support for ongoing projects in favor of area expansion, notably
(since 1971) of 2.6 million feddans in mechanized farming and some 300,000
feddans under irrigation; and (c) lower emphasis on the traditional and
subsistence subsectors (recently, however, some important measures have been
initiated, directed at helping the small farmer and pastoralist in the west
and south).
1.04      The 1971-75 Five-Year Plan, which was extended to 1977, gave high
priority to agriculture with an allocation of 38% of total plan resources. It
sought to increase foreign exchange earnings and reduce imports by a policy of
diversification out of cotton and increased emphasis on food grains and oil-
seeds in both modern and traditional farming. Severe logistical bottlenecks
subsequently led to a greater emphasis on infrastructure development; the
agriculture allocation was reduced to 25% of total allocations in the public
sector (LSd2O9 million). Actual development expenditure on agriculture
eventually amounted to LSdl46 million, representing a 70% utilization. Per-
formance under the Plan was mixed, the major achievement being an average
annual growth rate of GDP of 4.5%. This, however, was mainly obtained as a
result of an increase in cropped area of about 4% per annum.



- 2 -
1.05      The Six-Year Plan (1977/78-1982/83) was also designed to give major
emphasis to agricultural development. However, since its publication, Sudan
has experienced severe balance of payments and budgetary problems. In
response, Government has reordered national priorities within the framework
of the Six-Year Plan (with planning now being done on a rolling three-year
basis) through the Three-Year Public Investment Programs. The main objective
of these programs is to concentrate on completion of ongoing projects and on
investments that would contribute fastest to the growth of exports and domestic
revenues. New projects are to be limited to those that rehabilitate existing
production schemes and help alleviate infrastructural bottlenecks. This
strategy is fully supported by the recommendations of an agricultural sector
survey completed by the Bank in 1979 (Report No. 1836a-SU of May 18, 1979).
1.06      As part of its strategy, Government has embarked upon an Export
Action Program (EAP) designed to achieve an annual increase of 7% in the
volume of cotton production in the Sudan during the period 1979-91. This
program is a package of short and medium-term investments with supporting
policy and other actions towards fulfillment of the production target. The
package includes measures designed to evolve an appropriate price-cost-incomes
policy for the irrigated subsector and secure the financial viability of
parastatals. The Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (IDA Credit 1000-SU),
the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project (IDA Credit 1022-SU) and the
proposed White and Blue Nile Irrigation Projects are all part of the EAP.
B. Bank Group Lending
1.07      World Bank Group commitments to Sudan to date total US$715.1 million.
About 45% of the total Bank/IDA lending has gone into agricultural development:
four irrigation projects, including the New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation
Project; three rainfed mechanized farming projects; three smallholder develop-
ment projects, two in the southern region and one in the west; a livestock
marketing project, an agricultural research project and the Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program (ARP). In 1961, financing of the Roseires Project
(Credit 2 and Loan 284) was approved. By providing sufficient water during
the annual critical period (December - May) when the Blue Nile flow is at its
lowest level, the Roseires dam was instrumental for the expansion of irrigated
areas along the Blue Nile which would in part be rehabilitated under the
proposed project. A Project Performance Audit affecting the irrigated subsector
was completed on the Roseires project (Sec M 74-490) and circulated on July 10,
1974. It concluded that the decision to build a dam at Roseires was correct,
given the high priority of irrigation for the development of Sudan and particu-
larly the high profitability of cotton production in the Bule Nile area.
Although the original justification of the dam was based solely on irrigation
benefits, its large hydroelectric potential alone was significant enough to
have justified the investment. An Impact Evaluation Report on the Roseires
Irrigation project (No. 3051, dated June 30, 1980) also has been completed.
It concluded that, from the viewpoint of Sudan as a whole or the Blue Nile
region in particular, the economic impact of the dam has been marginally
favorable. The report also states that construction of the dam should have
been delayed for five years because of the delay in construction of new pump



- 3 -
schemes and the benefits of the Nile Waters Agreement between Sudan and Egypt.
According to the report, neither of these factors were considered at appraisal,
although at that time the delay in the pump schemes would have been difficult
to foresee.
1.08      Physical progress in implementing agricultural projects in Sudan has
been poor. Many projects have difficulty in getting key materials--cement,
fuel, timber, of which there are periodic shortages. Late delivery of equip-
ment and supplies due to transportation difficulties also affects most
projects. The continuing drain of skilled manpower from Sudan to neighboring
countries, where job opportunities are better, takes its toll on effective
preparation and implementation of projects. Beyond these difficulties, there
are other shortcomings traceable to cumbersome Government Drocedures. For
example, there have been delays in getting parliamentary ratification of
agreed development projects and, subsequently, in obtaining legal opinions
from Government. There have also been delays in meeting effectiveness condi-
tions, mainly because of problems in establishing new institutions or project
accounts, hiring key staff, completing necessary legal documentation or
concluding required cofinancing arrangements. Experience of ongoing projects
emphasizes the need to establish systems and procedures which ensure timely
and adequate release of foreign exchange and local currency needs of projects,
strengthen management and administration and provide adequate housing to
attract technical personnel to work on the projects.
1.09      Experience with ongoing projects and Sudan's recent financial
difficulties have led the Bank and the Sudan to agree on a more productively
oriented strategy for future operations, of whicb the proposed project is
part. Under the new orientation, the emphasis has been placed on raising
the productivity of already irrigated land, without devE1oping new areas.
More specifically, the proposed project was designed to address the main
problems which plagued previous projects. Adequate foreign exchange would be
provided, and the Government would guarantee sufficient local funds. Manage-
ment and administration would be strengthened and a training program initiated.
The rehabilitation of an existing irrigation scheme would, furthermore, reduce
the manpower and infrastructural problems encountered in new projects.
C. Project Formulation
1.10      In 1971, the Ministry of Irrigation (MOI) issued a report on
Electrification, Grouping, Extension and Modification of Pumping Schemes
on the Blue and White Niles, which included proposals for a regrouping of
the pump schemes along the Blue Nile. The proposals were examined in the
Blue Nile Waters Study (Blue Nile Study Consultants, 1978). It was proposed
to establish eleven groups of Blue Nile schemes, ranging in size from 10,000
to 130,000 fd, and it was envisaged that an overall program of rehabilitation,
expansion and intensification would be completed by 1990.
1.11      During the course of the Blue Nile Waters Study, it was decided
that a priority pump scheme project should be studied in detail as a model for
the overall development of the area. The Wad Salman group on the right bank



- 4 -
of the Blue Nile was selected as the priority project, being a typical medium-
sized group with land available for expansion. A feasibility study for the
Wad Salman Project was carried out in 1977/78. Following the presentation of
the project report, a modified grouping of the pump schemes was adopted by
MOI. This was the result of a decision to concentrate development on land
already irrigated, and to exclude, for the time being, any development of new
irrigated land. Furthermore, MOI did not accept the consultants proposal to
pump water from the Rahad supply canal, which would have reduced pumping cost
but would also have restricted any future modification of the Rahad water
supply system. The Bank concurred with the MOI position, and it was agreed
that the consultants proceed with the preparation of a modified project
excluding any expansion of irrigated lands. The project report, the prepara-
tion of which was supported by the Project Preparation Facility, was presented
in October 1979, and was titled The Shasheina Project."
1.12      The full rehabilitation of the Shasheina Region (52,500 fd) would
indeed serve as a model for the rehabilitation of the pump schemes along the
Blue Nile. However, the large BNAC area which had been excluded from the
originally proposed project was equally in need of investments. In order
to avoid such a serious imbalance within the BNAC area by concentrating
investments exclusively in the Shasheina Region, the Blue Nile Pump Schemes
Rehabilitation Project would include the provision of agricultural machinery
and workshops in the BNAC area outside of the Shasheina Region. While the
Shasheina Region would be served by new electric pumping stations provided
under the project, the remaining BNAC area would continue to depend on the
existing diesel-driven pump sets. Through the recently approved Agricultural
Rehabilitation Program Credit (Credit 1000-SU), funds will be made available
for the necessary repairs and replacements that will assure an adequate water
supply. At a later stage, new electrical pumping stations are planned to
replace the existing installations when a full rehabilitation and regrouping
will be carried out.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location, Topography and Soils
2.01      The BNAC area extends intermittently on both banks of the river
from about 30 km upstream of Singa to Sennar, and further downstream of Sennar
on the east bank (Maps IBRD Nos. 15217 and 15284). The average size of the
schemes is about 5,000 fd, within a wide overall range. The total net culti-
vable area of the existing BNAC pump schemes is about 200,000 fd. The
Shasheina Region of BNAC which would be fully rehabilitated under the project
would be organized to cover the Shasheina, Suki and Wad Salman schemes,
totaling 52,500 fd at full development (Table 1). All the schemes were
developed privately between 1950 and 1965. In 1968 they were nationalized and
are now administered by BNAC.



SUDAN
BLUE NILE AGRICULTUJRAL CORPORA,TION
Net Cultivated Area
Proposed
Area      Regions                                                 Area
Existing Regions       Schemes                         (fd.)      (w/Project)      Schemes                               (fd.)
Kassab                 Kassab-Heyeret                  33,200    Kassab-Suki       Kassab-Heyerat                        33,200
(Northern Region)                                                                Massara                               29,000
Busata                                16,400
78,600
Suki                   Massara-Busata                  45,400
(Central Region)    Shasheina-Suki-Wad Salman        48,500 1/
Wad er Rif-Farhana-Bunzuga   '18,400    Shasheina           Shasheiria                            21,500
Suki                                  21,500
112,300                     Wad Salman                              9,500
52,500 /
Singa                  Wad Hashim-Mayurno              23,800
(Western Region)     Erideiba-Ramashi-Kawkab         1.6,500
Maire-Layoona-Sero              16,400    Singa             Wad llashim-Mayurno                   23,800
Erideiba-Ramash-Kawkab                16,500
56,700                      Maira-Layoona-Sero                    16,400
Wad er Rif-Farhana-Bunzuga            18,400
202,200                                                            75,100
206,200
1/  The Shasheina Region covering at present 48,500 fd would be established                                                       H
under the Project and enlarged by 4,000 fd to a total of 52,500 fd.



2.02      The BNAC area is part of the central clay plain of Sudan.  Land
slopes are generally between 20 and 40 cm/km, sloping down from south to
north. The topography is uneven with small ridges running south-north,
and numerous old river channels and shallow depressions. This unevenness
accounts for the fragmented layout of the canal system in several schemes.
2.03      The soils are heavy cracking clays typical of those in the central
clay plain, and underlain at a depth of 2 m to 3 m by a sandier material. The
irrigated areas are reported to be very well suited to irrigation, as demon-
strated by satisfactory cotton yields achieved in normal years. Recent soil
surveys in the Wad Salman scheme showed also soils well suited to irrigation,
with very low salinity and alkali levels, and even lower salinity levels in
the upper profiles, indicating that salinity appears to have been reduced by
irrigation.
B. Climate
2.04      The climate has a marked seasonal pattern.  During the winter
months it experiences dry north to northeasterly winds. In spring, the winds
change to southwesterly and rains start, generally in May and early June.
The rainy season ends in late September. The mean rainfall in the BNAC area
varies between 402 mm/year at Shasheina, 426 mm/year at Suki and 545 mm/gear
at Singa. The maximum temperatures during the rainy season are about 32
to 34 0C; they rise to about 37 0C in October-November and to over 40 C in
April-May.  During the cooler season (December-February), the maximum tempe-
ratures reach 34 0C to 35%C and stay at about 18 0C at night.  The evaporation
amounts to 800 mm during the rainy season and to about 1,500 mm during the
dry season, averaging 6.4 mm/day.
C. Population and Employment
2.05      The population in the BNAC area was estimated at about 300,000
in 1979, including the population of the major towns of Sennar, Suki and
Singa. The population living in and around the Shasheina Region has been
estimated at 61,000.  The number of tenants who would benefit directly from
the project amounts to about 17,000. With an average family size of five,
tenants and their families number 85,000. Since most people live in the towns
and villages along the major rivers, many live at a considerable distance
from their tenancies.



- 7 -
2.06      The majority of the population is involved in agricultural activi-
ties as either tenants or laborers. Of the 61,000 people of the Shasheina
Region at least 35,000 or 7,000 families depend on agriculture. This is
about double the number of tenancies available at present, and although the
project would increase this number significantly there would still be more
families than tenancies in the area. Consequently, the labor supply is
expected to be sufficient to meet the requirements of agriculture except in
the cotton picking season. In several schemes, there is a strong demand for
additional tenancies, as demonstrated by large numbers of subdivided tenancies.
D. Present Land Use
2.07      Present cropping in the BNAC area is based on a three-course rotation
of cotton - free choice crop (sorghum, groundnuts, and other crops) - fallow,
on holdings of 15 fd. The cropping intensity is thus theoretically 67 percent.
Detailed surveys in the Shasheina Region have shown that the area under cotton
was approximately at the design level of one-third of the net cultivable area,
while there was a shortfall in the areas under non-cotton crops which are the
tenants sole responsibility. BNAC receives no return from these crops and has
therefore no interest to encourage their production or to ensure that they
receive full irrigation.
2.08      BNAC is presently cultivating long-staple Barakat cotton.  After
land preparation in July, the crop is hand planted in July or August.
Irrigation commences usually early in September and continues at 15-day
intervals. Cotton picking starts in early January and continues for two
to two-and-a-half months. After completion of the final picking and grazing
of the cotton foliage, the cotton stalks are uprooted and burned as a disease
control measure.
2.09      Cotton yields have declined substantially in the BNAC area, parti-
cularly during the last four years. Table 2 shows that the yields in the
Wad Salman, Shasheina and Suki schemes declined from 6.3 - 4.6 K/feddan in
1972/73 to 2.4 - 1.8 in 1978/79. The decline in yields was due to several
factors, including a shortage of picking labor, late planting because of
shortages of tractors and fuel, irregular irrigation water supply caused by
lack of fuel and mechanical breakdown, and delays in payments from BNAC to
tenants. The shortage of picking labor became acute in 1977/78 when the first
stage of the Rahad Project was completed and apparently attracted cotton
pickers who previously worked in the BNAC area. But even the Rahad scheme,
which offered higher wages for cotton pickers than BNAC, experienced labor
shortages. This suggests that even Rahad-s relatively high wage rates were
still below many cotton pickers- reservation wage, yet at current yields and
prices the Rahad and other cotton producing corporations are making sizeable
losses. Clearly, some way must be found to restore corporate profitability
before wage rates can be raised.



-8-
Table 2
Seed Cotton Yields 1972/73-1978/79
(kantars/feddan) 1/
Year             Shasheina          Wad Salman            Suki
1972/73              6.26                 5.14              4.63
1973/74              5.53                 6.32              5.91
1974/75              5.45                 6.68              4.09
1975/76              3.24                 2.91              4.29
1976/77              4.41                 4.41              4.51
1977/78              3.17                 3.63              2.85
1978/79              2.04                 1.81              2.38
1/   1 K/fd = 0.34 mt/ha
2.10      Sorghum is presently the most important non-cash crop in the BNAC
area.  It is grown to provide the tenants  foodgrain requirements and for the
stover which is a valuable livestock feed. Recently, sorghum yields have been
very low mainly because of poor agricultural practices and insect infestation.
Groundnuts are not widely grown; the limited present cultivation is probably
the result of the shortages of irrigation water for the free choice crops.
Vegetables, mainly onions, are grown on very small areas.
2.11      There are substantial areas of unirrigated land interspersed
with the irrigated areas as well as in the areas adjacent to the irrigation
schemes. This unirrigated land is used for rainfed cropping and livestock
grazing.
E. Land Tenure
2.12      All land within the irrigation schemes belongs to the Government.
The parastatal corporations in charge of cultivating the land are empowered
to allocate tenancies. Originally, standard 15 feddan tenancies had been
established. But subsequently, due to the pressures on the limited avail-
able irrigated land, a considerable amount of subdivision of holdings has
taken place. This is most marked in the Shasheina and Wad Salman schemes
where many tenants hold half-tenancies of 7.5 feddans. The presently irri-
gated area in the Shasheina Region, consisting of 48,545 feddans (3,970
feddans have been abandoned - see para 2.17) is divided into 3,754 tenancies,
resulting in an average tenancy size of 12.9 feddan. The situation in the
remaining regions of the BNAC area is reportedly very similar. Therefore,
it was estimated about 13,000 tenancies existed in the regions outside of
Shasheina which has been surveyed in detail.



-9-
F. Existing Irrigation System
2.13      The irrigation system on the existing schemes follows the standard
pattern in the central Sudan. The tenants' holdings are divided into five
feddan "hawashas," several hawashas being grouped together to form a "number"
(field) which is fed by a single field channel ("Abu Ishreen"). Field irri-
gation is by the check flooding (angaya) system, which involves the subdivi-
sion of the hawasha into eight to ten small basins of about half a feddan
size. Each irrigation consists of the application of water to the basin
until there is free standing water throughout the field. The success of
this practice relies on the self-regulating characteristic of the soils,
which absorb water until the clay has swelled sufficiently to close the
cracks which develop on drying out. Having reached this stage, the soils
become almost impervious.
2.14      The angaya irrigation system functions well in regions with very
low rainfall. In areas with higher rainfall, there is a risk of waterlogging
if ridging is not carried out well and if excess water cannot be drained off
through an adequate drainage system.
2.15      The irrigation distribution system in each of the schemes consists
of a main canal conveying water from a pumping station to minor canals which
feed the water to the Abu Ishreens. The systems are thus similar to the
Gezira scheme, except that no night storage is provided. The canal system
is designed for 67% cropping intensity. Night irrigation is generally not
practiced except occasionally at times of peak demand.
2.16      The Shasheina Region is presently served by four river pumping
stations. They are of similar design with horizontal split casing centrifugal
pumps in a dry sump, belt-driven by diesel engines. Many of the pumps, though
well maintained, are past their working life. Spare parts are difficult to
obtain because the pumps and eng;-es are no longer manufactured. But the most
difficult problem encountered was the unreliable supply of diesel fuel. This
resulted in the disruption of water supplies to such an extent that consider-
able areas have had to be abandoned after planting has taken place.
2.17      Substantial areas of abandoned land exist on all the schemes.  The
reasons for this are insufficient command in the water courses, the irregular
water supply and insufficient pumping capacity, lack of agricultural equipment
and inadequate drainage. The present lack of an effective drainage system has
very serious consequences, particularly if a storm follows shortly after an
irrigation and if ridging is poorly carried out so that plants are completely
submerged.



- 10 -
G. Existing Infrastructure
2.18      The project area is connected to Khartoum by a recently built all-
weather road and by the Khartoum-Sennar-Gedaref railway which passes through
the project area. Feeder roads are nonexistent. While this is no great
problem during the dry season, because of the flat terrain, most villages
are cut off from vehicular traffic during the rainy season for periods of a
week or more. Most journeys are then made on foot or by donkey.
2.19      The electricity line to the Meina pumping station passes through
the project area, but there is no electricity supplied to the villages. The
majority of the villages, however, are supplied with a tubewell for drinking
water. Government elementary schools exist in most villages close to the
Blue Nile, while the majority of villages without Government schools have
privately organized Koran schools at which reading and writing are taught
as well as the Koran. Six villages have health posts, operated by a trained
nurse. Serious cases are treated in clinics operated by doctors at Guwejsi,
Singa and Suki. In general, social services are provided at the level pre-
vailing in the rest of Blue Nile Province, which is higher than the country-
wide average.
H. Processing and Marketing
2.20      Cotton processing and marketing are the responsibility of BNAC from
the time the raw seed cotton is collected in the field until it has been ginned
and the products - lint, seed and scarto - sold. Seed cotton from the BNAC
area, all of which is long-staple, is ginned at the Kassab or Hamadnallah
ginneries. These are of the roller type which is suitable for long-
staple seed cotton. They have handled medium staple in the past, but the
output was very low. All cotton lint is transported to Port Sudan where it
is sold to the Cotton Public Corporation (CPC) which has a monopoly on lint
exports. Cotton seed is sold ex-ginnery, principally to the local oil mills.
2.21      In contrast, groundnuts, sorghum and vegetables are sold directly
by the tenant or retained for home consumption. In the case of most of the
groundnuts, private merchants shell, rebag and transport the nuts to Khartoum
or Port Sudan for sale at fixed prices to the Sudan Oilseeds Company (SOC).
I. Institutions
BNAC
2.22      Until 1979, BNAC was a sub-corporation of the Public Agricultural
Production Corporation (PAPC), which was controlled by the Ministry of Agri-
culture (MAFNR). In September 1979, PAPC was dismantled and a Corporation
Services Administration (CSA) was established as a department within the MAFNR



- 11 -
to offer the services which PAPC carried out previously, but only at the
request of the producing corporations. The CSA was dissolved in July 1980,
and representatives located in Khartoum were appointed by each Corporation
to assist in handling administrative matters. Constitutions for most cor-
porations were enacted early in 1980; the presidential warrant or decree
establishing BNAC as an independent Corporation was issued on January 23,
1980. Since the dismantling of CSA all agricultural Corporations including
BNAC must carry out their obligations as fully independent agencies but most
Corporations are unable to do so because of their weakness in such areas as
planning, financial management, accounting, procurement and certain technical
specialties. They therefore urgently need technical assistance in these
fields.
2.23      BNAC has a Board composed of representatives of ministries and agen-
cies which have an interest in irrigation. Furthermore, there are represen-
tatives of the Blue Nile province and tenants. The chief executive officer
of BNAC is the general manager, supported by an agricultural manager, an
entomologist, a chief engineer, and a chief accountant, and a section dealing
with general administration.
2.24      The field organization of BNAC consists of three regions with
regional managers in Singa, Suki and Kassab. A regrouping would be necessary
under which the Shasheina Region would be formed, covering the Shasheina,
Suki and Wad Salman schemes, which would be fully rehabilitated under the
proposed project (Table 1). A regrouping of the remaining area will be
needed later in order to establish regions of approximately equal size, but
this regrouping would best be determined at a later stage when the design of
the full rehabilitation of the remaining schemes is carried out. At the level
of the 58 existing schemes, the BNAC organization is concerned primarily with
the supervision of the tenants and the production of the cotton crop. Plant
protection is the responsibility of a separate Plant Protection Section of
BNAC, reporting directly to headquarters in Sennar rather than to scheme
or region headquarters. In the same way, all mechanization activities are
centrally controlled from the central workshop at Massara near Suki. Culti-
vation schedules are controlled from there, tractor teams being dispatched
to each scheme, together with their mobile maintenance staff and facilities.
Thus, regional and scheme managers have no direct control over tractor or
plant protection services for their cotton crop.
2.25      Financial relationships between the tenant and BNAC are governed
by a joint account system I/ similar to that used in other irrigation schemes
in the Sudan. Under this system, the costs of production of all crops but
only the returns from cotton-growing, are shared between the tenant and BNAC
1/   On June 11, 1980, Government announced the abolition of the joint account
and its replacement by individual accounts for each crop. These changes
would be implemented from 1981-82 onwards.  See para 6.08.



- 12 -
according to a complex formula which evolved during the period of private
ownership and has changed little over time. The system has been character-
ized in recent years by increasing tenant indebtedness to the Corporation,
as cotton yields have fallen below the breakeven point. "Income" from a
tenancy in recent years has been limited to the unsettled cash advance
received by the tenant of about LSdl25, besides the income from crops other
than cotton, and was unlikely to exceed an average LSd200 per tenancy.
2.26      BNAC's provisional accounts for the 1977/78 financial year (the
latest available) show a cumulative loss of LSd8.6 million, including LSd2.3
million in 1977/78. If one adds to this the estimated losses in 1978/79,
1979/80 and 1980/81 and the mostly unrecoverable tenant debts estimated
at LSd5 million, the cumulative deficit would reach LSd27 million by the
end of 1980/81. BNAC accounting at the field level is generally satisfactory,
but the main office at Sennar lacks the capability to maintain proper books.
In the past, its accounts were finalized by visiting PAPC accountants, but
they lacked familiarity with BNAC operations and produced unreconciled balances
and generally poor quality accounts. BNAC does not have any audited accounts,
but draft accounts for the 1976/77 financial year were sent to the Auditor
General½s office in September 1979.
Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Natural Resources (MAFNR)
2.27      The Minister of Agriculture is directly responsible for supervising
the Corporation (para 2.22). The Minister also supervises the Agricultural
Research Corporation, responsible for all research undertaken in the Sudan.
The Ministry is directly involved in supplying seeds and extension services
and implementing small projects such as the construction of tree shelter
belts.
Ministry of Irrigation (MOI)
2.28      The existing pump schemes have been under the jurisdiction of the
Singa (Blue Nile East Bank) and Sennar (Blue Nile West Bank) Regional Sub-
divisions of MOI. MOI staff were responsible for the operation of the water
supply systems from the pumping stations down to the heads of the minor canals,
while BNAC was responsible for the operation and distribution of water through
the minors to the fields. The newly issued BNAC constitution, however, states
that the corporation is responsible for maintaining all water supply installa-
tions including pumping stations. Water requirements ("indenting") were deter-
mined by the BNAC inspectors and were given to the MOI resident irrigation
engineers who calculated the total requirements for the pumping stations,
including the pumping schedule, and instructed the pumping staff accordingly.
2.29      MOI was also responsible for the maintenance of the irrigation sys-
tem, including the main canal, major and minor canals and drains; the main-
tenance work was carried out under contract by the Earthmoving Corporation
(EMC). MOI was also responsible for the routine inspection and repair of
pumps and engines, regulators and other canal and drain structures and raised
roads. The yearly clearance of the field distribution channels was the
responsibility of BNAC.



- 13 -
2.30      The division of responsibility between MOI and BNAC was somewhat
indistinct. Although water guards were employed by MOI, they were paid by
BNAC, which also had to supply the fuel for the pumping stations which were
run by MOI staff. This, as well as a lack of coordination between the agen-
cies, are expected to be overcome since BNAC has taken over all full
responsibilities for the irrigation operations according to the newly enacted
constitution.
The Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC)
2.31      Electric power for the two pumping stations would be provided by
the Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC) from the Blue Nile grid.
PEWC is a Government-owned public utility company, operating throughout the
Sudan, which generates and distributes electricity. It is the executing
agency for the recently approved Third Power Project. In the load forecast
1978-82 and in the implementation program of PEWC, provisions have been made
for the addition of major agricultural loads, including an addition of 12.2
million kwh for the Blue Nile Area, expected for commissioning in 1981/82.
The average annual consumption of the project has been estimated at about 9
million kwh.
III. THE PROJECT
A. General Description
3.01      The project would, over a five-year period, rehabilitate the
Shasheina Region of BNAC and provide agricultural machinery and workshops
for cotton cultivation in the rest of the BNAC area. Specifically, the
project would include:
(a)  rehabilitation of t- irrigation system in the Shasheina
Region, including the construction of two new pumping
stations, a drainage system and service roads;
(b)  construction of buildings for administration, workshops
and staff housing;
(c)  provision of agricultural machinery and vehicles and farm
inputs;
(d)  electrification and construction of potable water supply
facilities; and
(e)  provision of technical assistance and consultant services.
BNAC would have overall responsibility for project execution in collaboration
with the Ministries of Irrigation and Agriculture.
Shasheina Region
3.02      The four existing pump schemes, Shasheina, Suki, Wad Salman North
and Wad Salman South, would be grouped together into the new Shasheina Region
of BNAC. The irrigation system would be fully rehabilitated, and a two-course



- 14 -
rotation and a uniform tenancy size of 10.5 fd would be introduced, thereby
increasing the total number of tenancies from 3,800 to 5,000 and augmenting
total production (para 5.01) and incomes (paras 6.10 and 7.02). The smaller
tenancy size would be fully compensated by more intensive cultivation through
a two-course rotation, and tenants contacted during appraisal welcomed this
proposal. Under the proposed rotation, 50% of the 50,000 feddan area would be
cultivated with long-staple cotton and 50% with groundnuts and sorghum; this
rotation is required to introduce more intensive cultivation, thus utilizing
the irrigation infrastructure more than previously, and raising production and
tenant incomes. One-half feddan vegetable or fodder crop plots adjacent to
villages would be provided to all tenants, so that a total area of 52,500 fd
would be irrigated.
3.03      The rehabilitation of the Shasheina Region would serve as a model
for the rehabilitation of the rest of the BNAC area. The size of the region
served by the new water supply, irrigation and drainage system would be close
to the optimal size for regrouping the remaining BNAC regions. The cropping
intensity would be increased to 100% through the introduction of the two-course
rotation. The proposed investments would restore the productivity of the
region and set the stage for possible further improvements.
BNAC Area Outside the Shasheina Region
3.04      In order to complement investments in the water supply system under
the ARP and arrest further declines to production, the project would provide
agricultural machinery and workshops sufficient for the 50,000 fd of cotton
in the rest of BNAC. This investment would raise the production (para 5.02)
and incomes (para 6.10 and 7.02) of the tenants and would thus be economically
very attractive. Furthermore, without this provision, a serious imbalance
between the Shasheina region and the rest of BNAC would develop which would
make the management of the Corporation extremely difficult. The area outside
the Shasheina region would also benefit from the technical services, extension
and training programs provided under the project. Studies would also be
carried out to prepare for its full rehabilitation in a subsequent project.
B. Detailed Features 1/
Water Supply, Irrigation and Drainage System (US$21.5 million)
3.05      Two new electrically powered pumping stations, replacing the four
existing stations, would be built at Abu Banat and jus   northwest of Suki
town with maximum supply capacities of 15.6 and 12.4 m /s, respectively,
to pump water from the Blue Nile directly into the canal system. The existing
canal system would be retained as far as possible to minimize earthmoving
operations. Remodeling of the canals would be carried out to provide for
the increased canal discharges and to provide for increased command required
for night storage in minor canals, located more than six km from the pumping
stations. The design of the remodeled canal system would conform with current
MOI practice. Water is released from the minor canals into the field channels
1/   All monetary amounts are shown at baseline cost.



- 15 -
through field outlet pipes. The minor canals receive water from the distri-
bution system of main and major canals. Control structures would be rebuilt
according to the standard Sudanese system which has been in use for several
decades, with the exception that roller sluice gates would be installed where
larger structures are required on the main and major canals. A booster pump
station in the Suki scheme would be built to provide sufficient command for
the higher parts of the scheme. While the existing flood basin (angaya)
system would be maintained in the Shasheina Region, long furrows would be
introduced on an area of about 90 feddans and closely monitored to obtain
adequate information on their performance. This information would allow
determination of where and under which conditions the long furrow system
should be introduced into the project area at a later stage. A drainage
system would be built, the design of which would be based on a field storage
of 48 hours for the flood basin irrigation system and a two-day storm rainfall
of 87 mm. The layout of the drainage system would make maximum use of the
natural drains flowing into the Dinder River.
Water Availability, Demand, Quality and Rights
3.06      The irrigation system would receive its water supply from the Blue
Nile which derives practically all its flow from the highlands of Ethiopia.
This information would allow determination of where and under which conditions
the long furrow system should be introduced in the project area at a later
stage. There is no formal agreement between Ethiopia and the Sudan on sharing
the Blue Nile water, but Ethiopia has only very limited opportunities to
increase its consumptive use (irrigation) of the Blue Nile water, and any
storage dams built in Ethiopia for non-consumptive use (power generation)
would only benefit Sudan because they would balance the flow and retain
sediments. The project would not increase or change the Sudan's share of the
Blue Nile water since the rehabilitation would not increase potential water
consumption. Intense summer rains, combined with the steep valleys in the
catchment basin, cause the annual flow pattern to have a very sharp seasonal
peak in late August with 80% of the annual discharge passing during the months
of July to October. Regulation of the river is provided by the existing dams
at Roseires and Sennar, releasing water from storage to meet all irrigation
water requirements from January to June.
3.07      Crop water requirements have been calculated, using Penman evapo-
ration data, available from 1963 to 1973. The requirements show peaks in
May-June and 3October, with a maximum monthly requirement in October reaching
30 million m in the Shasheina Region, at which time static pumping heads of
12 m and 8 m, respectively, would be needed at the two new pumping stations.
3.08      The suspended sediment concentration in the Blue Nile water down-
stream of the Roseires dam varies from less than 100 mg/l in the low flow
season from November to May up to about 10,000 mg/l during the flood season.
The quality of the water for irrigation is good, varying from Cl.Sl (USDA
classification) for most of the year to C2.S1 at the time of low river flow.
3.09      The Nile Waters Agreement concluded in 1959 between Sudan and Egypt
provides for the sharing of the annual natural yield of the Nile at Aswan,
estimated to be 84 km . According to the Agreement, the shares are 18.5 km3



- 16 -
for the Sudan and 55.5 km  for Egypt, the balance of 10 km  being the esti-
mated losses in Lake Nasser created by the Aswan High Dam. It is understood
that it is no longer necessary for the Sudan to limit its abstractions during
th5 low river flow, but its average annual abstraction must not exceed 18.5
km as measured at Aswan. Taking into account Sxisting and presently com-
mitted irrigation projects, a balance of 1.2 km is available for further use.
Status of Engineering
3.10      The engineering works proposed for the Shasheina Region have been
planned and prepared in the format of a feasibility report by consultants. 1/
The basic layout of the irrigation and drainage systems was prepared using
1:10,000 scale topographic maps and aerial photography taken for the Wad
Salman schemes in November 1977 and for the Suki and Shasheina schemes in
1962/63. A level traverse was carried out by the consultants between bench-
marks in the north, center and south of the project area which were found to
be in close agreement. Levels were taken at 100 m intervals along the lines
of the proposed supply canals. Where proposed to make use of existing canals,
cross sections were measured to calculate remodeling quantities. The pro-
posed site for the new Abu Banat pump station was identified using aerial
photography, and a topographic survey was subsequently carried out in the
field. In addition, soundings were taken in the river to investigate flow
conditions and to plot contour lines of the river bed in the vicinity of the
proposed pump station site.
3.11      The Project Department of MOI initiated design works in 1980 and
plans to complete design work and contract documents needed for ICB by early
1981. The Project Department is experienced in these matters. Specialists
would be provided to assist in the preparation of detailed features of the
irrigation and drainage system as needed; they would be selected by the
Project Department in consultation with IDA. In addition, the Project Depart-
ment would conduct periodic meetings with BNAC and the Irrigation Engineer
provided to the Corporation, to ensure that the views and requirements of BNAC
would be adequately taken into consideration.
Other Project Works
3.12      Office Buildings, Workshops and Staff Housing (US$6.4 million).
The project would finance the construction of a project headquarters, two
central workshops in the Shasheina Region, and three field workshops in the
rest of the BNAC area. The field workshops would be adequate to carry out
routine field repair work and servicing of tractors and agricultural equip-
ment. Mechanical equipment and tools would be provided for all workshops
and electricity would be supplied through connections with existing power
lines or diesel generators.
3.13      The project would resolve BNAC-s most urgent housing problem by
providing 81 houses for staff needed to operate the project. Three grades
of houses would be built with minor modifications to standard designs already
1/   Sir M. MacDonald & Partners and Hunting Technical Services Limited of
UK.



- 17 -
i2 use. The designs are austere, but the cost is estimated at LSd280 per
m , mainly because of very expensive foundations which are necessary due to
difficult soil conditions. It would be impossible to reduce the designs or
total requirements further without jeopardizing the project's ability to
attract necessary personnel.
3.14      Roads (US$0.4 million).  In the Shasheina Region, about 45 km
of earth roads would be built along the main canals and to the field centers.
The roads would be 8 m wide, built up to a final grade about 0.5 m above the
adjacent land surface, the crest sloped towards drainage ditches at both sides
of the road. A maintenance program would be carried out by BNAC for which the
project would provide the necessary equipment.
3.15      Potable Water Supply (US$0.5 million).  All field centers and the
Abu Banat pumping station would be provided with tubewells to supply safe
drinking water. A total of eight wells would be constructed, each about 120 m
to 150 m deep and equipped with diesel driven pumps or with electrically driven
pumps where electric power is available. BNAC would be responsible for the
operation and maintenance of the wells.
3.16      Electrification (US$1.1 million).  The project would finance con-
nections between the existing 33 kV line and the proposed two pumping sta-
tions, and a substation at each pumping station. Also, the booster pumping
station would be connected with the existing power lines. Electricity would
be provided to the headquarters and two field centers, all relatively close
to the power lines. The third field center in the south of the Shasheina
Region would be supplied with a diesel electric generating set.
3.17      Telecommunications (US$0.1 million).  Communications would be
improved by providing a small radio-telephone system with a base station at
headquarters, stationary units in.the field centers and pumping stations,
and about 20 mobile radio units for field staff. The base station would
have a range of about 75 km.
Agricultural Machinery, Operating Vehicles and Equipment
3.18      Agricultural Machinery and Equipment (US$7.0 million).  The project
would finance 125 75-80 HP wheel tractors and agricultural equipment, suffi-
cient to carry out the proposed cropping program in the Shasheina Region.
Furthermore, the project would finance 90 75-80 HP wheel tractors and agri-
cultural equipment sufficient for cotton cultivation in the rest of the BNAC
area. The total machinery requirement is based on the assumption that 75-80%
of all tractors would be serviceable during peak demand periods, namely May
and September. Adequate provisions would also be made for spare parts and
replacements.
3.19      Operating Vehicles and Miscellaneous Equipment (US$2.1 million).
The project would finance 30 four-wheel drive pickups, three station wagons,
one pickup bus, five six-ton trucks, one fuel tank truck, one water tank
truck and ten motorcycles with baloon tires. Furthermore, equipment for road
improvement and maintenance, workshop equipment and office equipment would be
provided.



- 18 -
3.20      Incremental Annual Farm Inputs (US$2.0 million).  The project would
provide incremental annual farm inputs including seeds, sacks, fertilizer and
insecticides. Items of significant expenditure would be insecticides ($0.8
million) and fertilizer ($0.6 million).
Management, Administration and Studies
3.21      BNAC Management and Administration (US$1.7 million).  BNAC's manage-
ment and administration would be strengthened by establishing a Planning and
Development Unit (PDU) which would include four internationally recruited
specialists with local counterparts: a Financial Analyst, an Agricultural
Machinery Expert, and an Irrigation Engineer experienced in irrigated cotton
for 36 months each, and a Procurement Expert for 12 months, all with qualifica-
tions and terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association.
The Financial Analyst would be appointed not later than July 1, 1981.
An assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations (para 8.01(a)).
The average man-month cost (based on the individual's fees, international
travel and local allowances) is expected to be about US$10,000 per man-month.
One man-year of short term consultants services has also been included to
assist with discrete tasks such as pump station design.
3.22      Department of Planning of the Ministry of Agriculture (US$1.3 mil-
lion). In addition, a total of 10 man-years of consultants services would
also be provided to the Department of Planning in the Ministry of Agriculture,
Food and Natural Resources to serve BNAC and other public agricultural corpo-
rations (para 4.12). The estimated average man-month cost would be US$10,000
(based on man-month rates, subsistance allowances and reimbursable items).
The consultants would have qualifications and experience and would be employed
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, and an assurance to
this effect was obtained at negotiations (para 8.01(b)).
3.23      Studies (US$0.6 million).  Consultant services would be provided to
BNAC, to prepare a follow-up project for the rehabilitation of an additional
BNAC Region. The studies would require about 56 man-months of consultant
services at an estimated total cost of about US$600,000. The average man-month
cost, including salary, international travel and subsistence is expected to be
about US$9,500. In addition to these personnel costs, the contract cost also
includes the cost of vehicles, local transportation and local office operating
expenses. The consultants would have qualifications and experience and be
employed on terms and conditions of employment satisfactory to the Association,
and an assurance to this effect was obtained at negotiations (para 8.01(c)).
C. Project Costs
3.24      Total project cost is estimated at US$67.3 million, with a foreign
exchange component of US$42.0 million (62%). Estimated costs are summarized
in Table 3.



- 19 -
Table 3: TOTAL PROJECT COSTS
Local  Foreign          Local Foreign          x Foreign
Project Component                Costs  Exchange Total  Costs Exchange Total  Exchange-
----LSd Million         ---US$ Million 27--
Water Supply, Irrigation
and Drainage System             6.9    10.3    17.2    8.7    12.8   21.5         60
of which:
Pumping Stations             2.4      5.7     8.1    3.1      7.0   10.1       70
Supply System                1.4     2.2      3.6    1.8      2.7    4.5      61
Irrigation Distribution
and Drainage System        1.5     2.4      3.9    1.8      3.1    4.9      58
Engineering and
Administration             1.6      -       1.6    2.0       -      2.0      -
Buildings                         2.6      2.6      5.2    3.2      3.2    6.4      50
Roads                             0.1      0.2     0.3    0.1       O.3    O.4      62
Potable Water Supply              0.1      0.3     O.4    0.2       O.3    0.5      70
Electrification                   0.2      0.6      0.8    0.3      0.8    1.1      72
Telecommunications                 -       0.1      0.1     -       0.1    0.1      78
Agricultural Machinery
and Equipment                   0.8      4.8     5.6    0.9       6.1    7.0      86
Operating Vehicles and
Miscellaneous Equipment         O.4      1.3     1.7    0.5       1.6    2.1      74
Incremental Farm Inputs           O.4      1.0      1.4    0.5      1.5    2.0      75
Management, Administration
and Studies                     0.1      2.8     2.9    0.1      3.5    3.6       96
Total Baseline Costs        11.6    24.0    35.6   14.5    30.2   44.7        68
Physical Contingencies            1.3      2.4      3.7    1.7      3.0    4.7      64
Total Baseline Costs
and Physical
Contingencies             12.9    26.4    39.3   16.2    33.2   49.4        67
Price Contingencies               7.4      6.8    14.2    9.1       8.8   17.9      49
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         20.3    33.2    53.5   25.3    42.0   67.3        62
1/   Percentage is calculated on the United States dollar equivalent.
2/   Conversion rates are at LSd 1.0 = US$1.25 except for the foreign exchange
component of incremental farm inputs which is converted at LSdl.O = US$1.5.



- 20 -
Cost estimates are based on January 1980 prices adjusted to September 1980
estimated baseline price levels and are derived from recent quotations and
appraisal estimates. Physical contingencies have been provided as follows:
15% for the road component, 12.8% (average) for the irrigation and drainage
works, and 10% for the other components. Price escalations for all components
have been estimated at the following inflation rates:
Table 4
Price Contingencies
1981-82   1982-83    1983-84       1984-85     1985-86
(Year 1)  (Year 2)   (Year 3)      (Year 4)    (Year 5)
__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ %__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Equipment, Civil Works
and Services:
1.  Local currency        35.0 1/   15.0         10.0          7.0          7.0
2. Foreign exchange
component            12.5 2/    8.0          7.0          7.0          7.0
Import duties and other taxes estimated at US$8.0 million have been included.
A PPF of US$340,000, approved to cover the estimated foreign exchange costs
incurred from 1977 to 1979 for the project preparation consultancy, has also
been included.
D. Proposed Financing
3.25      Project costs would be qhared in the following amounts and pro-
portions:
1/   Includes 12.5% from date of cost estimates to 1981.
2/   Includes 3.5% from date of cost estimates to 1981.



- 21 -
Table 5
Financing Plan
Local    Foreign                 % of         % of Net
Cost     Exchange   Total    Total Cost   Project Cost
US$ million 1/------
IDA                      -         32.0       32.0      47                54
AfDF                     -         10.0       10.0       15               17
GOS                     17.3         -        17.3       26               29
Net Project Cost        17.3       42.0       59.3       88              100
Taxes and Duties         8.0         -         8.0       12
Total Project Cost      25.3       42.0       67.3      100
1/   Including contingencies.
3.26      Project financing by category of goods or services is set out in
Table 6. The proposed IDA Credit would be on standard terms to Government
and would be onlent under subsidiary loan agreements between Government and
BNAC, and between Government and PEWC. These agreements would specify that
all IDA funds and Government-s contribution to project investment costs would
be onlent to these agencies for twenty years, including a grace period of five
years, repayable at 9% interest in the case of BNAC and 12% in the case of
PEWC. The 9% rate is in line with that normally charged for advances to
public agricultural entities by the Bank of Sudan, while the 12% rate is the
one applied to onlent IDA funds under the recently approved Third Power
Project. BNAC would continue to provide credit in cash and kind to tenants at
an interest rate of not less than 12% per annum on overdues and cash advances
for labor (this provision is to be included in the Tenants' Lease Agreement-
Annex 3). These rates compare with an inflation rate in Sudan that is cur-
rently estimated to be about 25% for 1980-81 and is estimated to decline to
perhaps 7% by 1984-85. The execution of subsidiary loan agreements acceptable
to IDA would be a condition of credit effectiveness (para 8.02 (a)). The
signing of the AFDF loan agreement would also be a condition of credit effec-
tiveness (para 8.02 (b)).



- 22 -
Table 6
Project Financing by Category of Goods or Services
US$ Million 1/
Category of Goods or Services              GOS       IDA      AfDF       TOTAL
Electro-Mechanical Equipment
for Pumping Stations                      4.4       10.9       -        15.3
Other Machinery and Equipment              2.4        1.3      9.1       12.8
Transport Vehicles                         0.3         -       0.9        1.2
Civil Works                               12.9       13.4       -        26.3
Technical Assistance and Consultancy       4.3        4.2       -         8.5
Annual Farm Inputs                         1.0        2.2       -         3.2
25.3      32.0      10.0      67.3
1/   Including contingencies.
E. Corporation Cash Requirements
3.27      BNAC-s losses and excesses of cash outflows over cash inflows during
project implementation would occur in the first three years and would be caused,
as before, by low cotton production, which in turn would generate insufficient
revenue to cover the costs of preparing land, providing farm inputs and
irrigation water, maintaining Corporation staff and providing other services.
Government would provide the funds to maintain the solvency of the Corporation
until Corporation revenues and debt and cost recovery mechanisms produce an
excess of cash inflows over cash outflows. The year end net cash requirements
during the first three project years, assuming the fulfillment of the project
assumptions, would be as follows:



- 23 -
Table 7
Net Operating Cash Requirements
(Current LSd Millions)
Project                          Total               Total         Net (Surplus) Cash
Year                        Cash Outflows 1/  Cash Inflows 2/        Requirements
I     Foreign Exchange           8.0               21.3                (13.3)
Local Currency            23.0                7.6                 15.4
Total                     31.0               28.9                  2.1
2     Foreign Exchange           8.7                24.1               (15.4)
Local Currency            26.5                9.7                 16.8
Total                     35.2               33.8                  1.4
3     Foreign Exchange          12.4               30.9                (18.5)
Local Currency            30.1               11.5                 18.6
Total                     42.5               42.4                  0.1
1 to 3  Foreign Exchange          29.1                76.3               (47.2)
Local Currency            79.6               28.8                 50.8
Total                    108.7              105.1                  3.6
1/   Consists of annual farm inputs, costs of supplying irrigation water,
cash advances (for labor) to tenants and the costs of operating BNAC to
provide agricultural, engineering and administrative services to tenants.
2/   Consists principally of cotton revenues as foreign exchange inflows, and
tenant debt repayments for local currency inflows.
3.28      Within the fiscal year, the Corporation would also have to provide
cash advances to tenants for labor in each fiscal year. In Project years 1,
2, and 3 the Corporation would have to outlay LSd2.3 million, LSd 2.7 million
and LSd 3.0 million respectively for periods up to 9 months. These short-term
cash advances, though repaid at the end of each year, would have to be financed
at the start of each year.
3.29      The annual work program would facilitate the provision of sufficient
cash to the Corporation until such time as cash inflows exceeded cash outflows.
This document would include detailed estimates of the financing required to
meet project expenses and the cash requirements outlined above. The PDU would
monitor the Corporation's cash needs in relation to the estimates contained in
the Annual Work Program and amend the estimates quarterly if necessary. A
condition of credit effectiveness would be that an account in the name of the
project had been opened and a line of credit had been arranged from the Bank



- 24 -
of Sudan through this account of not less than LSd 1.0 million to meet Project
start-up expenses (para 8.02(c)). Thereafter, during the execution of the
project, Government would arrange for transfer of funds to this account
quarterly based on the estimates contained in the Annual Work Program as
updated from time to time (para 8.01(d)). Estimates of anticipated total
financial requirements of the the Government and the Bank of Sudan for the
project during the first three Project years would be LSd 12.6 million; while
during the five-year Project implementation period the requirements would be
LSd 12.8 million (Annex Table 8).
F. Procurement 1/
3.30      Contracts exceeding US$500,000 for civil works would be subject to
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines.
Such works would qualify for a 7-1/2% domestic preference under ICB. Civil
works in the project area would involve the construction of two new pumping
stations, irrigation and drainage works, buildings, roads and potable water
supply. The works for the pumping stations (US$3.4 million) and the con-
struction of building (US$6.4 million) would be procured through ICB. Because
of the dispersed nature of the irrigation and drainage works (US$6.1 million)
and the five years over which construction would be spread, it would be
impractical to group the works into an international contract and they would
therefore be carried out after local competitive bidding (LCB) by MOI using
local contractors or by negotiated contract with EMC, as in other projects in
Sudan. For the same reason, the construction of roads (US$0.4 million) would
be implemented by BNAC using LCB procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA,
or, where not possible, by force account. The potable water supply component
(US$0.5 million) would be carried out by force account through the Ministry
of Agriculture's Rural Water Corporation which is experienced in this type of
construction.
3.31      Contracts exceeding US$100,000 for mechanical and electrical equip-
ment for the pumping stations (US$6.7 million) would be subject to ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. The items would be aggregated for tenders in
order to attract major contractors and suppliers. Thus about 70% of the IDA
Credit would be utilized through ICB. Contracts for less than US$100,000 and
in aggregate totalling no more than US$3,000,000 would be procured through LCB
in accordance with standard GOS procedures which were reviewed at appraisal
and found acceptable to IDA. Local procedures permit foreign participation.
For contracts under US$10,000, up to a total of $200,000, comparative shopping
or purchasing off-the-shelf would be used. Local suppliers of equipment,
spares and materials would qualify for a 15% domestic preference under ICB
procurement. Spare parts for vehicles and equipment would be procured directly
by negotiated contract with the principal manufacturers or by quotations from
dealers as appropriate. Agricultural machinery and equipment (US$7.0 million)
and operating vehicles and equipment (US$2.1 million) would be finaced by AfDF
on a parallel basis and would be procured in accordance with AfDF procedures.
1/   Project costs in this section are shown at baseline.



- 25 -
3.32      Fertilizer, pesticides and sacks (US$2.0 million) would be procured
in accordance with the existing normal procedures of the Government or other
appropriate procedures in consultation with IDA.
3.33      The qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employ-
ment of the internationally recruited experts and consultants (US$3.6 million)
would be satisfactory to IDA.
G. Disbursement
3.34      The proceeds of the IDA Credit and the AfDF loan would be disbursed
over six years and five years respectively as described in Table 8. The AfDF
loan would finance on a parallel basis the agricultural machinery and equip-
ment and miscellaneous equipment components of the machinery and equipment
category as well as the entire transport vehicle category.
Table 8
Disbursements
Category                              Amount of Credit/Loan   % of Expenditures
Number                                      Allocated 1/        to be Financed
-----US$ million-----
IDA         AfDF
1 (a)  Electro-Mechnical Equipment        9.8             -     100% of foreign
for Pumping Stations                                    expenditures
(b)  Machinery and Equipment            1.2           8.2    100% of foreign expen-
including spares                                        ditures or 75%
(c)  Transport Vehicles                  -            0.8
including spares
2.     Civil Works                       12.0            -      100% of foreign expen-
ditures or 51%
3.     Technical Assistance               3.4            -      100% of foreign
and Consultancy                                         expenditures
4.     Annual Farm Inputs                 2.0             -     100% of foreign expen-
ditures or 68%
5.     Refund of Project                                        100% of principal amount
Preparation Advance                0.3            -      and charges outstanding
28.7           9.0    at Effective Date
6.     Unallocated                        3.3           1.0
TOTAL                             32.0 2/       10.0
1/   Approximately 10% of the total foreign exchange cost of Category Nos. 1 to
4 have been shown under Category No. 6.
2/   The Special Drawing Rights equivalent of this, as determined at negotiations,
is 25.1 million.



- 26 -
3.35      Disbursements would be fully documented.  However, disbursements
for incremental farm inputs and for civil works, if undertaken by force
account, would be made against statements of expenditures, the supporting
documents for which would not be submitted for review, but retained by the
Corporation for inspection by IDA supervision missions. These documents would
be audited separately and the audit report submitted to the Association within
six months of the end of each fiscal year. As strengthened by the project,
the Corporation would have adequate staff and controls for the preparation of
such statements of expenditure. A schedule of estimated disbursements is
shown in Annex Table 10. Any funds remaining in the Credit Account upon
completion of the project would be available for reallocation to project
related expenditures at the discretion of IDA.
H. Accounts and Audit
3.36      BNAC as reconstituted on January 23, 1980 would begin the 1980/81
fiscal year with a balance sheet including only those assets and liabilities
appropriate to its future operations and would not include assets (e.g.,
amounts due from tenants) which are unrealizable or liabilities which relate
to activities of the predecessor BNAC Corporation. Under the direction of
the internationally recruited Financial Analyst, BNAC's accounting system
would also be strengthened, especially at the headquarters level, and the
funds provided under the project for short-term consultancies would be used
as needed for this purpose. Improvements in the accounting system would
include the institution of a uniform system of accounting by headquarters
and the field offices for the identification of expenses and the introduction
of standard costs for farm operations including variance analysis and cost
improvement techniques. The Financial Analyst would also be responsible for
arranging training for accounting staff, both formal and on-the-job.
3.37      Assurances were obtained at negotiations that BNAC would keep a
comprehensive set of accounts for the Corporation, including a separate set of
accounts for the expenditure and recovery of Project funds, that are acceptable
to the Association. The accounts would be audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association. The audited accounts, together with
the auditor's report, would be submitted in English to the Association annually,
no later than nine months after the end of the financial year. BNAC's initial
audited accounts, relating to its position at the time it was established,
would be submitted along with the auditor's report not later than December 31,
1981 (para 8.01(e)).
I. Environmental Effect
3.38      Crop Protection and Fertilizer.  Pest control by spraying cotton
with insecticide has been practiced extensively in the Sudan for over 30 years,
and would continue to be used under the project. All chemicals currently
employed are tested by residue analysis and for compliance with the prescribed
specifications. Chemicals are also subjected to field tests and, if found



- 27 -
acceptable, are registered by the Pesticide Committee of the Ministry of
Agriculture, which controls the importation and use of pesticides. These
procedures are considered adequate. Application is normally carried out by
aerial spraying by experienced contractors with well maintained equipment,
using efficient techniques which minimize drift, and the risk of people in the
area being directly contaminated is therefore minimal. However, the extensive
use of pesticides will continue to pose long-term risks until safer alter-
native drugs become available at suitable costs. Meanwhile, it would not be
profitable to produce cotton without chemical pest control. Fertilizer
application in the project area amounts to about 10 kg/fd per month of active
growth, increasing the potential production of dry matter by about 20%. This
indicates a high conversion efficiency and a lack of residual effect. This
situation and the predominance of clay suggest that there is practically no
pollution effect due to nitrogen being washed out of the irrigation schemes.
3.39      Health.  Malaria and bilharzia exist in the project area.  Against
malaria, spraying is carried out in buildings and dwellings during the main
malaria season. This spraying is actively supported by the WHO sponsored Blue
Nile Health project. Bilharzia has been recorded in the project area, but to
a lesser extent than in the neighboring Gezira-Managil area. Drinking water
in the project area is generally safe. Deep wells, provided by the project
in connection with the construction of agricultural service centers, would
guarantee safe water where neded for project generated activities.
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC)
4.01      BNAC would be the main executing agency.  After the dismantling of
the Public Agricultural Production Corporation (PAPC) in September 1979, BNAC
became an independent corporation on January 23, 1980, when a Presidential
decree (warrant) was issued to this effect. The Presidential warrant speci-
fies that BNAC operates under its own Board of Directors responsible directly
to the Minister of Agriculture, and that it has the power to grant and
terminate tenancy agreements. Returns from cotton, it states further, shall
be divided, after deduction of any outstanding amounts, duties or taxes,
according to proportions recommended by the Board and approved by the Minister
of Agriculture. Tenants shall pay to BNAC, water charges and administration
fees for all other crops at rates and in the manner recommended by the Board
and approved by the Minister (Chapter V of Presidential warrant).
4.02      Administrative reforms to provide the Minister with the assistance
needed for the discharge of the function of supervising agricultural parasta-
tals are being studied under the Agricultural Rehabilitation Program (ARP).
In order to ensure adequate allocation of resources for the project and
coordination between the concerned Ministries and other public sector agencies,
a high-level Project Steering Committee would be set up for the project.



- 28 -
This Committee would be headed by the Minister of Agriculture or his designate
and composed of representatives of the Ministries of Finance, National Planning
and Irrigation, BNAC, the Agricultural Research Corporation and the Bank of
Sudan. This Committee would be empowered to approve Annual Work Programs for
the project on behalf of the Government, and would meet once a year for this
purpose.
4.03      Under the Chairman and Managing Director of BNAC, a Planning and
Development Unit (PDU) would be created (Chart 2), which would be responsible
for preparing the annual work program and for monitoring and evaluating
project implementation. BNAC headquarters would be organized into six
departments (Chart 2) and field operations would be carried out through three
Regional Divisions (offices) further subdivided into schemes. One of the
three Regions would be the newly created Shasheina Region covering the
Shasheina, Suki, Wad Salman North and Wad Salman South schemes which would be
fully rehabilitated under the project.
4.04      In addition to the existing departments for agricultural operations,
engineering, finance and personnel, departments for supplies, training and
extension would be established, since procurement and training would be of
high importance for the newly established corporation and would receive sup-
port from the proposed project.
4.05      BNAC would continue to determine which crop would be grown in each
hawasha with the exception of the one-half feddan plots each tenant would
cultivate according to his own preference. BNAC would, furthermore, determine
the agricultural operations to be carried out by the tenants and their timing.
If necessary, BNAC would carry out such operations by force account and debit
the tenants accounts for the expenses incurred. BNAC would improve its
training service and provide agricultural extension for the main crops in the
rotation, and for horticultural and fodder crops expected to be grown on the
free choice plots. For the cotton area, BNAC would provide farm inputs
and aerial spraying for pest d!ontrol, supervised by the Plant Protection
Department. The Agricultural Engineering Department would be improved and
reorganized, providing better decentralized services to the widely dispersed
regions of BNAC. With the facilities and equipment provided under the project,
it would be able to operate and maintain the agricultural machinery needed to
achieve full production.
4.06      BNAC would establish a Civil Engineering Section in the Engineering
Department responsible for the construction of buildings, the construction of
field distribution channels, and for maintenance of canals, drains and roads.
While BNAC would be able to supervise the construction of buildings and small
earthworks, it would require MOI assistance for the implementation of large
civil works.
4.07      Technical assistance to BNAC would be provided under the project in
areas which are of critical importance for the project: in financial manage-
ment and procurement which were, until BNAC's independence, PAPC's responsi-
bility; in the operation and maintenance of agricultural machinery provided
by the project; and in the cultivation of irrigated cotton.



- 29 -
Ministry of Irrigation (MOI)
4.08      MOI would be responsible for the implementation of the irrigation
rehabilitation works. MOI is experienced and equipped to survey, design and
supervise the construction of pump houses, canals, embankments and hydraulic
structures, which would be carried out by contractors or the EMC.
4.09      Until recently, MOI was responsible, through its Department of
Irrigation Services, for the operation of the pumping stations and the canal
and drainage system. BNAC has taken over responsibility for these works since
January 1980, according to the newly enacted constitution.
Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC)
4.10      PEWC would be responsible for the implementation of the electricity
supply component including the installation of substations and transmission
lines. Furthermore, PEWC would provide adequate electric power as needed
for the operation of the pumping stations (para. 3.16).
4.11      A Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and PEWC would
specify PEWC's obligations for carrying out this component and the conditions
under which the Government would on-lend the necessary funds (paras. 3.26,
8.02(a)).
Strengthening of the Planning in the Ministry of Agriculture
4.12      To assist the Ministry of Agriculture (MAFNR) in its obligations
towards the agricultural corporations, especially in providing services in
the fields of planning, programming and special technical assistance, the
Department of Planning would be strengthened through the provision of
consultant services and a revision of its organizational structure with
appropriate linkages to other Government agencies. The specific functions of
the department which would be strengthened under the project include the
following:
(a) to service the Project Steering Committee as a
Secretariat and give the necessary technical and
implementational inputs into Government's high-level
decision making processes;
(b) to advise the Minister of Agriculture on all activities
of the Corporations, so that the Minister'could effec-
tively discharge his functions towards the corporations,
specially as Chairman of the Project Steering Committees
of guiding and supervising public corporations;
(c) to assist the Minister in evaluating Annual Work Programs
and assessing the performance of each corporation on an
annual basis;



- 30 -
(d)  to supervise, evaluate and render technical assistance to
the Corporations implementing projects, without prejudicing
their autonomy; to sponsor and supervise training programs;
and
(e)  to foster closer coordination between the Ministries of
Agriculture and Irrigation at all levels; also establish
close working relationships with other Ministries and
Government institutions involved in agricultural projects.
4.13      The Department would be reorganized and headed by an officer of
appropriate rank and staffed with qualified professionals in such fields as
agronomy, machinery operations, finance, procurement and training.
Internationally recruited experts would be provided under the project to
assist the Sudanese staff. The organizational structure would be determined,
taking the results of a study of administrative reforms, carried out by
consultants financed under ARP, into consideration.
4.14      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that the Department of
Planning would be strengthened in accordance with an organizational structure,
responsibilities and staffing acceptable to IDA (para 8.01 (g)).
B. Annual Work Programs
4.15      The Annual Work Program and the criteria upon which it would be
approved by IDA are described in Annex 2. It would facilitate a full annual
review of progress in project implementation by Government and IDA and make
possible technical, financial, and institutional modifications or adjustments
to the project as implementation proceeds and experience is gained. It would
also serve as an instrument through which support for the project, such as
establishment of adequate cotton prices, budgetary flows from the Government,
cash flows from the Bank of Sudan and research input from the Agricultural
Research Corporation, would be secured. The Project Steering Committee would
review the Program and submit it to IDA each year no later than May 1 and IDA
would, within three weeks of receipt of the proposal, inform the Government
of its acceptance or comments. The first Annual Work Program for the period
ending June 30, 1982, would be submitted to IDA within four months of signing
of the Credit.  Subsequent programs would be submitted by May 1, and cover the
year commencing the following July 1. Assurances were obtained from Government
during negotiations of their acceptance of these arrangements (para 8.01(h)).
C. Training and Maintenance
4.16      BNAC is deficient in managerial and technical staff due to their
general shortage in Sudan. Besides the provision of temporary technical
assistance, improved promotion prospects reflected in revised organization
structures and housing facilities should help attract qualified personnel.



- 31 -
At the same time, BNAC has a surplus of unskilled staff. Over the project
implementation period, it is envisaged that some staff in this category would
be trained to meet some of the skilled needs of the Corporation. The total
number of unskilled staff would be reduced in due course either through this
re-deployment or through attrition.
4.17      Since BNAC is responsible for agricultural machinery operations,
courses would be held covering the in-field operational and mechanical engi-
neering skills required by the Corporation's agricultural equipment operators.
Other courses would cover workshop skills. These would be conducted at Sennar
with the assistance of the Department of Labor's ILO supported Vocational
Training Center (VTC) which is located in Khartoum. They would be so struc-
tured and coordinated that newly recruited equipment operators could, if they
wish, eventually qualify as mechanics. Strengthening of workshops under the
project (para 3.12) and the employment of a Farm Machinery Expert in the PPU
(para 3.21) would facilitate the establishment and enforcement of satisfactory
maintenance systems.
4.18      Agricultural field training focusing on the tenants  main responsi-
bilities of sowing, weeding, distributing of irrigation water and cotton
picking would be directed and supervised by the Agricultural Department of
BNAC.  The Irrigation Engineer provided by the project would monitor the
training program's impact and recommend improvements in contact with the
Agricultural Research Corporation which is responsible for all agricultural
research in the Sudan.  At negotiation, an assurance was obtained that
Government would submit a comprehensive training and maintenance program for
BNAC staff and tenants, satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 1981 (para
8.01(i)). Details of each year's program would be spelled out in advance
through the mechanism of the Annual Work Program (Annex 2).
D. Monitoring, Evaluation and Reporting
4.19      BNAC, through its PDU, would design and implement a monitoring
and evaluation system. A group of professionals in the PDU would arrange for
the collection of information in a form comparable to the original implementa-
tion schedule and development plans and projections of the works and services
financed. The consultants provided by the project would assist this group in
identifying the special monitoring and evaluation requirements in their field
of expertise. Short-term consultant services in monitoring and evaluation
would also be provided by the project to review and adjust the procedures as
required.
4.20      The monitoring and evaluation group would provide project management
with information on performance, costs and expenditures and recommendations
for improvements. It would also prepare Annual Works Programs, quarterly



- 32 -
progress reports and a Project Completion Report. The data and information
collected should allow thorough project supervision by BNAC management, early
detection of problems and timely modification of the project program. The
detailed information would be retained by the Director of BNAC and would be
available for inspection by Bank supervision missions. Summaries and analyses
of the information and actions taken would be included in the quarterly
project progress reports. These progress reports would be submitted within
two months of the end of each quarter, and an assurance to this effect was
obtained at negotiations (para 8.01(j)).
4.21      Promptly after completion of the project, but not later than six
months after the closing date, BNAC, through its monitoring and evaluation
group, would prepare and furnish to the Association a draft project completion
report on the execution and initial operation of the project, its costs and
benefits, the performance by participating agencies and the Association, and
the accomplishment of the Credit. An assurance on this was obtained at
negotiations (para 8.01(j)).
E. Tenant Relations
4.22      At present, tenancy agreements are not kept up to date.  Under the
project, BNAC would enter into a new tenancy agreement with each of the tenants
during the first year of the project. The agreement would cover occupancy,
land use, cost and revenue sharing, provision of credit and debt and cost
recovery. The agreement would also provide for the execution annually of a
Credit and Services contract between BNAC and the tenant.  The main features
of the new Tenancy Lease Agreement are set forth in Annex 3 and the Agreement
would be for a period of 20 years.  Government assurances were obtained
during negotiations that BNAC would issue regulations prescribing the new
tenancy lease agreement; assurances were also obtained that BNAC would
extend services only to tenants who have a current Credit and Services
contract (para 8.01(k)).
4.23      The project would offer a number of incentives to tenants in order
to promote greater participation by them.  These include better Corporation
services, financial benefits, and accounting reforms all designed to raise
tenant productivity. An important reform already announced by the Government
(June 1980) would be the announcement of cotton prices in advance of the
harvest and payment of such prices promptly by the BNAC.  At present, payments
are made only after the produce is finally sold by the CPC and this entails
a delay of a year or two.  In order to enable BNAC to extend prompt payments
to tenants Government would arrange prompt payment by CPC to BNAC for cotton
lint delivered (para 6.14).  Government would make the necessary arrangements
to ensure a smooth and orderly transition from the existing system to the new
system. The switch would entail payment of two years crop revenue during
1980-82 when the change will take place; however, this would not result in
substantial cash incomes for tenants, since a part of the amounts paid would
be applied to extinguish debt owed to the Corporation by the tenants.
These matters are now under study by a team set up under the ARP and the
team-s recommendations would be available in mid-1981. A new payment system
for cotton has recently been introduced by the Government. Cotton prices are
announced prior to harvest and payments will be made promptly upon delivery



- 33 -
of the cotton. Previously, payments were made only after the produce was
sold by CPC, and this entailed a delay of a year or two. An assurance was
obtained that the BNAC would issue regulations embodying details of such a
mechanism, satisfactory to IDA, on or before August 31, 1981 (para 8.01(1)).
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION, MARKETING AND PRICES
A. Production
Shasheina
5.01      As a result of the rehabilitation of the irrigation system, the
introduction of the two course rotation and the increased availability of
improved agricultural machinery services, cropped areas, yields and production
in the Shasheina area are expected to increase as follows:
Table 9
Cropped Areas, Yields and Production in the Shasheina Area
Without Project With Project Incremental
1/               2/
Long-staple Seed Cotton
Area (fd)                            16,800           25,000         8,200
Yields (mt(K)/fd)                 0.500 (3.5)       0.780 (5.5)  0.280 (2.0)
Production (mt)                       8,400           19,500        11,100
Ashford Groundnuts (in shell)
Area (fd)                             2,500           20,000        17,500
Yield (mt/fd)                         0.500            1.100         0.600
Production (mt)                       1,250           22,000        20,750
Sorghum
Area (fd)                             5,000            5,000             -
Yield (mt/fd)                         0.500            0.900         0.400
Production (mt)                       2,500            4,500         2,000
Fodder Crops
Area (fd)                                 -            2,000         2,000
Yield (mt/fd)                                             14            14
Production (mt)                           -           28,000        28,000
Vegetables
Area (fd)                               500              500             -
Yield (mt/fd)                           4.0              8.0           4.0
Production (mt)                       2,000            4,000         2,000
1/   The US$5.5 million investment in the Blue Nile area under the ARP credit
would stabilize cropped areas, yields and production at these levels.
2/   At full development.



- 34 -
Rest of BNAC
5.02      As a result of the expansion and improvement of agricultural
machinery services only, the following increases in yields and production
are expected in the rest of BNAC:
Table 10
Cropped Areas, Yields and Production in the Rest of BNAC
Without Project With Project Incremental
1/               2/
Long-staple Seed Cotton
Area (fd)                            50,000           50,000          -
Yields (mt(K)/fd)                 0.500 (3.5)      0.640 (4.5)  0.140 (1.0)
Production (mt)                     25,000            32,000         7,000
Ashford Groundnuts (in shell)
Area (fd)                             7,400            7,400             -
Yield (mt/fd)                         0.500            0.700         0.200
Production (mt)                       3,700            5,200         1,500
Sorghum
Area (fd)                            14,800           14,800             -
Yield (mt/fd)                        0.500             0.600         0.100
Production (mt)                       7,400            8,880         1,480
1/   The US$5.5 million investment in the Blue Nile area under the ARP Credit
would stabilize cropped areas, yields and production at these levels.
2/   At full development.
5.03      Production increases over the entire project area would amount to
the following:
Table 11
Total Production (mt)
Without Project With Project Incremental
1/               2/
Long-staple Seed Cotton                  33,400           51,500        18,100
Ashford Groundnuts (in shell)             4,950           27,200        22,250
Sorghum                                   9,900           13,380         3,480
Fodder Crops                                  -           28,000        28,000
Vegetables                                2,000            4,000         2,000
1/   The US$5.5 million investment in the Blue Nile area under the ARP Credit
would stabilize cropped areas, yields and production at these levels.
2/   At full development.



- 35 -
5.04      The long-staple (Barakat) variety of cotton would continue to be
grown under the project due to its lesser sensitivity to water management and
timely inputs and its familiarity to tenants. Any shift to medium staple
(Acala) varieties, assuming it is justified by international market trends,
should not be attempted until the necessary technical and managerial condi-
tions for its success can be assured. Technical considerations, in partic-
ular the types of soils in the project area, have also governed the choice
of the Ashford groundnut which is used mainly for oil extraction. Sorghum,
vegetable and fodder crop varieties would be determined by the tenants in
accordance with their own tastes and preferences.
5.05      Between the beginning of the project and full development, a gradual
build-up of cropped areas, yields and production in the Shasheina area and
of yields and production in the rest of BNAC has been assumed to reflect the
increasing availability of irrigation water and improved agricultural machinery
services in the Shasheina area and of machinery services only in the rest of
BNAC. Half of the area expansion in the Shasheina area (4,100 fd) would occur
in year 4, the remainder in year 5, consistent with the availability of water
from the rehabilitated irrigation system. Improved agricultural machinery
services in the Shasheina area would be phased in over a three-year period
beginning in year 2. By year 5, cotton yields would reach their full develop-
ment level of 5.5K   This compares with average levels of 5-6K achieved in
the BNAC area in the early 1970's, and should be readily attainable under the
Project given the level of investment proposed. In the rest of BNAC, the
machinery services would be phased in over a two-year period also beginning
in year 2. With regard to machinery operations, particular attention would
be paid to providing an adequate number of machinery hours per feddan; the
current average is only 2/3 hours per fd compared to a minimum requirement of
nearly 3 hours.
B. Marketing
5.06      BNAC is and would remain responsible for cotton processing and mar-
keting from the time the tenants deliver their seed cotton to the collection
centers until it has been ginned and the products sold to buyers. No problems
are foreseen in disposing of the additional production from the Project at
acceptable prices. Normally, ginning would be done at the roller ginneries
at Kassab and Hamadnallah where storage and processing capacity is about
73,000 bales of lint. This compares to an estimated Project requirement of
about 78,000 bales which is so close to the existing capacity that it is not
proposed to expand the ginneries under the project. They should in any case
be prepared to expand their capacities to meet demand as part of their normal
operations. If a shortfall did occur, however, they could always extend the
ginning season (currently only four months at the Hamadnallah ginnery) or
simply transport the seed cotton to another roller ginnery outside the project
area.
5.07      Saleable outputs from the ginning process would be long-staple
cotton lint, seed, waste cotton and used sacks. All lint would be sold to
the Government-s monopoly cotton marketing agency, the Cotton Public
Corporation (CPC). Cotton seed, not retained for sowing or sale to other



- 36 -
schemes, would be sold to the local oil mills, located mainly in Khartoum and
Port Sudan. Storage and processing capacity at the mills is expected to be
adequate. Waste cotton would be sold ex-ginnery to a wide range of buyers,
and used sacks would be sold to tenants for use in transporting the next
seasons crop.
5.08      Groundnut marketing is presently in the hands of private traders
who buy the unshelled nuts from the tenants at the local auction markets and
decorticate, rebag and rail or road haul the shelled nuts to Khartoum or Port
Sudan at their own risk and cost. There they sell the shelled nuts to the
Sudan Oilseeds Company (SOC) at fixed prices. Most of the additional pro-
duction would go into  Sudan-s oil extraction industry, but any surplus could
always be exported. This system is adequate to meet the needs of the project.
Except for assisting the tenants with the transport of their crop from the
farm to the collection center, it is not proposed to change it under the
project. Sorghum, vegetables and fodder crops would go almost entirely for
home consumption.
C. Financial Prices
5.09      Cotton and groundnuts are Sudan-s major sources of foreign exchange.
Two factors make it extremely unlikely that world market prices for long-
staple cotton would be adversely affected by the additional production from
the Project and the concurrently financed White Nile Project. The first is
declining Egyptian exports of long-staple caused by the expanding requirements
of the Egyptian textile industry. The second is increasing imports by the
PeopleTs Republic of China, again made necessary by an expanding domestic
textile industry. These factors are expected to more than make up for the
estimated 11% increase in Sudanese exports resulting from the Blue and White
Nile projects. International demand for groundnuts and groundnut oil is also
firm and capable of absorbing the additional production from the project with-
out adverse effect on world prices. Sorghum is a staple foodstuff and a minor
export crop. Some of the incremental sorghum production from the project
would replace existing rainfed production, but most would be used for sub-
sistence and the payment of hired labor. Little would be left to enter the
organized grain market and even less is expected to move beyond the confines
of the project area. Nevertheless, because the incremental production from
the project would release for export quantities of sorghum elsewhere in the
country which would otherwise have been consumed in the project area, it has
been treated as an addition to exports. Vegetables and fodder crops would be
used almost exclusively for home consumption.
5.10      Government has modified the present system of cotton pricing for
Corporations/Tenants and will announce henceforth the cotton price before
harvesting takes place. The price is expected to provide adequate incentives
for tenants and sufficient financial returns for the parastatals. Cotton prices
have therefore been derived from IBRD forecasts (January 1980), and estimated at
levels required to continue to fulfill these expectations, and such prices



- 37 -
reflect an implicit exchange rate of LSd 1   US$1.50.  This rate has also been
applied to cotton inputs. Groundnuts and groundnut oil would be marketed
almost entirely overseas, the prices used in the financial analysis have also
been derived on an export parity basis from World Bank projected prices.
Being a foodgrain for which there is a strong taste preference in the Sudan
and other Middle Eastern countries, financial prices for sorghum have been
derived by adjusting the local market price for projected real price movements
on the world market. Exports of cotton, groundnut and sorghum are subject to
a 5% development tax. In addition, groundnut and sorghum exports are subject
to duty at 15% and 25%, respectively. For fodder crops and vegetables, 1980
local market prices have been used.
VI. COST RECOVERY AND FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Cost Recovery
General Principles
6.01      The cost recovery system for the project would enable Government
and BNAC to recover in full all financial costs incurred on the schemes -
investment, inputs and services - from project beneficiaries over the project
life (20 years).
6.02      The basic principles underlying the system would be (a) promotion
of economic efficiency by causing reallocation of scarce resources to different
crops in closer alignment with the economic returns generated by the crop;
(b) distribution of the benefits generated by the project more equitably
among the three partners in production - the Government, BNAC and the tenant;
(c) creation of incentives for production agents like the BNAC and the tenants;
and (d) generation of larger public savings in the economy.
6.03      BNAC would be able to meet all costs initially by (i) availing
itself of loans from the Government equivalent to US$64.2 million, to meet
fully the project investment cost, with repayment at 9% interest over a period
of 20 years including a grace period of five years; and (ii) a line of credit
at 9% from the Bank of Sudan to meet its cash requirements during the first
three project years which it would repay during the project implementation
period.
Design of Cost Recovery System
6.04      The system would (i) identify costs and measure them; (ii) establish
systems to recover costs through project operations and set up cost-effective
administrative and accounting arrangements for cost recovery, and where such
recovery is phased over time, for debt recovery; (iii) determine the magnitude
and the time frame for recovering costs from beneficiaries, having regard to
their ability to pay; and (iv) ensure that each crop would bear its full costs
of production, including overheads and investment.



- 38 -
Identification and Measurement of Costs
6.05      Costs incurred by BNAC can be classified as (i) project investment
costs; (ii) direct costs, such as expenditures on farm inputs, irrigated
water supply and machinery services; and (iii) indirect costs, such as over-
heads and interest charges on the cash borrowings of BNAC. At present, direct
and indirect costs are not accurately recorded; the project would finance an
internationally recruited Financial Analyst who would assist BNAC in enabling
it to gather cost data and accurately compute all costs items.
Recovery of Costs Through Project Operations
6.06      All costs incurred by BNAC would be fully recovered over a period
of 20 years. Individual Tenant Crop Accounts would be opened separately for
each crop; each crop would bear its full costs of production, including
overheads and investment, under a system of strict crop apportionment.
At present, overheads, including investment costs, are met by the Corporation's
share of the Joint Account; under the project, these expenses would be borne
by the concerned crop accounts. These accounting changes would eliminate the
deficiency caused by charges relating to non-cotton crops including overheads
being charged to the cotton account, making cotton less profitable vis-a-vis
other crops, even though in economic terms cotton is the most attractive crop.
This leads tenants to perceive lower relative income from cotton compared to
other crops.
6.07      The principles underlying the cost recovery system are set out in
Annex 1. Government assurances on the implementation of this system were
obtained at negotiations (para 8.01(m). The rates and recovery procedures
would be laid down in the Tenants Lease Agreement (Annex 3) between the
tenant and BNAC.
6.08      An ARP-financed study of cost recovery and tenant charge systems
in the public irrigation schemes of Sudan has been completed. Government had
announced (June 1980) its decision to abolish the Joint Account and establish
individual accounts for each crop. The study recommendations reflect this
policy decision. The major recommendations of the study have been accepted by
Government and implementation of the new system will begin ir. 1981-82. The
new system is consistent with the principles laid down in Annex 2.
Tenant Incomes and Ability to Pay
6.09      Cropping intensity is expected to remain at 50% in the Outer area
while in the Shasheina area it is expected to rise from 50% in crop year 1
to 100% in crop year 5 as a result of AR-P and project intervention. In order



- 39 -
to ensure that tenants have adequate incomes, the full recovery of all BNAC
costs would be introduced in a phased manner; farm input costs excluding
irrigation costs would continue to be fully recovered; the cost of irrigation
services would not begin to be recovered unt4l year 3; one-third of the
charges would be recovered in year 3; two-thirds in year 4 and full charges in
year 5. Overheads would not be recovered until year 5.
6.10      The overall effect of the above on the average tenancy in both the
Shasheina and Rest of BNAC areas is shown in Table 12. In both cases, the
average tenancy after settling with BNAC would generate sufficient incremental
cash flow surpluses to elicit the level of tenant response desired. The
tenancy income shown for the Shasheina area at full development is comparable
to that expected under the recently approved New Halfa Project, considering
the larger tenancy size in New Halfa (15 fd compared to 12.5 fd in Shasheina).
Table 12
Income from Average Tenancy
Without Project        Full Development        Incremental
Rest of             Rest of
Shasheina   BNAC    Shasheina  BNAC
Returns
Gross Returns        LSd/tenancy   698.5               2,246.6   1109.5   1,548.1   411.0
production Costs 1/                 700.6              1,891.1    940.9   1,190.5   240.3
Net Returns          LSd/tenancy    (2.1)                355.5    168.6       357.6   170.7
Labor
Input             2/ md/tenancv    207                   585       309       378      102
Returns           3/ LSd/manday        0.99                1.61      1.55       0.62    0.56
Income (including labor)
LSd/tenancy   204.9                940.5    477.6       735.6   272.7
1/   Excluding BNAC's share of these costs but including all recoverable BNAC loans
and interest thereon. Also includes all labor at LSdl/manday.
2/   Total labor input.
3/   Assuming zero return to management of tenancy.



- 40 -
B. Credit and Debt Recovery
6.11      BNAC would continue to provide seasonal credit to tenants in kind
(machinery services, aerial spraying, fertilizer, seed, sacks and cotton mar-
keting and processing) and cash (labor advances). All cash advanced for labor
would be against certificates signed by Field Inspectors that the work had
been satisfactorily completed. BNAC would notify tenants of the unit costs
per operation or machinery services through the Annual Credit and Services
Contract.
6.12      All credit extended to tenants would be recovered in cash through
the individual tenant's account for that particular crop. Pre-project debts
of tenants would be consolidated and rescheduled for recovery over a ten year
period. Past and future overdues and cash advances for labor would be liable
to interest at a rate not less than 12% per annum. This rate compares with an
inflation rate in Sudan that is currently estimated to be about 25% for
1980-81 and is estimated to decline to 7% by 1984-85. Defaults by tenants
would be referred to the Tenants Credit Unit (TCU) to be established under
the provisions of the Tenant-s Lease Agreement (Annex 3). It was agreed
during negotiations that (a) BNAC would establish a TCU no later than June 30,
1982, satisfactory to IDA (para. 8.01(n)), and (b) the responsibilities,
activities and effectiveness of the TCU would be reviewed in each Annual Work
Program.   Pending establishment of the TCU, the present system of recovering
dues by adjustment against payments due on the Cotton Account would continue.
C. BNAC Cash Flow
6.13      BNAC's cash flows generated by the project have been estimated in
Annex Table 7, based on cotton price assumptions set out in paras. 5.09 and
5.10. Its cash deficits, estimated at LSd 3.5 million in the first three
project years, would be met through a line of credit extended by the Bank of
Sudan; the cash surplus in years 4 and 5 would enable full repayment of such
borrowings. A five-year grace period has been assumed for principal and
interest payable on borrowings from the Government. Repayment of principal
and interest over the next fifteen years in annual equal installments would
be feasible, since the forecast points to a cumulative cash deficit of only
LSd 0.6 million over the twenty-year period, which is well within the range
of error in estimating values for the various financial parameters over twenty
years.
6.14      In order to assist in assuring the financial soundness of BNAC,
assurances were obtained during negotiations that Government would announce
cotton prices payable to producers before December 1 of each cropping season,
after consultation with IDA, and would take measures to pay BNAC promptly for
cotton supplied by it (para. 8.01(o)).



- 41 -
D. Government Cash Flow
6.15      Annex Table 9 gives projected Government cash flows.  Over the
20-year life of the project, incremental cash inflows are estimated at about
LSd337 million and outflows at LSd66 million, giving a surplus of some LSd271
million. The cash flow is, however, negative for the first 3 years of the
project to the extent of about LSdl8 million, and a cumulative surplus is
only achieved in project year 6. In terms of direct financial flows between
Government (including BOS) and the project implementing agencies, Government
would have a cumulative net inflow of LSdll2 million over the 20-year life of
the project, Annex Table 8.
6.16      If the Project were not implemented, Government would have to
attempt to continue with the Blue Nile scheme on its present basis. This
would have resulted in further losses, mainly in respect of continuing opera-
ting losses of the corporation at the rate of approximately LSd5 million
annually.
VII. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS
Benefits
7.01      The project's main benefit would be increased cotton and groundnut
production (para. 5.03). Based on 1980 export parity prices (Port Sudan),
this production would result in gross foreign exchange earnings of about US$37
million per year at full development. Allowing for the foreign exchange com-
ponent of operating costs, ne. foreign exchange earnings would be about US$27
million a year. Increased production of sorghum, vegetables and fodder crops
would also improve the nutrition of tenant families and their livestock.
Employment effects would be largely confined to increased farm labor require-
ments estimated at 3.5 million man-days per year. It is expected that these
requirements would be met almost entirely by family labor.
7.02      Income distribution data for the project area, as for other areas
in the Sudan, is scanty, but the best estimate is that the average tenant
family has an annual tenancy income of about US$50 per capita, compared to
the absolute poverty level in the Sudan of US$80 per capita.   By increasing
cropped areas and productivity in the Shasheina area and productivity in the
rest of BNAC over a period of five years, the project would raise this average
above the absolute poverty level to around US$235 per capita for the approxi-
mately 5,000 farm famlies the Shasheina area and to about US$120 per capita
for the approximately 12,000 farm families in the rest of BNAC.
Economic Rates of Return
7.03      The economic rate of return is estimated to be 31% for the Shasheina
area (base cost LSd3O.O million) and 38% for the rest of BNAC (base cost
LSd5.6 million). The average rate of return on these components, which



- 42 -
account for 100% of total project base costs, is 32%. These results are to be
compared with an opportunity cost of capital in the Sudan of about 10%. They
reflect the large amount of sunk capital in the project area, the sizeable
production increases expected from the project and the 25% real increase in
the price of cotton projected for the next decade. Since a mutually exclusive
alternative to the intensive development of the Shasheina area would have been
the extensive development of an area approximately five times larger, a net
present value discounted at 10% was also computed for this option and compared
with that for the Shasheina area. This showed the Shasheina area to have a
higher NPV of LSd43.9 million, compared to LSd4O.4 million for the hypothetical
larger area. This confirms the correctness of proceeding with the intensive
development of Shasheina, even though its rate of return is slightly lower
than that for the rest of BNAC.
7.04      The main assumptions used in the economic analysis were:
(a) Project life. The economic life of the project is assumed to
be twenty-five years for the Shasheina area and ten years for
the rest of BNAC. This reflects the longer useful life of the
main investment in the Shasheina area (water supply, irrigation
and drainage system) compared to that in the rest of BNAC
(agricultural machinery).
(b) Prices. Border prices for traded items were derived on an export
or import parity basis from World Bank projected prices using the
present parallel exchange rate of LSdl = US$1.25. Local prices
for non-traded items were converted to border prices by applying
a standard conversion factor of 0.7 equal to the ratio of
the parallel (US$1 = LSdO.80) to the shadow rate of exchange
(US$1 = LSdl.15).
(c) Family labor. The going market wage rate of LSdl per day was
applied to all farm family labor.
(d) Agricultural Rahabilitation Program (ARP). The costs and benefits
of the ARP have been included in the "without Project" situation.
Risk and Sensitivity Analysis
7.05      Some of the Project risks that can be foreseen include (a) the
threat to Corporation financial viability and tenant incentives, caused by
domestic cotton prices being in the event lower than that estimated, impinging
on physical performance; (b) shortages of and delays in the flow of local
currency requirements of the Project; and (c) shortfalls in non-Project
foreign exchange needed for current operations. The preparation of Annual
Work Programs and their review by a high-level Project Steering Committee
would permit a more effective review of cotton prices, better access to funds
from the banking institutions and adequate foreign exchange allocations for
the Project. In the past, shortages of fuel have handicapped timely and
adequate land preparation. An increase in the number of tank trucks and a
better inventory planning system should help minimize this risk. No major



- 43 -
risks are expected to arise from technological or social problems. Logistical
problems and administrative slack are, however, real risks, which the Project
handles through the emphasis it gives to strengthening BNAC through recruit-
ment of skilled personnel, technical assistance, training, provision of staff
housing and telecommunications, and general improvement of other physical
facilities.
7.06      The risks mentioned above may lead to a shortfall in cultivated
areas and/or a reduction in yields. Another risk posed is a less than expected
rise in real cotton prices. To estimate how sensitive the Project would be to
such risks, the crossover value of different variables - the value at which
the net present values discounted at 10% become zero - have been calculated.
The results are presented in Table 13. The conclusions that can be drawn are
that the investments in the Shasheina area would still be justified if:
(a) costs increased by 71% or benefits dropped by 41%;
(b) cotton area at full development fell by 42%;
(c) cotton yields at full development increased only
marginally or not all; or
(d) cotton lint prices were 66% less than expected.
Similarly, the investments in the rest of BNAC would still be justified if:
(a) costs increased by 40% or benefits decreased by 28%;
(b) incremental cotton yield at full development fell by 30%; or
(c) cotton lint prices were 43% less than forecast.
Taking both areas together, the overall Project would still be justified
if:
(a) costs increased by 63% or benefits declined by 39%; or
(b) cotton lint prices were 62% less than forecast.
The Project thus has a strong economic justification which is resistant
to adverse movements in key variables.
VIII. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Negotiations were held January 5-7, 1981, and assurances were
obtained during the negotiations that:
(a) BNAC would employ internationally recruited experts including
a Financial Analyst, who would be appointed not later than
July 1, 1981, an Agricultural Machinery Specialist, and
an Irrigation Engineer experienced in irrigated cotton,



- 44 -
and a Procurement Expert, all with qualifications and
experience and on terms and conditions of employment
satisfactory to the Association (para 3.21);
(b) Government would employ consultants to strengthen the
Department of Planning of the Ministry of Agriculture with
qualifications and experience and on terms of conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association (para. 3.22);
(c) BNAC would in consultation with MOI employ consultants with
qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions of
employment satisfactory to the Association to prepare a
follow-up project for the full rehabilitation of an
additional BNAC Region (para. 3.23);
(d) Government would arange for the provision of necessary financial
resources for implementing the project from its budget or the
Bank of Sudan on the basis of estimates contained in the Annual
Work Programs as updated from time to time (para 3.29);
(e) BNAC would keep a comprehensive set of accounts including
separate accounts for the expenditure and recovery of Project
funds, and would have them audited annually by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association. The audited accounts,
together with the auditor's report, would be submitted in
English to the Association annually, no later than nine months
after the end of the financial year. BNAC would submit its
initial audited accounts together with the auditor-s report in
English to the Association not later than December 31, 1981
(para 3.37);
(f) The Department of Planning of the Ministry of Agriculture would
be strengthened in accordance with an organizational structure,
responsibilities and staffing acceptable to IDA not later than
July 31, 1981 (para. 4.14);
(g) Government and BNAC would prepare and implement Annual Work
Programs acceptable to IDA (para. 4.15);
(h) BNAC would forward to the Association, for its approval, a
comprehensive training and maintenance program by December
31, 1981 (para 4.18);
(i) BNAC would furnish quarterly project progress reports within two
months of the end of each quarter (para 4.20), and a project
completion report within six months of the completion of the project
(para. 4.21);
(j) BNAC would issue regulations prescribing new lease arrangements
with its tenants in accordance with the provisions of Annex 3,



- 45 -
and would extend services only to tenants with a current Credit
and Services contract (para. 4.22);
(k) BNAC would issue regulations acceptable to IDA, not later than
August 31, 1981, embodying a new system of payments for seed
cotton to tenants (para. 4.23);
(1) BNAC would implement a cost recovery system in accordance with
the principles set forth in Annex 1 (para. 6.07);
(m) BNAC would establish a Tenants' Credit Unit, satisfactory to IDA
not later than June 30, 1982 (para. 6.12);
(n) Government would announce cotton prices payable to producers
not later than December 1 each year in consultation with the
Association and ensure that payments are promptly made to
BNAC for cotton (para 6.14).
8.02      The conditions of credit effectiveness would be that:
(a) Subsidiary loan agreements between Government and BNAC, and
Government and PEWC, satisfactory to IDA, had been ratified
(para 3.26);
(b) Signing of a loan agreement between Government and the African
Development Fund (para 3.26);
(c) A project account had been opened with an initial line of
credit from the Bank of Sudan of not less than LSdl.0 million
(para 3.29);
8.03      With the above assurances and conditions and subject to satisfactory
arrangements for cofinancing, the proposed Project would be suitable for an
IDA credit on standard terms of US$32.0 million to the Government of the Sudan.



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
ITFM                           Fiscal!]        Year 0                Year 1                Year 2               Year 3                Year 4        |       Year 5
1980                 1981                  1982                  1983                 1984                  1985                  1986
Technical Assistanice                                               _-//, _ _ ONI so                                                                          *ina  I           'I /N/
Consulting Studies                                                                                                       mini        I E NON                              /
Pumping Stations                                                                                     -       /                 //,/                    //                   //                    /
Irrigation Civil Works                                                          - ~ 1                                            ////                                                              7
Agricultural Machinery and Equipment                                                                                                                                        / / I   r I   s   m   m  0 I _ _  in
Po°tabrle V/ate//r Supply/ | 
Te l eco mm u n i cati on s//                                                        /                       ///                                     ///                     //                    //
Operating Vehicles and Equipment                                                   //7/                                                                                     //                  ' Wm I
Offices                                                       ;/ i                            /                  t         f /7_                               1/           /7                   /
yw"M           Procurement/Tendering Ending with Award                                          _  Consultant Services     /         /Rainy Season (July--Sept)
E      Issue of Tender Docunents                                                         Construction and/or Installation of Equipment
p      e tN  Delivery of Agricultural Machinery and Vehicles, and Spare Parts
WrFiscal Year: July 1 -/June 30                                                                                                                                                         orld Bank-21877



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization Chart
Minister of Agriculture
I  
Board of Directors
Managing Director   1                                                                                            4
Tenants'!       pa       Plannpn gLegaI and                                             Social
|  Credit Unit    n    Develonernt UtService s
Deputy Managing
Director
Finance and       |  General Administration          Agriculture and              Engineering                  Supplies                    Regi onal
Treasury                 and Personnel             Plant Protection                                          and Stores                   Offices
Agricultural                   I rrigation
Engineeri ng                  Engineering
World Bank - 21887



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Meteorological Data
Maximum         Relative         Sunshine         Solar
Rainfall     Evaporation      Temperature      Humidity 1/       Duration        Raditaion
(mm)          (mm/d)           (OC)            (%)               (%)         (cal/cm2/d)
Station     Singa       Abu Na'ama          Singa           Singa                 Wad Medani
January                      0             5.5             34.3              25                92             487
February                     0             6.4             35.7              22                93             540
March                        2             7.2             39.1              17                87             574
April                        3             7.8             40,9              18                86             595
May                         21             8.2             40.4              22                80             578              f
June                        84             7.6             37.5              32                72             554             X
July                       132             6.5             33.7              46                60             517
August                     192             5.8             32.1              55                61             523
September                   95             5.8             33.0              47                76             550
October                     16             5.6             37.0              34                85             521
November                     1             5.5             37.1              23                92             493
December                     0             5.2             34.5              24                94             473
Year                       545             6.4             36.3              30                82             534
1/ At 12 noon
CD



SUDAN
ELSENULE PMF  SCHIEMES REhABIl:ITATION PROJECT
Irrigati-n Requirements Per lOd, Per oleth
25,000 Pd Ae6,Cqed Ceeudeers
25,000 Fd BSa,akt 1.,E. Cortts
25,000 Fd Fodden/Veoetebles
(Net and Tetr.I  Cress Pum.tne Reputeents)
Fo s/lEd                               75          78         80                     81                     83                     81                     79                     76                     73                     68                      64                     62
Eff, rate en/SOd                       --          --         --                     --                      5                     N0                     10                     15                     25                     35                     45                      60
Irr. req. e/lOd                        75         80          80                     80                     80                     70                     77                     60                     50                     40                      20                     10
GROUIDNUTNS
Deep feet:                                                                              .25                    .5                    .5                     .5                     .5                      .7                      8                      .9                    1 
NIlll     alEd m25                                                                            5                     1.4                 1.2                       1.2                    1.0                  1 2                      1.1                     .7                      4
Deep feet:                                                                                                                5           0.                                            5.                                             7.8                                           .9
Ift3/lOd                                                                                                                                                           1.2                    1.0                  1.2                       .9                    .5                      .3
5
Deep East:                                                                                                                                                                          .5                     .5                     .6                     .7                      .8
-p3/Otd                                                                                                                                                            5                      1.0                  1.2                       .7                     .5                     .3
25,000 Fed:  8Np3/iOd                                                                               5                     6 4                  6.2                      7.4                    3.0                  3.t                       2.7                   1.7                    1.0
25 N0 3/Nlnth                                                                                               17 6                                                    14                                                                                 5.4
GEase  k'c3/Month (80% x 90% i-reff)                                                                                     25                                                       20                                                                                8
COTTON
Deep fectorr11e.5r.5
h'c3/fd                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 .2
Deep factrrr5
h.3/lOd    .2
CDep fecter
Mm3/10d
25,000 Fed:  Mm3/10d
TIn3 months.44
/-  -h                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1.1
GrCas Mm7/Fqnth (80% a 90  lrr.eff.)
FOD -vEG2.500 F                           .7          .7         .7                                   .7                    .7                  .6                        .6                     .5                   .4                       .4                     .2                     .1
Mms3/m (80% x90/.)                 3                                                                                 32                                                                                                                                        1
Total Net reqr.       h'c3/lOd            !7          .7         .7                                  5.7                   7.1                 6.6                       0.0                    3.5                  4.0                      3.1                    2.3                    1.5
PUMPING RQOU. . 72%                                 6 (deNbls)                                                           28.1                                                                  22                                                                  10
Peek: 1. 3 M13/dey + 50%  leseue- 1.0 M13/doy



Irrigation Requirements Per lid, Per Month
25,000 fd AshfIcd GCpnedent;
25,000 fd Beaket L.S. Cetto
25,000 fd Foddrr/Vrgetobl-e
(N.t and TOta.lC Grss P.n..gie Re-atra-nta)
.---A -,-, L ----------            ------eptember---------------              ------                     -------------O:        --------------------------------                     -e----------------------- -
P. na/lOd                                    59          57          57         58                      58                     57                      58                      56                     56                      56                      55                      54
Eff, rain  n-/10d                            70          60         50          40                      25                     15                      15                       5                     _-                      _                       -                       _
Ire. req.mm/1Od                                          --          --         20                      35                      40                     45                      50                     55                      55                      55                      55
Gf OUNDNU18_
Crop fact:                                    1.1         1.1         1.0          .9                     .8                      .6                      .4
Million m3/lOd                                                                         .6                     .9                      .8                     .5
Crop feet:                                    1.0         1.1         1.1         1.0                     .9                      .8                      .6                     .4
M1m3/lOd                                                                               .7                    1.0                    1.1                      .9                      :7
C-p E.st:                                       .9        1.0         1.1         1.1                    1.0                      .9                      .8                     .6                      .4
Mm3/lOd                                                                                .7                    1.2                     1.2                    1.2                     1.0                      .8
25,000 Fed: Mm3/lOd                                                                        2.0                     3.0                    3.1                     2.6                    1.7                      .8
,g3/11d                                                                                                      8.1                                                                    5.1
Cress Mm3/Month (807 x 907 tee. off)                                                                             12                                                                      7
Cr,p 1s-Ctn                                    .6          .65         .7          .8                    1.0                     1.2                    1.2                     1.2                     1.2                    1 Z                     13 O                      3
ttn1!.l8                                                                              .s                      L 2                   1.7                     i.9                     .1                     2.3                      2.3                      .9                      .9
Crop Psetar                                                             55         .7                     .8                     1.0                    1.2                     1.2                     1.2                     1.2                    1 2                     1
.o. 1.01                                     1.4                     1. 9                     .3                       21                     .2i                    2.3                     1.9
0.:-,,Xv;-ccr                                   .5         .5          .S          .65                    .7                      .8                    1.0                     1.2                    1.2                     1.2                    1.2                      1.2
.1,c.1  l                                                                       . S                      .8                  L[.                      L.,                    2.1                     2.3                     0.93                       3                     2.3
25,000 Pod: Mm3/lOd                                                                        1.4                      3.9                   4.2                    5.4                     6.5                     6.9                      6.9                    6.5                      6.1
H.3/-nnths                                                                                                    9.5                                                                 18.8                                                                     19.5
Gross Mm3/soath (806  x 90. Ir.eff)                                                                                14                                                                   27                                                                       28
PoD-Vfd 2,500 F                                                                             .2                       .3                    .4                      .4                      .5                     .5                       .5                      .5                      .5
(8     90)                                                                                             1                                                                    2                                                                       2
Tatal Net req.        1A3/10d                                                              3.6                      7.2                   7.7                     8.4                    8.7                     8.2                      7.4                     7.0                     6.6
PUMPING Rdk. - 72%                                                                                                26                                                                    35                                                                      30



- 51 -
Table 2
Page 3
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                            _
ai N   I 
Z                 r_ j  
a>  NO~~~~~~~~~~~
a--~~~~~~~~~~~~
r S 
D ~     ~       ~        NC               ON       > iS                                                   00t    >5 
~~'                                                       _       _        --    n  g-        rl '  4N 
-  a    N    a ~~~  ~~ o  0    .        4    0        0       0        .         N
NCN  0 0                 O     N    C (       M     O     O     N     N             0       EC.~ _ 



BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Average Monthly Pumping Volumes and Static Heads
Volumes in Millions M3/Mo
Static Hleads in Meters
ABU BANAT PUMPING STATION
Month                  April    May        June      July      Aug.      Sept.    Oct.       Nov.      Dec.    Jan.    Feb.        March
Q x 106 (m3/mo)         3.4      16.8      12.3      5.6        --       14.0      19.6      16.8      12.9    8.4       5.6       3.4
Static Head (m)        15.0      15.0      15.5    15.5        15.5      14.0      12.0      10.5      10.5   12.0    14.0        15.0
SUKI PUMPING STATION
Q x 10  (m3xmo)         2.7      13.2       9.7      4.4        --       11.0      15.4      13.2      10.1    6.6       3.9       2.7  @
Static Head (m)        11.0      11.0      11.5    11.5        11.5      10.0       8.0       6.5       6.5    8.0    10.0        11.0
Notes: 1. F.S.L. of Abu Banat Supply Canal at EI, 432.1
2. F.S.L. of Suki Supply Canal at EL 428.0



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PL'dP SCHEMES RERABILITATION PROJECT
Buildup of Agricultural Services, Cropped Areas. Yield and Production
'Wvithout Prolect'/Year I                                  Year 2                                                   Year 3
Incremental                                             Incremaental
Area       Yield         Production      Area       Yield         Production      Production        Area       Yield        Produ-tton    Production
(fd)     (.t(k)/fd)        (ot)          (fd)    (rt(k)/Id)         (mt)             (mt)           (fd)    (ot(k)/fd)       (lt)             (mt)
SBASHEIYIA
Agriculturol Machitery (2.)                                                   50                                                        25
Workehops and Buildinge (7.)                                                  50                                                        50
Pumping Capacity ()                                                        - 
Cottan     Area 1               16,800       .496 (3.5)    8,333          8,400      .496 (3.5)       4,166                         8,400        .496 (3.5)    4,166
Area 2                                                         8,400      .496 (3.5)      4,166                          8,400       .638 (4.5)    5.359
Total Sha-heina    16,800                        8,333        16,800                      8,333                         16,80(                      9,525
Lint                                                      2,778                                     2.778              0                                      3,175           398
Seed                                                      5.5                                      5.555               0                                      6,350           795
Groundnuts
Note     Area 1                2,500       .500           1,250         1,250      .400               500                         2,500        .600           1,500
Area 2                 -          -               -            1,750     .600               750                           -          -               -
Tatal Shesheian      2,500                       1,250         2,500                      1,250               0          2,500                      1,500            250
Hanlne                                     .700           1,750                    .700             1,750              0                       .900           2.250           500
Grain    Area 1                5,000       .500           2,500         3,500      .400             1,000                         5,000        .600           3,000
Area 2                                            -            2,500      ,60             1,500                          _           _
Total Shasheina      5,000       .500            2,500         5,000                      2,500               0          5,00C                      3,000            500
Stalks                                    1.250           6,250                   1.250             6.250              D                     1.500            7.5D0         1.250
Vegetables
Wet Seasoa                       500      1.000              500           250    1.000/3.000       1,000                            500      5.000           2,500
Dry Se.sso                       500      3.000           1.500            250    5.000             1,250
Total                  500                       2,000           500                      2,250             250            900                      2,500            500
Fodder iraps
REST OF BNAC
Agricultural Machi-ery (%)         -                                          50                                                        50
Workshops and Buildinga (%)        -                                          50                                                        50
Cotton     Area 1               50,000        .496 (3.5)   24,800        25,000      .496 (3.5)    12,400                           25,000       .496 (3.5)   12,400
Area 2                 -                          -           25,000      .496 (3.5)    12.400              ,25,10                   .638          15,950
Total outer Area   50,000                       24,800        50,000                     24,800                         50,000                     28,350
Lint                                                      8,267                                     8,267               0                                     9,450         1.183
Seed                                                     16,533                                    16.533              0                                     18,900         2.367
Groundnuts
Nuts     Area 1                7,400       .500            3,700         3,700     .400             1,480                          7,400       .600           4,440
Area 2                 -                          -            3,700      .600            2,220
Total Outer Area    7,400                        3,700         8,400                      3,700               0          7,400                      4,405            740
11-les                                     .700           5,180                     .700            5.180               0                      .900           6.600          1.480
Sorghume
Grait    Area 1               14,800       .500           7,400          7,400      .400            2,960                         14,800       .600           8,880
Area 2                 -                                       7'400      .600            4.440                           -                           -
Total Outer Area   14,800                        7,400        14,800                      7.400               0         14,800                      8,880          1.480
Stalks                                    1.250          18,500                   1.250            18,500              0                      1,500          22.200         3,700
TOTAL PROJECT
Cattan
Lint                                                     11,044                                    11,044               °                                    12,625          1,581
Seed                                                     22,088                                    22,088               0                                    25,250          3,162
Grounednuts
Note                                                      4,950                                     4,950               0                                     5,940            990
HAUlme                                                    6,930                                     6,930               0                                     8,910          1,980
Grain                                                      9.900                                    9,900               0                                    11,880          1.980
Stalks                                                   24,750                                    24,750               0                                    29,700         4.950
Vegetables                                                   2,000                                    2,250             250                                     2,500            250
Fodder Crops
Wood                                                                                                                                                                                                  -



SUDAN
Bl111E NILE PUMP SCHEMES IREIIAILITATION PROJECT
Buildup of Agricultural Seryic-a. Cropped Area, Yield snd Production
Year 4                                                  Yenrs 5-10                                                Yearn 11-25
Incremental                                                Incremental                                                 Incremenatl
Area        Yield         Producti-n    Production        Area        Yield          'reduction     Plroductin       Area        0101,!         Productionl     Productio
(fd)     (mt(k)/fd)         (at)            (at)          (fd)      (mt(k)/fd)        (nt)              (me)         (fd)      (tI(k)/fd)         (mt)             (nt)
S IASHEINA
Agrioultu-ral Machinery (%)         25
Workshops and Duildings (X)       -                                       
Plomping Capacity (7)               50                                                        50
Cotton      Area 1               8,400       .638 (4.5)    5,360                          25,000        .780 (5.5)    19,500                         25,000        .780 t5.5)    19,500
Area 2             12.500       .780 (5.5)    9_750                             -                           -
Total SYa-l-eia   20,900                     15,109                         25,000                       19,500                        25,000                       19,500
Lint                                                      5,036            2,259                                     6,500             3,722                                     6,500             3,722
Seed                                                     100.73            4,518                                    13,00              7,445        _                           13,000             7,445
irnoednats8
Ntnt      Anea 1               1,250       .700             875                         20,000      1.100           22,000                         20,000       1.10(1          22,000
Area 2             10.000      1.100          11.000                            -                           -
Total ShDanleine   11,250                     11,875           10,625        20,000                       22,000           20,750       20,000                       22,000            20,750
Haulms                                    1.444          16,245           14,495                    1.500           30,000            28,250                   1.500            30,000           28.251)
SorLghm
Grain     Ar-s 1               2,500       .600           1,500                          5,000        .900           4,500                          5,1100      .9((1            4,500
ArLa 2              2500        .900           2.250                            -                           -
Tortl Shanhein.    5,000                       3,750             1,250        5,000                        4,500            2,0110        5,000                       4,500             2,11011
Stalks                                    2.000          10.000            3.750                    2.000           10,000             3,750                   2.000            10.000            3,750
Vegetables
Wet Seanon                       250      5.000           1,250                             500     2,000             1,000                            500     2.000             1,0(10
Dry S.anon                       250      2.000/6.000    2.000                              500     6,000             3,000                            500     6.()000           3.000
Total                                          3,250            1,250            500                       4,000            2,()00          500                       4,001)            2,1000
Fodder Crops                     1,000    14.000           14,000           14,000         2,000    14.000             28,000           28,000        2,000    14,000             28,000           28,000
Woad                                                         -                              1.800      6.000           10,800           10,800         1.800      6,000           10.800            10.800
REST OF BNAC
Agricultural Machinery (I)
Workshops and Buildigs (I%)
Cotton     Area 1               50,000       .638 (4.5)   31,900                          50,000        .638 (4.5)    31,900
Area 2                --                                                         -                           -                              -                          -
T.trl Outer Area   50,000                      31,900                          50,000                      31,900
Lint                                                     10,633            2,367                                     10,633            2,367
leed                                                     21.267            4,733                                      2,267            4,733
Dreandants
Nate     Area 1                7,400       .700           5,180                          7.400        .700            5,180
Total Otcr Area    7,400                       5,180             1,480         7,400                       5,180            1,480          -                           -                 -
Haulms                                    1.000           7.400            2.200                    1.000             7.400            2,200
Sorghum
Grain    Area 1               14,800       .600           8,880                         14,800       .600             8,880
Area 2                -
Total O.ter Area   14.800                       8,880             1,480        14,800                       8,880            1,480          -
Stalks                                    1.500          22.200            3.700                    1.500           22.200             3,700
TOTAL PROJECT
Cotton
Lint                                                     15,670            4,625                                     17,133            6,089                                     6,500            3,722
Seed                                                     31,339            9,251                                     34,267           12,178                                    13,000             7,445
Groundnuts
Nuts                                                     17,055           12,105                                     27,180           22,230                                    22,000           20,750
haulms                                                   23,645           16,715                                     37,400           30,470                                    30,000           28,250
SorgLhu
Grain                                                    12,630            2,730                                     13,380            3,480                                     4,500            2,000
Stalks                                                   32,200            7,450                                     32,200            7,450                                    10,010             3,750
Vegetables                                                  3,250             1,250                                     4,000            2,000                                     4,000             2,000
Fodder Ciops                                               14,000           14,000                                     28,000           28,000                                    28,000           28,000
Wnod                                                         -                 -                                       10,800           10,800                                    10,800            10,800



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Commodity Price Proiections
Constant Prices (LSd/Ton)
1/                   2/       Seed Cotton  3/                                 4/            5/                      Plant    6/
Year        Cotton Lint          Cotton Seed           Equivalent            Groundnuts        Sorghum          Wheat           Urea        Protection
1980           1,272                 99                     435                 133              102              141           190             34
1981           1,326                129                     463                 166              103              143           192             34
1982           1,435                140                     495                 203              106              146           194             35
1983           1,524                137                     517                 187              109              147           203             37
1984           1,615                133                     538                 173              111              149           213             38
1985           1,705                130                     559                 158              112              150           222             40
1986           1,716                126                     573                 163              113              150           224             40
1987           1,726                128                     585                 166              113              150           225             40
1988           1,737                129                     598                 170              113              150           227             41
1989           1,748                131                     610                 173              113              150           228             41
1990           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1991           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41                             L
1992           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1993           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1994           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1995           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1995           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1997           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1998           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1999           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
2000           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
2001           1,759                132                     623                 178              114              150           230             41
1/ Price to BNAC, Port Sudan
2/ Ex-ginnery price
3/ Farm-gate price
4/ Local market price
5/  Import parity price
6/ LSd/feddan



SUDAN
BULE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Shasheina - Income from Average Tenancy
Project Year                        1                2               3              4               5                 6               7              8               9              10
Cotton Yield (k/fd)                3.5              3.5            4.0             5.1             5.5               5.5            5.5             5.5             5.5             5.5
Returns (E,Sd)
Gross returns    1             698.5           763.3           992.5           1,871.0        2,216.8          2,246.6          2,266.9         2,292.8         2,313.2        2,335.2
Production costs -/            700.6           700.6           777.3           1,389.9        1,746.1          1,891.1          1,891.1         1,891.1        1,891.1         1.891.1
Net returns                (2.1)           62.7           215.2             481.1          470.7            355.5            375.8           401.7          422.1           444.1
Labor
Input (isandays) 2             207             207             266               485            585              585              585             585             585             585
Returns (bSd/manday) 3/          0.99             1.30           1.81              1.99            1.80             1.61             1.64           1. 69           1.72            1.76
Income (bSd)                     204.9           269.7           481.2             966.1        1,055.7             940.5           960.0           985.)         1,006.3        1.028.3
Rest of BNAC - Income from Average Tenancy
Project Year                        1                2               3     ,        4               5                6                7              8               9              1
Cotton Yield (k/fd)                3.5              3.5             4.0            4.5             4.5              4.5             4.5             4.5             4.5             4.5
Returns (bSd)
Gross returns    1/            698.5           763.3           911.9           1,082.7        1,100.2          1,109.5          1,117.1         1,126.3         1,134.9        1,137.2
Production costs -             700.6            700.6          704.9             886.8           940.9            940.9           940.9           940.9           940.9           940.9
Net returns                (2.1)           62.7           207.0             195.9          159.3            168.6            176.2           185.4          194.0           196.3
Labor
Input (mandays) 2    3/        207             207             242               309            309              309              309             309             309             309
Returns (bSd/manday) -           0.99             1.30           1.86              1.63            1.52             1.55             1.57           1.60            1.63            1.64
Income (bSd)                     204.9            269.7          449.0             504.9           468.3           477.6            485.2           494.4           503.0           505.3
1/ Excluding BNAC's share of these costs but including all recoverable BNAC loans and interest thereon. Also includes all labor at bSdl/manday.
2/ Total labor input.
3/ Assuming zero return to management of tenancy.



lb                                                                                                               lb
o                                                                    lb                   lb    lb                              lb                                                lb
lb   00101                           ItIt                  Lblbb                010             -
*    01*0                            00                    000                  lb lb ("C                                       h
lb        0.001                   000                                          '0   lb         lb                    lb  lb  (1                        lb              lb  lb
-               lblb   lb                    lb              -   01.  lb  lb                      lb         lb         lb           lb              lb  lb   0
-         COO                     lbl..' lb                    lb              lb lb  -                              (101-C                             lb              lblblb   (lb
(I   CIt                lblb   lb                    lb  lb          lb  lb                                O       tO        C          lb  lb   01                0    lb
01CC                                                                                            0          lb.2blb   0lb'lb                       0               0  lb
<2                        Solo                                  It                  lblb  lb  Itlblb'                                 ((lb
It                      ((lb   lb               01  lb   It           -                    0    lb         It              It                 C    I               It  lb
01(1               It      It              0    lb   It         4          '         01   -                               00      -    C    bI       CO      0    lb
N   'lb                 ('It    -               It   It                   lb  lb.                         0    lb         lb   flIt   lb  lb   C          010   lb  lb.
2    : ::  :                                                                   0lb
lb  lb          C    lb  lb    -          It   C           It  lb    10101    0101   It  '   It   Clb.It
01   Olb                        It              lb   It   0    lb    0   lb   It           10  lb               lb.    0.It   00       -          lb    -   0    0    '0
(lb 'lb lblb It It (lb lb lb lb 'C (lb '(lb lb lb - lblblb lb lb
lbIt It lblblblb C It lbIt lblblb lb lb lb
lb It lb 0 It0C lb.
(lb   -         lb              C    OIl   It  lb            ObOC    lb
'lb      C    It   C          lb.         (lb                            C          lb                           lblblblb
lbC'lblbOlbCOlbl                                      b.    'lb  ItO
(lb   It lb lb                                                                         lb
01  lb                    blblblb  ItO                          lblb                                                               CC                  lb.lb
o                                                               lb   lb                        lb          I      be               lb   0     It        lb
lb     lb                 (1  IA   ItIt   ((It   lb  lb  lb.  It                                                 '..       01     lb  It  lb               00
*       It                '01  lb  lb                 0'  lb    -    lb                         lb  lb  'lb                0       01  lb                (bItIt
lb    lb    Olb     It    lb   It                              lb        lb              lb      lb.   lb   (lb        01   lb
lb    -    lb                                                        Itlb                      lb.     Itlb       lb        lblblb
It  lb  lb                10   0    'I                                     Cl..                lb      lb          -         lblblb
'lb    lb                      lb    CC       CI"   lb  lb  lb                                 lb          C                       lbb       lb         bbItlb
lb It lb ((0 ("((It lb It lb It lb lb
C       01                lb           lb   CO       S    It   0                                lb  lb   It                        0         It         00
C                          lb  lb  lb'lb   lblb    It   -    lb                                                                   lb         lb         00  lb
lb     lb                 lb  lb   01        lb      lb  lb  It                                      lb    C                       lb        0          CItlb
lb  lb                           IbI.lbC'Cblblb(lb                                                                                                     lb ItO'
lb     lb                 lb         0(1    01       It        01                                   lb
lb                 It   C    lb       CC                lb                                   .lb                                     lb          OlbO
0      '0                 01  lb   (('lb    0$                  lb                                   lb  lb                       lb          C            00'
01      -                  lb  lb   0(1    Olb                                                        01  lb                                 lb         000'
It                     lb       0    ItO.                                                    lb  lb                       It         It         OlbIt
01     lb                            Cl..'   ((It                                                    lb   It                       0          C         Itlblb
o       lb                      C    ItIC    lbIt                                                    lb  lb                                  0          Itlblb
lb 01 0 o bI lb 00
0' <ItIt Ob lb lb 000
01     It                 lb    -            lblb                                                                                                         lblb
-                               lb           00                                                                                                               It
-       lb                      0               lb                                                                                It                         lb
lb     lb                       lb             lb.
lb      lb                                      lb
Lb 101
01        lb              lb   01  01   Lb   0             01           C         lb  '.40101    -                lb
-                                                                       .       ''      '               lb
01        be              01   01   Lb   10   01          01           '0   lb  lb  lb0101   be                  lb
01        be              be  blb  lb  lb   01             lb  01       01         01   010101   01
01        01              01  lb   be                           01      01        be   0001    01                 -
0101
-         0'              -    01               It                      It        It      C       (lb             (0
'0        10              lb  01   C    lb  (lb           It            -         C    01It0   lb                 C
Ill'    I '                                                                                                       '*'*    lb
01    III                 (II 01  be  be  lb               010101010110010'                                       lb
'lb       lb              lb  01   01   01   01            01   01      C          01   00101    be
01        01              01   01   lb   be   10           lbLb         01010101  0110   01                       01
C         C               It   It                                            C0'          1'('.be                 'lb                     Lb
01        01              01   01          01   01                           C    -    010101    0                0
0                                                       01         01             lb   01          01   01                      It   010101010    01                      (1
lb    lb                  lb 01 lb 01 01    0010101010101001                                                                    Lb
01        01                    lb   01  01   C            01   01      01   01   01   00101    be                be
lb                                                                                                                                                        ItIt                                  (1
It                 -         -               Lb   It                                            C    "'1     01 01   0               be           (1
C       C            lb      01         Lb        01              lb   Lb          0    01         01           01   01   01   0101be   01                0             C
I                               I         '                       '         .       '                       lb           lb
01     01            01      01         01        lb              01   01          01   01         01   01      be   01   0    011010   lb                (1            It
01     01            01      01         01         01             -    01         -    '11         0101         100101011"'0101
01   01              It   01    01                01               0101            0101            0101    belbI"   0101(301                              0              K
CO
lb              It      -                    C                                                                     It           -    Lb  -'       0101   0               0                   It   C
01     01                    01         01        01              be   be          C    01         01   C       01   01  01   01001    lb                 lb
lb                            I   I                           1'                              I''                               '         '   '''                         lb             lblb'
lb             01       01                   01        lb         .0              01  'lb         01   01         01   001lblb010101                                      lb            Lb
Lb             01       Lb                   01         01        01              01   01         01   10          001          01010101010101                                               'lb   C
CI     01                    lb        01         01              01   01          01   Lb         01   010101010100101                                   01            01  lb   Lb
It     'IIb                                lb    0    lb
lb                                                                                                                                                                                      lb    lb  '0
lb         be
It                                                                                                                                                                                      lb         Lb
lb                                                                                                                                                ItIt                                  It         C
lb              C       It                                                         -                               C            Clb'It             010101                  be                      be
C               01      C    01              0'         01  01                     01                             01            01  01   01   010101    0                  lb
lb                     '              I                            I                    I     I    I     I                      '         '       - '     '               lb
It             01       0    be              01         01   01                    10                              01   10      01   01  lb   0101be   01                 lb
It              01  01  01                   01    01  01                         lb                               10C0101beItlbLb   01
lb              01      01   01              be         01   01                    01                              0101         01be01010101               01             01
01  It                                                            C                                C            ('('It    010101                          0
01      01   01              01         01   01                    01                             01            01  01   01   010101   01                 0
lb                                    I      '                     I                     I    I    I     I                      '         '               '                lb
lb     01   01               01         10  'lb                   lb                              10  10        Lb   01   01   010101    0                (1
lb     lb   01               01         lb   01                   01
01   10  01                  -          10  10                    01                               0101    01(010101010                                   01
C   It                                                             -                               -            CCIt   010101                             be
01      C    01              01         01   be                    Lb                              01           01   01  01   010101   Lb                  C
I                    I  I  I  I                                        ''''                            lb
01     01   01               10         10   10                   10                               10  10       01010101010101                            (1
01     lb   01               01         01  lb                     01                             01   I'       0    lb   C    01011..  10
01  01 01                    01    10 10                          01                               01010100101010101                                      01
lb                                                                                                                                              L
-                               -            0101It   010101                           lb
01           01              01         01   01                    01                              01           Lb  01   01   010101    C                  lb
I                    I  I            '                      '          ''''                            lb
01     01  01                01         01   01                   10                              10   10       010101010110    C
01     01  01                01         01   01                    01
01  01 01                    01    10 10                                                           010101010101010   0                                     10
10                                                                                                                                              K
01           01              01        01  01                      0                               0            0010010101,..                             lb
I                    '     I    I    I                                         ''      '               lb
0       01  be               01        01  be                     10                               0  0    00101010101"'                                  (1
01  01              01         0    10                   01                                                 01   01   01010    0                  01
10      01  01               01         01   01                    01                              01   01      01   01   01   010101    01
-                               -            ('('It010101                               60
01                              0            01   01   01   010101   -                    lb
0 0   0010101010  lb                                    -lb



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Direct Financial Transactions between Government (including Bank of Sudan) and Implementing Agencies -
(Current LSd 'O0Os)
Total
Year 1        Year 2       Year 3         Year 4         Year 5         Year 6          Year 7         Year 8          Year 9         Year 10       Years 11-20
Financial Flow from GOS to
Implementing Agencies
Local Currency Portion -/ of Loan
for Project Components for GOS          1,258         4,229        3,627          3,367          1,348
Loan for Net Cash Requirements
from Bank of Sudan                     2,063          1.386            42           -               -             -               -               -               -             -                -
Sub-Total                              3,321         5,615        3.669          3,367           1.348
Financial Flow from Implementing
Agencies to GOS
Repayment of Loans by Implementing
Agencies                                  -                                       4,561             -           8,350           8.350           8,350          8,350          8.350           83.500
Net Financial Flows from GOS
to Implementing Agencies (from
Implementing Agencies to GOS)
- Annually                             3,321          5,615        3.669         (1.194)          1.348        (8.350)         (8.350)         (8.350)        (8.350)        (8.350)         (83,500)
- Cumulative                           3,321          8,936       12,605         11,411         12,759          4.409          (3.941)        (12,291)       (20,641)       (28.991)        (112.491)
1/  Consists of PEWC (for Electrification component), MAFNR (consultancy experts) and BNAC (all remaining components).                                                                                          H
2/ Net of duties and taxes.
October 1980



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Incremental Government Cash Flow
(Current LSd '000)
Total
Year 1        Year 2      Year 3         Year 4         Year 5        Year 6         Year 7         Year 8          Year 9        Year 10       Years 11-20
Inf lows
Crop Taxes                                 -             -            -             510          2,540         4,622          5,352          5,542           5,723         5,928           59,280
Import Taxes - Project Components          -             716       2,130          1,702          1,373           496            -              -               -             -                 _
Import Taxes - Replacement of Assets    -                -            -             -              -             317            337            337             201           201            3,321
Import Taxes - Operational Cost Items   -                  3           16            18             37            35             35             35              35            35               350
Exchange Rate Implicit Taxes -             -             -            -             974          3,220         4,428          4,437          4,455           4,534         4,570           45,887
IDA Credit and ADF Loan Receipts 2/   1,267           8,147        8,506         8,614           4,640         2,133            -              -               -             -
Repayment of Loans                         -             -            -           4,561            -           8.350          8.350          8.350           8.350         8,350           83,500
TOTAL INFLOWS                        1.267         8,866       10.652        16,379          11.810        20,381         18,511         18.719          18.843        19.084          192,338
Outflows
Exchange Rate Implicit Subsidies I         -             -            -             113            245           283            319            356             392           392            3,920
Investment in Project Components        6,346        19,298       12,691        10,811           4,044           -              -              -               -             -
Loan Repayment to IDA and ADF              -              16           77           152            205           239            248             248            248           248             5.339
TOTAL OUTFLOWS                       6,346        19.314       12.768        11.076           4.494           522            567            604             640           640             9,259
Annual Excess (Deficit) of Cash Inflows
over Cash Outflows                      (5.079)      (10.448)      (2.116)        5,303          7.316        19,859         17.944         18,115          18.203        18,444          183,079
Cumulative Excess (Deficit) of Cash
Inflows over Cash Outflows              (5,079)      (15,527)    (17.643)       (12.340)        (5.024)       14,835         32.779         50.894          69.097        87.541          270.630
1/  This has been calculated on the differential between the implicit exchange rate and the parallel exchange rate which are US$1.5 = ESdl and US$1.25 - LSdl respectively.                                ,-3
The items covered are cotton lint, cotton seed and cotton inputs.                                                                                                                                    a
2/ Does not include hSdO.3 million for PPF disbursed in 1980.
October 1980



- 60 -
Table 10
SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements of IDA Credit
IDA Disbursements 1/
- ---  US$ Million ---------
IDA Fiscal              Quarter                    By End of
Year                  Ended                     Quarter                Cumulative
Disbursed 2/                    0.4                    0.4
1982              September 1981                    -                     0.4
December 1981                    -                     0.4
March 1982                      0.7                    1.1
June 1982                       0.9                    2.0
1983              September 1982                  2.9                     4.9
December 1982                   1.1                    6.0
March 1983                      1.1                    7.1
June 1983                       1.7                    8.8
1984              September 1983                   1.6                   10.4
December 1983                   1.8                   12.2
March 1984                      1.9                   14.1
June 1984                       2.5                   16.6
1985              September 1984                  2.4                    19.0
December 1984                   1.8                   20.8
March 1985                      1.9                   22.7
June 1985                       1.8                   24.5
1986              September 1985                   1.6                   26.1
December 1985                   1.6                   27.7
March 1986                      1.4                   29.1
June 1986                       0.9                   30.0
1987              September 1986                  0.9                    30.9
December 1986                   0.6                   31.5
March 1987                      0.3                   31.8
June 1987                       0.2                   32.0
1/   Expected date of signing:  April 1981
Expected date of effectiveness: July 1981
Expected completion date: June 1986
Expected closing date: June 1987
2/   Represents PPF disbursed on technical assistance.



-61-
BLUE NILE PL8P SCHEMES PEHILI11TATIDN PROJECT
ECOOIC '3OSTS AND8 BENEFITS
2       3        A        5                         0 S   -12       I1       12  13-15        !       17  18-20        21       22   23-25
SHASHE1e4A
61W?  100260013±T!F  SYSTEn    '36    3031    4009    4030    13S5                   A O     '        '        ;       O        0                3        3       0                 O
nPEP9TIO   OF IFP1!G 6YS.                0 3            -s60    6±0      660      660     660      660      660     063      6o       ±±      A60     660      6±0      660     660
B311B3635                     33Z22    1502     ±93      1S5     Ib5      1s5      363     135      15       165      1±5     165      165      1t       165    165      165      165
±3830                          152      152      15       t5      15       15       15      c5       15       15      15       15       15      15       15      15       !5       15
OTAPLE  ±ATE3  SUPPL6           O     230      156       18      I1       18       19       18      I                 18      10       13     I1       'I       l3S      13       18
ELECTRIFICATION                  A      54      410      237      38       38       38      38       38       38      32       38        a      38       38      le      3le       7
TEiEECQNUNICAT12I±S              2      3T       26        3        3       3        3        3       3        3        3       3                   3     3       3
A3RIC MACH 1 EOUIP            7'26    2004        '3       3       0      726    2904         0       '±    726    2904         0      '26    2904       1'    726    2904
±ERATI±  78ENICLES4Be 220              822        0        0        ?     "        883        0       e      223     8e2        0      223      882       '2    220      882
TECH ASSIST 1   TAINING        411     414      410      148        0       8        S        0       8        3        8       8        3       B        £        3       8        3
INC A6N89AL FPR  INPUTS         7       88      805      40B     960      BcO      060     860      3±O      860    8B0       860      8bO     860      8±0     B60      863      8o-)
'NC 0F30  MACH  8PERATIONS       3    23        154    1233    I?1    1711    1711    1711    1711    1711    I7ll    1711    1711    1711    1711    I'11 I'll    1711
YCR8E68630L  AP± LABOR         o3    135       37'    1262    21±0    2160    2160    2160    2160    2169    2162    2160    2165   2'10    216Q    2160    2160    '160
rOTS-SHOSHEIh                3316    9882    ±955    3307    7033    6584    p424    5638    ¶63e    6584    p424    5638    6s54    0424    5633    6504    9424                 3
REST OF 8NAC
UiL3IONGS                      256                .3 1  4  41      41      41       41      41       41        3        9       o        1       0        3        0       3        e
ASPIC NFACW I EQU11            444    1777        0        3        3     444    1777         3                o 0              o 0              0        0        0       0 
OPERETING 9EHICLES              '3     294        3        o       O1      73    234          3       0        0        0                ' o
TECH ASSIST I TRA!PINO         411     414      A15      148        3       8                 S .     9        0                     0            0 2                               0
INC A3NUAL FARM IP0TS 3          0      34       86      110      113     1lO      110     11o      116        o       0        0        !       3        '        0       0
INC FAR0   h4CP OPERATINS             S S'.    1773    17?3    1773    1773    17'3    1773    1?73           o       h        e                                  2       0
INCREENTA4L FARO  LABOR          0     380    1000    1320    1320    1320    1320    1320    1320             n       3        0                 2 O        o             0 o
COSTS-PEST 'OF eNAC           1184    '167    3443    3392    1252    37±6    5323    3252    3252             0            0       ±             3       3        3 °     ;
TTAL PR003ECT COSTS           4500   14049   10398   11699   10285   10353   14747    8890    88Q0    6584    9424    5638    6584    9424    5638    6584    '±24    5638
COTTON Ll'T                      0        0     368    5207    8636    8692    8748    8803    8859    9859    S8S           ssSs    B859    8859 8859    3859 9685     8853    0
C3TTON SEED                      0        0     143      786    1310    1325    1340    1362    1377    1377    ±377    1377    1Y-            1377    1377    1377    1377    13,7, 
SROUNDNUTSo 0                             I      61±   2550    5084    5167    5271    5354    5457    545'    5457    5457    545              5457  54575457              5457    5
BROUPDNUT HauL6S                 3       3        9      246      480     480      480      480     480      683      480     4        8: 48      6 480   4      80       480     486
SDP0HL06                         0        0      81      205     330      330      330     330      330      330     330      330      333!     330      330     330      330     330
SORGHU±   STAL9 S                        0      11       34      34       34       34      34       34       34      34       34       14       34       34      34       34       34
VE8ET 3BLES                      3       26      53      131     210      21020            21 0 8210         210     210      218      210      210     210      210      210     210
FDbDER CROPS                     0        0       0       42      84       84       94      84       84       04      84       84       34       84      84       84       84      84
BEYEF!TS-SH4SHEIN4               0       26    1228    9201   16168   16322   16504   16657   16832   16832   16832   16032   16832    1±832   16032   16832   16032   16332
REST OF BNaC
COTTON LINT                      3        O    2582    5455    5491    5526    5562    5597    5633            3        0       o        C        0        0       O        O
COTTON SEED                      3        0     426      824     833      843      857     866      876        0        0       3        0        0        °                0 °
GROUN0 NUTs                      0        0     190      355     363      369      376     382      389        0        3       3                 3 O      2        3 o              ±
DROUNDNUT HAULMs                 0        0      25       38       38      38       38      38       38        0        3       0                 0        2        0       0        0
SOR08083                         3       0      240      243     244      244      244     244      244                                           0        0        3       B        0
SORGHUM STALKS                   0        0      33       33       33      33       33       33      33        0        0       3                 0        0        0 °        °
BENEPITS-REST OF 8NA8            3        0    34?6    6048    7002    7052    7110    '160    7213            o 0   3                            3        0o3              0
T0TAL PROJECT BENEFITS           O      26    4725   16149   23170   23374   23613   23818   24045   16832   16832   16832   16832    16832   16832   16832   16832   16032



SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
NET COSTS-BENEFITS
1       2        3        4         5        6        7        8    9-10        11       12   13-15         16       17   18-20        21       22   23-25
COSTS-SHASHEINA                3316    9882    6955    8307    7033    6584    9424    5638    5638    6584    9424    5638    6584                   9424    5638    6584        9424     5638
COSTS-REST OF BNAC             1184    4167    3443    3392    3252    3769    5323    3252    3252                 0         0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS            4500   14049   10398   11699   10285   10353   14747    8890    B890    6584    9424    5638    6584    9424    5638    6584    9424                        5638
BENEFITS-SHASHEINA                 0       26    1229    9201   16168   16322   16504   16657   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832
BENEFITS-REST OF BNAC              0        0    3496    6948    7002    7052    7110    7160    7213                0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL PROJECT BENEFITS            0        26    4725   16149   23170   23374   23613   23818   24045   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832   16832
NET C/B:SHASHEINA             -3316   -9856   -5726         894    9135    9738    7080   11019   11194   10248    7408   11194   10248    7408   11194   10248    7408   11194
NET C/B:REST OF BNAC          -1184   -4167         53    3556    3750    3283    1787    3908    3961               0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
NET C/B:PROJECT               -4500  -14023   -5673    4450   12885   13021    8866   14928   15155   10248    7408   11194   10248    7408   11194   10248    7408   11194
STREAM
NAMF                          INTFRNAL. RATES OF RETUIRN FOR NET STREAMS
N,STOTAL                         30 , 9S4
N.RTOTAL                         38t448
N.TOTAL                          32.349
M~



- 63 -
Table 13
SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis
Appraisal
Variable                     Value                Crossover Value       % Change
Costs (LSd 000)
Shasheina                 61,814                  105,708               +71.0
Rest of BNAC              20,452                   28,529               +39.5
Total                     82,266                  134,237               +63.2
Benefits (LSd '000)
Shasheina                105,708                   61,814               -41.5
Rest of BNAC              28,529                   20,452               -28.3
Total                    134,237                   82,266               -38.7
Cotton Area at Full Development (fds)
Shasheina                 25,000                   14,500               -42.0
Incremental Cotton Yield at Full Development (K/fd)
Shasheina                  2.0                       0.0               -100.0
Rest of BNAC               1.0                       0.7                -30.0
Cotton Lint Price at Full Development (LSd/mt)
Shasheina                  2,320                      788               -66.0
Rest of BNAC               2,320                    1,322               -43.0
Total                      2,320                      881               -62.0



- 64 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1
COST RECOVERY SYSTEM
The following principles shall govern the cost recovery system under
the Project:
(1) All investment costs and expenditures on services for the
tenants would be recovered in full from the tenants.
(2) The full cost of producing each crop would be charged
against such crop. The BNAC would, in consultation with
the Association, establish a sound basis for allocating
various costs among the different crops raised in the
Project area, based on accurate unit costing to value all
goods, services and cash loans.
(3) In the case of crops marketed through BNAC, costs attributable
to each crop would be deducted by the BNAC from the proceeds
of that crop or from the tenants' share of such proceeds; in
the event that costs collectible from tenants exceed receipts,
the difference would be collected in cash from the tenant.
(4) In the case of crops directly marketed by tenants, the
tenants would make payments in cash to BNAC to meet costs
recoverable from them for such crop.
(5) The quantum of recovery of cost would be determined during
the five-year Project execution period on the basis of the
ability of tenants to meet such costs from their tenancy cash
flow, and would be calculated and embodied in the Annual
Work Program. Any costs not recovered would be capitalized
and recovered during the subsequent years along with interest
at 12% per annum.
(6) The Annual Credit and Services Contract would specify the
rate of cost recovery from tenants and the dates by which
such payments by tenants should be made, and would provide
remedies to BNAC in the event of default by the tenants.
(7)  Cases of default would be referred to the Tenants  Credit
Unit. The functions and responsibilities of the Tenants'
Credit Unit would be laid down in Regulations issued by BNAC
in accordance with the powers conferred on it under Section 20
of the Public Corporations Act 1976, and would, inter alia,
include: (a) review of all cases of failure by individual
tenants to conform with the provisions of Tenants- Lease



- 65 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2
Agreement; (b) specific recommendations to the management of
the Corporation on the action to be taken in each case; and
(c) establishment of an efficient debt recovery mechanism.
The recommendations of the Tenants Credit Unit, as approved
by BNAC would be binding on the tenants.
(8) BNAC may, with the approval of the Association, waive collection
of costs on items which are not directly production-related,
such as expenditures on health programs and educational
facilities.



- 66 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM
A.   Each Annual Work Program would provide documentation, satisfactory to
the Association, with respect to the following:
(i) a detailed description of the work to be performed, including
the objectives of the work plan for the ensuing fiscal year
commencing each July 1, the schedules of activities, equipment
requirements, staffing arrangements and training plans, and
the distribution of responsibilities for each item included
in the Annual Work Program;
(ii) a budget for the period covered in respect of each part of
the Project setting forth:
(a) the proposed capital expenditures;
(b) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as salaries,
materials, fuel, repairs and maintenance directly
attributed to activities under the Project, together
with a breakdown of predevelopment and incremental
expenditures;
(c) a comparison of the proposed investment and recurrent
budgets with the proposed budget and actual expenditures
for the previous year;
(d) a list of all staff employed or to be employed on a
full-time basis by BNAC; and
(e) a list of proposed expenditures for technical services,
studies and training;
(iii) a financing plan, and detailed quarterly cash flow projections
including the Government s contributions to the Project
Account.
B.   Each Annual Work Program would be supported by the following information:
(i) an assessment of the previous year's achievements;
(ii) a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on previous
staffing and proposed increments or reductions;



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2
(iii) the proposed training program;
(iv) a copy of the annual credit and service contract executed
under the Tenants' Lease Agreement for the ensuing fiscal
year commencing each July 1 which would, among other things,
embody details of the cost recovery system to be adopted and
carried out during that year;
(v) a copy of the current Regulations of BNAC;
(vi) a detailed examination of the level of cotton prices necessary
in order to provide adequate tenant incentives and sufficient
financial returns for BNAC; and
(vii) a detailed review of the following items which impinge on
Project implementation:
(a)  performance of BNAC in executing the irrigation
rehabilitation program;
(b)  process in establishing the cost recovery system and
determining accurate costs for various recoverable
items of expenditure;
(c)  performance of the Tenants' Credit Unit and status of
tenant indebtedness; and
(d)  performance of the Planning and Development Unit.
C.   The criteria upon which the Association's approval of a proposed Annual
Work Program would be based are:
(a)  adequacy of such program to implement basic project
objectives consistent with requirements of the Development
Credit Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(b)  adequacy of such program in providing physical, financial
and manpower resources to implement and sustain the
physical targets set for the ensuring fiscal year; and
(c)  adequacy of measures to improve performance in the areas
of cost recovery, tenant debt management, maintenance and
project management with particular emphasis on financial
management and training.



- 68 -
ANNEX 3
TENANT'S LEASE AGREEMENT
The Tenant-s Lease Agreement would, inter alia, specify:
1.   The identity of the tenant or tenants legally responsible under
the agreement and the initial registration fee to be paid by the
tenant to the BNAC.
2.   The period of the lease as twenty years.
3.   The duties, obligations and remedies of the BNAC under the Agreement.
4.   The duties, obligations and remedies of the tenant or tenants
under the Agreement.
5.   The execution of an annual credit and service contract for each
fiscal year wherein the duties and obligations of both BNAC and
the tenant or tenants in regard to all services, including
credit, extended by the BNAC and remedies in the event of default
by either party would also be prescribed.
6.   The annual credit and services contract would, inter alia, specify:
(a) the identity of the tenant or tenants legally responsible to
pay the cost of services provided and repay credit extended
by the BNAC;
(b) the rate of interest of not less than 12% per annum charged on
overdues and cash advances for labor of each tenant's crop accounts;
(c)  the rate and mode of recovery of costs of investment and
various services provided by the BNAC during the period of
the contract;
(d) details of cash advances that would be made available by
the BNAC to the tenant or tenants during the period of
the contract, the mode of their recovery and the terms
and conditions that would determine the tenant or tenants
eligibility to obtain such cash advances and such cash
advances bear an interest rate of not less than 12% per
annum from the date of the provision of the advances to
the tenant or tenants;
(e) a list of operations performed by and the services provided
by the BNAC during the period of the contract;
(f) a list of operations performed by and the services provided
by the tenant or tenants during the period of the contract;



- 69 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2
(g) the form of accounts the BNAC will maintain and opportunities
available to the tenant or tenants to inspect such accounts;
(h) the functions and procedures of the Tenant's Credit Unit
in the management and recovery of tenant debt; and
(i) remedies for the BNAC and the tenant or tenants in the event
of default by either to fulfill obligations imposed by the
contract.
7.   The power of the BNAC to revoke a Tenant's Lease Agreement for which
a current annual credit and service contract is not in force.



- 70 -
ANNEX 4
RELATED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE
A.   Selected Reports and Data Available on the Sector or Sub-Sector
1.   Sudan Agricultural Sector Survey
Document of the World Bank, Report No. 1836a-SU
May 18, 1979
2.   Sudan Agricultural Rehabilitation Program Credit
Document of the World Bank, Report No. P2731-SU
March 3, 1980
3.   Memorandum on the Economy of Sudan
Document of the World Bank, Report No. 2652-SU
October 24, 1979
4.   New Halfa Irrigation Rehabilitation Project
Staff Appraisal Report
April 24, 1980
b.   Selected Reports/and Studies Relating to the Project
1.   Memorandum on production relations in Gezira Project
2.   The Public Corporations Act 1976
3.   Presidential Warrant Establishing Blue Nile Agricultural Production
Corporation, January 1980
4.   Presidential Warrant Establishing the Corporation Services
Administration, 1980
5.   Blue Nile Waters Study
Blue Nile Study Consultants, April 1978
6.   Nile Waters Study
Coyne et Bellier, Sir Alexander Gibb and Partners, Hunting Technical
Services Limited, Sir M. MacDonald & Partners
November 1978
7.   Wad Salman Project
Feasibility Study
Sir M. MacDonald and Partners, Hunting Technical Services Limited
April 1979
8.   Shasheina Project
Feasibility Study Report
Sir M. MacDonald & Partners, Hunting
Technical Services Limited
October 1979



I BRD 15217
33G30'     !o- scartovm                                  34000                                          SEPTEMBER 1980
SUDAN
BLUE NILE PUMP SCHEMES
REHABILITATION PROJECT
>'K\<\\ Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation (BNAC)
21k Shasheina Region of BNAC
~ZZ-Rivers
Existing main canals
--J  Proposed main canal
Existing pumping station
Proposed pumping stations
-  4000                                              V          -+------4--- ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Railways400
-14°00'             t                                                C         --.Ros14'00o
Roads
HagAbdullah                                                                  220 kv transmission line
110 kv tronsmission lines
0         10        20        30
'S                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Kilometers
0               10               20
Miles
SUKI   CORPORATION
13030,
''    9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
CETAL A \ PUL
\X\>                                      L IBYA .OF EG PT  ,
ing en                                ) s i                          o
Slnga tl  ilm             >     ~~~CHAD!                 -
._-_2,   /  *             <       Z1   ~~~~~~~~~~Khartom   <
-13-00                                                     ,-                             13°00'- CETA         lr" ETHIOPIA
Th, map han bee- prepared by tho World Bank s staff e-clus,ely for the onveniene\-       AFRICAN REPS,        1,
of the readers of the report to ohch  it is ottached  The denomination s used and the  -. . . -  - -t
boundares shown no thos mop do not imply, on the part of the Worla Ronk and irs  I .                         <_
aff,t-         the uegal stat  of soy tertoryorasyenoroetentor                                            'ii-y -w   0- t
accept-nce of snch bondr,                                                                                  UGANDA
330130                                   ToDamazan    -       j -  .                        ZAIi KE






½                                                                                                                  -X     v K  za,;   it
t~~~~~~~
,~~~~~~ C                                                                                                                                 _  _  __        5   77_; ' 
'X'_F;   ~~~~~~~~~  0  ' 'ti L ,_ -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S ,NJ1/ 
7~~~~~~~~~7
q~~~~~~~~
Y-) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~C
t   \                    X             n mp t02   :      C                                                                                 (      '<-C
;-=~ ~~~~~~C -St CAJ7- :-    -": ---C-'
EU1UP C.I                                                                                                                           L. AN
C//   y f --  <    -                          ;E  ~~~~~~ 5 a  _ _--S X   f -             -                 ----_- C-C- -C--         _              ½
REA 1 AIN  PROJECT
W.,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C                                                           -
't-                                                                                                              - E~i,    >   -< ,
CCL.EI   ALCA                                                                                                                         SUDAN >         f t;;   \    
CCC I                                                                                                                 SUE NILE PUMP SCH EMES-
A -nN
If    N  I~CCL
'W --C                                                                                - .                                               F .ld _  E--A
9  - 7r  .L dm*n,f'                                                                                                                                                   2   ;;f    ECCCCCng supfCCCCCCACCC
) ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~(CC .                                                                                                                         /                             N/C-CCCEC iC  CCCCACCCCC  C-  . ..  CC:C .IL?   ur
,>S   - -   (\S A I FO                      X So9 * s                                                                         New worKsieps L7nd service centers~~~~~~~~~KLA  C>  C  - 



