CREDIT NUMBER ///fSU
Development Credit Agreement
(Blue Nile Pump Schemes Rehabilitation Project)
between
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER     SU
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated   /14mZ     ;- 7        , 1981, between THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called
the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Borrower shall cause Part A (4) of the Project to be
carried out by the Borrower's Public Electricity and Water Corpor-
ation and the remaining parts will be carried out by the Blue Nile
Agricultural Corporation, with the Borrower's assistance and as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Public Electricity and Water Corporation and the Blue Nile
Agricultural Corporation parts of the proceeds of the Credit as
hereinafter provided;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the African Develop-
ment Fund a loan (hereinafter called the ADF Loan) in an amount
equivalent to about ten million dollars ($10,000,000) to assist In
financing part of the Project on terms and conditions set forth in
an agreement (hereinafter called the ADF Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the African Development
Fund;
(D) by a letter addressed by the Association to Under
Secretary, Ministry of National Planning on July 2, 1979 the
Association granted an advance to the Borrower totalling three
hundred and forty thousand dollars ($340,000) for the preparation
of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreement of even date herewith between the Association and
the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development


﻿-2-
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation of even
date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes all schedules to the Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
(b) "BNAC" means the Blue Nile Agricultural Corporation,
established by and operating under the 1980 Warrant of the Bor-
rower, dated January 23, 1980, as such Warrant may be amended from
time to time;
(c) "BNAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and the Blue Nile Agricul-
tural Corporation pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement,
and "PEWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the Loan Agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and PEWC pursuant to Section
3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as either may be amended from time to
time, and such terms include all schedules to such Subsidiary Loan
Agreements;
(d) "TCU" means the Tenants' Credit Unit of BNAC referred
to in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement;
(e) "fSd" means Sudanese pounds, the currency of the Bor-
rower;
(f) "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.03 (a) of this Agreement;
(g) "Tenants' Lease Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between BNAC and each tenant in respect of a
tenancy;


﻿-3-
(h) "Annual Work Program" means a program to be prepared
annually for the carrying out of the Project, pursuant to the
proisions of Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(i) "Project Steering Committee" means a Committee to be
established by the Borrower, with power to approve the Annual Work
Program; such Project Steering Committee to have representatives
of the Ministries of Finance and National Economy, National
Planning, Irrigation, the Bank of Sudan and BNAC and to be headed
by the Minister of Agriculture;
(j) "Blue Nile Irrigation Schemes" means the schemes opera-
ted by BNAC for the purposes of the Project;
(k) "Planning and Development Unit" (PDU) means a unit to
be established in the BNAC; and
(1) "PEWC" means the Public Electricity and Water Corpora-
tion, established by the Borrower's Public Electricity and Water
Corporation Act of 1975, as amended in 1978, as such Act may be
amended from time to time.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-five million one hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 25,100,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable costs of the goods
and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be


﻿-4-
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Association.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31,
1986 or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum, on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each January 1
and July 1 commencing July 1, 1991, and ending January 1, 2031,
each installment to and including the installment payable on
January 1, 2001, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
Section 2.09. PEWC, in respect of Part A (4) of the Project,
and BNAC, in respect of the remainder of the Project, are desig-
nated as representatives of the Borrower for the purpose of taking
any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause BNAC to perform in accordance with
the provisions of the Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,


﻿-5-
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable BNAC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
.(b) The Borrower shall relend an amount of not less than
twenty-eight million nine hundred thousand dollars ($28,900,000)
equivalent out of the proceeds of the Credit to BNAC under a
subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower
and BNAC under terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association which shall provide, inter alia, that the funds
relent to BNAC shall bear an interest rate of not less than 9% per
annum and shall be repaid in 15 annual installments following a
grace period of 5 years with the Borrower assuming the foreign
exchange risk.
(c) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the BNAC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the inter-
ests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(d) The Borrower shall relend to PEWC an amount of not less
than one million two hundred thousand dollars ($1,200,000) equiva-
lent out of the proceeds of the Credit, as required to carry out
Part A (4) of the Project, a Subsidiary Loan Agreement acceptable
to the Association, which shall provide, inter alia, that the
funds relent shall bear an interest rate of not less than 12% per
annum ani shall be repaid in fifteen annual installments follow-
ing a grace period of 5 years with the Borrower assuming the
foreign exchange risk.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the PEWC
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such a manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall cause PEWC to carry out
Part A (4) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engi-
neering practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,


﻿-6-
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall cause BNAC to open an
account for the Project and arrange for a line of credit from the
Bank of Sudan to the BNAC through this account of not less than
one million Sudanese Pounds (9Sd 1,000,000) to meet initial
Project expenses.
(b) During the execution of the Project, the Borrower shall,
every quarter, transfer or cause transfer of funds to this account
in accordance with the financing plan and cash flow projections
embodied in the Annual Work Programs.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
through its Ministry of National Planning, not less than 60 days
after the completion of the quarter, the quarterly progress
reports referred to in Section 2.05 (b) of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Except as the Association may otherwise agree:
(a) the Project shall be carried out pursuant to Annual Work
Programs acceptable to the Association, approved by the Project
Steering Committee and formulated in accordance with the following
provisions:
(i) the first Annual Work Program shall cover the
period ending June 30, 1982 and shall be submitted
to the Association within four months from the
date of this Agreement;
(ii) not later than each May 1 during the execution of
the Project, the Borrower shall deliver to the
Association a proposed Annual Work Program covering
the year commencing the following July 1; and
(iii) each Annual Work Program shall contain the items
described in Part A of Schedule 4 to this Agree-
ment, shall be accompanied by information described
in Part B of such Schedule and shall be evaluated
by the Association on the basis of the criteria set
forth in Part C of such Schedule;
(b) each proposed Annual Work Program delivered to the Asso-
ciation shall be signed by the Chairman of the Project Steering


﻿-7-
Committee or his designate, who shall, by so signing, certify that
such proposed Annual Work Program has beei considered and approved
by both the Project Steering Committee and by the Board of
Directors of BNAC;
(c) the Association shall, within three weeks of receipt,
inform the Borrower and BNAC of its acceptance of, or comments
on, each proposed Annual Work Program delivered to the Association
and, if the Association shall not concur with such Annual Work
Program as proposed, the Association shall promptly exchange views
with the Borrower and BNAC; and
(d) Annual Work Programs may be amended at any time by
agreement between the Association and the Borrower.
Section 3.06. In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out
Part C (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants
whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall take out, or cause to
be taken out, insurance against such risks in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practices, or make, or cause
to be made, other provisions satisfactory to the Association for
this purpose.
(b) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or cause to be
insured, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or
installation, or make, or cause to be made, adequate provisions
for the insurance of such goods; provided that any indemnity
under such insurance shall be payable in a currency freely
useable to replace or repair such goods.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall: (a) announce for each
cropping season cotton prices payable to producers not later
than December 1; and
(b) ensure that payments are promptly made to BNAC for
cotton.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall strengthen the Department
of Planning of its Ministry of Agriculture, in accordance with an
organizational structure, responsibilities and staffing acceptable
to the Association, not later than July 31, 1981.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) BNAC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of BNAC under the BNAC Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment or the Project Agreement;
(b) PEWC shall have failed to perform any covenant, agree-
ment or obligation of PEWC under the PEWC Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that BNAC would be able to perform its obliga-
tions under the Project Agreement; -
(d) the 1980 Warrant establishing BNAC and dated January 23,
1980, shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or
waived in such a way as to materially and adversely affect the
execution of the Project; and
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of BNAC or for the suspension of their operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d)
of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall conti-
nue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b) the event specified in paragraph (e) of Section 4.01
of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿- 9 -
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
(a) the BNAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and BNAC;
(b) the PEWC Subsidiary Loan Agreement shall have been
executed on behalf of the Borrower and PEWC;
(c) the Project Account has been opened and a line of credit
of not less than one million Sudanese Pounds shall have been
established for such Account with the Bank of Sudan; and
(d) the ADF Loan Agreement shall have been duly signed on
behalf of the parties thereto.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by BNAC, and is legally binding upon BNAC in accor-
dance with its terms; and
(b) that the BNAC Subsidiary Loan Agreement and PEWC Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by
the Borrower, BNAC and PEWC respectively, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower, BNAC and PEWC in accordance with their terms.
Section 5.03. The date       26 19V   , is hereby specified
for the purposes of Sect    n 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections
3.02 and 3.08 shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of National Planning or the
Minister of State of National Planning of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 10 -
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of National Planning
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
Cable address:                     Telex:
EIMAR                             324
Khartoum
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the       % of the
Credit Allocated     Expendi-
(Expressed in     tures to be
Category                     SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(1) (a) Electro -                    7,680,000      100% of
mechanical                                 foreign
equipment                                  expendi-
for pumping                                tures
stations
(b) Other                         940,000      100% of
machinery,                                 foreign
equipment and                              expendi-
electrical                                 tures or
power lines,                               75%
including
spare parts
(2) Civil works,                     9,410,000      100% of
including pumping                               foreign
stations, build-                                expendi-
ings, irrigation                                tures or
structures,                                     51%
canal and drainage
works and service
roads, and
construction
materials
(3) Technical assis-                 2,670,000      100% of
tance and consul-                              foreign
tancy services                                 expendi-
tures


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the       % of the
Credit Allocated     Expendi-
(Expressed in     tures to be
Category                     SDR Equivalent)    Financed
(4) Annual farm                      1,570,000      100% of
inputs, includ-                                foreign
ing fertilizers,                               expendi-
pesticides, seeds                              tures or
and sacks                                      68%
(5) Refund of Project                 270,000       100% of prin-
Preparation Advance                            cipal amount
and charges
outstanding
at Effective
Date
(6) Unallocated                      2,560,000
TOTAL     25,100,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule the term "foreign expendi-
itures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   To the extent that any unpaid charges on the advance for
project preparation referred to in paragraph D of the Preamble
to this Agreement are withdrawn under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement, they shall be taken from Category (6).


﻿- 13 -
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
set forth in the second column of the table in paragraph 1 above,
if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the
Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient to
finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet such estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Shasheina Region Development
The Project is intended to rehabilitate the ongoing Blue Nile
Irrigation Schemes and consists of the following main components:
1.   Rehabilitation of the existing irrigation schemes including:
(i) construction of two new pumping stations and a booster
pumping station in the Suki scheme;
(ii) rehabilitation and improvement of the irrigation water
distribution system;
(iii) construction of a drainage system;
(iv) construction of service roads; and
(v) introduction of long-furrow irrigation in an area of
about 90 feddan.
2.   Construction of office buildings, workshops and staff
housing.
3.   Construction of deep wells for water supply.
4.   Procurement, for the use of the Project, and installa-
tion of electrical power lines serving the new pumping stations
and field centers.
5.   Procurement, for the use of the Project, and installa-
tion of a radio-telephone system.
6.   Strengthening of agricultural machinery operations through
provision of agricultural machinery and spare parts.
7.   Provision, for use on the Project, of operating vehicles
and equipment.


﻿- 15 -
Part B:   Development of Project Area Outside of the Shasheina
Region
1.   Strengthening of agricultural machinery operations through
provision of agricultural machinery and spare parts.
2.   Construction of workshops.
Part C:   Project Administration and Management
1.   Strengthening of management, administration and     training
capability of BNAC.
2.   Studies to prepare a follow-up project for rehabilitation of
additional schemes of BNAC.
3.   Strengthening of the Department of Planning of the Ministry
of Agriculture.
Part D:   Incremental Farm Inputs
Procurement, for use in the Project, of fertilizers, pesti-
cides, seeds and sacks for cotton production.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986.


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower, BNAC or PEWC shall
prepare and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Bank shall reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the
publication of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower or BNAC shall provide the neces-
sary information to update such notice annually so long as any
goods or works remain to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
3.   (i) Bidders for buildings shall be prequalified as described
in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the Guidelines.
(ii) Items shall be aggregated in order to attract major
contractors and suppliers.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international com-
petitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported goods, or
the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other goods,
offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other import
taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the sales and
similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or delivery,


﻿- 17 -
pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken into account
in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in The
Democratic Republic of the Sudan may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of The
Democratic Republic of the Sudan and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in The Democratic Republic
of the Sudan equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other domestic bids.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each
group, all evaluated bids in each group shall first be compared
among themselves, without taking into account customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bids, of the goods. Such lowest eval-
uated bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids


﻿- 18 -
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category 2 of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement and to be procured in accor-
dance with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule,
BNAC and PEWC may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to
domestic contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the
following provisions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Bank, a particular firm or group of firms
qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents shall
clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed by BNAC and
PEWC respectively, responsive bids will be classified into the
following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.


﻿- 19 -
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
(i) Materials for building construction shall be
procured in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures or other appropriate procedures
in consultation with the Association.
(ii) Civil works estimated to cost less than $500,000,
but not more than the aggregate amount of
$3,000,000 equivalent, may be carried out in
accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures or other appropriate procedures in
consultation with the Association.
(iii) Irrigation structures, canal and drainage works
referred to in Part A.1 (ii) and (iii) of
Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall be carried out
in accordance with local competitive bidding
procedures or by negotiated contract with the
Public Corporation for Earthmoving, on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(iv) Goods other than spare parts for machinery and
vehicles, estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $100,000 and more than the equivalent of
$10,000 and in the aggregate estimated to cost not
more than the equivalent of $3,000,000, shall be
procured in accordance with the existing normal
procedures of the Borrower.
(v) Goods other than spare parts for machinery and
vehicles, estimated to cost less than the equiva-
lent of $10,000 and in the aggregate estimated to
cost not more than the equivalent of $200,000,
shall be procured at reasonable prices off-the-
shelf or by prudent shopping.
(vi) Spare parts for vehicles and machinery shall be
procured directly by negotiated contract from the
principal manufacturers or by quotations from
dealers of such goods as appropriate.


﻿- 20 -
(vii) Fertilizers, pesticides, seed and sacks referred
to in Part D of Schedule 2 to this Agreement shall
be procured in accordance with exisLing normal
procedures of the Borrower, or other appropriate
procedures in consultation with the Association.
(viii) Construction of wells for potable water supply
referred to in Part A.3 of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement shall be carried out by negotiated
contract with the Ministry of Agriculture's Rural
Water Corporation, on terms and conditions satis-
factory to the Association.
(ix) Construction of service roads referred to in Part
A.1 (iv) of Schedule 2 to this Agreement may be
carried out in accordance with local competitive
bidding procedures or by force account.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. BNAC shall, before qualification
is invited, inform the Association in detail of the procedure to
be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in said pro-
cedure as the Association shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification, shall be furnished by BNAC or PEWC to the
Association for its comments before the applicants are notified of
their decision, and BNAC or PEWC shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Associa-
tion shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works, except con-
struction of wells referred to in Part A (iii) of Schedule 2 to
this Agreement and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$300,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BNAC and PEWC shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed


﻿- 21 -
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BNAC
and PEWC shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Association of the name of the bidder to which it
intends to award the contract and shall furnish to the Asso-
ciation, in sufficient time for its review, a detailed report
on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BNAC and
PEWC and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, BNAC and PEWC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Credit Account in respect of such contract, two conformed
copies of such contract, together with the analysis of the respec-
tive bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall,
if it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent
with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BNAC and
PEWC and state the reasons for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more


﻿- 22 -
than 20% of the original price, BNAC and PEWC shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform BNAC and PEWC
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿- 23 -
SCHEDULE 4
Annual Work Programs
A.   Each Annual Work Program shall provide documentation, satis-
factory to the Association, with respect to the following:
(i) a detailed description of the work to be performed,
including the objectives of the work plan for the
ensuing fiscal year commencing each July 1, the sched-
ules of activities, equipment requirements, staffing
arrangements and training plans, and the distribution
of responsibilities for each item included in the Annual
Work Program;
(ii) a budget for the period covered in respect of each Part
of the Project setting forth:
(a) the proposed capital expenditures;
(b) all proposed recurrent expenditures such as
salaries, materials, fuel, repairs and maintenance
directly attributed to activities under such Parts
of the Project, together with a breakdown of
predevelopment and incremental expenditures;
(c) a comparison of the proposed investment and recur-
rent budgets with the proposed budget and estimated
expenditures for the previous year;
(d) a list of all staff employed or to be employed on
a full-time basis by BNAC with respect to such
Parts of the Project; and
(e) a list of proposed expenditures for technical
services, studies and training;
(iii) a financing plan, and detailed quarterly cash flow
projections including the Borrower's contributions to
the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.02 of the
Development Credit Agreement;
(iv) the proposed procurement program and procedures to be
applied thereto;


﻿- 24 -
(v) a detailed Project implementation schedule for the year
in question; and
(vi) a detailed program of maintenance including staff
allocations, training and procedures to be applied
thereto.
B.   Each Annual Work Program shall be supported by the following
information, as may be relevant:
(i) a detailed assessment of the previous year's achieve-
ments;
(ii) a detailed staffing analysis, including a report on
previous staffing and proposed increments or reductions;
(iii) the proposed training and maintenance programs;
(iv) a copy of the annual credit and service contract exe-
cuted under the Tenants' Lease Agreement for the ensuing
fiscal year commencing each July 1 which would, among
other things, embody details of the cost recovery system
to be adopted and carried out during that year including
the rate of interest charged on overdue amounts of
tenants' crop accounts and on cash advances;
(v) a copy of the current Regulations of BNAC;
(vi) a detailed examination of the level of cotton prices
necessary in order to provide adequate tenant incentives
and sufficient financial return for BNAC; and
(vii) a detailed review of the following items which impinge
on Project implementation:
(a) performance of BNAC in executing Part B of the
Project;
(b) progress in establishing the cost recovery system
and determining accurate costs for various recover-
able items of expenditure;
(c) performance of the Tenants' Credit Unit and status
of tenant indebtedness; and


﻿- 25 -
(d) performance of the Planning and Development Unit.
C.   The criteria upon which the Association's approval of a
proposed Annual Work Program shall be based are as follows:
(a) the adequacy of such program to implement basic
Project objectives consistent with requirements
of the Development Credit Agreement, the Project
Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(b) the adequacy of such program in providing physical,
financial and manpower resources to implement and
sustain the physical targets set for the ensuing
fiscal year; and
(c) the adequacy of measures to improve performance in
areas of recovery of costs and charging of interest
to tenants relevant to inflation experience, tenant
debt management, irrigation system maintenance and
project management with particular emphasis on
financial management, maintenance and training.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
198 L.
FOR SECRETARY


