Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GRANT NUMBER H491-MW 
 
Financing Agreement 
 
(Additional Financing for Multi-Sectoral HIV / AIDS Project) 
 
between 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
Dated September 18, 2009 
 
Page  2
GRANT NUMBER H491-MW 
FINANCING AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT dated September 18, 2009 entered into between REPUBLIC OF 
MALAWI (
“Recipient”) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(“Association”) for the purpose of providing additional financing for the Original Project 
(as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement).  The Recipient and the Association 
hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
—
GENERAL CONDITIONS; DEFINITIONS 
1.01. 
The General Conditions (as defined in the Appendix to this Agreement) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement. 
1.02. 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the General Conditions, the 
Original Financing Agreement, or this Agreement. 
1.03. 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set out in Section II of the 
Appendix to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II — FINANCING 
2.01. 
The Association agrees to extend to the Recipient, on the terms and conditions 
set forth or referred to in this Agreement, a grant in an amount equivalent to 
nineteen million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 19,400,000) (
variously, “Grant” and “Financing”) to assist in financing the 
Original Project, as amended pursuant to Section II of the Appendix to this 
Agreement (“Project”). 
2.02. 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
Section IV of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
2.03. 
The Maximum Commitment Charge Rate payable by the Recipient on the Un-
withdrawn Financing Balance shall be one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per 
annum. 
2.04. 
The Payment Dates are May 1 and November 1 in each year. 
Page  3
2
2.05. 
The Payment Currency is the Dollar.
 
ARTICLE III 
—
PROJECT
 
3.01. 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the Project.  To this 
end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the National AIDS 
Commission in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the General 
Conditions. 
3.02. 
Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement, and 
except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the provisions of 
the Schedule to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV — REMEDIES OF THE ASSOCIATION
 
4.01. 
The Additional Event of Suspension consists of the following, namely, that a 
situation has arisen which shall make it improbable that the Program, or a 
significant part thereof, will be carried out.
 
ARTICLE V — EFFECTIVENESS; TERMINATION
 
5.01. 
The Additional Conditions of Effectiveness consist of the following: 
(a) 
The Recipient has deposited the equivalent of $1,300,000 into the Project 
Account for amounts outstanding pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the 
Original Financing Agreement and required to finance the Recipient's 
contribution for expenditures under the Original Project. 
(b) 
The Recipient has made into the Project Account the first of the quarterly 
deposits referred to in Section V.A (b) of the Schedule to this Agreement. 
(c) 
The Recipient has adopted a national HIV prevention strategy, in form 
and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
5.02. 
The Effectiveness Deadline is the date ninety (90) days after the date of this 
Agreement. 
Page  4
3
ARTICLE VI 
—
REPRESENTATIVE; ADDRESSES
 
6.01. 
The Recipient’s Representative is its minister at the time responsible for finance.
 
6.02. 
The Recipient’s Address is: 
Ministry of Finance 
P. O. Box 30049 
Capital City 
Lilongwe 3 
Malawi 
Facsimile: 
265-1-78-91-73 
6.03. 
The Association’s Address is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 INDEVAS 
 248423 
(MCI) 
 1-202-477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
Page  5
4
AGREED at Lilongwe, Malawi, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI 
 
By /s/ Ken Edward Kandodo 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Timothy Gilbo 
Authorized Representative 
Page  6
5
SCHEDULE 
Project Execution 
Section I. 
Implementation Arrangements
A. Institutional 
Arrangements
 
Sections I, II, and III of Schedule 4 to the Original Financing Agreement are 
hereby incorporated by reference in this Part A and renumbered as paragraphs 1, 
2, and 3, respectively, and shall apply, 
mutatis mutandis
,
to the Grant, and the 
Recipient undertakes to comply with the provisions thereof to the same extent as 
if such provisions had been set out in full in this Agreement. 
B. Anti-Corruption 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project is carried out in accordance with the 
provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines. 
C. Safeguards 
 
The Recipient shall ensure that the Project Reports referred to in 
Section II.A.1 (a) of this Schedule include information on the implementation of 
the Health Care Waste Management Plan. 
Section II. 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation 
A. Project 
Reports 
1. 
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and evaluate the progress of the Project and 
prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 4.08 of the General Conditions and on the basis of the indicators 
set forth below in sub-paragraph (b) of this paragraph.  Each Project 
Report shall cover the period of one (1) calendar semester, and shall be 
furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of the 
period covered by such report.
 
Page  7
6
(b) 
The performance indicators referred to above in sub-paragraph (a) 
consist of the following: 
No. Indicator 
1. 
Proportion of sexually active males and females who report having had sex 
with a non-regular partner within the previous 12 months (by age cohort) 
2. 
Proportion of sexually active males and females who report condom use 
during their last high-risk sexual encounter (sex with a non-cohabitating or 
non-regular partner) within the last 12 months (by gender and age cohorts, 
15-24 years, 25-49 years) 
3. 
Median age at first sex among 15-24 year olds (by gender) 
4. 
Proportion of young people (15-24 years) who both correctly identify ways of 
preventing transmission and who reject major misconceptions about HIV 
transmission (by gender) 
B. 
Financial Management, Financial Reports and Audits 
1. 
The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained a financial management 
system in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.09 of the General 
Conditions. 
2. 
Without limitation on the provisions of Part A of this Section, the Recipient shall 
prepare and furnish to the Association not later than 45 days after the end of each 
calendar quarter, interim unaudited financial reports for the Project covering the 
quarter, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association. 
3. 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 4.09 (b) of the General Conditions.  Each audit of the 
Financial Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient.  
The audited Financial Statements for each such period shall be furnished to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
4. 
To this end, the Recipient shall, no later than two (2) months after the Effective 
Date, adopt revised terms of reference, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, for the carrying out of said audit. 
Page  8
7
Section III. 
Procurement
A. General
 
1. 
Goods and Works.
 
All goods and works required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Section I of the Procurement 
Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
2. 
Consultants’ Services.
 
All consultants’ services required for the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance 
with the requirements set forth or referred to in Sections I and IV of the 
Consultant Guidelines, and with the provisions of this Section. 
3. Definitions.
 
The capitalized terms used below in this Section to describe 
particular procurement methods or methods of review by the Association of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the 
Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
B. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works
 
1. 
International Competitive Bidding.  
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 2 below, goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded 
on the basis of International Competitive Bidding. 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Goods and Works.  
The following table 
specifies the methods of procurement, other than International Competitive 
Bidding, which may be used for goods and works.  The Procurement Plan shall 
specify the circumstances under which such methods may be used: 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Limited International Bidding 
(b) National Competitive Bidding 
(c) Shopping 
(d) Direct Contracting 
(e) Procurement from UNICEF 
(f) Community Participation 
Page  9
8
3. 
Inspection and Audit.
 
The following provision shall be included in bidding 
documents relating to and contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding and financed out of the proceeds of the Financing, namely, 
that: (a) pursuant to paragraph 1.14 (e) of the Procurement Guidelines, bidders, 
suppliers, and contractors are required to permit the Association to inspect their 
accounts and records and other documents relating to the bid submission and 
contract performance and to have them audited by auditors appointed by the 
Association; and (b) pursuant to paragraph 1.14 (a) (v) (bb) of the Procurement 
Guidelines, acts intended to materially impede the exercise of the Association
’s 
said inspection and audit rights are considered to be an obstructive practice for 
the purposes of paragraph 1.14 of the Procurement Guidelines. 
C. 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services 
1. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
Except as otherwise provided in 
paragraph 
2
below, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of Quality and Cost-based Selection.
 
2. 
Other Methods of Procurement of Consultan
ts’ Services
.
The following table 
specifies methods of procurement, other than Quality- and Cost-based Selection, 
which may be used for consultants’ services.  The Procurement Plan shall specify 
the circumstances under which such methods may be used. 
Procurement Method
 
(a) Least Cost Selection 
(b) Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications 
(c) Selection under a Fixed Budget 
(d) Single Source Selection 
(e) Selection of Individual Consultants 
D. 
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
 
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Association’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review 
by the Association.
 
Page  10
9
Section IV. 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Financing
A. General 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Financing in accordance with 
the provisions of Article II of the General Conditions, this Section, and such 
additional instructions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Recipient 
(including the “World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated 
May 2006, as revised from time to time by the Association and as made 
applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), to finance such 
percentage (inclusive of Taxes) of Eligible Expenditures, consisting of 
Subprogram Grants, and including goods, works, consultants’ services (including 
for audits), Training, and Operating Costs under a Subprogram, financed 
exclusively through the Pooled Account, as the Association may determine for 
each Fiscal Year. 
B. 
Withdrawal Conditions; Withdrawal Period 
1.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part A of this Section, no withdrawal shall be 
made: 
(a) 
for payments made prior to the date of this Agreement; or 
(b) 
in respect of any Fiscal Year, unless the respective Annual Work Plan 
and Budget have been approved by the Association in accordance with 
the provisions of Section I.A.2 of this Schedule. 
2.
 
The Closing Date is September 30, 2012. 
Section V. 
Other Undertakings
A. Counterpart 
Funding
 
Except as the Recipient and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain, throughout Project implementation, the Project Account in 
Malawi Kwacha in the name of the National AIDS Commission, in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association; 
Page  11
10
 
(b) 
deposit into the Project Account, on a quarterly basis throughout Project 
implementation, an amount equivalent to $500,000, or such other amount 
as agreed with the Association, required to finance the Recipient
’s 
contribution for expenditures under the Project other than those financed 
from the proceeds of the Grant; and 
 
(c) 
ensure that the funds deposited into the Project Account in accordance 
with the provisions of subparagraph (b) of this Part A are used 
exclusively to finance expenditures under the Project other than those 
financed from the proceeds of the Grant. 
B. 
Central Medical Stores Trust
 
The Recipient shall, no later than December 31, 2009, establish a central medical 
stores trust, with an institutional framework, functions, and resources satisfactory 
to the Association, for purposes of public medical procurement. 
C. Annual 
Reviews 
The Recipient shall review jointly with the Association and other Funding 
Partners, no later than three (3) months after the transmittal to the Association of 
every other Project Report referred to in Section II.A.1 (a) of this Schedule, or 
such later date as the Association shall request, said Project Report and the 
preceding one, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the Program and the achievement of the objective 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of said Reports and the 
Association’s views on the matter. 
Page  12
11
D.  
Midterm Review 
The Recipient shall: 
(a) 
carry out jointly with the Association and other Funding Partners, no 
later than 18 months after the Effective Date, a midterm review to assess 
the status of Project and Program implementation, as measured against 
the performance indicators referred to in Section II.A.1 (a) of this 
Schedule.  Such review shall include an assessment of the following: 
(i) overall progress in Project and Program implementation; (ii) results of 
monitoring and evaluation activities; (iii) implementation of Annual 
Work Plans and Budgets; (iv) 
progress on procurement and 
disbursement; (v) progress on implementation of the Health Care Waste 
Management Plan; (vi) Project and Program implementation 
arrangements; and (vii) the need to make any adjustments to the Project 
and Program and reallocate funds to improve performance; 
(b) 
prepare and furnish to the Association and other Funding Partners, at 
least three (3) months before such review, a report, in scope and detail 
satisfactory to the Association, needed to undertake the review, 
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities 
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project and the Program during the 
period preceding the date of the said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
Program and the achievement of the objective thereof during the period 
following such date; and 
(c)  
review, jointly with the Association and other Funding Partners, the 
report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and thereafter take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and 
the Program and the achievement of the objective thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the 
Association’s views on the matter.
 
Page  13
12
APPENDIX 
Section I. 
Definitions 
1. 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006. 
2. 
“Consultant Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in May 2004 and 
revised in October 2006. 
3. 
“General Conditions” means the “International Development Association 
General Conditions for Credits and Grants”, dated July 1, 2005 (as amended 
through October 15, 2006). 
4. 
“Operating Costs” means the incremental operating costs under the Project, 
based on the Annual Work Plans and Budgets as approved by the Association, 
and incurred by the National AIDS Commission on account of utilities and 
supplies, bank charges, communications, vehicle operation, maintenance, and 
insurance, office space rental, building and equipment maintenance, public 
awareness-related media expenses, travel and supervision, and salaries of 
contractual and temporary staff, but excluding salaries, fees, honoraria, and 
bonuses of members of the Recipient’s civil service
.
5. 
“Original Financing Agreement” means the development grant agreement 
between the Recipient and the Association, dated September 11, 2003, for a 
Multi-Sectoral HIV / AIDS Project, as amended to the date of this Agreement 
(Grant No. H0620 MAI). 
6. 
“Original Project” means the Project described in the Original Financing 
Agreement, as amended pursuant to Section II of this Appendix. 
7. 
“Procurement Guidelines” means the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD 
Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in May 2004 and revised in 
October 2006. 
8. 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan for the Project, 
dated June 26, 2009 and referred to in paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement 
Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the Consultant Guidelines, as the same shall be 
updated from time to time in accordance with the provisions of said paragraphs. 
Page  14
13
9. 
“Training” means the costs of training under the Project, based on the Annual 
Work Plans and Budgets as approved by the Association, and attributable to 
seminars, workshops, and study tours, along with travel and subsistence 
allowances for training participants, services of trainers, rental of training 
facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials, and other activities 
directly related to course preparation and implementation. 
Section II.   
Amendment to Original Financing Agreement
 
The Original Financing Agreement is amended as set forth below. 
 
1. 
A new Section 1.02 (d) is introduced as follows, and subsequent subparagraphs 
renumbered accordingly: 
“(d) 
“Anti-Corruption Guidelines” means the “Guidelines on Preventing and 
Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006.” 
2. 
Section 2.02 (b) is amended to read as follows: 
“(b) 
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
United States Dollars an account in the name of the NAC (the Pooled Account) 
in the Reserve Bank of Malawi, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Pooled Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.” 
3. 
Section 2.03 is amended to read as follows: 
“Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2012, or such later date 
as the Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the 
Recipient of such later date.” 
 
4. 
Paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 is amended to read as follows: 
“The objective of the Project is to increase access to HIV / AIDS prevention, 
treatment, and mitigation services, with a focus on behavioral change 
interventions and addressing the needs of highly vulnerable populations, 
including those affected and infected by the epidemic.” 
Page  15
14
5. 
A new Section III.3 (a) (iv) is introduced in Schedule 4 as follows, and 
subsequent subparagraphs renumbered accordingly: 
 
“(iv) 
the obligation of the Beneficiary to carry out the Subprogram in 
accordance with the provisions of the Anti-Corruption Guidelines;”
 
__________
 
