                                          Documentof
                                         The World Bank

                                  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY

                                                                         ReportNo: 26142-MA1




                                PROJECTAPPRAISALDOCUMENT

                                               ONA

                                     PROPOSEDIDA GRANT

                              INTHEAMOUNT OF SDR25.4 MILLION

                                 (US$35.0 MILLIONEQUIVALENT)

                                             TO THE

                                     REPUBLICOF MALAWI


                                              FORA

                             MULTI-SECTORALAIDS PROJECT(MAP)




OperationalandQuality Services(AFTOS)
Africa RegionalOffice




This document has arestricteddistributionand maybeusedby recipientsonly inthe performanceof
their officialduties. Its contentsmay not otherwise be disclosedwithout World Bankauthorization

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                             (Exchange Rate Effective May 31,2003)
                                Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MKW)
                                 M K W 91.999 = USSl
                                  US$0.01087 = MKW 1

                                        FISCAL YEAR
                                        July 1 -- June 30

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB      African Development Bank
ADMARC Agricultural Development and Marketing Corporation
AIDS     Acquired ImmuneDeficiency Syndrome
ANC      Antenatal clinic
ART      Anti-retroviral therapy
ARV      Anti-retroviral drug
BCI      Behavior Change Interventions
CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBO      Community-based organization
CDC      Centers for Disease Control
C H A M  Christian Health Association o f Malawi
CHBC     Community home-basedcare
CIDA     Canadian InternationalDevelopment Agency
CMS      Central Medical Stores
cso      Civil society organization
DA       District Assembly
DACC     District AIDS Coordinating Committee
DfID     Department for International Development
EO1      Expressiono f Interest
EP&D     Ministryof EconomicPlanning and Development
EU       European Union
FBO      Faith-based organization
F M A    Financial Management Agent
GFATM    Global Fundfor AIDS, Malaria, and Tuberculosis
GIPA     Greater Involvement o f People Livingwith AIDS
GOM      Government o f Malawi
HBC      Home-based care
H C W M  Health care waste management
HIV      Human Immunodeficiency Virus
HSG      Health Sector goods
ICB      International Competitive Bidding
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IDA      International Development Association
IEC      Information, Education, and Communication
IPAA     International Partnership Against AIDS
I S      Injection safety
JICA     Japanese International CooperationAgency
KAP      Knowledge, Attitude, Perception

                                                           FOROFFICIAL USEONLY
      M&E     Monitoring and Evaluation
      MANASO MalawiNetwork of AIDS Service Organizations
      MANET   Malawi Network of PeopleLivingwith HIV/AIDS
      MAP     Multi-CountryAIDS Program for Africa
      MDF     Ministry of Defense (Malawi Defense Force)
      MDLG    Ministry of District andLocal Government
      MGFCC   Malawi Global Fund Coordinating Committee
      MIM     Malawi Instituteof Management
      MNREA   Ministry ofNatural Resources and Environmental Affairs
      MOEST   Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
      MOGCS   Ministry of Gender and Community Services
      MOHP    Ministryof Health andPopulation
      MOL     Ministryof Labour
      MOU     Memorandum of Understanding
      MPRSP   Malawi Poverty Reduction Strategy Paper
      MPSR    Malawi Public Service Regulations
      NAC     NationalAIDS Commission
      NAPHAM NationalAssociation of PeopleLivingwith HIV/AIDS inMalawi
      NGO     Non-government organization
      NORAD   NorwegianAgency for Development
      NSF     National Strategic Framework
      01      Opportunistic Infection
      OPC     Office of the President and Cabinet
      ORT     Other recurrent transactions
      ovc     Orphansand other vulnerable children
      PHRD    Population andHuman ResourceDevelopment Grant
      PLWA    People Livingwith AIDS
      PMTCT   Prevention of Mother to Child Transmission
      POW     Programof work
      RFP     Request for Proposal
      STI     Sexually transmitted infection
      SWAP    Sector wide approach
      TB      Tuberculosis
      TOR     Terms of Reference
      TWG     NationalTechnical HIV/AIDS Working Group
      UNAIDS  Joint UnitedNations Program on HIV/AIDS
      UNDP    UnitedNations Development Program
      UNFPA   UnitedNations Population Fund
      UNICEF  UnitedNations Childrens Fund
      USAID   UnitedStates Agency for International Development
      VCT     Voluntary Counselling and Testing
      WHO     World HealthOrganization

                                    Vice President:   Callisto Madavo
                        Country ManagedDirector:      DunstanM.Wai
                                                      Hartwig Schafer
                          Sector ManagedDirector:     John A. Roome
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:        Christine E.Kimes

This document has a restricteddistributionandmay beused by recipients only in
the performance of their official duties. I t s contents may not be otherwise disclosed
without World Bank authorization.


                                               MALAWI
                            MULTI-SECTORAL AIDS PROJECT (MAP)


                                             CONTENTS




A. Project Development Objective                                                       Page

   1. Project development objective                                                       1
   2. Key performance indicators                                                          1

B. Strategic Context

   1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported bythe project       1
   2. Mainsector issues and Government strategy                                          2
   3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices                  6

C. Project Description Summary

   1. Project components                                                                  6
   2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project                       9
   3. Benefits and target population                                                      9
   4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                                      10

D.Project Rationale

   1. Project altematives considered and reasons for rejection                           16
   2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies      17
   3. Lessons leamed and reflected inthe project design                                  18
   4. Indications of recipient commitment and ownership                                  20
   5. Value added o f Bank support inthis project                                        20

E. Summary Project Analysis

   1. Economic                                                                           20
   2. Financial                                                                          21
   3. Technical                                                                          21
   4. Institutional                                                                      21
   5. Environmental                                                                      23
   6. Social                                                                             25
   7, Safeguard Policies                                                                 27

F. Sustainability and Risks

   1. Sustainability                                                                     27
   2. Critical risks                                                                     27

  3. Possible controversial aspects                                 29


G. MainGrant Conditions

  1. Effectiveness Condition                                        29
  2. Otherconditions                                                29

H. Readiness for Implementation                                     29

I.CompliancewithBankPolicies                                        30



Annexes

Annex 1: Project Design Summary                                     31
Annex 2: DetailedProject Description                                34
Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs                                    39
Annex 4: Economic Summary                                           42
Annex 5: Financial Summary                                          43
Annex 6: (A) Procurement Arrangements                               44
          (B) Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements    50
Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule                                57
Annex 8: Documents inthe Project File                               58
Annex 9: Statement o f Loans and Credits                            59
Annex 10 Country at a Glance                                        61
Annex 11 Multi-Donor Memorandum o f Understanding                   63
Annex 12 N A C Grants Facility                                      66
Annex 13: Monitoring and Evaluation Framework                       76
Annex 14: District Government and HIV/AIDS                          85
Annex 15: Health Care Waste Management Plan                         89
Annex 16: Supervision Framework                                     94

                                                  MALAWI
                                     Multi-SectoralAIDS Project (MAP)
                                    Project AppraisalDocument
                                           Africa RegionalOffice
                                                  AFTOS

Date: July 9,2003                                     Team Leader: ChristineE. Kimes
Sector Managermirector: JohnRoome                     Sector(s): Other social services (100%)
Country Managermirector: DunstanM.Wai, Hartwig        Theme(s): Fightingcommunicable diseases(P), Social
Schafer                                               riskmitigation(S)
Project ID: PO73821
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment Loan (SIL)


 [ ]Loan       [ ] Credit    [XI Grant     [ ]Guarantee       [ ]Other:
For LoanslCreditslOthers:
Amount (US$m): $35.00

BORROWERRECIPIENT                                                   10.00               0.00      10.oo
AFRICAN DEVELOPMENT BANK                                             0.20               0.40       0.60
CANADA: CANADIANINTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                            7.50               2.50      10.00
AGENCY (CIDA)
UK:BRITISHDEPARTMENTFORINTERNATIONAL                                 5 -40               1.80      7.20
DEVELOPMENT (DFID)
THE GLOBAL FUND TO FIGHT AIDS, TUBERCULOSIS&                        73.14             123.00     196.14
MALARIA
US, GOV. OF                                                          0.40                1.60      2.00
IDA GRANT FORHNIAIDS                                                23.50               11.50     35.00
NORWAY: NORWEGIANAGENCY FORDEV. COOP.                                7.50                2.50     10.00
(NORAD)
UNDEVELOPMENTPROGRAMME                                               1.90                1.90      3.80
Total:                                                             129.54     I       145.20  I  274.74
 BorrowerlRecipient: GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI
 Responsibleagency: NATIONALA I D S COMMISSION
Address: P.O. Box 30622, Lilongwe 3, Malawi
Contact Person: Dr.Biziwick Mwale
Tel: (265) 1727 900              Fax: (265) 1727398               Email: bmwale@aidsmalawi.org




 Expectedeffectiveness date: 1013112003 Expectedclosing date: 1213112008

A. Project Development Objective

1. Project development objective: (see Annex 1)
The development objective ofthe national HIV/AIDS program, which the proposed MAP will support, is
to reduce the transmissiono f HIV,to improve the quality o f life o f those infected and affected by AIDS,
and to mitigate the impact of HIV/AIDS in all sectors and at all levels o f Malawian society.

2. Key performance indicators: (see Annex 1)
The NationalAIDS Commission, incollaboration with local stakeholders, has developed a
comprehensive logical framework for the national HIV/AIDS program as well as the supporting
monitoring and evaluation system to collect and analyse data on the epidemic and the national response.
The performance indicators shown inAnnex 1are extracted from the national logical framework and
have been selected to track performance related to those variables which are central to IDA'Ssupport o f
the national program: a) to scale upthe scope of the response, b) to promote amulti-sectoral,
multi-stakeholder response, c) to accelerate financial flows to stakeholders and implementingpartners,
and d) to use M&E information to guide the national response. The performance indicators inAnnex 1
therefore do not attempt to be comprehensive, inview o f the fact that N A C will be reporting annually on
the basis o f a comprehensive logical framework. Programmilestones will be taken from the Strategic
Management Plan.

B. Strategic Context
1.Sector-relatedCountry Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project: (see Annex 1)
Document number: Report #25906             Date of latest CAS discussion: June 10,2003

The CAS for FY04-FY06 supports implementation o fthe MalawiPoverty Reduction Strategy Paper
(MPRSP) which i s built upon four major pillars: sustainable economic growth and structural
transformation; human capital development; protection o f the most vulnerable; and good governance.
The MPRSP identifies HIVIAIDS, gender and environmental sustainability as priorities for
mainstreaming inthe context o f poverty reduction programs. The CAS proposes to contribute to MPRSP
goals o f improving service delivery for human capacity development and expanding safety nets for the
vulnerable through the MAP supported national HIVIAIDS program. IDA support provided through the
M A P will enable Malawians to achieve their overarching poverty reduction goals by slowing and
eventually containing the deterioration inhuman development indices causedby AIDS.

Malawi i s eligible as a recipient o f IDA Grants in the "Other Poor Countries" category as an IDA-only
country with a Gross National Product equal to or less than US$360 per annum. This $35 million HIV
AIDSproject is proposedto be funded inFY04 as an IDA grant. Two projects went forward as IDA
grants inFY03, including a US$21.0 millionportion o f the Emergency Drought Recovery Project
approved inNovember 2002, and a US$27.20 million portion o f the MASAF I11Project, approved in
June 2003.

The GOMrequestedto participate inthe MAP2 programinlate 2001, and provided evidence at that time
that Malawi satisfies the M A P eligibility criteria:

(i)nationalstrategicapproachtoHIVIAIDS:theNationalStrategicFramework2000-2004was
developed with extensive civil society participation and emphasizes a multi-sectoral approach;
(ii)existence of a high-level HIVIAIDS coordinating body: the National AIDS Commission was
established inJuly 2001 and reports directly to the Office o f the President; the Board o f Commissioners



                                                      - 2 -

has broadrepresentation o f key sectors o f civil society, including people livingwith HIV/AIDS;
(iii)Government agreement to use exceptional measures: the N A C sees its role as one o f coordination
and welcomes out-sourcing o f selected functions as a way to enhance rapid start-up o f activities (eg,
financial management o f the grants facility); the establishment o f a pooled basket arrangement among
the donors i s another innovation intended to facilitate scaling up o f the program;
(iv) Government agreement to utilize multiple implementation channels: grant funds for HIV/AIDS
activities will be made available to communities, civil society (NGOdFBOs),the universities and
teaching institutions, and the private sector, as well as to the public sector.


2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
Country context: The HIV/AIDS epidemic inMalawi i s among the more severe cases inthe region. It i s
estimated that 15% o f adults aged 15-49 are infected, which translates to about 1,000,000 adults and
children with HIV (2001). General awareness o f the disease i s fairly high, but so are misconceptions
about how to avoid the disease. As a result, highriskbehavior among sexually active youth and adults
continues. Most transmission in Malawi i s believed to be via heterosexual contact (90%), with
mother-to-child transmission a distant second (8%). However, a recent medical waste management and
injection safety assessment carried out inNovember / December 2002 indicates that transmission
through unsterile injections and improper medical waste handling may be a larger problem than
previously thought. The share attributable to health care transmission i s therefore currently under
review, and may be revised infuture. Women are contracting AIDS younger than men and at higher
prevalence rates (four to six times more inthe 15-29 age group); the very highrates o f HIV prevalence
(24 percent on average) inwomen o f reproductive age, combined with high fertility, suggests that future
mother-to-child transmission rates could increase significantly. The immediate impacts are staggering:
70% o f all admissions to hospital medical wards are AIDS related, and HIV/AIDS is now the leading
cause o f death inthe most productive age group (20-49 years), resulting inan estimated 50,000 to 70,000
adult and child deaths annually. By the end o f last year, an estimated 1.2 million childrenunder 15 were
without one or both parents (Malawi's total population is about 10 million). The medium and long term
impacts are also sobering: the sharp rise in adult mortality rates i s driving down life expectancy at birth
(now estimated at less than 39 years), and national productivity i s declining, undermining efforts to
reduce poverty.

National Strategic Framework: T o respond to this massive challenge, Malawi adopted a National
HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework (NSF) inOctober 1999. Developed through a highly participatory
process (involving private sector, public sector, NGOs, CBOs, faith communities and people livingwith
HIV/AIDS), the NSF defines priorities for the national response and lays the foundation for enhanced
partnerships. The overarching goal o f the NSF i s to reduce the incidence o f HIV and other sexually
transmitted infections, improve the quality o f life o f those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS, and
mitigate the impact o f HIVIAIDS in all sectors and at all levels o f Malawian society. Nine themes were
identified as the main areas for attention:

1.       facilitating changes in cultural valuednorms to reduce spread o f AIDS
2.       strengthening dialogue with youth to promote responsible behavior
3.       empowering vulnerable groups to resist behavior harmful to their health status
4.       promoting love, care, and support for those infected by or living with HIV/AIDS
5.       implementing effective, multi-sectoral mitigation plans inthe home, hospital, and work-place
6.       caring for orphans, widows, and widowers
7.       strengthening the effectiveness o f HIV prevention programs
8.       establishing a comprehensive and effective IEC strategy to reduce the spread o f HIV



                                                     - 3 -

9.       increasing accessibility of VCT services for men, women, and youth

The NSF is based on the premisethat effective action will require a multi-sectoral approach,
implementedby a wide spectrum ofpartners encompassing the public andprivate sectors, civil society,
and faith communities. Inthis spirit, existing partnerships are beingconsolidated and new ones
established. A Government    - Faith Communities Task Force was inaugurated inearly October 2001, and
an annual stock-taking exercise took place inNovember 2002 to follow up on earlier initiatives. A
National HIV/AIDS Best Practices Conference was held inApril 2002 to promote sharing o f information
and establishment o f networks among national, district, and village level practitioners, and a first annual
Joint Review o f NSF implementation progress was organized inMarch 2003. N A C is currently working
with private sector leaders andthe Chambers o f Commerce to facilitate the formation of a Business
Coalition Against AIDS.

As the NSF is entering into its final year, the NAC and national stakeholders have developed a
programmatic framework to guide interventions duringthe next five years o f the national response -the
Strategic Management Plan (SMP). The SMP includes those interventions which are coordinated and
directly fundedby the National AIDS Commission. N A C plans to initiate a participatory process to
develop the next phaseNSF 2004-2009 inthe coming year, before the end of the current NSF.

InstitutionalFramework: The Office of the President and Cabinet (OPC) is responsible for HIV/AIDS
policy and HIV/AIDS program oversight inMalawi. A Minister for HIV/AIDS Programmes was
appointedinApril 2003 within OPC to report to the President and Cabinet and to provide full time
attention to the AIDS epidemic. A Cabinet Committee on HIV/AIDS and Healthconsiders policies and
bills before they are submittedfor full Cabinet considerationand thereafter, to Parliament. The Cabinet
Committee i s chaired by the Vice President, and the secretariat i s providedby the Executive Director o f
the NationalAIDS Commission (NAC). A national HIV/AIDS Policy is at an advanced stage of
preparation, havingbeendevelopedwith stakeholder input and consultation over the past six months. It
i s expected to be submittedto the Cabinet Committee for HIV/AIDS inJuly/August 2003, prior to full
Cabinet consideration thereafter. The national policy framework will be completed inthe coming year
through the preparation o f an HN/AIDS law, which will formalize the institutional andpolicy
framework for the HN/AIDS response.

The NationalAIDS Commission was established inJuly 2001 to coordinate and facilitate the national
response. To performthis function, it provides technical and financial support to implementingagencies,
mobilizes resources to support HIV/AIDS interventions, and monitors the trajectory o f the epidemic and
the progress o fthe national response. NAC does not have animplementationrole. Administratively, the
National AIDS Commission reports to the President o f Malawi, through the Minister for HIV/AIDS
Programmes. The N A C i s composed o f a Board o f Commissioners and a Secretariat. The Board's 19
commissioners are drawn from civil society (including faith communities) and the public and private
sectors. The Board has final approval authority for N A C Secretariat policies and procedures, the annual
work program, and hiringo f Secretariat executive staff. N A C i s currently operating under a Trust Deed
which gives it legal personality and institutional autonomy. It i s expected that this Trust Deedwill be
supersededwithin the nextyear by an act o f Parliament establishing the National AIDS Commission
underthe same conditions o foperational and institutional autonomy andmulti-stakeholder representation
inthe Boardo fTrustees as exists underthe TrustDeed.

Inearly 2002, the MalawiGlobal FundCoordinating Committee (MGFCC) was established as per GF
requirementsto review country funding requests prior to submissionto the GlobalFund. The MGFCC is
responsible for reviewingrequests for malaria and tuberculosis as well as HIV/AIDS. It i s chaired by the



                                                    - 4 -

Principal Secretary o f the Ministry o f Health, the Secretariat i s provided by the Executive Director o f
NAC, and its membership i s drawn from the same stakeholders who sit on the NAC Board o f
Commissioners and on the national Technical HIV/AIDS Working Group. With respect to the AIDS
portion o f its mandate, the MGFCC does not have policy-making responsibilities or powers.

A Technical HIV/AIDS Working Group (TWG),chairedbythe N A C and composed o f government,
NGOs and donors, is active at the national level. Various TWG sub-groups have been formed to address
selected technical issues, develop protocols to guide action, and promote effective coordination o f
interventions. These sub-groups participated actively inthe development o f the Global Fundnational
proposal approved in 2002, and contributed to thematic assessments o f NSF implementation progress in
their respective areas, as input to the first annual joint review which took place inMarch 2003.
District AIDS Coordinating Committees (DACCs) were formed inthe mid-1990s in Malawi's rural and
urban districts to coordinate and monitor local HIV/AIDS initiatives. These committees (composed o f
government staff, community representatives, NGO representatives) developed District HIV/AIDS plans
for implementation by community-based groups and public-private partnerships. The District Health
Officer coordinated D A C C activities, in addition to hidher regular work program. Following Malawi's
first district level elections inNovember 2000 and establishment o f district local governments in 2001,
the DACCs were not included inthe formal committee structure at the district level. This oversight i s
being addressed as part o f the on-going decentralization reform process, linked to decisions on how
HIV/AIDS planning and monitoring will be integrated within the local government structures.

Constraints to the National Response: Implementation o f the national response to the HIV/AIDS
epidemic i s currently constrained by a wide range o f factors which reflects the multi-sectoral nature o f
the response. Summary information on some o f the most inhibitingfactors i s providedbelow:

1. Social stigma -the implicit and explicit message from the community and from some important
social leaders i s that HIV/AIDS i s a punishment for immoral living; acknowledgement o f HIV
sero-positive status may lead to expulsion from the household, refusal to accept orphans into the
extended family for care, drop in social status incommunity, etc. This atmosphere inhibits voluntary
testing and counseling. Village headmen/women, and religious leaders are important partners to engage
inchanging the stigma currently associatedwith HIVIAIDS inMalawi. The 2002 World AIDS Day
explicitly targeted issues o f stigma and discrimination inevents held inthree major venues throughout
the country.

2. Culture of silence - awareness o f the disease is widespread, but open discussion (of what behavior
causes the disease, o f what to do to avoid infection, o f who i s infected) causes discomfort among family,
neighbors, and colleagues and i s therefore avoided. Gender roles also play their part in shaping what men
and women feel they can and can't say to each other, particularly between spouses, where open
discussion i s equated with lack o f trust and suspicion o f infidelity. The stigma mentioned above
contributes to this behavior, and perpetuates the culture of silence. Some courageous Malawians have
begun to speak out and identify themselves as HIV positive or to announce that their families have lost
loved ones to the epidemic. These are small but critical steps for the long term.

3. Accessibility of reliable information -there are six major language groups used inMalawi, and
within each, there are culturally appropriate and inappropriate ways to communicate information about
HIV/AIDS. Development o f culturally appropriate messages targeted to key social groups intheir mother
tongue has now begun, and use o f the schools and the media to communicate to the youth, key social
groups, and the population at large has also been initiated.




                                                       - 5 -

4. Weakeningof family and community safety nets -the increasednumbers o f sick family members and
orphans are placing ever heavier burdens on families and communities as they endeavor to care for their
loved ones; as income-earners fall illor take on the role o f care-giver, income available to the family
shrinks,resources put aside for the future are raided, and eventually assets are sold to pay for food and
treatment. Erosion o f these economic safety nets is limitingthe extended family's ability to absorb the
demands being placed on it, and the incidence o f sibling-headed households and street children appears
to be increasing. The Government o f Malawi i s puttinginplace publicly-funded safety net programs to
reach these most vulnerable groups.

5. Weak implementation capacity -the capacity to carry out AIDS-related programs and to expand
services, whether at the local, district or national level, i s constrained by limited numbers o f trained staff
and volunteers, weak financial and management skills, and poor access to information about good
practices to replicate; the stretched economic resources available at the community level (mentioned
previously) also plays a role in constraining the local levelresponse. The GOM recognizes the
challenges posed by weak implementation capacity, and i s therefore supportive o f developing and
implementing a capacity buildingstrategy for different partnership groupings and for individual agencies,

6. Weakcoordination capacity at the district level, the DACCs have not been formally integratedinto
                                   -
the District Assembly (DA) committee structure, and DAs suffer from a lack o f trained staff, financial
management systems, monitoring systems, equipment, and operating funds. The GOM i s taking steps to
progressively strengthen capacity at the district level, beginning with qualified planning directors and
finance directors. At the national level, the N A C i s a new institution and has had to deal with basic
institutional issues - role,internal management systems, optimal organizational structure, external
partnership arrangements - at the same time that it i s seeking to scale up the national response and
mobilize financial resources. N A C has made an excellent start inits first 24 months o f existence, and i s
inthe process of making some internal organizationaland staffing changes to strengthen its
multi-sectoral coordination capacity. Investments in executive capacity buildingare also planned to
assist N A C increase its efficiency and effectiveness inachieving performance-based results. The
administrative shift from the Ministry o f Health to the Office o f the President and Cabinet inAugust
2002, i s facilitating NAC's transition to a national, multi-sectoral institution.

7. Incompletepolicy framework and guidelines -untilrecently, the National Strategic Framework was
the primary reference point for the national response to HIV/AIDS, as the supporting policy framework
was not yet inplace. This picture has changed substantially over the past six months, as the draft
National AIDS Policy has been substantially completed, and technical guidelines for PMTCT, ART,
VCT, H B C are well advanced. A national Behavior Change Interventions (BCI) strategy has been
finalized, and pilot tests for key social groups have been conducted. The substantial progress made by
N A C and partners over the past six months incompleting and filling the gaps inthe policy framework i s
commended and should be pursued, so that NGO and donor partners are able to scale up their support
(eg, some aspects o f VCT).

8. Uneven mainstreaming ofHIV/AIDS in thepublic sector - At present, there is no provisionwithin
the functional reviews carried out for the Malawi public sector for the establishment o f H N / A I D S
coordinating units or for full-time HIV/AIDS Coordinators to spearhead HIV/AIDS mainstreaming
efforts. As a result, mainstreaming within public institutions reflects commitment on the part o f
individual leadership teams rather than a translation o f agreed public policy into action. A few
institutions have made significant strides (eg, ADMARC, Ministry o f Labour, Ministryo f Agriculture
and Irrigation, Malawi Police Services and Malawi Defence Force), but such examples are not
widespread. The Department o f HumanResource Management and Development (DHRMD),
responsible for civil service management, has proposed an action plan for establishing ministerial focal


                                                      - 6 -

points and a highlevel steering committee to monitor mainstreaming inthe public sector. This action
plan i s currently under Cabinet Committee consideration.

9. Financingfor HIVAIDS interventions inadequate: The Government o f Malawi hosted a Roundtable
meeting inMarch 2000 to raise funds for NSF implementation, and some US$110million equivalent
were pledged at that time. N o t all funds pledged, however, were intended for interventions at the
community level or through civil society organizations (eg, about halfwere targeted for health sector
interventions related to blood safety and sexual/reproductive health). Inother cases, funds pledged for
community interventions arrived with delays. Consequently, implementation o f activities identifiedat the
district and community levels has been impeded by shortage o f resources. This situation i s now changing
with the substantial commitment made by the Global Fund,the proposed M A P support, and additional
new expressions o f interest on the part o f development partners.

10.      Health system overwhelmed-the health system i s inundated with patients suffering from
AIDS-related OIs, and i s suffering from the strain. Among the most serious constraints limiting the
ability o f the health system to respondeffectively to this increased demand are: widespread vacancies
and shortages o f medical personnel at all levels; inadequately equipped and staffed laboratory facilities;
stock outages for STI/OI drugs, due to a weak procurement and distribution system for health sector
goods; and a weak financial accountability system inthe sector. Policies, procedures, and funding for
safe medical waste disposal are not inplace, puttinghealthcare workers, care-givers, patients, sanitation
workers, and the general public at considerable risk o f exposure to infectiodcontamination. The
MinistryofHealth and Population(MOHP) is at an advanced stage o fpreparinga sector-wide Essential
Health Package program, which will address a number o f the constraints alluded to above. With respect
to HIV/AIDS, the Ministryi s establishing an HIV/AIDS coordinating unit to provide leadership for the
health sector response, and has recently completed preparation o f an action plan to reduce nosocomial
infections caused by unsafe injections and poor medical waste management.

3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The proposed Malawi M A P would support activities to address the constraints impeding an effective
HIV/AIDS national response as highlighted above, with the exception o f the last issue (# 10) which is
related to health system overload and capacity constraints. M A P support for the N A C coordinated
program o f work will contribute to improvements inHIV/AIDS related health services, but it cannot
resolve the system-wide issues affecting the health sector. Satisfactory attention to buildingthe capacity
o f the health system to deliver essential health services, procure cost-effectively and manage drug
logistics, etc., requires a separate, sector-specific operation. The CAS for FY04-06 includes Bank
support for strengthening the health care delivery system through participation inthe SWAp, which will
complement the support to be provided through the M A P for HIV/AIDS related programs.

C. Project Description Summary
1. Projectcomponents (see Annex 2 for a detaileddescription and Annex 3 for adetailedcost
breakdown):
The Government o f Malawi, through the National AIDS Commission (NAC), i s puttinginplace
management systems and funding mechanisms that will enable the public sector, private businesses, and
civil society to mobilize and implement a multi-sectoral response at the national, district, and community
level. The overarching principles guiding the national response are contained inthe National Strategic
Framework 2000-04 (NSF), which was adopted following a participatory consultation process in
1998-99. The objectives o f the NSF are to reduce the transmission o f HIV,improve the quality o f life o f
those infectedand affected by HIVIAIDS, and mitigate the impact o f HIV/AIDS in all sectors and at all


                                                       - 7 -

levels o f Malawian society. As the NSF i s enteringinto its final year, the N A C and national stakeholders
have developed a programmatic framework to guide interventions during the next five years o f the
national response -the Strategic Management Plan (SMP). The SMP includes those interventions which
are coordinated and directly fundedby the National AIDS Commission. An updated NSF 2004-2009 will
be formulated before the end of the current NSF.

The NAC has invitedits external development partners to provide their financial assistanceinsupport of
the SMP, on the basis of ajoint annual work plan, usingjoint financial, procurement, and reporting
mechanisms, rather than funding multiple HIV/AIDSprojects each requiringparallel systems for tracking
and reporting on individual donor's funds. The SMP i s composed of seven major subprograms: i)
prevention and advocacy; ii)treatment, care and support; iii)impact mitigation; iv) sectoral
mainstreaming; v) capacity buildingand partnerships; vi) monitoringevaluation and research; and vii)
national leadership and coordination. The SMP includes those activities for which the N A C acts either
as financier (through the HIV/AIDS grants facility) or as a direct manager o f coordination/ leadership
activities. The first six subprograms enumerated above cover those activities which will be implemented
by organizations who have received grants from the NAC, while the seventh subprogram will beNAC
managed and implemented.

The estimated cost o f the five year, first phase SMP program i s estimated at $274.7 million. In addition
to the Government of Malawi itself, the external development partners who will contribute financially to
the implementation of the joint program of work are: the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and
Malaria (GF), UNDP, AfDB, Centers for Disease Control, CIDA, DfID, IDA, NORAD, and SIDA.
"Rules of engagement" betweenNAC andthe development partners have beendiscussed extensively, and
are captured in a multi-donor Memorandum o f Understanding (MOU) and supporting Operational
Guidelines. Within the M O U framework, pooling of funds in a common basket will be one o f the
financing modalities available to development partners. Inaddition to the GOM, the partners who plan to
participate in the basket pooling arrangement are: CIDA, DflD, IDA, NORAD, and SIDA. Distribution
o f basket funding among the subprograms will be agreed each year on the basis o f rolling annual work
plans and stakeholder decisions.

IDA support will be disbursed into the common hard currency basket account on the basis of quarterly
program monitoring reports (PMRs), to fund those elements o f the SMP which are not being funded by
ear-marked contributions from the GF, UNDP, AfDB or CDC. The IDA allocations per subprogram
shown below are indicative, for the reasons explained above, and are proportionate to IDA'Sshare in the
basket (48%). For basket fund allocations, please see the table inSection D.2. and in Annex 11.




I 1. Prevention & Advocacy                                          46.48         16.9       14.55         41.6
 2. Treatment, Care and Support                                    144.90         52.7        4.00         11.4
  3. Impact Mitigation                                              12.24          4.5        0.95          2.7
 4. Sectoral Mainstreaming                                           8.97          3.3        4.85         13.9
  5. Capacity Building& Partnerships                                29.71         10.8        3.40          9.7
  6. Monitoring, Evaluation and Research                             9.59          3.5        2.90          8.3
  7. National Leadership and Coordination                           22.85          8.3        4.35         12.4
                                            Total Project Costs   274.74         100.0       35.00       100.0
                                  TotalFinancingRequired       I  274.74    I    100.0  I    35.00   1   100.0  I

                                                     - 8 -

1. Prevention andAdvocacy: This subprogram covers abroadrange ofactivities and services aimedat
changing behavior and preventingtransmission of HIV. Activity clusters include: Behavior Change
Interventions and IEC for target populations, promotiono f safe sex (including condoms), voluntary
counselling and testing (VCT), prevention o f mother to childtransmission (PMTCT), and preventiono f
infections causedby improper handling o f blood, injections, and health care wastes. Public, private, and
civil society organizations (MOHP, CHAM, NGOs, FBOs, CBOs, local governments, etc.) will
implement interventions.

2. Treatment, Care and Support: This subprogram covers a range of health based interventions aimed
at reducingthe morbidity and mortality associated with HIV/AIDS. The subprogram comprises two main
activity clusters: a) clinical care and treatment, and b) community I home-based care. The clinical
cluster includes treatment interventions for Opportunistic Infections (01s) and other HIV-relatedillnesses
ina clinical setting, includingtheprovisionofanti retroviral drugs (ARVs). The Community Home
Based Care cluster will include interventions such as delivery o f nursingcare, basic treatment o f
opportunistic infections, palliative care and nutrition to patients intheir homes. Public, private, and civil
society organizations will implement activities inthis sub-program, with MOHP taking the lead in
coordinating the health sector response.

3.       Impact Mitigation: This subprogram aims to mitigate the impact o f the HIV/AIDSepidemic on
particularly vulnerable members o f society: orphans and other vulnerable children (OVCs), widows and
widowers, and the dependent elderly. Activities within this category would include educational support
and training activities for OVCs, income generation activities for vulnerable households (those with
chronically illfamily members, orphans, dependent elderly), community-basedand institutional care for
orphans, and psycho-social support (including inheritance planning)for affected families. Public, private,
and civil society organizations (Ministryo f Gender and Community Services, Ministryo f Youth, Sports,
and Culture, MOF, EP&D, international and national NGOs, FBOs, CBOs, local governments, etc.) will
implement interventions.

4. Sectoral Mainstreaming: This subprogram will enable public institutions, private companies, and
civil society organizations to mainstreamHIV/AIDS intheir workplace and intheir core business,
thereby mitigatingthe epidemic's impact on labor productivityand service delivery. At the national
level, interventions could include revisiono f national labor legislation and public service regulations and
employee benefits to address HIV/AIDS impacts. At the institutional level, interventions would range
from baseline KAPB surveys and sero-prevalence testing, to establishment o f institutional focal points,
formation o f support groups, HIViAIDS awareness training, sector-based impact assessments, revision
o f core business practices / programs to address HIVIAIDSimpacts, human resource management
strategies to manage HIV/AIDS induced attrition, etc. Interventions would be carried out by public,
private, and civil society organizations, with assistance from specialized NGOs, PLWA associations,
GIPA volunteers, andpartner institutions.

5. Capacity-building & Partnerships: This subprogram aims to buildthe capacity o f public, private,
and civil society organizations to implement a multi-sectoral response to the epidemic. Interventions will
assist NGOs, FBOs, CBOs, sector institutions, local governments, and private companies to develop long
term visions, operational frameworks, and technical skills to address the epidemic. Specific activities
will dependon needs o f the target organizations, but are likely to include programme design; training in
HIV/AIDS; planning, financial management, procurement, and management skills; support in leadership
and governance; and coordination skills at district and community levels. Inaddition, coalitions among
organizations involved inthe expansion o f HIVIAIDSprogrammes will be strengthened (eg, business



                                                     - 9 -

coalition, faith task force, national AIDS associations, etc.) to improve outreach to their respective
constituencies.

6. Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research: This subprogram will cover the range o f interventions
needed to track the epidemic and national response and to understand which interventions are proving
most effective under different local and cultural conditions. A comprehensive logical framework has
been developed with stakeholder input, and NAC's monitoring and evaluation system i s structured to
capture data at four levels: impact assessment, outcome assessment, programme monitoring (financial
and activity), and country capacity. Activities included inthe M & E work plan will include biological
and behavioral surveillance, poverty analysis (to measure socio-economic impacts o f the epidemic),
programme activity monitoring, and specialized studies. Priority studies inthe national HIV/AIDS
research strategy would also be covered inthis program category. Activities inthe M&E and research
programs will be carried out by specialized institutions such as MOHP, MOEST, Ministry o f Gender,
Ministryo f Labor, NSO, CSR, andEP&D. Programactivity/financial data onthe national responsewill
be providedby N A C grant recipients and consolidated by the FMA for analysis by NAC.

7. National Leadership and Coordination: This subprogram consists of two main activity clusters: a)
national leadership and coordination, and b) program management. Activities within the leadership and
coordination cluster would include policy development and monitoring, advocacy and resource
mobilization, strategic planning and annual review exercises, development and operation of information
tools (database, web site, etc.), and animation o f national level coordination mechanisms (ie, State-Faith
Task Force, Technical Working Group and sub-groups) and special ad hoc task forces. Program
management activities include the operations of: the Board o f Commissioners, the MGFCC, the National
AIDS Secretariat, and the Financial Management Agent. Procurement and financial audits are also
covered. Activities inthis sub-program will be implemented by the NAC directly, in collaboration with
technical experts and local stakeholders.

2. Key policy and institutionalreforms supportedby the project:
Development and enactment o f a national HIV/AIDS policy, including revision o f Malawi Public Service
Regulations (MPSR) establishing HIV/AIDS workplace standards and mainstreaming requirements for
the civil service and public sector institutions.

Revisions to the legal framework establishing the N A C and adjustment o f NAC's internal organization
structure and staffing deployment, to enhance its effectiveness incoordinating, facilitating, and tracking
the national HIV/AIDS response.

Following consultations with district and national level stakeholders, integration o f HIV/AIDS
coordination and monitoring functions into the evolving decentralized district level structures, and
development o f guidelines for mainstreaming HIV/AIDS-related activities into district level plans.

3. Benefitsand target population:
3.1     BeneJts (overall): The proposed project would contribute to slowing the spread o f the
HIV/AIDS epidemic and to alleviating the burden on individuals and households. Ultimately, it would
have a positive demographic and socio-economic impact on society. The project would also contribute to
strengthened institutional capacity.




                                                     -10-

       Social Benefits:
       *    Extendedproductive life o f people living with HIV/AIDS: by improving prevention and
            treatment of opportunistic infections, providing improved care and support at the household
            level.
       *    Improved prospects of orphans and households affectedby AIDS: by destigmatizing AIDS,
            supporting access to income generating activities, health, and education services, and
            enhancing the legal and human rights o f those infectedand affected by AIDS.
       *    Reduced impact o f AIDS on society: through lower levels o f opportunistic infections, active
            adults will be able to care for their children, participate inthe workforce, and contribute to
            social cohesion inthe community.

       Economic Benefits:
       *    Direct cost savings: lower treatment costs resulting from increased reliance on (cheaper)
            home based care, earlier treatment o f STIs/OIs, smaller sero-positive population over
            mediudlong-term.
       *    Indirectcost savings: higherproductivity of adult cohort, lower consumption o f savings and
            investments for non-productive purposes; smaller number o f orphans.

       Institutional Benefits:
       *    Strengthened capacity at national, district, and community levels to manage and implement
            activities aimed at preventing HIV transmission and to cope with the impact o f AIDS.
       *    Improved resource allocation and targeting to effective program interventions: through
            strengthenedcapacity to coordinate and monitor the national response.

3.2    Targetpopulation. Project benefits and the associated target populatiodgroups may be
summarized as follows:

Benefits                                             Target Population
Reduction inthe spread o f HIV/AIDS                  General population, especially youth, women,
                                                     and vulnerable mourn
Improvement o f care and support for PLWHA           The 1millionpeople currently infected with
                                                     HIV/AIDS, the 1.2 millionorphans, and their
                                                     associated family members
Increased capacity to deal with the HIV/AIDS        Rural and urban communities, vulnerable
crisis                                               groups, civil society groups, managers and
                                                     staff invarious sectors, health care workers
Increased capacity for program coordination and HIV/AIDS committees at national, district and
monitoring & evaluation                              community levels + implementingpartners
Streamlinedprocedures for transfer o f              Rural and urban communities, civil society
resources to communities                             groups, saving and credit organizations,
                                                     financial institutions




                                                     - 11 -

4. Institutionaland implementationarrangements:
Implementationperiod The estimated periodo f implementation i s 5 years, although this couldbe
shorter ifN A C i s successful in facilitating the national response and effective demand i s able to absorb
M A P and other external resources more quickly.

Implementation Approach: The program will be implementedby public, private, and civil society
organizations, coordinatedby the National AIDS Commission/Secretariat, using streamlined procedures.
Itwill support institutions at national and sub-national levels. Partnerships with NGOs and the private
sector will be encouraged and supported.

Inmobilizingthe nationalresponse, the NACwill be guidedby four principal implementation
approaches: i)expanding people's knowledge about the nature o f HIVIAIDS and its impact on
individuals, families, communities and national development; ii)strengthening the capacities o f
individuals, families, communities and institutions to respond to the epidemic ina sustained and effective
manner; iii)stimulating interactionbetween individuals and available programmes and services as a basis
for collective action; andiv) developing and sustaining a dynamic institutionalframework for planning,
delivery and evaluation o f HIVIAIDS programmes.

Executing Agencies. National AIDS Commission, supported by: (i) ministriesand line ministries
                                                                         central
o f Health and Population; Agriculture; Education; Gender and Community Services; Youth, Sports, and
Culture; Local Government Development; Medical services o f Ministryo f Defense; Ministryo f
Information; and others; (ii)  civil society organizations including PLWA associations, NGOs, faith-based
organizations, and community groups; (iii)     private firms, business associations, labor organizations; and
(iv) the National Statistical Office, universitydepartments, social research groups, and other firms and
organizations specialized indata collection.

Program Oversight and Policy guidance. The Office o f the President and Cabinet (OPC) i s
responsible for HIVIAIDS policy and HIV/AIDS program oversight inMalawi. A Ministerfor
HIV/AIDS Programmes was appointed in April 2003 within OPC to report to the President and Cabinet
and to provide full time attention to the AIDS epidemic. A Cabinet Committee on HIVIAIDS and Health
considers policies and bills before they are submittedfor full Cabinet consideration and thereafter, to
Parliament. The Cabinet Committee i s chairedby the Vice President, and the secretariat i s provided by
the Executive Director o fthe NationalAIDS Commission (NAC). The National AIDS Commission
reports to the President o f Malawi, through the Ministerfor HIVIAIDS Programmes. The N A C Board o f
Commissioners has final approval authority for N A C Secretariat policies and procedures, the annual
work program, and hiringo f Secretariat executive staff. The MGFCC clears country funding requests to
the GlobalFund,buthas no policy-making mandate.

Management of the National Responseand MAP-supported Activities. The N A C Secretariat will be
responsible for annual work program planning, coordination o fprogram implementation, and reporting
on program results. These functions will be carried out usingthe Secretariat's institutional structure    --
there will not be a separate Project Management Office -- as facilitating, coordinating, and monitoring
the national response are all line activities ofthe NAC Secretariat. The NAC is currently engagedin a
review o fits internal staffing and structure, with the aim of strengthening its ability to facilitate and
promote a multi-sectoral response. This i s a normal and welcome process, as the institutional structure
and staffing needs of the N A C will change over time, as the nature o f the national response evolves and
matures, and changes will needto be made from time to time.



                                                      - 12-

Annual work planning will be carried out as part o f an integratedexercise covering assistance from all
development partners who channel their assistance through the NAC. The work planninghudget cycle
will follow the July-June fiscal year to ensure that requests for domestic fiscal contributions are
submittedina timelyway to the Ministryof Finance. Draft annual work plans (AWPs) will be prepared
by end-February each year at the latest, inorder to allow sufficient time for development partner
feedback prior to N A C Boardo f Commissioners approval inApril, and finalization o f the GOM budget
inMay. Annual work plans will include specific milestones and output targets, consistent with
achievement o f overall SMP goals. N A C and its financiers will review AWP progress on a quarterly
basis, with more in-depthassessments every six months (September and February). The September
review will coincide with thejoint annual review exercise, involving external partners and local
stakeholders. The February reviewwill coincide with review o f the interimaudit and review o f the draft
AWP (see section on ProgramReporting below).

Grants Facility. The N A C Secretariat will retainpolicy and overall management responsibility for the
grants facility which will make grants to public, private, and civil society organizations and local
communities for HN/AIDSrelated activities. A Steering Committee will be established byN A C to
ensure transparency indecision-making and to validate grant approvals made by the Secretariat.
Financialadministration o f the grants facility will be out-sourced to a Financial Management Agent
(FMA) which will be responsible for facilitating the proposal screening process, conducting
organizational capacity pre-appraisals, disbursingfunds to approved applicants, receiving monthly
activity sheets and quarterly progress reports, monitoring for compliance with procedures, and providing
regular data to the N A C on financial and program activity through the grants facility. The FMA will be
housedinthe same premises as the N A C Secretariat inorder to facilitate communications and business
transactions relatedto the grants facility. The firm to provide FMA services i s to be selected by the end
o f June 2003, following an international recruitment process; contracting and mobilizationo f the best
qualified firm i s a conditiono f M A P grant effectiveness.

The N A C Secretariat will be responsible for approval o f grant proposals that are multi-district, regional,
or national inscope. For smaller proposals (eg, from CBOs) at the community level or within a single
district, N A C will operate through umbrella organizations who will be responsible for mobilizing CBOs
intheir definedareaofintervention, reviewingand approving eligible proposals, on-granting to approved
applicants at the community level, monitoring CBO finances and reporting back to the FMA/NAC at the
central level on a regular basis. The umbrella organizations will also be responsible for working with the
district assemblies and HIVIAIDS coordinating committees intheir areas o f intervention, to buildtheir
capacity to take over local level coordination and monitoring functions. N A C has managed an open
information exchange and briefingprocess for NGOs interested in servingas umbrella organizations. As
a result o f this invitationand briefing process, N A C has identified8 NGOs with the capacity to play the
role o f umbrella organization at a sub-national level, and has invitedproposals within agreed geographic
areas. NAC's target i s to sign grant agreements with the umbrella organizations by the time that the
FMA is hiredand on board.

Execution of Program Activities: Programexecution will primarily be the responsibility o f public,
private, and civil society organizations, who will operate within the framework o f agreed grant
agreements with the N A C or umbrella organizations, specifying respective responsibilities (eg, flow o f
funds, fundsmanagement, reporting, etc). The NAC Secretariat will be responsible for executing
activities includedwithin subprogram 7 (national leadership and coordination).

o    Prevention and Advocacy: Prevention activities and programs will be implementedby a
combination o f public, private, and civil society organizations (MOHP, CHAM, NGOs, FBOs, CBOs,



                                                      - 1 3 -

local govemments, private sector, etc.). Program officers inthe N A C Secretariat will facilitate and
coordinate activities under this subprogram.

o    Treatment, Care and Support: The main implementers for clinical care interventions are MoHP
through its hospitals and facilities at all levels, inclose collaboration with C H A M hospitals and facilities.
Other implementers include NGOs, private clinics, and teachinghraining institutions. The main
implementersfor CHBC activities will beNGOs, CBOs, andFBOswith the active involvement o f
community and family members. MOHP will take the lead incoordinatingthe bio-medical response,
within the framework of the multi-sectoralresponse coordinated byNAC.

o   Impact Mitigation: Public, private, and civil society organizations (Ministryo f Gender and
Community Services; Youth, Sports, and Culture; MOF; EP&D; international and national NGOs, FBOs,
CBOs, local govemments, etc.) will implement impact mitigationinterventions. Liaison officers inthe
N A C Secretariat will facilitate and coordinate activities under this subprogram.

o   Sectoral mainstreaming: Interventions will be carried out by public, private, and civil society
organizations, with technical support from expert individuals, specialized NGOs, PLWA associations,
PLWA volunteers, etc. Liaison officers inthe N A C Secretariat will facilitate and coordinate activities
under this subprogram.

o    Capacity building and Partnerships: Public, private, and civil society organizations will be
responsible for implementingtheir institutional capacity strategy with support from expert individuals
and organizations (NGOs, specialised firms, training institutes, etc.). In some cases, specialized capacity
buildingstrategies for aparticular purpose (eg, procurement training) or for aparticular target group (eg,
DACCs/DAs) may be contracted out by NAC. A capacity-building officer inthe N A C Secretariat will
facilitate and coordinate activities under this subprogram.

o   Monitoring, Evaluation and Research: Execution o f the different elements o f the M&E systemwill
be out-sourced to specialised institutions, within their domain o f expertise (eg, MOHP, MOEST,
MOGCS, MOL, NSO, EP&D, etc.). Grant Agreements betweenN A C and these institutions will spell
out respective responsibilities and the budget requiredto performthe activity inquestion and deliver the
agreed datahtudy. Programactivitybinancialdata on the national response will be submittedby grant
recipients to the FMA, who will consolidate it for analysis by NAC. An operational M&E manual has
beenprepared which defines roles, responsibilities, data sources, frequency of data collection and
analysis, and mechanisms for informationhest practices dissemination; user guides for M&Epartners
have also beenprepared to facilitate collection and reporting o f data. The N A C M&E officer and
Research officer will take the lead in coordinating activities under this subprogram and generating the
annual M&E and annual research report. N A C will shareprogress reports and M&E data with EP&D, in
its capacity o f monitor o f the Public Sector InvestmentProgram (PSIP) and the Malawi PRSP.

o   NationalLeadership and Coordination: The National HIV/AIDS Secretariat will be responsible for
promotingthe multi-sectoral response and overall program coordination. To this end, the Secretariat will
be directly involvedinpolicy development, resource mobilization, partnership outreach, and strategic
planning. Managing the monitoring, evaluation and research program will also be a core function for the
Secretariat, both to provide data for strategic planning and fine-tuningthe national response and to
facilitate informationdissemination and lesson exchange among cooperatingpartners. The Secretariat
will also be responsible for contracting specialized expertise required for sound program management
and monitoring: the FMA for the grants facility, the financial auditors, the procurement auditors,
multi-disciplinary monitoring teams, and institutional development/capacity-buildingadvisors.



                                                      - 1 4 -

Fiduciary arrangements: The proposedHIV/AIDS programdescribedinthis document will be
implementedwithin an integratedwork programmingframework, andwill use harmonizedprocurement,
financial management(includingpooledfunding),reporting,andauditingarrangements,consistent with
the SWAP guidelinesissuedinNovember2002.

Procurement Management. Procurementprocedureshavebeendevelopedto apply to all goods and
servicespurchasedbyNAC, as well as to goods and servicespurchasedby NAC grant recipients, within
the frameworkof the SMP. The NAC ProcurementManual was reviewedduringnegotiations and its
provisionsare consistent with the Bank'sProcurementGuidelines and Consultants Guidelines. The
Bank's StandardBiddingDocuments(SBD)will be usedfor all ICB andwith appropriateamendments
for all NCB. The Bank's StandardRequest for Proposals(SRFP) wouldbeusedfor all consulting
assignments. The NACprocurementmanualincludes guidelines specificallydeveloped for grant
recipients,includingsimple formats and"how-to" helps. These guidelinesare consistentwithparagraph
3.15 of the Bank ProcurementGuidelineson community participationinprocurement.Thresholdlevels
havebeendefined, andNACandbasketpartnershave agreedthat the World Bankwill exerciseprior
reviewonbehalfo fthe fundingpartnersfor procurementsover agreedthresholds. The NAC
ProcurementManual hasbeenendorsedby the GovernmentContracting-OutUnit (GCU) andapproved
by the NAC Boardof Commissioners.

Procurementwill be carriedout at two levels: bythe NAC(for NACmanagedactivities)andby grant
recipients(for sub-programsfundedthrough the NACgrants facility). As part of the annualwork
planningexercise, NACwill preparea detailed annual procurementplanfor NACmanagedactivities,
while the procurementplanfor the grants facility will only show an indicativebudgetper year. Grant
recipientswill be responsiblefor preparingprocurement plans for their programs, inlinewith the formats
andguidelines containedinthe NACprocurement manual. Grant recipientsmay chooseto use
procurementagentsto assist with procurement,ifdeemednecessary. MOHPplans to recruit a
specializedagent to assistwith procurementandsupply chain managementof HIV/AIDS drugs and
therapies, untilsuch time as CentralMedicalStore (CMS)is reorganizedandits institutionalcapacity is
strengthened. The FMA andumbrellaorganizationswill be responsible for monitoringcompliance with
NACprocurementguidelines, andan annualprocurementauditreportby independentauditors will be
producedto verify the accuracy ofreporting.
Financial Management. The NAC Secretariat and developmentpartnershave agreedonjoint
accounting,reporting,andauditingproceduresthat will be usedbyNACto track expenditures andreport
on programprogress. The financial managementmanualwas reviewedat negotiationsandfinal
commentsfor its improvementwere provided. The revisedfinancial managementmanualhas been
approvedby the NAC Boardof Commissioners,and submission o f the final, satisfactoryfinancial
managementmanual is a conditionof MAP effectiveness.

The flow of funds has beenmappedout andis describedinthe GOM-Multi-DonorMemorandumof
UnderstandingandinAnnex 6 (B): following agreement each year on the annual work planandoutputs,
a detailedfinancingplanwill be agreedidentifyingwhichactivitieswill be fundedby "earmarked"
donors (those who provideearmarkedprojectfunding) andwhichby "pooled" donors (those who provide
generalprogramfunding ina commonbasketaccount). Donors contributingto the basket fundwill
deposit their share o fprojectedfundingrequirements ina hardcurrencybasket accountheldina local
bank. The Government's basketcontributionwill be depositedinto a local currencyNACbank account,
whichwill be supplementedby transfers fromthe hardcurrency basketaccount fromtime to time, as
implementationof the annual work planrequires.Inview of the agreedcommonprocurement framework
for SMP activities,basket account funds maybe usedto finance any eligibleprogramexpenditures.


                                                 -15-

Donors who disburse on an earmarked basis, will do so within the framework o f the work plan agreedby
all the parties.

Disbursementsbypooled fundingdonors (including IDA) andby GOM will be released every quarter,
based on submission o f ProgramMonitoring Reports (PMRs) which will be reviewed at quarterly
meetings among N A C and its financing partners. PMR reporting formats (comprising summary reports
on activity outputs, financial statements, and procurement implementation) have been agreed by N A C
and the funding partners and are satisfactory to IDA for reports-based disbursement. Any adjustments to
the annual work plan will bejointly agreed at the time of the quarterly review. Following successful
completion o f a quarterly review, the N A C will submit disbursement requests to its fundingpartners
(requests will be counter-signed by MOFiDAD for recording purposes). Quarterly tranche releases will
cover a six monthperiod, inorder to avoid cash flow difficulties during the quarterly review process.
Each partner's deposit will be based on its relative share inthe basket. The pooled funding arrangement
will enter into effect on July 1,2003, to coincide with the beginning o f fiscal year 2003/2004; the initial
IDA disbursement into the pooled account after Grant effectiveness will finance eligible expenditures for
subprogram activities definedinthe approved Annual Work Plan, starting from the basket initiationdate
o f July 1,2003.

GruntsFucility, Most o f the funding for the proposedHIVIAIDS program (about 90%) will be
channelledthrough the N A C Grants Facility to NGOs, CBOs, FBOs, private companies, and public
institutions who will execute HIV/AIDS program activities. As the M A P program design i s deliberately
demand-driven and seeks to expand the range o f partnerships steadily over time, it i s not possible to
conduct institutional and fiduciary assessments of all grant recipients prior to approval o f the M A P
programby the IDA Board. Instead, the organizational and financial appraisal o f potential grant
recipients has beenmade an integral part o f the routine screening process for any proposal submitted to
N A C for funding from the grant facility.

For large scale proposals the FMA will be responsible for conductingthe organizational appraisal, for
smaller community-basedproposals, the umbrella organizations will be responsible for exercising this
due diligence. A standardized framework for assessingorganizational capacity has beendeveloped for
this purpose (see Annex 12). Ifan applicant is found not to have adequatecapacityto managethe funds,
thenthe NAC or the umbrella organizationmaypropose insteadan initial capacity-building grant to help
the applicant "pass" the appraisal criteria and thus, graduate to a program grant. Following grant
approval, the FMA will be responsible for carrying out regular spot checks o f grantees inorder to catch
any irregularities at an early stage. Umbrella organizations will performthe same function with the CBOs
to which they provide grant funds for local HIVIAIDSactivities. Recipients may also request guidance
on fiduciary issues from the umbrella organization or the FMA.

Audits. An external financial auditor, competitively recruited, will carry out an interimsix-month audit
and a comprehensive annual audit, providing a combined progradentity report as well as individualized
opinions for earmarked donors. The N A C auditor will examine not only N A C operations, but also FMA
operations and a random sampling o f the umbrella organizations ineach audit report. The terms o f
reference and recruitment process for the independent auditor have beenagreed with N A C and the
fundingpartners, and have been approved bythe Auditor General's office. Thejoint auditing
framework will enter into effect beginning with program year FY03/04.

An annual independent ex-post procurement audit will also be conductedby an independentauditor,
competitively recruited. The procurement audit will cover all procurement carried out by and for selected
implementingagencies: NAC, Ministryof Health, all umbrella organizations and a sample o f some line



                                                    - 16-

Ministries and other grant recipients inorder to cover at least 15% by value and by number o f all
procurement carried out inthe fiscal year under review.Terms o f reference for the procurement auditor
and the annual exercise were agreed at appraisal.

Program Reporting: Central to effective coordination of the national response will be NAC's ability to
monitor what i s happening on the ground, analyse it for strategic implications, and feed it back into
outreach and promotional programs aimed to address weaknesses or take advantage o f opportunities
identifiedthrough the monitoring effort. The intensive efforts by NAC over the past year to develop a
robust and comprehensive M&E system reflects the importance attached to this performance area by
N A C and local stakeholders. NAC's funding partners wish to take advantage o f the shift to joint work
programming and joint reporting to structure the external oversight relationship around monitoring
processes that are N A C managed and N A C owned. Inkeepingwith this spirit, it has been agreed that
N A C will report on implementation o f the annual work plan (AWP) through the following instruments:

(1) quarterly programmonitoring reports (PMRs) based on implementation targets definedinthe Annual
     Work Plan and Budget;
(2) interim programprogress report (July-December), complemented by the interimfinancial audit
     report;
(3) annual program progress report (fiscal year basis), complemented by the annual financial and
     procurement audit reports; and
(4) the annual national HIV/AIDS M&Ereport (calendar year basis).

With respect to the interimprogram progress report andthe annual program progress report, it hasbeen
agreed that their purpose i s not to duplicate the data contained inthe quarterly PMRs but to provide a
more strategic and analytic assessmento f program progress than can be obtained through data provided
by grant recipients, as well as to identifytrends and flag areas requiringattention. To minimize the
administrative burdeno f this reporting requirement, NAC plans to outsource this task to an independent
team o f multi-disciplinary specialists who would arrive each year inearly February and early August to
carry out field assessments and meet with stakeholders. N A C will provide cumulative quantitative data
for the periodin question (July-December for the Februaryvisit, and July-June for the August visit) by
end-January and end-July to facilitate the work o f the team. The multi-disciplinaryteam would then
prepare programprogress reports for discussion by NAC and funding partners according to agreedterms
o f reference (an interim six-monthly report would be prepared for the February review meetingand an
annual progress report for the September review meeting). Inrecruiting the specialized firm to provide
this service, priority will be givento maintaining continuity ofteammembersover amulti-year periodin
order to build institutional memory and knowledge o f program management arrangements. Selectiono f
the multi-disciplinary teamwould bejointly agreedbetweenNAC and its development partners; the team
would be accountable to N A C but its outputs would be shared with all financiers participating inthejoint
reviews. Draft terms o f reference for this multi-disciplinaryteam have beenprepared. Team
compositionwould include both international and national experts, and would ensure coverage o f themes
relevant to effective program implementation.

Evaluation mechanisms include a mid-term review o f the SMP (by December 2005) to identify successes
and issues to be addressed. A ProgramEvaluation Report (ICR-equivalent) will be prepared at the end o f
year five (June 2008) to assess program outcomes and achievements, and to draw lessons for the next
phase o f program support for the national fight against HIV/AIDS.




                                                     -17-

D. Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
The proposedproject is an Adaptable ProgramLoan (Grant) for Mala4 underthe Second Multi-Country
HIV/AIDS Program (MAP 11) approvedfor the Africa Region on February 7,2002. The backgroundand
rationale for the MAP I1have been set out inReport P 7497 of December 20,200 1.

The major alternative consideredwas developing a specific MAP "project" with identifiable activities to
be financed by IDA funds, inparallel with other donor funded activities. This alternative was rejected in
favor of aprogram (sector wide) approach, because of the advantages to be gainedby: i)reducing the
administrative burdenon the NationalAIDS Commission throughjoint work programming, accounting,
andreportingsystems, ii)enabling the NAC to develop a strategic, integrated approachto coordinating
the nationalresponse, and iii)buildinglocal ownership ofthe national programas awhole.

2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed,
ongoing and planned).
                                                                               Latest Supervision
               Sector Issue             I            Project                      (PSR) Ratings
                                                                           (Bank-finance projectsonly)
 ~


                                                                          Implementation    Development
  Bank-financed                                                            Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)

 Reproductive Health                    PopulatiodFamily Planning                S              H S
                                        LIL
  Community DrivenDevelopment           MASAF11                                  S               S
  Community DrivenDevelopment            MASAF I11
 Other development agencies
  USAID                                  Policy Project
  USAID                                  MeasureEvaluation
 USAID                                   UmoyoNetwork Program
 USAID                                   Behavior Change (FHI)
 USAID                                   Social Marketing (PSI)
  DfID                                   SexualReproductive Health
 DflD                                   National TB Control Program
 JICA                                    Laboratory Upgrading
 EU                                      Prevention of HIVthrough
                                         Safety and Care (PRESCAP)
 NORAD                                  National TB Control Program
                                        I




The SMP which MAP funds will support represents a substantialportionof HIV/AIDS funding in
Malawi. However, it is complementedby other extemally-funded HIV/AIDS programs which are
financed directly with in-country implementingpartners (without passingthrough NAC). Therefore, to
see the "big picture" of resourceflows for HIV/AIDS, one must look at both categoriesof assistance the-
SMP and the "non-NAC" programs - which support implementation of the National Strategic Framework.

Some of the more important funding partners supporting HIV/AIDS activities outside the NAC-managed
financial framework are U S government agencies (USAID, CDC, Dept of Labor, Dept of Defense), EU,
UNICEF, and UNFPA. The combined support available from these sources projected over the next 4



                                                  - 18-

years amounts to about $68.5 million, distributedacross all the major program categories. A summary
table showing the expanded HIV/AIDS program fundingavailable (from external partners and from
GOM) i s presentedbelow. A detailed table showing the breakdown o f HIV/AIDS fundingby
development partner is attached inAnnex 3.

               "Big Picture'' on HIV/AIDS ProgramFunding(SMP + Non-NAC)
                                               (US$'OOO)

         Sub-Program                Totals       Totals     Total     TotalNon-    Overall         %
                                 Earmarked      Pooled      SMP         NAC       HIVAIDS        Overall
                                  Funding      Funding                            Funding

   Prevention & Advocacy            16,479.8    30,000.0   46,479.8    33,580.0    80,059.8         23%
   Treatment, Care, and           142,901.7      2,000.0  144,901.7     3,500.0   148,401.7         43%
   Support
   Impact Mitigation                 2,239.0    10,000.0   12,239.0     4,650.0    16,889.0          5yo
   Sectoral HIV/AIDS                   771.0     8,200.0    8,971.0     3,000.0    11,971.0          3%
   mainstreaming
   Capacity Building &              22,710.5     7,000.0   29,710.5    17,675.0    47,385.5         14%
   Partnerships
   Monitoring, Evaluation, &         3,590.5     6,000.0    9,590.5     5,400.0    14,990.5          4%
   Research
   NationalLeadership   +           13,846.0     9,000.0   22,846.0       700.0    23,546.0          7%
   Coordination

   Totals                         202.538.5     72.200.0  274.738.5    68.505.0   343.243.5        100%



 PooledFundingContributors: CIDA =US$lOm;NORAD = US$lOm;WB US$35m; DffD= US$7.2m;
                                                                       =
 GOM=US$lOm


Inadditionto the programs which are specifically devotedto HIV/AIDS, there are anumber of
complementary health sector programs (STI, reproductive health, TB, laboratory upgrading) which
contribute inimportant ways to achieving the dual objectives o f the national HIV/AIDS strategic
framework (reducing the transmission o f HIV and improving the quality o f life). These programs are
supported primarily by DflD,NORAD, and JICA.

3. Lessonslearnedand reflectedinthe project design:
Experience with national HIV/AIDS programs has demonstrated that effective implementation and
achievement o f results are strongly correlated with a multi-sectoral approach, flexible design adapted to
local conditions, and mechanisms to channel support directly to civil society and communities. Other
lessons from experience which are beingapplied inthe Malawi case include:

Genuine stakeholder involvement is fundamental: Duringproject preparation, PLWAs, NGOs,
faith-based organizations, and other have participated inadvising on specific programs (inparticular with
respect to the design o f the civil society grants mechanism), and advising on suitability o f proposed
implementation arrangements (withparticular attention to M&E roles and responsibilities). During
implementation, stakeholders will be actively involved inmanagement o f local level interventions funded
through the grants mechanism, inproviding the informationnecessary for the monitoring and evaluation



                                                     - 19-

systemto provide useful lessons and trends, and inparticipatinginthe annual Joint Reviewprocess.

Management of H I V / A I D S programs calls for exceptional measures: National AIDS Councils and
their Secretariats (NAC Secretariat) have beenmore effective where they see themselves as guides,
facilitators and coordinators rather than traditional project "control" and implementationbureaucracies.
The MalawiNAC squarely places itself inthe facilitator and coordinator category, and is developing
financial management and monitoring and evaluation systems, that will buildextensively on outsourcing
and cooperative partnerships with specialized entities.

Readiness for Implementation is a successindicator: The most successful M A P projects are those
which have beenable to hit the ground runningand beginimplementation promptly upon project
approval. N A C has applied this lesson by giving priority to preparation o f operational manuals,
clarification o f key responsibilities, formation o f coalitions, and assessment o f institutional capacity. To
facilitate start-up o f program activities immediately after M A P effectiveness, N A C has prepared an
annual work plan and procurement plan with stakeholder input, and has selected the FMA and Umbrella
organizations so that the Grants facility will be operational duringthe first quarter o f the first year.

Special efforts are needed to scale up existing programs: Special interventions for targetted capacity
buildingare under development and will be supported during the first year work program: i)umbrella
organizations have beenrecruited to serve as intermediaries and capacity-builders for CSOs/CBOs; ii)a
capacity assessment/ capacity buildingstrategy for the district assemblies/ AIDS coordinating
committees will be initiated; iii)an institutional development strategy i s under preparation, buildingon
the assessmentofNAC completed inMarch2003; and iv) consultant support to the Ministryo fHealth is
underway to assist with the establishment o f the ministry'sHIV/AIDS unit.

Monitoring and evaluation systems are key: Inan experimental and learning process (such as a
national HIVIAIDSprogram), a good M&E systemi s essential. Duringpreparation, the N A C has given
priority to developing a comprehensive M&E framework with support from USAIDand the Bank. The
comprehensive logical framework, the operationalplan with implementationresponsibilities, and the first
year work plan for M&Ehave beenprepared, and field testing and trainingbegan inJune 2003.

Successful programs draw on the experience of others: The challenge i s not to create new knowledge,
but to share existing, relevant knowledge more effectively among program coordinators and
implementers. Exchanges betweenthe MalawiNAC and national AIDS programs inneighboring
countries (eg, Uganda and Kenya) have already begun, and these contacts are givingN A C staff/managers
peers whom they can consult on how to approach specific challenges (eg, outsourcing to an FMA,
relations between Ministry of Health and NAC, relations with Office o f President). Participation in future
regional workshops among N A C practitioners will be helpfulinmaintaining and buildingnew
cross-country contacts.

Partnerships matter: Combating HIV/AIDS effectively can only be done by genuine
collaboration-within      government, betweenthe public and private sectors and civil society, among
citizens, and with and among donors. The MalawiNAC, assisted by UNAIDS, i s devoting considerable
effort and energy to buildingpartnerships and promoting collaboration. The Technical Working Group
(which groups GOM, NGOs, civil society, donors) meets regularly and has a number o f sub-groups
where more technical, applied work takes place. The TWG functions as a clearinghouse for information
and coordination, and the N A C discussion-database reaches an even wider group o fpartners throughout
the country. The core donors supporting the national AIDS response have worked together intensively
to support the NAC's efforts to develop a common management framework for external assistance, and



                                                       - 20 -

will continue this partnership during the implementation phase through agreedjoint oversight
mechanisms.

Multipleefforts make a difference: Private sector companies dealing with consumers know that
multiple messages, with different content, sent through various media, and with diverse sponsorship, are
required to affect the way individuals, families and communities act. The war against HIV/AIDS i s no
different, and the national response will require substantial duplication o f effort to achieve desired
results. The proposed Malawi M A P support has fully internalized this "creative duplication" philosophy,
as reflected inthe multi-sectoral design and reliance on multiple implementers     - the public sector, civil
society, private companies, faith-based organizations, P L W A associations, and community groups.

4. Indications of recipientcommitment and ownership
President Muluzi launched the National Strategic Framework for HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care in
October 1999, and has championed the fight against HIVIAIDS. The Vice President chairs the Cabinet
Committee on Health and HIV/AIDS, which meets regularly to oversee the multi-sectoral response, and
there i s cross-party commitment to AIDS advocacy. The establishment o f the NAC as a multi-sectoral,
autonomous institution reflects the Government's willingness to be innovative and to seek new, more
effective instruments in the fight against the epidemic. In August 2002, the NAC was elevated to the
Office o f the President, in order to strengthen NAC's ability to fulfill its multi-sectoral coordination
mandate and to facilitate communications with the Head o f State on this critical issue. In April 2003, a
full-time Minister for HIVIAIDS Programmes was appointed (within the Office o f the President).

As o f FY02/03, the NAC appeared for the first time inthe national budget document with its ownbudget
line. Equally important, the Government introducedthis fiscal year a separate authorization within each
public sector agency's recurrent budget (ORT) to be used to initiate and implement HIVIAIDS programs
within their respective sectodsphere o f activities. Discussions are now underway regarding the
establishment o f a steering committee composed o f Principal Secretaries to track progress o f
mainstreaming within the public sector and use o f these ORT funds. The Government recognizes the
importance o f an effective N A C to provide leadership for the national response, and has committed itself
to providing US$lO million over the next five years ($2 million per year) to N A C for implementation o f
the SMP.

5. Value addedof Banksupport inthis project:
The Bank's support for HIV/AIDS programs throughout the Africa region gives it unparalleled
comparative knowledge o f design and implementation issues, and approaches that can accelerate program
scale-up and effective performance on the ground. The primary value-added o f Bank support for the
Malawi national AIDS program i s inthe sharing o f that information and in facilitating contacts among a
regional network o f practitioners and peers who can advise and learn from each other. Bank input into
the design o f the financial, procurement, and M&E systems has also proven valuable. Lastly, the
flexibility o f M A P financial support and the Bank's willingness to participate in the basket fund, makes
the M A P support a desirable complement to assistance from other development partners, whose
procedures and list o f eligible activities may be more restricted.


E. Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are inthe project file, see Annex 8)
1. Economic(see Annex 4):




                                                     -21  -

0   Cost benefit        NPV=US$ million; ERR= % (see Annex 4)
0   Cost effectiveness
0 Other(specify)
Recent studies on HIV/AIDS macro-economic impacts have concluded that the epidemic will reduce
growth potential through two primary influences: (i)    reduced efficiency o f the labor force, due to
frequent staff turnover and absenteeism, and (ii)   a declining investment and savings rate, resulting from
shifts inbothpublic and private expenditures fromproductive activities to expenditures relatedto the
disease. The studies indicate that potential GDP growth during 2000-2010 inMalawi could be reduced
by between 1.5 and 2 %per annum as a result o f HIV/AIDS, which inturnwill imply a reduction o f
between 1and 1.5 % per annum inper capita GDP. Investments in activities to prevent HIV infections
and to extend the productive lives o f those living with AIDS, has a direct economic benefit interms o f
enhancing the economy's growth potential through labor productivity gains and deferringnon-productive
expenditures. Ifthe spread o f the disease i s not contained, total GDP inten years time could be up to
20% less than it would otherwise have been.

Through its M&Eprogram, the N A C will attempt to measure the cost-effectiveness o f the different
interventions implemented, as well as the longer term economic impact o f the program through tracer
studies o f employment and income o f HIV positive individuals and their dependents.

2. Financial(see Annex 4 andAnnex 5):
NPV=US$ million; FRR = % (see Annex 4)
IDA funds will be providedon grant terms.

Fiscal Impact:
The main fiscal impact o f the program will be felt at two levels: i)contribution to the N A C basket fund
(US$ 2 million per year); and ii)operating costs o f HIV/AIDS mainstreamingprograms for centraliline
ministries (2% Other Recurrent Transactions (ORT) ministerial allocations). The fiscal impact o f
program activities implemented by civil society grant recipients i s likely to be small. Upgrading o f health
care waste management treatment systems may entail some increases in operating and maintenance costs
at the health facility level, but these are not expected to be substantial as choice o f treatment systems was
based on cost-effectiveness criteria. DuringPublic Expenditure Reviews (PER) or other similar
exercises, the effect on the budget will be reviewed.

3. Technical:
There are no particular technical issues related to HIV/AIDS interventions that are unique to Malawi.
The NAC, Ministryo f Health, and local stakeholders have made progress indeveloping technical
guidelines and training manuals to guide implementing partners incarrying out various interventions.
PMTCT guidelines and training manuals have been finalized and are ready to launch; ART guidelines
exist in draft; V C T guidelines and training manuals are undergoing final review. Standards for injection
safety and health care waste management are under development. ART would be eligible for M A P and
basket funding, if absorptive capacity exceeds the amounts coming from the Global Fund, provided that
proposed programs ineach case satisfy the conditions identified inthe WHO/UNAIDS guidelines for
ART inresource poor settings. Development o f an equity policy framework for ART is critical inthis
respect.

4. Institutional:
4.1 Executing agencies:
Program execution will be the responsibility o f public, private, and civil society organizations and local


                                                     - 22 -

communities, operating within the framework of agreedgrant agreementswith NAC, specifying
respective responsibilities (eg, flow o f funds, funds management, reporting, etc). Grant recipients will be
subject to an organizational and financial appraisal duringthe application process, to ensure that they
have the capacity to apply fiduciary guidelines.

The Ministryof Health has established an HIV/ADS Coordination Unitto leadthe health sector
response and coordinate with civil society partners who are active inthis area. Technical assistance to
the Ministrybegan inJune 2003, to assist with definingclearly the institutional mandate ofthe Unit,job
descriptions and skill requirements, internal coordination arrangements, external partnershipmodalities,
medium-termoperational strategy, and annual work plantasks. The establishment of this unitwill enable
a progressive transfer o f responsibilities from the N A C Secretariat to the Ministryo f Health duringthe
life o f the program. The bulko f the transition should be accomplished duringthe first year o f the
program (FY03104).

At the district level, discussions are underwaybetweenNAC, the Ministryo f District and Local
Government, and the Decentralization Secretariat on how to integrate HIV/AIDS into the District
Assembly (DA) development agenda, and ensurethat stakeholder outreach, coordination, and monitoring
o f HIV/AIDS interventions are effectively addressedwithin the DA institutionalframework.
4.2 Project management:
As arelatively new institution, NAC hasbeenclarifying itsroles andresponsibilities, consolidating its
internal systems, and recruitingthe necessary staff to be able to perform its functions. An Institutional
Assessment carried out in February/March 2003 provided recommendations on areas requiringattention,
includingchanges inorganizational structure, changes instaffing skills mix, revisiono fjob descriptions,
and strengthening o f staffperformance standards. Consultant support to assist with implementingthese
recommendations was contracted in May 2003, and the N A C Board and Secretariat management are
committed to carrying out a phased institutional development plan over the coming two years, the overall
goal o f which i s to enhance the N A C Secretariat's ability to buildpartnerships and promote a
multi-sectoral response.

With the creation o f a new Minister for HIV/AIDSPrograms, it will be necessary to clarify working and
reporting relationshipsbetween the NAC, the new Minister,the Board o f Commissioners and the Cabinet
Committee on HIV/AIDS. The emerging consensus i s that the Minister would play the role o f active
ambassador     -- reachinginward to the public sector for HIVIAIDS mainstreaming and reaching outward
to the country as a whole, breaking the culture o f silence. The N A C will continue as a multi-stakeholder
commission, functioning as an autonomous institution, with the Executive Director reporting to the N A C
Board. Once these relationships are clarified, it will be necessary to update the trust deed to make roles,
functions, and reporting relationships consistent with current understandings. Inthe coming year
(2003/04), an Act formalizing the institutional and policy framework for HIV/ADS and creating the
NAC as a Public Commission will be developed.
4.3 Procurement issues:
A procurement assessmento f the NAC and key implementingpartners was carried out prior to appraisal.
Itwas noted that the programwould be implementedina highriskenvironment, arising from the
multiplicity o f implementingpartners, many with limitedprocurement skills. However, adequate
mitigationmeasures and controls have beenput inplace to manage the bulk o f the risks that may arise.

Inthe case ofthe NAC, it was found that the Secretariat's in-house procurement capacity was
inadequate; therefore the Secretariat i s recruitinga full-timeprocurement officer (the appointment will be
completed inearly July). Inthe case of MOHP/CMS, the assessmentindicated that strengthening o f


                                                     - 23 -

pharmaceuticalprocurement and drugs logistics management i s needed. To address these weaknesses,
MOHP plans to recruit a specialized pharmaceutical procurement agent to provide assistanceinthis area
inthe short term (WHO or UNICEF procurement is beingconsidered).

An action planhas beendeveloped which emphasizesdelivery ofbasic procurement training and clinics
for N A C and program executing agencies. Duringprogram implementation, procurement consulting
services will be retained byN A C to assist the Secretariat and implementingpartners with procurement
tasks, as required. In addition to the procurement agent for specialized HN/AIDS drugs, MOHP and
donors are working together to put inplace an institutional development / capacity buildingprogram for
Central Medical Stores (CMS) with the aim of upgrading procurement procedures, skills, and
commodities management/distributionover the mediumterm. An annual procurement audit will be
carried out to complement the financial audits carried out at mid-year and end-year.
4.4 Financial management issues:
A financialmanagement capacity assessment of the NAC and key implementingpartners was carried out
prior to appraisal. It was notedthat the programwould be implementedina high risk environment
arising from the multiplicity o f implementingpartners, many with limitedmanagement capacity.
However, adequate mitigationmeasuresand controls have beenput inplace to manage the bulk o f the
risks that may arise to donor and basket funds. Inthe case o f NAC, in-house staffing will be
strengthened through the recruitment o f a Heado f Administration, and three additional accountants (the
appointment process will be completedin early July). With respect to on-granting arrangements,
potential grant recipients will be screened for organizational and financial capacity before grants are
approved. Separate grant agreementswill be signed with each grant recipient defining, among other
things, the financial accounting and reporting rules to be observed bythe recipient and sanctions to be
applied in case o f breach o f the rules. The FMA and umbrella organizations will be responsible for
monitoring compliance with these guidelines,and audits by independent auditors will be performed to
verify the accuracy o freporting.


5. Environmental:                          Environmental Category: B (Partial Assessment)
5.1 Summarize the steps undertaken for environmental assessmentand EMP preparation (including
consultation and disclosure) and the significant issues and their treatment emerging from this analysis.


Safe collection, storage, and disposal o fmedical wastes i s the key environmental issue associated with
scaling up the national HN/AIDS response. Currently, Malawi does not have a policy framework and
defined technical standards for managing health care wastes. As input into the development o f such a
national policy/actionplan, an assessment o f injection safety (IS) and health care waste management
(HCWM) within the public and private health services was carried out inNovembedDecember 2002,
supported by technical and financial assistance from UNICEF, WHO, and the World Bank.

With respect to injection safety, the assessmentfoundthat injectionrecipients inMalawiwere at risk as a
result o f serious breaks in infection control practices and reuse o f injection equipment inthe absence o f
sterilization. Many injections inthe curative sector were unnecessary and might have beengiven more
safely and with equal efficacy inan oral formulation. Inadequate collectionand disposal methods for
usedinjection equipment exposedhealth workers and the community at large to risks o f injuryand
infection from contaminated sharp waste.

Major deficiencies inH C W management were observed throughout the collection, storage,
transportation, and treatment cycle. The major weaknesses found include: lack o fplanning or internal
management procedures; absence o f viable data about HCW productionand characteristics; no


                                                      - 24 -

monitoring system or staff member designated to monitor H C W management; insufficiency o f secure
collection materials and protective gear; mixing o f H C W with household and office waste; and
inefficient local incinerators. As a result, health care workers, non-technical health facility staff,
municipal landfill workers, and landfill scavengers are at serious risk o f infection. While paramedical
staff (doctors, midwives, nurses) were observed to be informed and demonstrate fairly good H C W M
practices, the general public's knowledge o f risks linked with the handling o f H C W was found to be very
weak.
5.2 What are the main features o f the E M P and are they adequate?


The goal o f the H C W M Plan o f Action (POA) is to prevent and mitigate the environmental and health
impact o f H C W on health care staff and the general public. The objectives o f the Plan o f Action are to:
(i) infectionsduetoHCW;(ii)
   reduce                                 improve service inH C W M and mitigate the impacts o f H C W on
individuals and communities; and (iii)     establish a well-managed multi-sector institutional framework for
co-ordination and implementation o f HCWMmeasures.

The H C W M Plan o f Action recommends: a) revisions and improvements to the legal and regulatory
framework (including defining technical standards and roles and responsibilities), b) training activities
for workers who come into contact with HCW; c) upgrading physical and management H C W M treatment
systems at the health facility level (system selection was based on technical feasibility inview o f staff
skills, cost, and ease o f maintenance); d) public awareness activities for the general public who may
come into contact with HCW, e) development o f private-public partnerships for HCWM, and f )
monitoring and evaluation activities. The H C W M Plan o f Action also defines implementation
responsibilities, timetable and cost estimates.

Withinthe Ministryo fHealth, the Department o f PreventiveHealth Services (DPHS) through its
Environmental Health Service (EHS) will take the lead inmanaging implementation o f the H C W M plan.
The Health Education Unit o f the Ministrywill also be involved intraining and public awareness
activities. EHS/DPHS will work closely with the Department o f Environmental Affairs at the Ministryo f
Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs, which i s responsible for developing appropriate standards
for environmental impact assessments involving waste management, including HCW. At the district and
local levels, managers o f health facilities will be responsible for implementation, working closely with
landfill managers (where they exist).


5.3 For Category A and B projects, timeline and status o f EA:
                    Date o f receipt o f final draft: March 2003

The draft Final H C W M Plan was received at the end o f March 2003. The H C W M Plan was reviewed and
commented duringtwo national workshops in May, and finalized in June.

5.4 H o w have stakeholders been consulted at the stage o f (a) environmental screening and (b) draft EA
report o n the environmental impacts and proposed environment management plan? Describe
mechanisms o f consultation that were used and which groups were consulted?
A sample o f 8 clusters (districts or groups o f districts) was selected with probability proportional to
population size. Based on the sampling results, the assessment team visited 80 health facilities inthe
public and private sectors for the IS survey, and followed up with in-depth visits at 29 facilities to refine
H C W data and practices. In addition to meeting with staff at the health facilities surveyed, members o f
the general public (n=240) were interviewed at markets and other public locations inthe community
around each o f the 80 health facilities (the sample was artificially stratified to ensure equal representation


                                                       - 25 -

o f age groups and gender).

Inaddition to the health facility staff andmembers ofthe public, the assessment team also met
individually with key stakeholder institutions/departments: (i)  MOHP (Departments o f Preventive
Health: EPI, Environmental Health and Health Education Units,Clinical Services, Health Planning,
Technical Unit and Administration); (ii)    Malawi National AIDS Commission; (iii) Bureau o f
                                                                                       Malawi
Standards; (iv) MNREA (Department o f Environmental Affairs); (v) City Assemblies (Lilongwe and
Blantyre); (vi) Training Institutions (Polytechnic/Department o f Environmental Health, College o f Health
Sciences, Kamuzu College o f Nursing,College o f Medicine); (vii) NGOs (JHPIEGO, SafeMotherhood,
Medecins Sans Frontiires, MACRO); and (viii) Cooperation Agencies (UNICEF, WHO, WB, JICA,
GTZ, EU). These meetings were organized to collect informationon stakeholder responsibilities,
understandings, programmes and activities inthe field o f IS and HCWM, and constraints faced.

Upon completion o f the field visit phase in December 2002, the assessment team provided a debriefing
for stakeholders in Lilongwe on its preliminary findings. This initial debriefing was followed in January
2003 by a two day National Stakeholder Meeting and by district level consultations inFebruary 2003 in
seven of the eight districts which had participated inthe field assessment to review findings and
preliminary recommendations. The feedback from the national and district consultations was
consistently positive: according to meeting minutes, participants confirmedthe main findings, agreed
with the thrust o f recommendations, and emphasized the importance of implementing the preliminary
recommendations. A national workshop inmid-May 2003 reviewed the draft national policy and draft
action plan, and made recommendations for improvement. A follow-up workshop was held inlate M a y
to review and endorse the revised versions, and the Ministry o f Health and Population finalized the
H C W M Plan in June 2003.

5.5 What mechanisms have been established to monitor and evaluate the impact o f the project on the
environment? D o the indicators reflect the objectives and results o f the EMP?
Injection safety and health care waste management issues will be monitoredat two levels: (i)      the overall
M&Eframework for the national HIV/AIDS response includes programmatic indicators linked to proper
handling o f injections and proper storage and disposal o f medical wastes; and (ii)  an M&E framework for
the action plan itself has beenprepared for the M O H P and other implementing agencies to use intracking
implementation progress.
6. Social:
6.1 Summarize key social issues relevant to the project objectives, and specify the project's social
development outcomes.


HIV/AIDS transmission in Malawi as elsewhere has a significant gender dimension, associated with
gender inequality and poverty. Known sero-positive status carries with it social stigma and risk o f
ostracism. The Malawi NSF emphasizes the importance o f implementing interventions aimed at:
transforming cultural attitudes which place men and women at highrisk for transmission, expanding
life-skills education for school children and adolescents, increasing alternative income earning
opportunities for female headed households, and reducing stigma for PLWAs. M A P funds would
support any o f these interventions as eligible NSF activities, and thus i s expected to contribute positively
to resolution o f social issues identified above.

The one area where implementation of the national HIV/AIDS program could raise social equity issues
relates to ART. This i s because any ART support i s unlikely to reach all eligible sero-positive
individuals, and i s likely to reach urban-based patients disproportionately to rural dwellers, due to better


                                                     - 26 -

availability of supporting laboratoryhracking facilities inurban areas. The GOM/MOHP i s developing
an ethical framework for implementation o f the ART program which would be based on a human-rights
based approach.


6.2 Participatory Approach: How are key stakeholders participating inthe project?


Key stakeholders are participating inthe national HIV/AIDS program in a number o f ways. Duringthe
preparation o f the MAP-supported program, NGOs, FBOs, private companies, and public sector staff
have been actively involved in developing the overall program framework, guidingthe design o f key
implementation instruments (eg, the grants facility, the M&Eframework), and contributing to the
medium-term and annual work plan. Duringthe implementationphase, stakeholders will wear a number
o f hats: supervisory, executive, and beneficiary. Specifically, representatives o f civil society and the
public sector will: i)oversee NSF implementation intheir capacity as memberso f the Board o f
Commissioners o fN A C and as memberso f the national TWG and its sub-groups; ii)implement
HIVIAIDS interventions fundedthrough the grants facility; and iii)benefit from the range o f activities
supportedby the national program.


6.3 How does the project involve consultations or collaboration with NGOs or other civil society
organizations?


As mentioned above, PLWA associations, NGOs, private sector businesses, faith-based organizations,
etc. have providedinput into the design o f key procedures/activities (eg, grants mechanism, monitoring
arrangements, capacity needs program, medical waste management plans, mainstreamingplans), through
participation in situations analyses, stakeholder workshops/consultations, and group-specific outreach
activities.

DuringMAP implementation, civil society organizations (CSOs) will play avariety ofroles: a) they may
be the beneficiary o f MAP supported activities (eg, capacity building); b) they may be NAC grant
recipients, carrying out HIV/AIDS interventions and contributing to the national monitoringeffort
through submission o f programresults data; c) they may participate as stakeholders by expressing their
members'views on policy and guidelinesdevelopment; and lastly, d) they will play an oversight role,
through their participation inthe Board o f Commissioners and the MGFCC. Regular consultations with
CSOs will be achieved through their participation inthe national TWG and its thematic sub-groups, topic
specific task forces, etc.


6.4 What institutional arrangements have beenprovidedto ensure the project achieves its social
development outcomes?


The Board o f Commissioners ofthe NAC includes representatives from a broad spectrum of civil society,
including traditional leaders, youth organizations, and PLWAs, with the goal o f ensuring that diverse
social groups have a say inthe direction o f the national AIDS program.

Moreover, the national program includes support for building the capacity o f key stakeholders inthe
nationalresponse. For example, particular attention will be given to buildingthe capacity of HIV
stakeholder associations (eg, NAPHAM, MANET, and MANASO) inorder to increase their ability to
reach out to their special constituencies and respondto their needs. New coalitions and partnerships will
also be supported, so that they can assist in scaling up the national response by reachingpreviously


                                                    - 27 -

marginalized groups (eg, faith-based coalition, private sector coalition). N A C i s developing an
HIV/AIDS gender strategy to increase awareness o f the gender dimensions o f the epidemic.

An annualjoint review will be organized each year to take stock o f implementationprogress and to guide
development o f the next year's work plan. Thisjoint review will be based on inputs providedby the
Technical Working Group and its sub-groups, once again with the goal o f ensuring that key stakeholders
are listenedto and shape future funding priorities. Informationand feedback provided through the TWG
will be complementedand enriched by special studies, surveys o fkey social groups, and gender
assessments; information from these studies should also assist in identifying whether social development
objectives are being met or where gapdweaknesses are occurring.

Lastly, from an operational perspective, the program's emphasis on behavior change activities, expansion
o f mainstreamingprograms in the public and private sectors, and implementation o f the grants facility
mechanism should greatly increase the coverage o f the adult population receiving reliable information
about HIV/AIDS transmission and prevention, as well as improved access to care, support, treatment, and
impact mitigation services. Incombination, these program interventions should contribute to achieving
the project's social development goals o f reducing HIV prevalence and improving the quality o f life o f
PLWAs.


6.5 H o w will the project monitor performance interms o f social development outcomes?


The M&E system for the national HIV/AIDS response will track quality o f life indicators at the outcome
and program output levels.


7. Safeguard Policies:




7.2 Describe provisions made bythe project to ensure compliance with applicable safeguard policies.
See section E.5 above and Annex 15.




                                                   - 28 -

F. Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
From a process perspective, the institutional arrangements, procedures, and systems put inplace with
MAP and donor partner assistance are expected to be sustainable and to continue inuse beyondthe
immediate program period.

The strengthening o f skills and knowledge among civil society groups, private companies, and public
sector institutions i s expected to result in lasting capacity inthe public and private sectors to undertake
such HIViAIDS programs infuture.

Financial sustainability will continue to depend on extemal financial partnerships for the foreseeable
future.

2. Critical Risks (reflecting the failure o f critical assumptions found inthe fourth column o f Annex 1):


The critical risktable below assessesthe risk to program success if various events occur. The table
measures the actual risk to program goals and objectives, not the likelihood o f the event occurring.


                     Risk                           Risk Rating                  Risk Mitigation Measure
 From Outputs to Objective
 N A C not able to coordinate and mobilize               H          Capacity building/ institutional investment
 the national response effectively                                  strategy will implemented

                                                                    Communication strategy will be implemented

 Leaders (political, traditional, religious,             M          Specially targetted B C programs for these
 economic) are not willing to participate                           groups will be implemented and training of
 actively and support the national                                  trainers i s underway
 response
                                                                    Support for the functioning o f constituency-
                                                                    based coalitions (faith-based, business) will be
                                                                    providedby the program

 Community/NGO capacity does not                         S          Umbrella organizations will assist community
 materialize                                                        based groups to submit local HIV/AIDS
                                                                    proposals and will provide capacity-building
                                                                    support

                                                                    A communication strategy will be implemented
                                                                    to reach communities at grass-roots level

 The health delivery system i s unable to                H          M O H P has established an HIV/AIDS unit to
 scale up the health sector response                                provide leadership for the bio-medical response

                                                                    M O H P i s involving civil society partners as
                                                                    implementers in the delivery o f care, support,


                                                       - 29 -

                                                                 mdtreatment services

                                                                 htensive training and capacity building
                                                                 ?rogramswill be supported

                                                                 MOHPis puttinginplace fiduciary TA to
                                                                 assist with procurement and financial
                                                                 management functions

'undsfor HIV/AIDS programs are not                   S           NAC i s strengtheningand computerizing its
Nrovidedina timely way                                           financial management and reporting systems

                                                                 A professional firm (FMA) will handle grant
                                                                 making administration, with time-based
                                                                 performance standards

                                                                 Application, approval, and disbursement
                                                                 procedures for CBOs/NGOs are simple and
                                                                 clear

A&Eplanisn't implementedeffectively                 M            An operationalplandetailing implementation
 ndso isn'table to contribute to program                         roles and user friendly reporting guidelines
earning and adjustment o f                                       have been prepared
mplementation strategy
                                                                  A costed annual M&Eplan will be prepared
                                                                  each year and adequatebudget provided

                                                                  The annual M&Eplan will include a specific
                                                                  section on dissemination activitieshools.
+om Componentsto Outputs
{xtemal funding to the N A C for the                 M            Achievement o f planned milestones and
Jational response i s insufficient                                transparent accounting for resources i s
                                                                  expected to reduce perceivedrisks on the part
                                                                  of donors.

                                                                  Joint annual reviews to take stock o f progress
                                                                  will provide a framework for reviewing
                                                                  requirements and planned in-flows.
 herall Risk Rating                                  S
 .isk Rating H (High Risk), S (Substantial Ris
            -                                  M (Modest Risk), N qegligible or Low Risk)


3. Possible Controversial Aspects:




                                                   - 30 -

G. Main Grant Conditions
1. EffectivenessCondition


i)  the following documents have beenadoptedbyNAC, inform and substance, satisfactory to the
    Association: a) Operational Manual; b) the Annual Work Plan and Budget for the first year o f
    Project implementation; and c) a procurement plan for the first year o f Project implementation.
ii)theNAChascontractedandmobilizedtheFMA,undertermsandconditionsacceptabletothe
    Association;
iii)theRecipienthasincludedtheexternalanddomesticcontributionsfortheProgramforFiscalYear
    2003-2004 inthe Recipient's approved annual Development Budget;
iv) the NAC has established a computerizedfinancial management systemsatisfactory to the
    Association;
v) the Recipient has opened the Project Account andmade the initial deposit referredto in Section 3.04
    (b) (i)fthe Development Grant Agreement.
            o


2. Other [classify according to covenant types usedinthe Legal Agreements.]


Conditionof disbursement:

N o withdrawals will be made unless the Association approves the Annual Work Plan and Budget for the
    respective fiscal year.

Datedcovenants:

i)ConsultantswillbeappointedbySeptember30,2003tocarryoutannualindependentfinancial
    audits.
ii)ConsultantswillbeappointedbyApril30,2004tocarryoutannualindependentprocurementaudits.
iii)ConsultantswillbeappointedbySeptember30,2005tocarryoutanindependentmid-term
    evaluation o f Project activities.


H. Readiness for Implementation
c   1. a) The engineeringdesign documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the
         start o f project implementation.
    1. b) Not applicable.

E2.    The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
       project implementation.
   3. The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and o f satisfactory
       quality.
   4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):

The Strategic Management Plan (the equivalent of the PIP) has beenreviewedand found to be realistic
and o f satisfactory quality. The final annual work plan and first year procurement plan are conditions o f



                                                   -31 -

effectiveness.

I. Compliance with Bank Policies
'x1.
-      This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
-2.ThefollowingexceptionstoBankpoliciesarerecommendedforapproval.Theprojectcomplies
       with all other applicable Bank policies.




                                                                   Country ManagerIDirector




                                                  -32 -

                                   Annex 1: Project Design Summary
                               MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)



Sector-related CAS Goal:       Sector Indicators:              Sector1country reports:      (from Goal to Bank Mission)
Mitigate the social and        % of people who are             sentinel surveiiance t        Effective multi-sectoral
economic impact of the         HIV-infected (by gender, age,   Second generation             response
HIV/AIDS epidemic in Malawi    residence)                      surveillance reports

                               % of orphans and other          Population-basedsurvey (e.g.
                               vulnerable children to whom     DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
                               community support is provided
                               (by gender and residence)



Project Development            Outcome I Impact                Project reports:              (from Objective to Goal)
Objective:                     Indicators:
Reduce the transmission of     Percent of sexually active      Population-basedsurvey (e.g. Respected leaders (faith
HIVIAIDS                       respondentswho had sex with DHS, BSS, CWIQ)                   community, business,
                               a non-regular partner within                                  teachers, political) promote
                               the past 12 months (by                                       ,behavior change.
                               gender, residence)

Improve the quality of life of Percent of population           Population-based survey (e.g.
those infected and affected by expressing accepting attitudes DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
HIV/AIDS                       towards persons living with                                  I
                               HlVlAlDS




                                                          - 33 -

Iutput from each            Output Indicators:              Jroject reports:
:omponent:
;cope of the HIV/AIDS       Number of clients tested for    iMIS t Quarterly Service   :ommunity/NGO/private
2sponse is scaled up        HIV in VCT sites and receiving :overage Report             ;ector have capacity to
                            result increased from 1.5 % of                             ?xpandservices t National,
                            population in 2002 to 10 YOin                              listrict, traditional, and
                            2008                                                       iusiness leaders are
                                                                                       :ommitted to openly tackling
                                                                                       he epidemic
                            Yo of pregnant women            HMlS t Quarterly Service   StandardPMTCT guidelines
                            counselled in PMTCT, tested     :overage Report            ire in place and being used
                            and received their serostatus
                            results increased from 0% in
                            2001 to 50% in 2008

                            Number of persons with          HMlS t Quarterly Service   Sufficient number of health
                            advanced HIV infection on       Coverage Report            iacilities have the set up and
                            ARV therapy increased from                                 staff to administer ARVs
                            3,000 in 2002 to 25,000 in
                            2008

                            # of community home based       HMlS t Quarterly Service   Standard CHBC guidelines are
                            care visits increased from      Coverage Report            in place and being used
                            11,000 visits per year in 2001
                            to 175,000 visits per year in
                            2008

lesource flows for HIV/AIDS Funds spent on HlVlAlDS         Government expenditure     National leaders and
irograms are increased &    programs (by national govt.,             NAC Annual Report international partners remain
iccelerated                 district governments, &         +reportst Financial
                                                               UNAIDS                  committed
                            external donors) show steady    Resource Flow Survey
                            increase throughout program
                            period (from baseline to be
                            established in first year -
                            2003/04)

                            Funds provided by NAC to         FMA t NAC grants           Potential grantees are
                            grant recipients show steady     management tracking system submitting relevant and
                            increase throughout program                                 complete proposals
                            period from baseline to be
                            established in 2003104 (by
                            CBO, NGO, FBO, private
                            company)

Jational response involves  # of HIV/AIDS grant proposals FMA t NAC grants              NAC is able to mobilize the
nore sectors and more civil under implementation (by         management tracking system national response + funds are
,ocietystakeholders         CBOs, NGOs, FBOs, private)                                  made available in a timely wa!
                            shows steady increase



                                                        - 34 -

                                through out program period
                                (from baseline to be
                                established in first year -
                                2003104)

                                Number of local govts (district   :MA t NAC grants
                                and city assemblies) with         nanagementtracking system
                                established AIDS Coordinator
                                post and AIDS coordination
                                program increases to 100
                                percent by 2008 (28 districts
                                and 4 city assemblies)

                                Number of large private com-      Vorkplace survey            Jisible commitment of political
                                 panies and public institutions                               md business leaders
                                 that have HlVlAlDS workplace
                                policies and mainstreaming
                                programmes doubles by the
                                end of the program period
                                 (from 7 in 2002 to 15 by 2008)

Ivlonitoringand evaluation      % of recommendations in the       rnnual HlVlAlDS M&E report, Effective management system
information is used to guide the innual HlVlAlDS M&E report       IACAWP, MOHP AWP, and       n place
national response                hat are incorporated into the 1 ilOEST AWP
                                 VAC, 2) MOHP, and 3) MOES'
                                 innual work plans.




 Project Components I            Inputs: (budget for each         'roject reports:            (from Components to
 Sub-components:                 component)                                                   Outputs)
 1. Prevention & Advocacy          46.48                          \]AS Annual Progress
                                                                  qeports, Surveys, Audits
 2. Treatment, Care and          144.90
 support
 3. Impact Mitigation              12.24
 4. Sectoral Mainstreaming          8.97
 5. Capacity-building &            29.71
 partnerships




                                                             - 35 -

                                Annex 2: Detailed Project Description
                             MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)

The proposed Multi-sectoral AIDS Project (MAP) for Malawi would support implementation o f the
Strategic Management Plan (SMP) over the next five years. The SMP includes those activities for which
the N A C acts either as coordinator/implementer or as financier through the HIV/AIDS grants facility.
The SMP comprises seven major subprograms (see below). IDA funds will be disbursed into a joint
pooled account, to finance those elements o f the SMP which are not being funded by ear-marked
contributions. Distribution o f funding among the subprograms i s indicative as final allocations will
depend on rolling annual work plans.

By Component:

Project Component 1: Prevention and Advocacy US$46.48 million
                                                   -
This subprogram covers a broadrange o f activities and services aimed at changing behavior and
preventing transmission o f HIV. Activity clusters include:
Behavior Changefor target populations: The National HIV/AIDS/SRH B C I Strategy and the National
Reproductive Health Strategy provide the conceptual framework for expanding advocacy, prevention and
mitigation strategies at all levels (especially at district level).

Promotion of safe sex (including condoms):As a complement to the BCI interventions described above,
a particular area o f focus will be promotion o f correct and consistent condom use through social
marketing, and distribution o f (quality) condoms in all health facilities and retail outlets. To reach the
school age population, the emphasis will be on incorporating safe sex messages, life-skills education, and
information about HIV/AIDS into the primary and secondary academic curricula and exams. Out o f
school youth will also be targeted.
Prevention of sexually transmitted infections (STI): The treatment o f STIs reduces the transmission o f
HIV/AIDS, while the use o f condoms can interrupt transmission o f both. Maternal health, ante- and
post-natal care and family planning, are opportunities that will be used to deliver services related to both
HIV/AIDS and STIs. Ante-natal women will be screened for syphilis (and if infected, treated with their
partners). Clients with STIs will be managed usingthe syndromic management approach.
Voluntary counselling and testing (VCT): VCT i s fairly limited in Malawi, against a background o f
increasing demand. The goal i s to develop V C T services nationwide through expansion o f existing
service providers and entry o f new partners. Activities will include: development and dissemination o f a
common policy framework, technical guidelines, and training materials; strengthening o f laboratory
infrastructure & equipment and enhancement o f human skills (through training o f site counsellors,
community based counsellors, V C T supervisors, V C T trainers, and whole blood rapid testing personnel);
advocacy and marketing o f V C T services; and quality control to ensure that V C T i s delivered according
to national guidelines (including client surveys, staff surveys).
Prevention of mother to child transmission (PMTCT):At present, PMTCT programmes in Malawi are
few, new and rudimentary, and offered on a pilot basis by NGOs or as research by medical research
institutions. The goal i s to strengthen and expand PMTCT programmes by: i)providing education/
information, counselling and testing services to women o f reproductive age; quality services to pregnant
women during ante-natal, delivery and post-natal care; and anti-retroviral drugs for PMTCT to
sero-positive pregnant women; ii)promoting and supporting safer infant feeding options including
replacement feeding; iii)strengthening referral mechanisms for mothers to access existing care and



                                                       - 36 -

support services; and conducting operational research to inform PMTCT programmes nationwide.

Prevention of health-care related infections: At present, there are no reliable estimates o f the extent to
which HIV i s transmitted through medical procedures in Malawi (eg, blood transfusions, injections, and
exposure to medical wastes).      Common wisdom i s that this transmission mode accounts for a small
proportion o f the cases, but a recent assessment o f injection safety and health care waste management
suggests that risks may be greater than previously thought. Activities to reduce these types o f infections
would include: screening all transfused blood for HIV and other blood infections using highly sensitive
tests; development o f a sound policy framework, including legal regulations, technical guidelines, and
EIA standards for health care wastes; provisiono f disposable injection equipment and secure health care
waste storage containers; provision o f safety geadprevention equipment for workers handling medical
wastes (boots, gloves, masks, etc); establishment o f appropriate waste disposal sitedprocurement o f
appropriate waste disposal technology (eg, efficient incinerators, secure fencing, stabilized pits; etc.); and
training programs for health care workers, municipal waste workers, and traditional/private medical
practitioners; and IEC/BC programs for the general public and dump site scavengers.

Prevention activities and programs will be implemented by a combination o f public, private, and civil
society organizations and local communities (MOHP, CHAM, NGOs, FBOs, CBOs, local governments,
private sector, etc.).


Project Component 2: Treatment, Care, and Support US$144.90 million
                                                       -
This subprogram covers a range o f health based interventions aimed at reducing the morbidity and
mortality associated with HIV/AIDS. The subprogram comprises two main activity clusters: a) clinical
care and treatment, and b) community / home-based care.

The clinical care and treatment cluster includes treatment interventions for patients who seek medical
care for Opportunistic Infections (01s) and other HIV-related illnesses in the health delivery system,
including the provision o f anti retroviral drugs (ARVs). Management o f 01s will be strengthened at all
levels o f the health delivery system in the context of the Essential Health Package (EHP). The ARV
programme will be expanded gradually from an initial 4 pilot districts (with better health infrastructure)
to the rest o f the country, with a target o f reaching 25,000 patients. In order to support this 01and ARV
treatment expansion, pharmaceutical procurement, drugs logistic management, and laboratory capacity
will be strengthened and upgraded. Another important activity under this subprogram will be training
programs for health workers in diagnosis and treatment o f HIV/AIDS patients, including anti-stigma
sensitization, counselling and psychosocial support, palliative and end-of-life care. As the syndromic
management guidelines on Sexually Transmitted Infections (STIs) have just been revised, refresher
training and training o f new health workers on the revised STI syndromic guidelines will also be
included. Lastly, for patients on ART, patient monitoring services (disease staging, adherence) will be
strengthened to ensure effectiveness o f therapies.

The community home based care (CHBC) cluster will include interventions to expand and improve the
provision o f care to the chronically illin their homes and communities. Many people with AIDS are
being cared for at home by their family members with limited resources, knowledge and skills, and where
CHBC services are available, they only reach a handful o f patients. Activities within this cluster will
include expansion o f service provider organisations' ability to provide new services, as well as enabling
the development of new means of addressing CHBC (eg, DOT systems) through the mobilisation o f
community groups to respond to local needs.           Resources will be available for service provision to
patients in their homes in the areas o f nursing care, basic treatment o f opportunistic infections, palliative


                                                      - 37 -

care, nutrition supplements, and psychosocial and spiritual support. In order to improve knowledge and
skills at the community level, community mobilization/education programs concerning care services will
be organized, and consumer educational materials on self-care for persons living with HIV/AIDS will be
developed and disseminated.        Training programs for traditional care providers, CBOs, FBOs on
home-based palliative and end-of-life care will also be covered. Establishing linkages between health
care facilities and community/home-based care programs to ensure a continuum o f preventive, curative,
and palliative care will also be promoted.

The main implementers for clinical care interventions are MoHP through its hospitals and facilities at all
levels and C H A M hospitals and facilities.     Other implementers include NGOs, private clinics, and
teachinghraining institutions. The main implementers for CHBC activities will be NGOs, CBOs, and
FBOs with the active involvement o f community and family members. MOHP will take the lead in
coordinating the bio-medical response, within the framework o f the multi-sectoral response coordinated
byNAC.


Project Component 3: Impact Mitigation US$ 12.24 million
                                          -
The HIV/AIDS epidemic and other disasters in Malawi results in large numbers o f orphans,
widows/widowers and communities with social and economical problems which present a tremendous
challenge to affected individuals, families and communities. This subprogram therefore aims to mitigate
the impact o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic on particularly vulnerable members o f society: orphans and other
vulnerable children, widows / widowers, and the dependent elderly.           Activities within this category
would include: strengthening the capacity o f communities to identify and register orphans, widows /
widowers, and dependent elderly and the nature o f support required; educational support and training
activities for OVCs (including nutritional packages where needed); skills training and income generation
activities for vulnerable households (those with chronically ill family members, orphans, dependent
elderly); community-based and institutional care for orphans; psycho-social support (including
inheritance planning) for affected families; and B C I activities to increase awareness o f policy, laws and
human rights affecting OVCs and surviving spouses (eg, inheritance rights. The preference will be,
wherever possible, to build the capacity o f extended families and promote the absorption o f orphans,
widows and widowers, and dependent grandparents within such families in line with cultural norms,
values and laws relating to support for needy people. Attention will also be given to increasing
collaboration and coordination among institutions providing care and support to vulnerable survivors
(orphans, elderly, widows/widowers).

Public, private, and civil society organizations and local communities (Ministry o f Gender and
Community Services; Ministry o f Youth, Sports, and Culture; MOF; EP&D; international and national
NGOs, FBOs, CBOs, local governments, etc.) will implement impact mitigation interventions.


Project Component 4: Sectoral Mainstreaming US$8.97 million
                                                -
The National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework (2000 -2004) identifies HIV/AIDS mainstreaming inthe
public and private sectors as one o f the key strategies for scaling up the national response to the
epidemic. However, inpractice, both sectors are just beginningto integrate HIV/AIDS into the way they
manage their workforce or plan their business/program activities. In2002, a number o f public
institutions appointed HIVIAIDS focal points for the first time, created HIVIAIDS workplace
committees, and introduced a budget line for HIVIAIDS activities inthe workplace. Similarly inthe
private sector, some companies have introduced work place policies and integrated health care programs


                                                    - 38 -

for their employees and dependents. This subprogram will buildo n this progress and will enable public
institutions, private companies, and civil society organizations to mainstream HIV/AIDS in their
workplace and intheir core business, thereby mitigating the epidemic's impact on labor productivity and
service delivery. At the national level, interventions could include legal changes (revision o f national
labor legislation, revision o f public service regulations defining civil servant benefits), administrative
changes (establishing posts for HIV focal points ineach ministry,requiring sector HIV strategies) and
operational support inthe form o f training guidelines and manuals. At the institutional level,
interventions could range from baseline KAP surveys and sero-prevalence testing, to establishment o f
institutional focal points, formation o f support groups, HIV/AIDS awareness training, sector-based
impact assessments, revision o f core business practices / programs to address HIV/AIDS impacts, human
resource management strategies to manage HIV/AIDS induced attrition, etc. Interventions would be
carried out by public, private, and civil society organizations, with technical support from expert
individuals, specialized NGOs, P L W A associations, P L W A volunteers, etc. Liaison officers inthe
Commission will oversee and coordinate activities under this component.


Project Component 5: Capacity-building and Partnerships US$29.71 million
                                                            -
Several formal bodies have been established in Malawi to help coordinate the national response in their
respective jurisdiction (eg, NAC, State/Faith Task Force, district level committees). In civil society,
umbrella organizations, NGO networks, and P L W A associations also exist, which have the potential to
facilitate efforts by smaller partners. Community based groups, small NGOs, and small and medium
enterprises have a role to play in scaling up the national response. The efforts o f these implementing and
coordinating partners could be enhanced if they were to receive targetted support in their respective area
of weakness, whether it be access to technical information on recommended practices, selective skills
development, or assistance with systemdfinancial management. The purpose o f this subprogram i s
therefore to build the capacity o f public, private, and civil society organizations to implement and scale
up a multi-sectoral response to the epidemic. Interventions will assist NGOs, FBOs, CBOs, public sector
institutions, local governments, and private companies to develop long term visions, operational
frameworks, and technical skills to address the epidemic. Specific activities will depend on needs o f the
target organizations, but are likely to include programme design; training in HIV/AIDS; planning,
financial management, procurement, and management skills; support in leadership and governance; and
coordination skills at district and community levels. Competitively identified umbrella (or intermediary)
organizations will be recruited to facilitate capacity building o f small CSOs. Specific capacity building
strategies may be developed and implemented to strengthen the ability o f local governments to integrate
HIV/AIDS in district planning and department activities and to monitor and coordinate H N / A I D S
activities at the district level. In addition, coalitions among organizations involved in the expansion o f
HIV/AIDS programmes will be strengthened (eg, business coalition, faith task force, national AIDS
associations, etc.) to improve outreach to their respective constituencies. The subprogram will also
support other broader mechanisms for networking and partnership and facilitate transfer o f leadership,
governance and technical skills and promote information distribution.              The activities within this
subprogram will be facilitated by a capacity-building officer in the Commission, but will be carried out
by the organizations themselves with support from expert individuals and organizations.


Project Component 6: Monitoring, Evaluation, and Research US$9.59 million
                                                               -
This subprogramwill cover the range of interventionsneeded to enable the N A C to track the epidemic
and national response and to understand which interventions are proving most effective under different
local and cultural conditions. NAC's monitoring and evaluation system i s structured to capture data at


                                                      - 39 -

four levels: impact assessment, outcome assessment, programme monitoring (financial and activity), and
country capacity. Activities included inthe M & E work plan will include biological and behavioral
surveillance, poverty analysis (to measure socio-economic impacts o f the epidemic), programme activity
monitoring, and specialized studies. Priority studies inthe national HIV/AIDS research strategy would
also be covered inthis program category. An operational M&E plan and manual have beendeveloped
which define roles, responsibilities, data sources, frequency o f data collection and analysis, and
mechanisms for informationbestpractices dissemination. Activities inthe M&E and research programs
will be carried out by specialized institutions suchas MOHP, MOEST, MOGCS, MOL, NSO, CSR, and
EP&D. Program activity/financial data on the national response will be provided by N A C grant
recipients through the FMA. The NAC M&Eofficer and Research officer will take the lead in
coordinating activities under this subprogram and generating the annual M&E and annualresearch
report. N A C will share progress reports and M&E data with EP&D, inits capacity o f monitor o f the
Public Sector InvestmentProgram (PSIP) and the Malawi PRSP.


Project Component 7: National Leadership and Coordination US$22.85 million
                                                              -
This subprogram consists of two main activity clusters: a) national leadership and coordination, and b)
program management.         Leadership and Coordination: this cluster would include support for:
monitoring implementation o f the National HIV/AIDSPolicy and providing guidance to stakeholders and
the sectors; poverty analysis and integration of HIV/AIDS in macro-economic plans and programmes;
advocacy for increased resources to HIV/AIDS, in areas that are under-funded but critical to scale up
efforts; development o f the national level strategic framework to guide implementation and to focus the
leadership operations o f the National AIDS Commission; development and operation o f informationtools
(database, web site, etc.) and dissemination o f data on implementing agencies, programmes, distribution
o f interventions, activity statistics. Coordination activities will include facilitation o f the HIV/AIDS
Technical Working Group (TWG), an important instrument for monitoring programme progress,
networking and consensus-building over future directions in the national response, and other ad hoc task
forces which may be established from time to time. The subprogram will also support Annual Joint
Review Conferences and preparation o f annual plans o f action for the Commission.                 Program
management: this cluster includes the operations of: the Board of Commissioners, the Malawi Global
Fund Coordinating Committee, the National AIDS Secretariat, and the Financial Management Agent.
Procurement     and financial       auditors, multi-disciplinary   monitoring teams,      and institutional
developmentkapacity-buildingadvisors are also included. Activities will be the direct responsibility o f
the National AIDS Commission, working in collaboration with key partners and stakeholders and with
support from technical advisors as and when needed.




                                                    -40-

                              Annex 3: Estimated Project Costs
                       MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)



1. Prevention & Advocacy                                    31.15     15.33    46.48
2. Treatment, Care and Support                              43.42    101.48   144.90
3. Impact Mitigation                                         8.57     3.67     12.24
4. Sectoral Mainstreaming                                    6.7 1    2.26      8.97
5. Capacity buildingand Partnerships                        19.58     10.13    29.71
6. Monitoring, Evaluation, & Research                        6.27     3.32      9.59
7. National Leadership & Coordination                       14.93     7.92     22.85
Total Baseline Cost                                        130.63    144.11   274.74
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.00      0.00     0.00
                                                                           4
 Price Continaencies                                         0.00      0.00     0.00
                             Total Project Cost;           130.63    144.11   274.74
                       Total Financing Required            130.63    144.11   274.74




                                                -41 -

      -1.-




c,
9




             - 42 -

                                                                  T




1Identifiable taxes and duties are 2.5 (US$m)and the total project cost, net of taxes, is 272.24 (US$m). Therefore, the project cost sharing ratio is 12.8
% o f total project cost net o f taxes.




                                                                - 43 -

                                      Annex 4: Economic Summary
                            MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)


The "Economic Analysis o f HIV/AIDS" contained inthe Second Multi-Country HIV/AIDS Program
(MAP2) (APL) for the Africa Region (Report No. P7497 AFR) provides the economic justification for
the Malawi Multi-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Program. As it indicates, HIV/AIDS undermines the three major
determinants o f economic growth, namely physical, human, and social capital. Due to its long incubation
period (7-10 years), the impact o f the HIViAIDS epidemic i s likely to be felt over time with the rate o f
growth o f physical and human capital and the efficiency o f social capital declining slowly inparallel with
the maturing o f the HIV/AIDS epidemic. The behavior o f GDP would reflect a similar gradual downward
reduction o f the rate o f growth (or increased rate o f contraction), rather than a sudden fall inGDP per
capita.

Recent studies to estimate the impact o f HIV/AIDS on future growth o f the Malawian economy have
concluded that the epidemic will reduce growth potential through two primary influences: (i)       reduced
efficiency o f the labor force, due to frequent staff turnover and absenteeism, and (ii)  a declining
invest-ment and savings rate, resulting from shifts inboth public and private expenditures from
productive activities to expenditures related to the disease. These two negative influences are balanced
against the potential increase inthe per capita GDP due to a lower growth rate o f population (estimated
to decline from 2.1% in 2000 to 1.7 in2010). The studies indicate that potential GDP growth during
2000-2010 in Malawi could be reduced by between 1.5 and 2 % per annum as a result o f HIV/AIDS,
which in turn will imply a reduction o f between 1 and 1.5 YOper annum inper capita GDP.

The fiscal impact o f the HIVIAIDS epidemic manifests itself on both sides o f the ledger: (i)reduces
                                                                                                  it
economic productivity o f the economically active adult population, which translates into smaller fiscal
revenues generated by the economy, and (ii)      it increases the demands on public funds (eg, for health
services and drug treatments, training o f replacement teachers, orphans and vulnerable children care, and
civil servant pensions and death benefits). InMalawi's case, the 2000 Public Expenditure Review
documented that pensions and gratuities doubled from 0.8 % o f GDP in 1995 to 1.7 % o f GDP in2000,
traced to the increasingprevalence of HIV/AIDS amongst the civil servants and their dependents.

Inview ofthe above, investments inactivities to preventHIVinfections andto extendthe productive
lives o f those living with AIDS, has a direct economic benefit interms o f enhancing the economy's
growth potential through labor productivity gains and deferring non-productive expenditures. As noted
inthe analysis above, ifthe spreado fthe disease is not contained, total GDP inten years time couldbe
up to 20% less than it would otherwise have been. Consequently, although a detailed quantitative
analysis has not been carried out, it i s clear that investments to contain the spread o f the epidemic are
economically justified.




                                                       - 44 -

                                Annex 5: Financial Summary
                          MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)
                                        Years Ending
                                             2008
                         II                         IMPLEMENTATION PERIOD
                           Year1  I  year2    I   Year3   Iyear4   I Year5  IYear6  IYear 7
 Total Financing Required
  Project Costs
    Investment Costs         37.7        42.7         47.8     52.8     57.8    12.6     0.0
   Recurrent Costs            3.7         4.0          4.2      4.4      4.7     2.3     0.0
 Total Project Costs         41.4        46.7         52.0     57.2     62.5    14.9     0.0
 Total Financing             41.4        46.7         52.0     57.2     62.5    14.9     0.0
I Financing
     IBRDllDA                 3.O         5.0          6.5      8.0      9.5    3.O      0.0
    Government                1.5         2.0          2.0      2.0      2.0    0.5      0.0
        Central               0.0         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
        Provincial            0.0         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0
     Co-financiers           36.9        39.7         43.5     47.2     51.0   11.4      0.0
  Jser FeeslBeneficiaries     0.0         0.0          0.0      0.0      0.0    0.0      0.0




                                             - 4 5 -

                                Annex 6(A): Procurement Arrangements
                            MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)

Procurement

Countrv ProcurementEnvironment

1,        The first Country Procurement Assessment Review (CPAR) is currently beingcarried out in
Malawi (June/July 2003). The procurement systemwas reviewed in 1996 with the assistance o f
consultants under the aegis o f the Fiscal Restructuring and Deregulation TA Credit. A number o f
recommendations were made to reformthe procurement systemincluding: a) revisingthe existing
procurement regulations to make them more transparent, efficient, and economic; b) developing and
implementing a procurement training program for government staff; c) preparing standard bidding
documents and manuals; and d) promulgating a procurement law based on the UNCITRAL model. All
the above recommendations are now under implementation.

2.        A Procurement Billbasedon the UNCITRAL modelwas approved by Parliament inMay 2003,
and i s awaiting Presidentialenactment andpromulgation o f regulations neededto make the Billeffective.
The Bill contains the elements of good public procurement practice including: (i)         effective and wide
advertising o f upcoming procurement opportunities; (ii) opening o f bids; (iii)
                                                              public                         pre-disclosure o f all
relevant informationincludingtransparent and clear bidevaluation and contract award procedures; (iv)
clear accountabilities for decision making; and (v) an enforceable right o f review for bidders when public
entities breachthe rules. Inparallel, Parliament also approved in May 2003 new Finance and Audit Bills
to address the recommendations o f the Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA) carried out
in2001bythe Bankinassociationwith other bilateral and multilateral development partners.

3.        UntilthenewProcurement law entersinto effect, public sector procurementis governed by
Interim Procurement Guidelines (IPG), which were issuedto all Ministries and Departments on July 1,
2000 by the Office o f the President and Cabinet (OPC). All public procurement i s requiredto be carried
out inaccordance with the provisions inthe IPG, however, where the IPG i s inconflict with the Finance
and Audit Act, the latter prevails. As a first step, the Ministries and Departments are requiredto procure
their items from the stockable items at the relevant Stores Controllers. Where the goods are not available,
authority from the appropriate Stores Controller must be obtained to source from a list o f approved
suppliers whichis maintainedby the Government Contracting-out Unit(GCU). Inthe case of works, a
list o f contractors i s maintained by the National Construction Industry Council o f Malawi (NCIC). The
IPGprovides for the formation o f Internal Procurement Committees inall Ministries and Departments as
award authorities for all procurement.

4.        All orders for goods exceeding MWK 100,000 inaggregate(approx USD 1,100) and individual
works contracts exceeding MWK 500,000 (approx. USD 5,500) must be cleared by GCU. Works
contracts between MWK 300,000 - MWK 500,000 mustbe cleared with the Department o f Buildings
(DOB). Inthe case o f the Central Medical Stores (CMS), any goods contracts exceeding MWK 500,000
(approx. USD 5,500) mustbe cleared by the Medical BuyingCommittee (MBC) and contracts above
MWK 2,500,000 (approx USD 28,000) by the GCU. The current review thresholds are too low creating
bottle necks inprocessing procurement.

5.        The main deficiencies inthe current guidelines include: (i) of the Meritpoint systemfor
                                                                          use
evaluation o f all goods and works procurement with only 30% weight for price in the case o f Goods and
20% for price in Works; (ii)    use o f qualification criteria (e.g. financial capability and previous


                                                       - 46 -

performance) as evaluation criteria; (iii)
- 25%                                     application of excessive and inappropriate margin of preference
       for locally manufacturedgoods, 20% for local retailers and 15% for works, even under NCB and
shopping procedures; (iv) use o f margin o f preference (15%) for local consulting firms; (v) use of
registration and classification as a condition to purchase biddingdocuments, and as a condition for
eligibility to bidrather than as a condition for award; (vi) inadequate treatment onhandling complaints;
(vii) lack of emphasis on procurement strategy & planning, procurementmonitoring, and contract
expenditure andprogress monitoring; and (viii) no provisionfor evaluation panels made up 3-5 of sector
specialists who would be responsible for actually carrying out bidproposal evaluation based on the
nature o f the works, goods or services to be procured. The M O Uwhich will be signed by the GOM and
the Partners includes an agreementby GOM to waive all the unacceptable features of the IPGwhich are
contrary to achieving the bestvalue for money. The IPG already includes a provisionthat any agreements
with international donors supercede the IPG. A N A C Procurement Manualproviding guidelines for
procurement activities by N A C and by grant recipients was revised during negotiations and i s satisfactory
to IDA. For this program, there will be no requirementfor any o f the implementing agencies to send
procurement documents to GCU for review.

Use of Bank Guidelines

6.       All works and goods financed underthe IDA grant would beprocuredinaccordance with the
Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,January 1995 and as revised in January
and August 1996, September1997 and January 1999. Consultants will be selected in accordance with the
Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by WorldBank Borrowers, January 1997 and as
revised September 1997,January 1999 and May 2002. National Competitive Bidding(NCB) procedures
are described inthe N A C Procurement Manual and are consistent with the Bank's "Requirement for
Local Procurement in Borrowing Countries" as agreed inMarch 2002 as part o f the harmonization efforts
at country level with other development partners.

7.       The Bank's Standard BiddingDocuments (SBD) will be usedfor all ICB andwith appropriate
amendments for all NCB. The Bank's Standard Request for Proposals (SRFP) would be usedfor all
consulting assignments. All the implementingagencies should ensure that each time they are usingthe
most current version o f the appropriate SBD or SRFP and standard forms o f evaluation. Less competitive
biddingand selectionprocedures should not be usedas an expedient to by-pass more competitive
methods and fractioning o f large procurements into smaller ones should not be done solely to allow the
use o f less competitive methods or to avoidreview by the Partners. The detailed procedures to be
followed under the grants facility are described inthe Grants manual and are consistent with paragraph
3.15 o f the Bank Procurement Guidelines on community participation inprocurement.

Advertising

8.       A General Procurement Notice (GPN) is mandatory andwill be publishedinthe UN
Development Business as providedunderthe Guidelinesand in Development Gateway Market
(Dgmarket). The GPN would be updated on a yearly basis and would show all outstanding ICB and all
consulting services estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more. Specific Procurement Notices (SPN) will be
required for contracts to be procured under ICB andNCB procedures and for consultant contracts to
obtain expressions o f interest (EOI) prior to the preparation o f the shortlist. SPNs will as (a minimum)
bepublishedina newspaper o f wide national circulation. Consultant contracts estimated to cost USD
200,000 or more will be advertised inDevelopment Business and inDgMarket. Sufficient time would
be allowed (not less than six weeks for ICB and not less than 30 days for NCB and 14 days for EOI) to
allow adequate time for biddersand consultants to obtain documents and respondappropriately.



                                                     -47-

ProcurementCapacity

9.        The National AIDS Commission is the principal implementingagency for the national
HIV/AIDS program and i s responsible for coordination and planning o f interventions, communications
and outreach, resource mobilization, advocacy and partnership building. The N A C i s established as a
public trust, and reports to a newly created Minister o f HIV/AIDS Programs.

10.       Implementationo f programmatic interventions will be carried out by a range o f organizations -
public institutions, NGOs, FBOs, CBOs, private companies -who will apply to a NAC-operated Grants
Facility for funding. A framework manual describing the governance structure and operational
procedures for the grants facility has beenprepared, as well as proposal writing guidelinesand
application formats for different categories o f grant recipients (NGOs,public sector, and private sector).
At the sub-national level, NAC will work through umbrella organizations to reach smaller organizations
and community groups, andto manage on-granting to the community level. Over the mediumterm, the
goal i s for district government coordinating structures to take over these functions. Disbursementsfrom
the grants facility will be managed by a professional financial firm contracted by the NAC, and grant
recipients and N A C will signa grant agreement clearly definingrespective responsibilities (including
recipient M&Ereporting).

11.       Two institutions are central to effective management o f the national HIV/AIDS response: the
National AIDS Commission and the Ministry o f Health and Population (MOHP). The procurement
capacity assessmentfor these implementing agencies has beencarried out. N A C does not have previous
experience indirectly implementing a Bank project and the program incorporates mitigation measures
which include hiringo f an in-house procurement officer and recruitment o f longterm consultant(s)
(LTC) "on call" basis to provide procurement support and advisory services. The Ministryo f Health i s
currently implementing an IDA funded LIL,but procurement procedures for health sector goods are
weak. The ministrytherefore plans to hire a specialized pharmaceuticalprocurement agent until
MOHP's procedures and capacity through the Central Medical Stores (CMS) are strengthened(MOHP i s
considering usingthe services o f WHO or UNICEFfor procurement o f specialized HIV/AIDS drug
regimens). Most of the other line ministries have hadexperience inimplementingBank and other donor
financed projects and have the capacity to carry out procurementunder the project. The summary
assessment shows a "high risk" for the program and the prior review thresholds have beenset to reflect
this rating. Procurement Post Reviews (PPRs) will be carriedout annually by independent auditors and
based on the findings o f the reviews, the prior review thresholds may be adjusted.

12.       Duringappraisal, procurement clinics were organizedfor NAC staff andpotential umbrella
organizations on the procedures containedinthe Procurement Manual. Subsequently, the NGOs selected
to perform as umbrellaorganizations participated inthe annual procurement clinic organized by the Bank
inJune 2003.       The program launchworkshop will also include a session onprocurement. The focus will
be to re-orient key staff on the principles of goodpublic procurement practice. The program also includes
fundingfor key staffto attend Bank supported regional procurement training inESAMIor GIMPA.
Procurement training workshops and clinics would also be held during Bank supervision missions. The
course contents for these training workshops clinics will be guidedby the findings o f the PPRs.

ProcurementPlans

13.       Each year, N A C will prepare an annual procurement plan for the next twelve months o f the
program, showing contract packages to be procured by the N A C Secretariat, and for each package, its
estimated cost, procurement method and processing times for key activities till completion, The
procurement plan for the grants facility will only show indicative budget per year, but will not include


                                                     -48-

detailed activities since the activities will be demand driven. The annual procurement plans (NAC plan
and Grants Facility Plan) for the first year o f the Program will be completed before effectiveness. For
subsequent years, N A C will submit by May 15 up-dated versions o f the procurement plans inrespect o f
the following twelve months for review and clearance by the Partners.

14.     Any revisions to the procurement plan shall require the concurrence o f the FundingPartners.
N A C and Grants Recipients shall apply the most competitive method o fprocurement appropriate to the
circumstances o f the specific procurement as described inthe Procurement Manual and the Table below.
Grant recipients may select a more competitive methodfor a particular procurement ifthey wish to do so,
however, Partner concurrence will be required to use a less competitive methodother than the one set out
inthe agreedProcurement Plan. Absence ofthis concurrence may result inmisprocurement.

15.      Training, workshops, conference attendance and study tours will be carried out on the basis o f
approved annual programs that will identify the general framework o f training and similar activities for
the year, including the nature o f traininglstudy tourslworkshops, the number o f participants, and cost
estimates.

Procurement ImplementationArrangements

16.     Procurement will be carried out at two levels: by N A C (for N A C managed activities) and by
grant recipients (for sub-programs funded through the N A C grants facility). Each grant recipient will be
responsible for procurement planning and processing o f works and goods contracts and the selection o f
consultants required to implement their activities.

Scope of Procurementand Procurementmethods

17.     N o I C B works contracts are expected under the project. Works contracts estimated to cost
between USD 50,000 and 250,000 will be procured using N C B procedures as provided for inthe NAC
Procurement Manual. Very small contracts estimated to cost less than USD 50,000 equivalent may be
procured by way o f soliciting quotations through written invitations from not less than three qualified
contractors. RegistratiodClassification o f contractors may be used to identify contractors for such very
small contracts. The invitation shall include a detailed description o f the works, basic specifications, the
required completion date, a simple form o f agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings
[where applicable]. Inall cases the award o f contract shall be made to the contractor who offers the
lowest price for the required work, and who has the experience and resources to successfully complete
the contract.

18.     To the extent possible, goods that could be procuredby an implementing agency under one
supplier would be grouped into contract packages, and packages estimated to cost the equivalent o f USD
100,000 or more would be procured under ICB procedures. Procurement o f goods packages estimated to
cost more than U S D 30,000 but less than U S D 100,000 would be procured usingNCB procedures. Goods
packages estimated to cost less than U S D 30,000 would be procured by shopping o n the basis o f
comparison o f quotations from at least three eligible and qualified suppliers or from United Nations
Agencies. Requests for such quotations will include a clear description and quantity o f the goods; as well
as requirements for delivery time and point o f delivery. ARVs and other drugs for HIV/AIDS may be
procured using LIB procedures by inviting bids from the WHO list o f prequalified manufacturers.

19.      Software, spare parts and accessories and ARV reagents or drugs which are o f proprietary nature
may with IDA concurrence, be procured under contracts negotiated directly with the



                                                      - 49 -

manufacturers/suppliers or their authorized agents.

20.      Consulting Services and Training will consist o f various studies and technical assistanceto be
carried out by both national and international consultants as well as workshops and group discussions. As
a rule, consulting firms for all assignments estimated to cost the equivalent of USD 100,000 or more will
be selected through Quality and Cost Based Selection (QCBS) methodology. Assignments estimated to
cost the equivalent o f USD 200,000 or more would be advertised for EO1inDevelopment Business
(UNDB),inDgMarket and inat least one newspaper ofwide national circulation. Inaddition, EO1for
specialized assignments may be advertised inan international newspaper or magazine. Inthe case o f
assignments estimated to cost less than USD200,000 the assignment will be advertised nationally. The
shortlist o f firms for assignments estimated to cost less than USD 100,000 may be made up entirely o f
national consultants ifat least three qualified firms are available at competitive costs inMalawi.
However, foreign consultants who wishto participate shouldnot be excluded from consideration.
Consultant services estimated to cost less than the equivalent o f USD 50,000 may be contracted by
comparing the qualifications o f consultants. Auditors would be selected usingLeast-Cost-Selection
procedures. Services which meet the requirements set forth inparagraph 3.5 o f the Consultant
Guidelinesmay be procuredunder contracts awarded inaccordance with the provisions ofparagraphs 3.1
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. Incase o f assignmentsrequiringindividual consultants, the
selection will follow the procedures stipulatedin Section V o f the Consultants Guidelines.

21.      Training programs and workshops for N A C would be packaged inthe annual work plan and
budget, and items therein procuredusingappropriate methods. IDA and NAC funding partners will
review and clear training packages within the framework o f the annual work plan.

22.      The detailed procurementprocedures to be followed underthe grants facility are described inthe
Grants Facility Procurement Guidelines (taken from the N A C Procurement Manual) and are consistent
with paragraph 3.15 o f the Procurement Guidelines on Community Participation in Procurement.

IDA Review

23.      The M O UbetweenG O M and the pooledfunding partners designates the World Bank to exercise
prior review on behalf o f the funding partners for procurements over agreed thresholds. All goods
contracts estimated to cost USD 200,000 or more and works contracts estimated to cost USD250,000 or
more will be subject to the Bank's prior review inaccordance with the procedures inAppendix Io f the
Procurement Guidelines. Any amendments to existing contracts raisingtheir values to levels equivalent
or above the prior review thresholds are subject to IDA review. All contracts awardedon basis o f direct
contracting will require prior review and clearance o f IDA.




                                                    - 50 -

24.      All single source selection will be subject to IDA prior review. Consultancy contracts with firms
with estimated value o fUSD 100,000 or more, and consultancy contracts with individuals estimated
value o f U S D 50,000 or more will be subject to prior review by IDA in accordance with the procedures
inAppendix Iofthe Consultants Guidelines. All out o fcountry traininglworkshops will be subject to
IDA review within the framework o f the Annual Work Plan and Budget review process.

25.      Contracts which are not subject to prior review will be selectively reviewed by the Bank during
project implementation and will be governed by the procedures set forth inparagraph 4 o f Appendix Ito
the relevant Guidelines. Monitoring and evaluation o f procurement performance at all levels (national,
regional, and community) would be carried out for procurement under the prior review thresholds during
IDA supervision missions and through annual ex-post procurement audits. At a minimum, 1 out o f 5
contracts managedby the NAC and those managedby line ministries will be subject to post review. In
addition, 1out o f 10 o f the grants awarded under the grants facility to civil society organizations will be
subject to post review. Post-reviews o f in-country training will be conducted from time to time to review
the selection o f institutionslfacilitatorslcourse contentsltrainees andjustifications thereof, and costs
incurred. Annual independent technical audits (ex-post procurement audits) would: (a) verify that the
procurement and contracting procedures and processes followed for the projects were in accordance with
the IDA Grant Agreement (DGA); (b) verify technical compliance, physical completion and price
competitiveness o f each contract inthe selected representative sample; (c) review and comment on
contract administration and management issues as dealt with by N A C and grant recipients; (d) review
capacity o f NAC and grant recipients inhandlingprocurement efficiently; and (e) identify improvements
inthe procurement process inthe light of any identifieddeficiencies. The Recipient, N A C and the
Partners will review all thresholds stated inthis section on an annual basis. Amendments may be agreed
upon based on performance and actual values o f procurement implemented. Amendments to the IDA
Grant Agreement may be proposed accordingly.

ContractManagement andExpenditureReports

26.     N o t more than one calendar month after the end o f each quarter, NAC shall submit to IDA a
Procurement Monitoring Report and a Contracts Expenditure and Progress Report as part o f the Program
Monitoring Report (PMR), providing the status of procurement, and expenditure and progress on
individual contracts for NAC managed procurement. Formats were agreed duringappraisal.

 Procurement methods (Table A)

Note: Because o f the nature o f the operation, Tables A and A 1 are not applicable.




                                                      -51  -

Prior reviewthresholds (Table B)

                 Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review'




                                     >=250,000                          ICB                       All contracts
                                >=50,000 - 250,000                     NCB                    FirstContract by IA
                                       <50,000                   Price Comparison                    None
                                                                 Direct contracting               All contracts
2. Goods                             >= 100,000                    ICB/LIB/UN               US$200,000andabove
                               >=30,000 - < 100,000                NCB/LIB/UN                        None
                                       <30,000                     Shoppingm                         None
                                                                DirectContracting                 All contracts
3. Services                       >= 100,000, firms                 QCBS/SFB                      All contracts
                                  < 100,000, firms               QCBS/LCS/SFB                        None
                                  < 50,000, firms                      SBCQ                          None
                                >=50,000 individuals                Individual                    All contracts
                                <50,000, individuals                 Individual                       None
                                                              Single Source Selection             All contracts

                Total value of contracts subject to prior review:
                          Overall Procurement Risk Assessment:            High
     Frequencyof procurementsupervisionmissionsproposed: One every 3 months
                                                                          (includesspecialprocurementsupervision
                                                                          for post-review/audits)
LIB will be usedonly ifthere is a limitednumberof suppliers
  _ _               -~~  ~
I\       ~



 Thresholds generallydiffer by country and project. Consult "Assessment of Agency's Capacity to Implement
 Procurement" and contact the RegionalProcurementAdviser for guidance.




                                                     - 52 -

             Annex 6(B): Financial Management and Disbursement Arrangements
                             MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)

FinancialManaPement
1. Summary of the FinancialManagement Assessment

1.    This annex is a record ofthe results of the assessment o f the financial management arrangements
for the proposedMulti-Sectoral HIV/AIDS Project inMalawi. It also provides a summary o f
country-wide financial management issues that are relevant to the project, institutional and
implementation arrangements, and a summary o f FMrisk analysis. The flow o f funds aspect has also
been summarized underthe disbursement arrangement.

Country FinancialAccountabilitv Issues

2.    As inmany developing countries in Sub-SaharaAfrica, development of Financial Management in
the MalawiPublic Sector has only startedto receive attention and improve recently. There has been
significant improvement inpublic sector accounting and reporting inthe last five years. This i s a
culmination o f many years o f struggle and effort to raise the standards o f accounting and reporting inthe
region. However, substantial reforms are needed inmany areas o f public financial management and
accountability inMalawibacked by an aggressive effort to enhance capacity o f the Malawi nationals in
Accountancy and general accountability particularly inthe public sector. Institutions o f accountability in
Malawihave also been o f particular interest to the country and her development partners. The Society o f
Accountants inMalawi (SOCAM) 1994 report on the Public Sector Financial Management, indicated
that while a Law on the independence o f the Office o f the Auditor General exists, the reality was far from
it,thusreducing the levelo feffectiveness.

3.     Recent assessments undertaken by the Governmentjointly with development partners, such as the
Country FinancialAccountability Assessment (CFAA) in 2002, have attempted to identify critical areas
inneedof strengthening to facilitate soundfinancial management practices and ensure improved
financial accountability inthe public sector. One way o f doing so i s through an efficient and timely
mechanismfor sharing information, and it i s expected that this will be achieved when the Integrated
Financial Management Information System (IFMIS)begins to bear fruit. This will also support the
MediumTerm Expenditure Framework (MTEF) aimed at improvingpublic expenditure bybringing
about better linkages betweenpolicy and government priorities and resource management through the
budget.This is beingaddressedwith support from the ongoing IDA fundedFinancial Management
Transparency and Accountability Project (Cr. 3734-MAI) which became effective on June 2,2003. In
particular, the project will focus on expenditure accountability by (a) improving management systems
and information flows, (b) promotingcompliance and oversight, (c) strengtheningperformance
monitoring ,and (d) developing skills and capacity. These actions coupled with improved governance
and participation o f the Malawi people inmanagement o f public affairs, will substantially mitigate the
well recognizedrisk attributed to inadequate accounting and auditing systems inpublic sector across the
country.

Institutionaland ImplementationArrangements for the Program

4.     The NationalAIDS Commission (NAC) hasbeenmandatedbythe Government of Malawi (GOM)
to coordinate the implementation o f the National HIV /AIDS Strategic Framework inthe country. N A C
willbe supported by government institutions including line ministries, local governments and others, as
well as by civil society such as NGOs, CBOs, FBOs, private firms and community groups, and by


                                                    - 53 -

university and research institutions, all o f which will be the primary implementing agencies working with
and amongst the Malawi people across sectors throughout the country.

5.      The GOM and NAC's funding partners are consolidating their resources to support NAC in
fulfillingits mandate. Eightfundingpartners, inaddition to the GOM, are currently committed to the
program and four o f these partners have agreed to pool their resources with the GOM in what i s locally
referred to as a `Basket Fund'. The remaining partners will provide their support to NAC outside the
`Basket Fund' on an earmarked basis. Nevertheless, all contributions -whether pooled or earmarked -
will be receipted and accounted inaccordance with thejointly agreed accounting and reporting
arrangements. The details o f this collaboration are articulated and formalized through the Memorandum
o f Understanding (MOU) that has been signed by the fundingpartners and the Government o f Malawi.

6.      T o assist N A C as it transforms itself from an implementing to a coordinating agency and scales up
its activities to deliver the SMP, the services o f a Financial Management Agent (FMA) will be engaged
to disburse and manage the Grants Facility for the program. This approach has been successfully used in
similar operations in other countries, Kenya being the most notable. This approach has also been
adopted inother countries where M A P Sare either on-going or under preparation (e.g., Senegal, Tanzania,
etc.).

FinancialManaeement Cauacitv Assessment
7.      A financial management capacity assessment mission was carried out inJanuary 2003, and the
team concluded that the program will be implemented ina highrisk environment. The risk factors
identified arise from the following:
*    First,the leadimplementing agency, the NAC, is a newly established organization which has no
experience with implementing an IDA-financed project and has not yet had time to establish a track
record. The number o f staff inthe accounting department i s too few to adequately execute the tasks that
this programdemands as it scales up.
*    Second, the largest single beneficiary o f N A C funds - once the Global Fundfor AIDS, Malaria, and
Tuberculosis (GFAMT) begins disbursing- will be the Ministryo f Health and Population (MOHP).
According to audit reports issued by the National Audit Office, the financial systems inthe ministry
cannot be relied upon at this time, pending implementation o f the government-wide Integrated Financial
Management Information System (IFMIS).




                                                       - 54 -

 *   Third, grant recipients at the community level will include CBOs, DACCs, and other groups with
limited management capacity.

Action Plan to Mitigate Risks and Increase Financial Management Capacity

 8.     Risksidentifiedduringthe financial assessment mission were discussed with N A C and funding
partners, and numerous mitigating steps were subsequently taken and assessed duringappraisal and
negotiations. To mitigate risks and strengthen controls as well as overall accountability at all three
 levels, the following interventions are planned:
 *   At the level o fNAG, additional competent and qualified staff will be appointed inearly July (Head
of Administration, Project Accountant, Internal Audit Accountants), to complement and support the
Director o f Administration and Finance (DAF) and existing DAF staff. Also, N A C will contract out
 financial transactions related to the Grants Facility to a Financial Management Agent (FMA). This
 should reduce the risk significantly, providedthe agent i s diligently supervised and monitoredby N A C in
accordance with the contract. NAC's Financial Management Manual has been revised to reflect changes
resulting from the new SMP framework, and will provide clear guidance to staff. The procurement
manual for N A C and procurement guidelines for grant recipients o fNAC funding under the program are
 also critical elements in the financial accountability framework.
 *   At the level o f MOHP, the GFATMhas appointed a LocalFundAgent (LFA) to represent them in
 Malawi and provide oversight on funds management and ensure that capacity gaps are addressed. The
 MOHP andN A C are currently discussing with the LFA how best MOHP can meet financial
 accountability and reporting requirements for both the HIV/AIDS and malaria program funding from the
 GFATM. GOM should initiate the process o f obtaining a consultant's help to ensure remedial measures
 are implemented promptly.
 *   At the NGO and community level, capacity buildingprograms for NAC grant recipients inthe area of
 financial management are planned as part o f the SMP program. N A C will also implement rigorous
 financial and procurement audit controls (interim financial audit at mid-year, annual comprehensive
 audit, annual ex-post procurement audits).

 9.     Additionally, the MOUbetween the GOM and the funding partners recording their agreement on
 fiduciary arrangements has been signed, and NAC's Financial Management Manual has been revised, in
 accordance with IDA comments. The GOM has indicated its commitment to provide its pooled
 contribution on a quarterly basis throughout the life o f the project. The Grants Facility has been agreed
 and the grants management system has been documented and agreed. Selection o f the FMA was
 completed in late June 2003, and contract signature and FMA mobilization are conditions o f Grant
 effectiveness. The remaining actions necessary for sufficient and adequate financial management
 arrangements are identifiedbelow:
I      /                                                                     Responsible       Completion
                                     Action                                   Authoritv            Date
        Finalize Annual Work Plan (AWP) and pooled funding                11 NAC/Donors   IIEffectiveness
        contributions for FY04.
12.    1Complete computerization o f financial management systems, in NAC I               I Effectiveness   1
        line with new program structure and revised chart o f accounts.
 3.   IIContract and mobilize the FMA.                                    II NA C         I Effectiveness
4.      Review the functioning o f the newly established Internal Audit NAC/Donors          June 30, 2004
                                                                                                      ~~




        unitinNAC and recommend changes ifrequired.



                                                     - 55 -

Supervisionof financial managementand disbursement will be linkedwith the quarterlyreviews of
PMRs and semi-annual audits. Itwill be importantthat the project is availedwith an adequate
supervisionbudget and staff weeks for close andin-depthsupervision, not only for general supervision,
but also for the fiduciary aspects inview ofthe highrisk attributedto the project.Joint AFTFM andLOA
participationin supervisionof fiduciary arrangementcan not be over emphasized, aimedat
complementingsupervisionoftechnical andimplementationaspects of the projectby the TTL.

Funds Flow Arrangements

10.   The proposedHIV/AIDS programdescribedinthis document will use financialmanagement,
disbursement andreportingarrangements that are consistent with the guidance providedinthe SWAP
guidelines issuedNovember2002. The NAC andfundingpartners haveagreedonjoint accounting,
reporting, andauditingprocedures that will be usedto track receipts and expenditures andreporton
programprogress. "Program Monitoring Report" (PMR) formats were finalizedat negotiationsand
include financial, procurement and output information. These formats are fully consistent with the
Bank's FMR requirements, but havebeencalledPMRs inorder to satisfy all fundingpartners.

11.   The framework for the SMPjoint work programmingand `pooling of funds' arrangementhas been
agreedandhas beenformalizedthroughthe signingof the MemorandumofUnderstanding(MOU) in
June 2003. Inthe processof formulating the MOU, a critical review of the flow of funds hasbeen
carriedout by the fundingpartnersandNAC, who havenow reacheda good understanding ofwhat
amount ofresources is requiredto implementthis program. Overallpercentages for financingprogram
costs havebeenagreedinprinciple for each fundingpartner and GOM, while actual annual amounts and
percentage shares will be agreedeach year amongthe basket donors.

12. The flow of funds for the SMP annual work plan hasbeenmappedout as follows: following
agreement each year on the annualwork planandoutputs amongNAC and its fundingpartners, a
detailedfinancing planwill be agreedidentifying which activities will be funded by earmarkedfunding
partners andwhich by pooledfundingpartners. Donors contributingto the basketfund will deposit their
share o f projectedfundingrequirements for the next six months in a hardcurrency basket account heldin
a local commercialbank. Donors who disburse on an earmarkedbasis will do so within the framework o f
the work planagreedby all the partiesand accordingto their bilateralagreementwith the NAC. NAC
andits partners (both earmarkedandpooled)will reviewprogress against the plannedwork planon a
quarterlybasis, with subsequentdisbursementsmade on the basis o f six-monthlyprojections.Any
adjustmentswill bejointly agreedat the time ofthe quarterlyreview.

13. The pooledfunding arrangementwill enter into effect onJuly 1,2003, to coincidewith the
beginningof fiscal year 2003/2004. The trigger mechanismfor release of funds by all fundingpartners
(includingthe GOMpooledcontribution) will be the ProgramMonitoring Reports(PMRs) and
accompanyingrequestfor disbursement. The first PMR will bebasedon the projectedactivities and
cash forecast for the first six months as derivedfrom the approvedwork plan for FY04. The initialIDA
disbursement into the pooledaccount after Grant effectivenesswill be basedonIDA'Sshare of the
forecast for the periodJuly 1,2003 through December 31,2003. All subsequentPMRs will be prepared
and submittedto fundingpartners on a quarterlybasis as agreedinthe MOU, with the first suchquarterly
reportprovidedby November 15,2003.




                                                   - 56 -

Grants Facility
14.   Approximately 90% o f the proposed HIViAIDSprogramfundingwill be channeled through the
Grants Facility to public, private, and civil society organizations and local communities. The Framework
Document for the Grants Facility sets out the purpose, objectives and guidingprinciples o f the Facility,
the agreed implementation arrangements (including inter alia institutional framework, grant mechanisms,
financial management, and capacity building),andproject cycle (including partner selection and proposal
screening and approval procedures). Accompanying documents are the Grants Operational Manual
which is for use by recipients of grants from the Grants Facility, and a series o f proposal writing and
project planning guidelines. Additional informationon the Grants Facility i s providedinAnnex 12, and
an overview o f Grant Mechanisms i s providedbelow:


                                                                                                      Community
      Grant                                                             Community-level              level services:
   Mechanism          Grants for service
                            delivery              Task Orders                 services:
                                                                            CBO grants                 Umbrella
                                                                                                     Organisations
  Typical            1.NGOs working in         1. NGOs                  1. CBO/NGO work-          1. NGOs
  grantee            more than 1district       2. Training              ing at community
                     2. Ministries             institutions             level
                     3. Companies              3. Research groups,      2. NGOs working in
                                               etc                      one district
 Typical             1. Prevention             1. Operations            1. Community care         1. CBO support
 project             2.Care/support            research                 2. Prevention             2. DACC support
 activities          3. Impact mitigation      2. Capacity building     3. Impact mitigation
                     4. Workplace              3. M&E studies,
                     interventions             surveys
 Application            to FMA                 - Pro-active by NAC      - to Umbrella                RFP
 process             -- proposalformats                                 Organisation                 to N A C
                     - as andwhen              -- proposal
                                                  RFP
                                                           format       -- proposal
                                                                           as and when            --- one-off2003
                    proposals come in                                               format
 Grant               1year renewable           Duration o f workplan    1year renewable           2 year renewable
 Duration

  Grant size         Medium                    Medium-lar Be            Small                     Large


15.   Inorder to mitigate the risksinvolvedwith the scalingupofNAC's programandinrecognition of
NAC's current limitedcapacity, the services o f a Financial Management Agent (FMA) will be engaged
to manage financial administration o f the Grants Facility. The selection process will be completed by
endJune, and contracting andmobilizing the FMA i s a condition of MAP effectiveness.

16.   The FMAwill screenproposals against general eligibility criteria (usingindependentexperts
drawn from a roster o f experts), review proposal consistency with budgetingguidelines, and assess
potential partners on their technical, organizational and financial management capacity. Understanding
that potential grant recipients (e.g., CBOs, FBOs) may lack the necessary capacity in service delivery and
program management, umbrella organizations will be contracted to provide training and support. In
addition, the FMA will conduct regular site visits to grant recipients to ensure that adequate financial
management controls are enforced and to provide additional capacity building, as required. Separate



                                                     - 57 -

Grant Agreements will be signed with each grant recipient defining, inter alia, the financial accounting
and reporting requirementsunder the Agreement and remediesto be applied incase o f non-compliance.

17.   Disbursements under the Grants Facility will be managed by the FMA,underthe supervision o f
N A C and inaccordance with approvedproposals and signed Grant Agreements. The initial grant
disbursementwill be basedupon the fundingrequirementsfor the first two quarters of the approved
project's work plan. Thereafter, disbursementswill be made each quarter, conditional on receipt o f a
satisfactory report for the previous quarter (including accounting for the funds received for that quarter),
and the next two quarters' projectiono f funding requirements. Financial and other reporting
requirements, triggers for disbursement, and audit requirementsare set out inthe Grants Operational
Manual. N A C has also providedfor remedial actions against a grant recipient that i s in default of
compliance with the accountability provisions of the manual as documented inthat recipient's Grant
Agreement.

NationalLeadershiDand Coordination

18.   The remaining HIViAIDS program funding will be utilized for NAC's national leadership and
coordination activities. The budget and disbursements for these activities will be managed directly by
NAC, according to the Annual Work Plan.

2. Audit Arrangements

19.   Responsibility for audit o f all government projects rests with the National Audit Office (NAO);
this rule applies also to NAC. Ithasbeenagreedwith the NAOthat, due to resource and capacity
constraints at the N A O and in accordance with the Finance and Audit Act (Chapter 37:Ol o f the Laws o f
Malawi), NAC's financial statements and records will be audited by a private, independentauditor to be
competitively selected. The terms o f reference (TOR) for the combined progradentity audit have been
agreed with NAC, the NAO, and fundingpartners, and are acceptable to IDA. The N A C auditor will
examine all N A C operations including transactions flowing through the FMA, a random sampling o f
umbrella organizations, and major public sector grant recipients (eg, MOHP).

20.   The audit will be performed on a six monthly cycle. An interimaudit will be performed for the six
monthperiod ending December 31, and the auditor will submit the interimaudit report within 45 days
following the end o f the period under review (ie, by February 15). The statutory audit report for the
entire fiscal year (July l-June 30) will be submittedwithin 120 days (four months) following the end o f
the financial year (Le., by October 31). As such, NAC will readily comply with IDA audit requirements.
As disbursements will be made on the basis of quarterly PMRs, the audit will include an opinionon the
reliability o f these quarterly reports. Each audit report will be accompanied by a management letter
which will include explicit recommendations for improvement and N A C action. The audits will be
reviewedby the fundingpartners duringthe next quarterly review o f N A C performance, and any
necessary actions, together with a timelinefor their resolution, will be agreed at these review meetings.

3. Disbursement Arrangements

21.   N A C will maintainthe following bank accounts:

Forpooled `basket'funds: There will be three bank accounts for the basket funds. Pooled funding
partners will deposit their contributions into a pooledU S dollar account heldina local commercial bank.
The GOMwill transfer their counterpart funds to a holdingaccount inthe Reserve Bank of Malawi.



                                                      - 58 -

N A C will immediately transfer the GOM funds to the pooled local currency account ina commercial
bank. As required, generally on a monthly basis so as to minimize foreign exchange losses, N A C will
transfer funds from the U S dollar account to the pooled local currency account for purposes o f the agreed
work plan.

For earmarkedfunds: N A C will maintain separate bank accounts, either in a designated holding
account with the Reserve Bank o f Malawi or ina Foreign Currency Denominated Account (FCDA), into
which earmarked donors will deposit their funds. NAC will also maintain a local currency operating
account ina commercial bank for each earmarked donor. As required to meet eligible expenditures, N A C
will transfer funds from the holding account or FCDA to the respective local currency account.

22.    Flow of Fundsfrom IDA to NAC: Inaccordance with the agreed MOU, IDA will advance funds
to the pooled U S dollar account described above. Disbursements to the pooledU S dollar account will be
made o n the basis o f PMRs, with each disbursement made by IDA recorded as an advance. The initial
advance will be based on IDA's share o f the cash forecast for the first six months' activities as derived
from the Annual Work Plan for FY04. Subsequent advances will be based on quarterly PMRs and NAC's
disbursement request for the ensuing six-month period. Expenditures will be recorded on the basis of
IDA'Sshare of the previous quarter's eligible expenditures as reported inthe quarterly PMR. In
accordance with the Guidelines for Report-Based Disbursements (November 2002), each P M R submitted
to IDA will be accompaniedby bank reconciliation statements for the pooled US dollar account and the
pooled local currency account and Withdrawal Application Form 1903B.

23.    There i s n o specific ceiling when a project uses report-based disbursements; the amount i s limited
to the lower o f what has been requested and the amount determined by IDA as reasonable to finance
expenditures over the six-month period for which the project has provided a forecast.

24.    Use of Statementsof Expenditures(SOE): The project has opted for and IDA has agreed to
report-based disbursements.

 Allocation of grant proceeds (Table C)

                                    Table C: Allocation of Grant Proceeds


I                                                         3.00             To be agreed each year based on IDA's
 Subprograms                                                             II       share o f the basket no01
IUnallocated                                             32.00                                                  I
I                                              II                        I                                  -1
I                                              I                         I                                      I
                                                                                      ~~




 Total Project Costs with Bank Financing                 35.00
 Total                                                   35.00




                                                     - 59 -

                                  Annex 7: Project Processing Schedule
                            MALAWI: Multi-SectoralAIDS Project (MAP)



ITime taken to prepare the project (months)       I        12                    I      13            I
   First Bank mission (identification)                     0310112002                   0310112002
  Appraisal mission departure                              0211712003                   0312112003
II Negotiations                                            0311712003                   0511612003
   Planned Date of Effectiveness                  II       0513012003            II     1013112003    II

Prepared by:
National AIDS Commission, National AIDS Technical Working Group (TWG), development partners,
G O M stakeholders


Preparation assistance:
Japanese PHRD grant No. TF051635:         $635,000 (approved Sept 2002)
Japanese PHRD grant No. TF051636:         $65,000 (approved Sept 2002)

Bank staff who worked on the projectincluded:
           Name                                           Speciality
  Christine Kimes                         Sr. Operations OfficerlTeam Leader
   Sheila Dutta                           EpidemiologistlPublic Health Specialist
  DavidWilson                             Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
  Nadeem Mohammad                         OperationsIGrants Specialist
  Albertus Voetberg                       Lead Health Specialist
  Elizabeth Ashbourne                     Private Sector Mainstreaming Specialist
  Donald Mphande                          Sr. Financial Management Specialist
  John Nyaga                              Sr. Financial Management Specialist
  RajatNarula                             Sr. Financial Management Specialist
  Ivonna Kratynski                        Sr. Finance Officer
  Kofi Awanyo                             Sr. Procurement Specialist
  Yolanda Tayler                          Sr. Procurement Specialist
  Johnstone Nyirenda                      Procurement Specialist
  Francis M'Buka                          DecentralizatiodCDD Specialist
  Kate Kuper                              Institutional DevelopmentlLocal Government Specialist
  Manush Hristov                          Counsel
  Tesfaalem G. Iyesus                     Sr. Procurement Specialist
  Hope Phillips                           Operations Officer
  Tanangachi Ngwira                       Executive Team Assistant
  Shimwaayi Muntemba                      Sr. Social Scientist
  Philip Hedger                           Private Sector I Pharmaceutical Specialist
  Bibiane Uwera                           ProgramAssistant



                                                    - 60 -

                            Annex 8: Documents in the Project File*
                           MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)


A. Project Implementation Plan
1. Strategic Management Plan
2. FirstYear Annual Work Plan (draft)
3. Multi-donor M O U
4. M O U Operational Guidelines
5. Monitoring and Evaluation Plan (Parts A & B)
6. HealthCare Waste Management Plan of Action

B. Bank Staff Assessments
1. Financial Management Capacity Assessment
2. Procurement Capacity Assessment
3. Health Sector Goods Procurement Assessment

C. Other
 1. National Strategic Framework
2. NationalAIDS Policy (draft)
3. N A C Financial Management Manual
4. N A C Procurement Manual
5. N A C Grants Facility Framework Document
6. NGO ProposalWriting Guidelines
7. N A C Grants Agreement + Grants Operational Manual
8. Public Sector Proposal Writing Guidelines
9. Private Sector ProposalWriting Guidelines
10. NAC Institutional Assessment
11. Injection Safety & Medical Waste Assessment Report
12. HealthCare Waste Management Policy Paper
13. Report o fnational and district consultations on I S & MW Assessment findings
14. NAC/MOHP guidelines and manuals (VCT, PMTCT, ART)
15. Public Sector Mainstreaming Guidelines
16. RapidAppraisal o fMainstreaming inthe Public Sector
17. N A C ProgramActivity Reporting System (M&E)

*Including electronic files




                                                   - 61 -

                                              Annex 9: Statement of Loans and Credits
                                            MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)
                                                                  26-Jun-2003
                                                                                                                           Difference between expected
                                                                                                                                    and actual
                                                                       Original Amount in US$ Millions                            disbursements'
Project ID  FY    Purpose                                          IBRD         IDA                   GEF   Cancel. Undisb.       Orig   Frm Rev'd
PO75911     2003 Third Social Action Fund (MASAF 3)                   0.00       32.80                 0.00    0.00   62.74         0.00      0.00
PO78408     2003 FIN. MGMT, TRANSPARENCY,ACCOUNTABILI                 0.00       23.70                 0.00    0.00   24.99         0.09      0.00
P080368     2003 EMERGENCY DROUGHT RECOVERY PROJECT                   0.00       29.00                 0.00    0.00   31.47        -7.30      0.00
PO70235     2001 Regional Trade Fac. Proj. -Malawi                    0.00       15.00                 0.00    0.00   11.40         3.44      0.00
PO35917     2001 Mulanje Mt. Biodiversity Conservation Pr             0.00        0.00                 6.75    0.00     7.01        3.87      0.00
PO73832     2001 TA. ADJUSTMENT (FRDP Ill)                            0.00        3.00                 0.00    0.00     2.37        1.24      0.00
PO63095     2000 Privatization and Utility Reform Project             0.00       28.90                 0.00    0.00   25.89        16.04      0.00
P036038     1999 POPULATlONiFP PROJEC                                 0.00        5.00                 0.00    0.00     2.36        2.18      1.38
PO01666     1999 ROAD MAIN. a REHAB                                   0.00       30.00                 0.00    0.00   13.65        11.41      0.00
PO49599     1999 MASAFll                                              0.00       66.00                 0.00    0.00     5.97        6.83      0.00
PO01670     1998 SECONDARY ED PROJECT                                 0.00       48.20                 0.00    0.00   22.80        22.05      0.00
PO01667     1995 NAT WATER DEV                                        0.00       79.20                 0.00    0.00     6.21       14.85      0.00

                                                           Total:    0.00       360.80               6.75      0.00   216.87       74.69      1.38




                                                                      - 62 -

                                            MALAWI
                                       STATEMENT OF IFC's
                                    HeldandDisbursedPortfolio
                                          May 30 2003
                                                    -
                                        InMillions USDollars

                                                          Committed                        Disbursed
                                                        IFC                              IFC
FY Approval     Company                          Loan    Equity    Quasi   Partic  Loan   Equity  Quasi  Partic
1999            AEF Kabula Hotel                  0.64     0.00     0.00     0.00  0.64    0.00    0.00   0.00
1997            AEF Maravi                        0.21     0.00     0.00     0.00  0.21    0.00    0.00   0.00
1996            AEF Mwaiwathu                     0.00     0.81     0.00     0.00   0.00   0.81    0.00   0.00
1998            AEF UhluGarden                    0.20     0.00     0.00     0.00   0.20   0.00    0.00   0.00
2000            NICO                              0.00     1.04     0.00     0.00   0.00    1.04   0.00   0.00
                       Total Portfolio:           1.05     1.85      0.00    0.00    1.05   1.85    0.00  0.00



                                                      Approvals Pending Commitment
F Y Approval    Company                             Loan      Equity     Quasi    Partic


                Total Pending Commitment:            0.00       0.00      0.00     0.00




                                                - 63 -

                                                    Annex I O : Country at a Glance
                                       MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)
                                                                                  Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                                            Saharan        Low-
                                                                 Malawi          Africa    income           Developmentdiamond'
2001
Population, mid-year(millions)                                       10.5           674      2,511                         Life expectancy
GNI per capita (Atlas method, US$)                                   160            470        430
GNI (Atlas method, US$billions)                                       1.7           317      1,069                                T


Average annual growth, 1995-01
Population (%)                                                        2.2           2.5         1.9
Laborforce ("A)                                                       2.1           2.6        2.3          GNI
                                                                                                            per
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 1995-01)                                                       capita
Poverty(% of populationbelownationalpoveltyline)                       60                                                         L

Urban population(% of totalpopulation)                                 15            32         31
Life expectancyat birth (years)                                      38.8            47         59
infant mortality(per 1,000live births)                               103             91         76
Child malnutrition(% of children under5)                               25                                         Access to improved water source
Access to an improvedwater source (% of population)                    57            55         76
illiteracy (% ofpopuletion age 15+)                                    39            37         37
Gross primaryenrollment (% of school-agepopulation)                  131             78         96                  -Malawi
                                                                                                             1
     Male                                                            138             85        103                           Low-incomegroup
     Female                                                          125             72         88

KEY ECONOMIC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                         1981       1991           2000       2001
                                                                                                             Economicratios.
GDP (US$ billions)                                         1.3        2.2            1.7        1.7
Grossdomestic investmenffGDP                              19.6       20.2           12.5       10.9
Exportsof goods and servicesiGDP                          25.0       23.3           26.4       26.0                             Trade

Gross domesticsavingslGDP                                 14.0       14.2            0.5       -1.o
Gross nationalsavingslGDP                                  4.5       10.6           -1.3       -1.9

CurrentaccountbalancelGDP                                           -11.4          -13.8      -12.9
Interest paymentslGDP                                      4.0        1.7            1.5        1.5
Total debffGDP                                            65.7       75.6         156.6      156.4
Total debt serviceiexports                                38.4       29.0           20.1       20.2
Presentvalue of debffGDP                                                            90.5       88.4
Presentvalue of debffexports                                                      331.3      330.4         I                  Indebtedness
                                          1981-91 1991-01            2000          2001    2001-05
(average annualgrowth)
GDP                                           3.2          3.7         1.7          -1.5        4.3                   -Malawi
GDP Der cadta                                 0.0           1.6       -0.4          -3.5        2.3                            Low-incomegroup
                                                                      -5.7           3.7        2.9




Agriculture                                               39.8       43.7           41.6       37.1          2o

Industry                                                  21.7       26.9           19.1       16.3           0
    Manufacturing                                         14.0       18.0           13.8       11.5
Services                                                  38.5       29.4           39.4       46.7         -20




Generalgovernmentconsumption                                6.4       -1.9          33.3        9.1         -30
Grossdomestic investment                                    0.3       -8.8         -20.4      -10.2                    -Exports           *Imports


Note: 2001 data are preliminary estimates.
*The diamondsshow lour key indicatorsin the country (in bold) comparedwith its income-groupaverage. If data are missing,the diamondwill be incomplete.




                                                                              - 64 -

                                                                                                                     Malawi
                                                   ~~~




PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                          1981        1991   2000   2001
Domestic prices                                                          6-lnflatlon (%)

(% change)
Consumer prices                            11.8       12.6    29.6   27.2
Implicit GDP deflator                      16.3       10.7    25.2   26.1
Governmentffnance
(% of GDP, includes current grants)
Current revenue                            19.5       18.6    17.4   17.8             96     97      98      99      00     01
Current budget balance                     -4.2       -1.2    -2.8   -5.7
Overall surplusldeficit                   -14.9       -6.3   -14.2  -14.1          -GDP         deflator   ' O ' C P I


TRADE                                                                                                                         I
                                          1981        1991   2000   2001
(US$millions)                                                               Export and Import levels (US$ mill.)
Total exports (fob)                                   476     406    441
  Tobacco                                              250    247    236
  Tea                                                   37      37    36                                                      I
  Manufactures                                          23      56    60
Total imports (cif)                                   645     563    566
  Food                                                  11      30    34
  Fuel and energy                                       54      75    68                                                      I
  Capital goods                                        280    223    217
Export price index (1995=100)                          118      86    85          95    96     97     98     99

Import price index (?995=?00)                           93      93    91                   Exports           Imports O0   O1
Terms of trade (1995=?00)                              127      92    93

BALANCE of PAYMENTS
                                          1981        1991   2000   2001
(US$ millions)                                                              Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services              316         513    451    456
Imports of goods and services              391        683     657    664
Resource balance                           -75        -170   -206    -209
Net income                                -130         4 7     -38    -32
Net current transfers                         0        -33       8     16
Current account balance                               -250   -237    -225
Financing items (net)                                 262     225     193
Changes in net reserves                     25         -11      11    32    201
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)      54        285     243    202
Conversion rate (DEC, local/US$)           0.9         2.8    59.5   72.2

EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
                                          1981        1991   2000   2001
(US$millions)                                                               Composition of 2001 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed       822      1,665    2,674  2,735
  iBRD                                      52          85       9      4                        G: 27
  IDA                                      151        866    1,654  1,762                  F 1 7       A:.

Total debt service                         122         151      94     95
  IBRD                                       2          16       9      6
  IDA                                        2           9      28     31
Composition of net resource flows
  Official grants                                              148    98
  Official creditors                        80        130      145    141
  Private creditors                          4         -10      -1     -1
  Foreign direct investment                                    27     28
  Portfolio equity                                               0      0
                                                                                                                              I
World Bank program I /
  Commitments                                                  29     74    A IBRD                              E Bilateral
  Disbursements                                                                                                    ~
                                            48        100     112     107   B IDA
                                                                              --        D .Other multilateral   F Private
  Principal repayments                       1          11     22     24    C-IMF                               G Short-term
                                                                                                                 ..
  Net flows                                 47         88      91     83
  Interest payments                          3          13      13     13
  Net transfers                             44         75      78     70

Development tconomics
11Fiscal year data.


                                                          - 65 -

             Additional Annex I 1:Multi-Donor Memorandum of Understanding
                          MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)


General

A Memorandumo f Understanding(MOU) has beendeveloped to set out the framework under which
financial support from FundingPartners and the Government o f Malawi (GOM) will be channeled to the
National AIDS Commission (NAC) for implementation o f the Strategic Management Plan. Operational
Guidelines to the M O Uhave also beendeveloped to provide detailed guidance on reporting
requirements, review mechanisms, and audit arrangements.

The FundingPartners may be national governments, multilateral institutions, non-governmental
organizations or other institutions and each may appoint an agent to assume its responsibilities under the
Memorandum o f Understanding. New FundingPartners will be able to join the MOUunder procedures
definedinthe MOU.

Purpose

The FundingPartners and GOM have entered into partnership to support implementation of the National
HIV/AIDSStrategic Framework whose goals are to: 1) reduce incidence o fHIV and other sexually
transmitted infections, 2) improve the quality o f life o f those infected and affected by HIV/AIDS and 3)
mitigate the impact o f HIV/AIDS inall sectors and at all levels o f Malawian society.

The operational framework for this partnership is provided by the Strategic ManagementPlan, which will
be translated into action by means o f an annual work plan and budget,to be agreed each year and
amended quarterly with the consent of the Participants. The purpose o f the programi s to coordinate the
national response and facilitate the delivery o f key interventions through all organizations and
communities inMalawi.

Financial

The FundingPartners and GOM will provide their financial contributions through : (i)       pooled funds for
general application to the agreed Annual Work Plan (AWP); or (ii)       earmarked funds supplied for direct
attribution to specific projects or budget lines inthe Annual Work Plan. The provisions o f the M O U
guide bothtypes of Contribution. Table 1presents a table ofknown and anticipated financial
commitments to the N A C from earmarked and pooledfunding partners and GOM.

Contributions will be pledgedannually, with indicative amounts provided by Participants duringthe
semi-annual review meetingheldinFebruary each year to review AWP implementation and to review the
draft AWP for the next fiscal year. Informal consultation with the FundingPartners on the Work Plan
and Budgetwill be followed by approval o f the N A C Boardo f Commissioners and then formal
presentation to the Participants by the end o f April. Participant pledges will be confirmed at that time
and entered into the national budget process.

Disbursements

Disbursementswill be released on a quarterly basis, and will be calculatedto cover requirementsfor a six
month period, based on the annual work plan and expenditures/commitments at the end o f a quarterly



                                                    - 66 -

reporting period. N A C will provide quarterly program monitoring reports (PMRs), comprising
output/activity reports, financial statements, and procurement status reports, within 30 days o f the end o f
each quarter. The FundingPartners, GOM, and N A C will then meet within the next 15 days to review
the quarterly P M R and agree on any adjustments that may be required at that time. Requests for
disbursement will be submitted to the Participants following the satisfactory completion o f the Quarterly
meeting. The PMR will be prepared according to a format agreed among all the partners, and the
quarterly meeting will likewise be managed according to TOR jointly agreed. Table 2 presents the
schedule o f quarterly meetings andjoint review tasks.

Audits

N A C operations will be subject to external audits, by a competitively recruited independent auditing
firm,applying internationally accepted accountingprocedures and standards. The external audit will
cover all funds available to N A C for implementation o f the program, irrespective o f the source o f
funding. The auditors will produce an interimreport covering the July-December period, and the
combined program I entity comprehensive audit for the entire year will be produced after the end o f the
fiscal year (June 30). Terms o f reference for the audits have been agreed among the MOUParticipants
and approved by the Auditor General's office.

Procurement

Procurement o f all goods and services shall be as specified inthe N A C Procurement Manual, which i s
fully consistent with IDA ICB, Consultant, and community participation guidelines. The manual defines
thresholds for different types o f procedures and prior review requirements applicable to N A C and other
entities receiving funds through the Program. The FundingPartners have agreed that IDA will review and
provide clearances on procurement on behalf o f the Partners. Deviation from these Policies and
Guidelines may result in an expense being inadmissible for FundingPartner financing.

Non-performanceunder the MOU

Inthe event o f failure to implement, or to report on the programina manner consistent with the terms o f
the Memorandum o f Understanding, FundingPartners will have the right to suspend disbursements to the
Program inaccordance with their bilateral agreements. Prior to the execution o f any such suspension o f
disbursements, FundingPartners will informthe Govemment of Malawi ina timely manner that
suspension may occur. Inall cases, prior to the execution of a suspension o f disbursements, Participants
will meet to seek a resolution to the issues at hand.

New FundingPartners

N e w FundingPartners mayj o i n the Memorandum o f Understanding on the basis of:

      agreement o f N A C and MOUsignatories;
      provision o f a minimumo f $250,000 per annum to flow to or through NAC;
      written agreement to comply with the provisions o f the MOU;
      the applicant organization i s not a recipient or potential recipient of funds from NAC; and
      the new Funding Partner has the authority to enter into legal agreements.

Amendments

The MOUmay be amended at any time upon the written agreement o f all Participants.


                                                      - 67 -

Entry into Force and Duration

The MOU was signed on June 24,2003 by the Government o f Malawi and representatives o f the Pooled
FundingPartners: Canada, Norway, the United Kingdom, and the International Development
Association. The MOUentered into force as o f said date, with earmarked funding partners expected to
sign in the coming months as they complete their respective legal reviews.




                                                 - 68 -

  IDA                 35,000.0   12.7%      35,000.0      100%         48%
  DfID                 7,200.0    2.6%       7,200.0      100%         10%
  Govt of Malawi       10,000.0   3.7%      10,000.0      100%          14%
                                                                   I
  Total          I   274.738.5 I 100.0% I   72.200.0 I    26%


IIL                                                       I



       JUL        II
II     AUG
       SEPT         4thQtrly Mtg               IAnnual Joint Review                1
1      OCT       II
       NOV          lst Mtg.
                       Qtrly.                   Reviewof consolidatedaudit report
                                                andprocurementaudit report
       DEC
       JAN

       FEB          2"dQtrly Mtg                Semi-Annual Review+Draft
                                                Annual Wk PlanReview
       MAR
1      APR       I
       MAY          31dQrtly Mtg                FinalAnnual Work Plan, Budget,
                                                andAnnual ProcurementPlan
       JUNE
     s




                                     - 69 -

                            Additional Annex 12: NAC Grants Facility
                          MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)

Background

Inrecognition ofthe disastrous impact ofthe HIV/AIDS epidemic onhuman and economic development
inMalawi, the Government ofMalawi (GoM) launchedthe National Strategic Framework (NSF) for
HIV/AIDS Prevention and Care (2000-4) in 1999.The goals o f the NSF are: (i)       Reduced incidence o f
HIVinfection; (ii) Improved quality o f life for people infected and affected by HIV/AIDS (PLWA); and
(iii)
    mitigatedimpact o f HIV/AIDS on Malawian society.

The National AIDS Commission (NAC), created in July 2001, coordinates implementation o f the
multi-sectoral and decentralized response. N A C successfully mobilised resource commitments from the
Global Fundfor AIDS, Malaria and Tuberculosis, the World Bank and bilateral donors.

One o f NAC's priorities i s to massively increase the delivery and uptake o f HIV/AIDS services for
prevention, care and impact mitigation. Service delivery will rely on civil society, i.e. CBOs, NGO and
Faith-based organisations (FBO), the private sector and public sector institutions such as Ministries,
parastatal organisations and District AIDS Coordination Committees. Inorder to make resources
available to these organizations in an effective, efficient and accountable manner, the N A C developed a
grants management system, the `Grants Facility'.

Goal and objectives

The purpose o f the Grants Facility i s "to increase the utilisation ofprevention, care and impact
mitigation services across Malawi ", in support o f the NSF goals o f reduced HIV transmission and
improved quality o f life for PLWA. Specific objectives are:

1. Increasedfinancial resources available to civil society andprivate organizations to implement
    HIV/AIDS services and activities;
2. Increasednumber andrange o f civil society and private organizations receiving resources and
    support;
3. Improved human and organizational capacities to implement quality services.

Guiding principles

The guidingprinciples for the Grants Facility are:


0   Respect for the rights and dignity o f each person, irrespective o f behaviours, HIV status, gender, age,
    religion, sexuality, or race;
0   Confidential, voluntary, non-judgmental and non-discriminatory service delivery;
0   Inclusive and supportive management, recognizing that all Malawian and foreign organisations have
    a potential to contribute to the response;
0   Respect for and compliance with the NSF, the National HIV/AIDS Policy and any protocols and
    guidelines deriving from the above;
0   Decentralization o f management systems, increasing responsiveness to local needs and contexts.




                                                     - 70 -

Grant Recipients
The Grants Facility aims to provide support to all organizations across civil society that are able and
willing to contribute to the national response, implement services and account for funds received. Grant
recipients may include:

     Communities and CBOs, where neededthrough intermediary organizations;
     NGOs, includingAIDS Service Organisations (ASO) and International NGOs;
     FBOs includingmission hospitals and faith communities
     Professional associations, clubs and trade unions;
     For-profit business entities, small and mediumenterprises (SMEs);
     Media groups, journalists, and commercial training organizations;
     Local government organizations, e.g. District Assemblies (DAs), DACCs;
     Schools and universities;
     Central government institutions, e.g. ministriesand statutory corporations.

Services and Activities to be supported
The Grants Facility supports any activity that supports the goal of the NSF and follows national technical
guidelines.This includes:

     Services for prevention, care and support, and mitigation o f the impact o f HIV/AIDS on individuals,
     communities and organisations;
     Activities that help create a supportive environment and increased capacity o f civil society for
     service delivery, e.g. technical andor organizational capacity building,formative or other research,
     advocacy and networkingor information support.
     Activities that contribute to tracking the epidemic and measuring the scope and effectiveness o f the
     national response.

Implementation arrangements
Implementationo f the Grants Facility i s the responsibility o f the N A C Secretariat. A SteeringCommittee
o f primary and secondary stakeholders, chaired by the N A C Chairperson, i s responsible for governance
o f the Facility and for ratifying grant approvals by the N A C Secretariat. Financial Management,
including coordination o f the proposal review process, organizational capacity appraisal o f applicants,
organisational capacity building o f recipients, and progress monitoring, will be contracted out to an
accounting firm: the Financial ManagementAgent (FMA). The Grants Facility relies on existing
Technical Working Groups to develop national technical guidelines for service delivery, and to identify a
roster o f experts for external review o f project proposals. N A C plans to recruit several Liaison Officers
(eg, for public sector, local government, Faith-based, private sector, etc.) and a Capacity BuildingOfficer
to coordinate capacity buildingo f grant recipients.

Strategic planning
To increase the effectiveness and efficiency o f the scaling upprocess towards nation-wide coverage of
essential HIV/AIDS services, N A C plans to use a strategic planning process for the grants facility, as
input to the overall national HIVIAIDSplanningeffort. The keyelements of the Grants Facility strategic
planningprocess are:

     Annual Situation and ResponseAnalyses;
     Annual revision o f the Grants Facility Scale up Strategy, identifying priority services, partners and


                                                      - 71 -

      geographic areas
0    Annual revisiono f the Grants Facility Communication Strategy, specifying how to engagenew
     partners in the response

Grant Mechanisms
The Grants Facility allows for flexible grant and contract mechanisms, as per the needo f the contracting
partners. The main grant mechanisms are:


0     Grants for Service Delivery, i.e. grants for organisations that submit unsolicited proposals for
     HIV/AIDSservices or activities, often larger grants for national levelHIV/AIDS organisations;
0    Task Orders on the basis o f a call for proposals for specific services (e.g. a specific piece o f
     research), or after joint workplan development with a "sole source'' organisation (e.g. a line
     ministry);
0    Umbrella Mechanism for Community-basedServices, i.e. contracts with intermediary organisations
     who inturn support and subcontract smaller partners, such as CBOs or Village AIDS Committees
      (VACs);
0     Other grant and contract mechanisms may be developed.

Selectionof Recipients,ProposalReview and Contracting
Identificationo f grant recipients depends on the grant mechanism: N A C may pro-actively approach
potential implementingpartners, or interested organisations may approach the N A C with a project
proposal. Advocacy and sensitisation i s neededfor private sector, district government, ministries and
faith based organisations, and this i s the responsibility o fN A C Liaison Officers. Proposalguidelines
exist for HIV/AIDSservice delivery organisations and Umbrella Organisations, for Ministries and public
sector institutions, and for private sector organisations. Guidelines for DACCs and CBOs will be
developed.

Multi-district and national scale proposals are submittedto the N A C FMA,who will screen the proposal
to assess if it meets general eligibility criteria, andor ifit needs to be submitted to an Umbrella
Organisation, e.g. in case o f local district level projects. Proposal review i s transparent and objective,
with set criteria and external reviewers. Proposals will be reviewed from three perspectives using
standardized review sheets (see attachments):

1. External review o fproject designand technical meritby three independent experts against set
      criteria; reviewers may ask for clarifications or suggest changes inproject design as a condition for
      approval;
2. Screening by FMA o f proposal consistency with budgeting guidelines;
3.   On-site organisational pre-appraisal o f applicant organisationby FMA to assess technical,
     organisational and financial management capacity.

The three step process to be followed is expected to take about 14weeks from receipt to decision
(assuming that proposals submitted are complete and do not require extensive re-writing by the
applicant). Ifthe three levels o f review are satisfactory, the proposal with supporting review documents
i s presented to the N A C for its review and approval. Once approved, a grant agreement i s offered
consisting o f the agreement letter, approved workplan and budget, a "Grant Operational Manual",
explaining contractual roles and reporting requirements, and a "Grants Facility Procurement Guidelines"
booklet providing helpfulexplanations and formats for procurement rules. All grant agreements are
brought before the Steering Committee for ex-post ratification.



                                                      - 72 -

ReportingRequirements
Grant recipients are requiredto report on progress and performance to the NAC. During grant
implementation, progress reporting will consist of:


0    Monthly Project Activity Monitoring Reports, to report service statistics according to a simple
     standardized format usedby all service providers as part o f the National M&E system;
0    Quarterly Narrative Reports, according to a report format, detailing major activities and
     achievements, lessons learnt, support needs, andplans for the next two quarters;
0    Quarterly Financial Reports, consisting of an expenditure report, bank reconciliation statement,
     supported by original bills and vouchers;
0    Quarterly Procurement Report, according to a simple report format inthe Grant Manual;
0    Annual Report o f all activities, including financial report and where applicable, a statement from the
     auditors.

Upon completion o f work plan activities, the grant recipient will submit a Project Completion Report.

Grant disbursement and auditing

The initial grant disbursementfollowing proposal approvalI grant agreement signature will be based
upon the successful applicant's fundingrequirementsfor the first two quarters o f the approved work plan.
Thereafter, disbursements will be made each quarter, conditional on receipt o f satisfactory quarterly
reports for the last quarter (including progress, financial, and procurement), and a 6-month projectionof
funding requirements (with supporting workplan) after actual expenditures and commitments out o f the
initial disbursement are taken into account.

Proposals receiving grants over the equivalent o f US$ 5,000 require an annual external audit o f grant
expenditure and financial management systems. Smaller grants are subject to spot checks by the FMA,
the umbrella organization, or the NAC's auditor.

CapacityBuilding

Capacity buildingi s one o f the three specific objectives o f the Grant Facility. N A C i s considering the
recruitment o f a N A C Capacity Building Officer to coordinate technical and organisational capacity
buildingof all implementingpartners, including contract management with national training institutions.
A Capacitybuildingstrategy will describe capacitybuildingneeds and purpose, guidingprinciples and
methodologies, and will be complemented by annual implementation plans for detailed capacity building
activities.

Umbrella Organisations are contractedto strengthen CBOs in service delivery and programme
management, and DACCs in strategic planning and CBO support. All grant recipients are encouraged to
identify capacity buildingneeds intheir proposals and addressthese inthe workplan. Monitoring of
organisational capacity takes place through repeat training needskapacity assessments, and self-reported
support needs.

Monitoringand Evaluation
The FMA management information systems will enable monthly monitoring of output data such as
number andrange of grant recipients, funds distributedand used, and service statistics disaggregated for
district, age and gender.



                                                     - 73 -

An output-to-purpose review o f the Grants Facility will be carried out annually bythe N A C as part of the
joint review process. The proposed logical framework for this review i s presented below. A mid-term
evaluation i s proposed to take place in2005.

           Objectives                         Indicators                  Means of verification
    Purpose                     1. # vulnerable adults reachedwith       1. Progress reports
    Increasedutilisation o f        B C I                                2. ((
    essential HIVIAIDS          2. # adolescents reached with B C I      3. "
    prevention, care and        3.  # women using PMTCT services         4. "
    impact mitigation           4. # people tested and counselled        5.  <'
    services                        through VCT                          6. '(
                                5.  # P W A using care & support         7.
                                    services
                                6. # orphans usingsupport services
                                7. #widows using support services
    output 1                    1. total $ disbursedto grantees          1. FMAreport
    Increased access to         2. total $ expendedby grantees           2. FMAreport
    resources o f civil society
    partners
    output 2                    1. # proposals receivedI assessedI       1. FMAreport
    Increased number and            approved                             2. FMAreport
    variety of civil society    2. # newlongoing grants                  3. FMAreport
    partners engaged inthe      3.  # grantees (NGOIprivatelpublic)
    response
    output 3                    1. # I A s with capacity building        1. NACproject progress
    Increased capacity of           support                                  reports
    partners to implement       2. # capacity buildingevents             2. IA progress reports
    quality services                (NACIFMNUmbrella' s)                 3.  IA progress reports
                                3. # IA staff trained                    4. IA progress reports
                                4. # community people trained            5.  IA progress reports
                                5. evidence o f increased capacity       6. FMA annual report
                                6. # o f unqualified audit reports o f IA
                                    grants




                                                   - 74 -

                                                                                   Attachment 1
                                   Proposal Review Score Sheet

   Organisation:
   . This score sheet is meant primarily as a review guide to the proposalcontent, and the
     scores assigned may not necessarily be the final appraisal o f the proposal.
     The proposing organisation will be appraised separately on organisational capacity and
     financial management capacity.
E  * Please indicate assigned points for each category inthe spaceto the left.

      Project Design
   1. Overall strengtho f the intervention design: intervention strategy and choice o f       out of 10
      target population
  2. Responsiveness of the project purpose to needs of the target population                  outof5
  3. Sensitivity to gender and social inequalities                                             out of5
  4. Clarity of purpose and logical linkto objectives and intervention activities              outof 10
   5. Quality and adequacy o f monitoring and evaluation plan                                  outof 10
   6. Feasibility: can the stated objectives be achieved within giventime plan and             outof5
      budget
   7. HIViAIDS Service delivery: technical strengthand consistency with best                   out of 10
II TotalSustainability and
      practice

         points for section 1                                                               I O u t o f 5 5   I
                           Collaboration

   1. Cost-effectiveness of the intervention                                                   outof 10
  2. Potential for sustainability of the services by organisation or others                    outof 10
   3. Extent to which the proposal articulates a collaboration plan with other                 outof5
       organisationshervice providers
II     Total point for section 3                                                             l o u t o f 2 5  I
       organisational Capacity
I 1. Current o f Dast exDerience in HIV/AIDS or relevant Droiects                      I     I Outof10 I
   2. Adequacy of human and financial resources to implement the intervention                  outof 10
      technically and administratively
   3. Adequacy of organisationalmanagement                                                     outof 10
       Total points for Section 4                                                             Out of 30
       TOTAL POINTS FORPROPOSAL                                                               outof 110


              Accepted                      Accepted conditionally                  Not accepted
                                          (Giveconditions separately)




                                                       - 75 -

                                   Checklist for Organisational &
                                  FinancialManagement Appraisal




                    Factor                    Assessment             Key issues
                                             1  2  3   4   5
1  Governanceand management
   mission statement o f organisation
   values re. HIV/AIDS
   board o f trusteeddirectors
   Staffing and organisation
   oreanomam
III staff numbers
   team work
I team
   iob descriptions                       III                III                   III
          skills and experience in:
    .project management
    .HIV/AIDSprevention
    .community care & support
    .health services
I personnel files present
   personnel Dolicv

   Recruitment policv
   Writteninduction Drogramme             I                  I                     I
    staffheam development policy
   salary structure and procedures
   staff appraisal
   record o f staffs work with clients
    staffmeetings
   written code of practice on working
   procedures
   accommodatiodoffice
   Financialmanagementhystems
   registration with Government/District
   accounting systems
I separate bank account                   II                 II                    1I
   experience in grant management
   other sources o f income
   financial planninghudgeting
   financial monitoring
   external audit system


                                                     - 76 -

   audited accounts o f last 3 years
   capital assets available
   contracting serviceslconsultants
   Project management
I project  planning system
   performancemonitoring system
   evaluatiodreview system
   participation o f stakeholders
   Externalrelations
   with NAC
   with DACC/DA
   with other NGOs
111with Drivate Dractitioners                                                                   I
   with communitv
   with PLWA                               III                 III                              II
    1 = poor; 5 = excellent


   Strongpoints:                                         Weak points/ TA needs


   1                                                     1.

                                                         2.

                                                         3.
   Conditionsfor funding:




                           Criteriafor BudgetAssessment by FMA

   The project proposal review consists ofthree parts:

   1.    External technical review o f project design;
   2.    Organisational pre-appraisal on-site by FMA, and
   3.    Assessment of adherence to budgetingguidelinesby FMA.

   Below are the criteria usedfor the budgetreview by FMA. Ifany one o f these
   conditions i s not met, the FMA will request the applicant organisation to re-submit the
   proposal.

   Notificationto re-submit the proposal will be provided within 3 weeks o f receipt o f the
   proposal by the FMA.



                                                      - 77 -

1.    I s the budgetpresentedin the required format?
   *  Overall budget
   *  Budgeting details per line item
   *  Summary budget

2.   Are funds requestedfor itemsthat are excludedfor funding inthe proposal
         guidelines?
    * Previous obligations
   *  Baddebts
   *  Land

3.   Are expensesjustified?
   * Inthe narrativeproposal budget
   -+ Workshops I seminarsI conferences outside Malawi without justification
      Capital assets without justification?

4.   Are there major mistakesinthe calculations?




                                                -78 -

          Additional Annex 13: National HlVlAlDS Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
                            MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)


Background

With the increasing spread o f HIV/AIDS, it has been important to sharpen monitoring and evaluation
tools to check whether programmes are meeting goals and producing the desired impact on the lives o f
individuals, families, and communities. The need for documenting success o f programmes has driventhe
emphasis on monitoring and evaluation by stakeholders, including the Government o f Malawi and
fundingpartners.

The National HIV/AIDSMonitoring and EvaluationSystem

Giventhis imperative, the National AIDS Commission and stakeholders have developed a National
HIV/AIDS M&E System to enable the country to track its progress towards the goals and objectives as
stated in the National HIV/AIDS Strategic Framework (NSF). The instrument for translating this system
from theory into action i s the National HIVIAIDSM&EPlan, which lays the conceptual foundation and
defines the operational mechanisms which will be used. The national HIV/AIDS M&E Plan i s divided
into two parts:

*    Part A, the Conceptual Framework, lays the conceptual foundation for the M&E system, by
providing a logical framework for organizing and prioritizing national efforts. Itprovides a description o f
goals, illustrative activities, and measurable indicators by programme area, and defines a set o f data
sources that will be usedto gather the necessary M&E information.


*    Part B, the Operational Plan, provides detailedindicator descriptions and describes the collection,
flow, analysis, reporting, and dissemination o f information, the organizations and individuals responsible
for these tasks, and the data systems necessary to accommodate this information. Part B also defines and
describes the informationproducts that will be the result o f the national M&E system, and recommends
an overall 5 year implementation cycle for the National M&E system(including functional
responsibilities and an operational budget).

The LogicalFramework

The logical framework for this M&E plan is informed by the overall goal of the NSF: to reduce
incidence o f HIV and other sexually transmitted infections and to improve the quality o f life of those
infected and affected by HIV/AIDS. Three key objectives o fNSF have been selected as follows:

      To reduce HIV incidence inMalawi.
      To improve the quality o f life o f PLWAs & those affected by HIV/AIDS.
      To mitigate the impact o f HIV/AIDS on Malawian Society.

The logicalframework is organized according to the following levels: impact assessment, outcomes
assessment, monitoring o f programmes (HIVprevention, HIV/AIDStreatment, care and support,
HIV/AIDSImpact Mitigation), andmonitoring ofnational leadership, coordination, andmanagement
functions. Socioeconomic status, gender, and special populations are not identified in this framework as
stand-alone programmatic areas, but rather are considered to be relevant to all efforts within prevention,
care and support, and capacity-building.


                                                    - 79 -

The full logical framework i s attached inannex, which classifies national indicators by M&Elevel,
priority area, and programme area. As a general rule, impact and outcome indicators are derived from
data collected through national efforts, whereas the programme monitoring indicators are generally
derived from routine data systems and reporting formats usedat the programme level. Existing data
sources have beenfully evaluated and integrated inthe systemwhenever possible, and in some cases new
data sources have beendefinedto fill informational gaps. Summary information on data sources and
cooperating institutions i s presented in annex.

ImplementationArrangements

Inline withNAC's overall mandate to coordinate and act as guardianofthe nationalHIV response,NAC
will play a leadership role through its Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unitto ensure that the
National HIV/AIDS M&E system i s implementedas intended. Cooperating institutions inthe M&E
systemhave been fully involvedindeveloping the implementationarrangements and advising on data
collection and analysis modalities. Based on these consultations, implementationresponsibilities for the
different stakeholders have beenidentifiedand agreed (Board of Commissioners, NAC Executive
Director, N A C Heado f Planning and M&E Officer, FMA, implementers o f HIV interventions, research
institutions, and external funding partners).

The Operational Plan (Part B) provides a clear definition of activities, implementation time frames and
responsibilities. The categories o f activities within the National HIV/AIDS M&E systemcan be
categorised as follows:

*      Set-up and operationalisationofNationalHIV/AIDS M&E System
       Generation o f data sources not commissioned by N A C
       Generation o f data sources commissioned byN A C
       Co-ordination to ensure that all data source information i s receivedto inform all N A C indicators
*      Development and disseminationo f N A C informationproducts

These activities are detailed inthe Operations Planwith clear implementation time frames ina GANNT
chart format. These M&E activities will be translated into Annual M&E Work Plans each year,
including fundingrequirements and expected outputs.

InformationProducts

InDecember 2002 andJanuary 2003,NAC ascertained the information needs ofits stakeholders through
a series o f field visits, interviews and questionnaires. Based on these informationneeds, the N A C
HIVIAIDS M&E systemwill produce the following periodic informationproducts:

.      Annual HIV/ADS M&E Report
       Quarterly Service Coverage Report
       UNGASS Report
*      GFATMReport
*      Regular Information Systems Updates

In addition to these periodic informationproducts, N A C would also respondto specific and ad hoc
informationneeds o f its stakeholders. Each o f the periodic informationproducts i s described below:




                                                      - 80 -

Annual HIV/AIDS M&E Report : The purpose o f this report is to provide a comprehensive overview
o f Malawi's response to HIV. This will be done by reporting on all indicators contained inNAC's
national HIV/AIDS M&E system, and by providing key observations and guidance for future
implementation. The person inN A C who will be responsible for this report i s the N A C M&E Officer,
with key support from the Heado fPlanning. The report will be compiled during January and February
each year, intime for the HIV/AIDSM&E Report Dissemination Seminar inMarch o f the same year.
The timingo fthe report i s procedurally linked to NAC's annual work planning andbudgetingcycle to
facilitate usingthe information to guide strategic planning and coordination decisions. A draft report
outline has beendeveloped.

Ouarterly Service Coverage Report: The purpose o f this report is to provide a quick overview o f
service coverage inthe previous quarter to better inform implementers and funders o f interventions, o f
where gaps are, and how to maximise resource utilisation. The report will provide informationon
coverage statistics per programme area, and will be based on the informationprovidedby N A C grantees
and non-grantees inthe N A C Activity Report Form. The production o f this report will also ensure that
N A C meets GFATMrequirementsinterms o f minimumreporting standards, as well as reporting to its
basket donors. This report will be compiled on a quarterly basis, within one month o f receipt o f data
from FMA. A draft report outline has been developed.

UNGASSReport: Malawi is a signatory to the 2001 Declarationof Commitment at the UnitedNations
Special Session on HIVIAIDS (UNGASS). Part o f this Declaration o f Commitment includes a set o f
indicators that the Government o f Malawi has agreed to report on to UNAIDSon a periodic basis.
Therefore, the purpose of this report i s to provide periodic updates on Malawi's progress inthe fight
against AIDS, by reporting on the 12 specific indicators definedinthe UNAIDS Guidelinesfor the
Construction of CoreIndicators. All 12UNGASSindicators have been included inthe log frame for
Malawi HIV/AIDS M&E systemto ensure that the data collection and analysis for the UNGASS
indicators form part o f the regular M&Eprocesseswithin NAC. This report will be compiled on a
biennialbasis by the N A C M&EOfficer, with technical support from the in-country UNAIDSoffice.
The format o f this report will be based on format providedby UNAIDS.

GFATM ReDort: the NAC, as part of its legal commitment to the Global Fund, is requiredto submit an
annual report to the GFATM. Inaddition to reporting on milestones for the six program interventions
supported by the Global Fundallocation ina particular calendar year, the report will also cover: i)Status
o f the epidemic inthe region; ii)Status o f the epidemic inthe country; iii)NAC's response inpreventing
further spread ofdisease; iv) Unexpectedresults and lessons learnt; and v) Reporting on all GFATM
indicators (these have beenincluded in the national N A C M&E log frame).

Regular InformationSvstemUpdates: All M&Ereports producedbyNAC (Annual HIV/AIDS M&E
report, Quarterly Service Coverage Report, UNGASS report, and GFATMreport) will be available on
NAC's website for electronic download (inPDF or M S Word format). This will ensure that N A C
stakeholders will be able to access up-to-date information. All indicator data will be updated as and when
new data becomes available. Once indicator data has beenupdated, it will be submitted to the Malawi
Socio-Economic Database (MASEDA) administrator for update on the National Statistical Office's
systems.




                                                     -81 -

                                  Malawi: NationalHIV/AIDS Logical Framework

LEVEL, AREA, AND                      CORE INDICATORS                                                    DATA SOURCE
OBJECTIVE


Reduced HIV incidence                 % of people who are HlV-infected(by age group (15 - 79, 20
                                      -24                                                                Sentinel surveillance &
                                           and 25 49), gender, and residence)(GFATM)
                                                    -                                                    2nd generation surveillance
                                      Syphilis prevalence among pregnantwomen (by age group
                                      (15-19, 20 - 24 and 25  -49),                                      Sentinel surveillance
                                                                     and residence) (GFATM)
                                      % of HlV-infectedinfants born to HlV-infectedmothers               Formula-based estimate
Improved quality of life of those     % of orphans and other vulnerable children to whom                 Population-based survey
infected and affected                 community support is provided (by gender and residence)            (e.g. DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
                                      Ratio of currentschool attendanceamong orphans to that             Population-based survey
                                      among non-orphans, among 10-14year-olds(bygender and               (e.g. DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
                                      residence)


                                      % of sexually active respondentswho had sex with a                 Population-based survey
                                      non-regular partner within the previous 12 months (by              (e.g. DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
                                      gender, residence)
                                      % of people reporting the consistentuse of a condom during         Population-based survey
                                      sexual intercoursewitha non-regularsexual partner (by              (e.g. DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
                                      gender, residence and age (15   -24,25-49))    (GFATM)
                                      Median age at first sex among 15-24year-olds (by gender,           Population-based survey (e.g
                                      residence) (GFATM)                                                 DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
                                      %of young people aged 15-24who had sex with more than              Population-based survey (e.g
                                      one partner in the last 12 months (by gender, residence)           DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
Increased knowledge of HIVIAIDS       % of young people aged 15-24who both correct/y identify            Population-based survey
prevention                            ways of preventing thesexual transmissionof H/Vand who             (e.g. DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
                                      reject major misconceptions about H/V transmission(by
                                      gender and residence) (GFATM)
                                      % of people in general population exposed to HIV/AIDS              Population-based survey
                                      media campaign (by gender,type of employment and                   (e.g. DHS, BSS, CWIQ)
                                      res'dence)
Decreased stigma and discrimination   00 of populat on expresshg accepting attitJdes towards             POPUat on-basedsmev
among general population towards      PLWHlAs (by gender andievel of education)                        II(e.g. DHS, BSS, cwiaj
PLWHAs



Information, Education. and
Communication                         number of hours aired (by type of iiediaj                          Report
Improved, standardized,
comprehensive, and effective IEC
strategy                                                                                               I
                                      # of HIV/AIDS brochureshooklets produced and number of           I Quarterly Service Coveraae
                                      copies distributed                                                 Report
Promotionof Safer Sex Practices       % of schools with teachers whohave been trained in               IIMOEST Inspection Reports
(ABCs)                                life-skills-basedH/V/A/DSeducation and taught it during the
Reduced high-risk sexual behaviour,   last curriculumyear(by type of school (primaty/secondaty,
especially among priority groups such school proprietor (public / private) and school location (rural /
as youth

                                      HlVlAlDS education (by gender and whether they are                 Report




                                                                  - 82 -

LEVEL,AREA, AND                      CORE INDICATORS                                                           DATA SOURCE
OBJECTIVE
                                     #of condoms distributed to retail outlets (Le. for selling) or to         Quarter Service Coverage
                                     clinics for free distribution (per district, relating distribution to     Report
                                     population size in district)                                              Data from social marketing
                                                                                                               agencies
                                     #of condoms dispensed to end user (by type of institution)                Supply Chain Manager
Prevent.on of Motner-to-Cnild          % of Wtpregnant women receivinga completecourseof                       Census Data
Transmission                         ARVprophylais to reduce the risk of MTCT(by type of                       HMlS Annual Report
Reduce0 motner-io-cni d (vertical)   provider) (GFATM)
transmission of rilV
                                     # of health facilities Drovidinaat least the minimum Dackaae              HMlS Annual ReDort
                                     of PMTCT services in the p& 12 months, by location           . I




                                     % of pregnant women who have been counselled in PMTCT,                I   Quarterly Service Coverage
                                     tested and received their serostatus results (by age group (15
                                    -24.25-49))                                                                Report
                                                                                                               HMlS Annual Report
                                     % of pregnant women that have been tested, who are HIV                    Quarterly Service Coverage
                                     positive (by age group (15    -24,25-49)                                  Report
                                                                                                               HMlS Annual Report
                                     % of HIV positive Dreanantwomen who have been urovided                    Quarterlv Service Coveraae
                                     with 3 month supply        alternative infant feeding       '             Report
                                     % of pregnant women offered PMTCT who are referred for                    Quarterly Service Coverage
                                     care andsupport services (by district)                                    Report
STI Treatment and Prevention           % ofpatients with STls at hea/thfacilities who have been            IIIIHealthfacility survey
Improved management and reduced        diagnosed, treated, and counselledaccording to national
incidence of STls other than HIV
                                     yearsand older) (GFATM). -
                                       management guidelines (by gender and age (>20, and 20
                                                                                     - .

                                       oo of nealthfaci it es with STI arugs n stocd and no STI arLg           Drug Stock Supply Report
                                     stock outs of >1 week within last 12 months
                                     #of STI cases seen at health facilities (by type of case (new             Quarterly Service Coverage
                                     case or referred partner) and by gender)                                  Report
                                                                                                               HMlS Annual Report
Blood Safetv. lniection Safetv. and  % of health facilities that apply national guidelines for blood           Healthfacility survey
Health Care Waste Manaaement           screening, storage, distribution & transfusions (by district)
Improved blood safety, injection
safety, and health care waste
management
                                     %of health care facilities that apply national standards for              Health facility survey
                                       infection prevention and health care waste storage (by
                                     district)
                                     %transfusedblood units that have been screened for HIV                    NBTS report
                                       according to national guidelines in the past 12 months
Voluntaw Counselina and Testing      %of districts where VCT sites (integrated or stand alone) are             HMlS Annual Report
Improved access to ethically sound     located as per national guidelines (evew 8 kms in rural
VCT services                         areas, and'l site for evity 10 000 peopie in urban areas)
                                       #of clients tested for HIV at VCT sites and receiving result         I  Quarterly Service Coverage
                                       (byage(15-24,25-49)andgender)                                           Report




                                                                    - 83 -

LEVEL,AREA, AND                         CORE INDICATORS                                                 DATA SOURCE
OBJECTIVE
Ar               S Treat
an
Clinical Care (incl. ARV Therapy)                                                                       Quarterly Service Coveraue
Increased access to improved and        therapy(By age group (< 20 and 20 and older), gender and        Report
comprehensive health treatment for      by type of health facility (public/private)) (GFATM)
persons infected with HIV
                                        % of AIDS cases managed for 01s (by gender) (GFATM-             HMlS Annual Report
                                        but different wording)
                                        % of health facilities with drugs for 01s in stock and no stock Drug Stock Supply Report
                                        outs of > 1 week in last 12 months (by district)
                                        % of health facilities where ARV services are being offered     Drug Stock Supply Report
                                        with no ARV drug6 stock outs of > 1 week in last 12 months
                                        (by district)
                                        % of detected TB cases who have successfully completed the      HMlS Annual Report
                                        treatment (by gender and by type of TB)
Community and Home-based                #of households receiving external assistance in caring for      Quarterly Service Coverage
Care and Support                        adults who have been chronically ill for 3 or more months       Report
                                        during the past 12 months (by residence and type of help)
Improved quality of life for PLWAs
and affected communities
                                        # of persons enrolled at PLWA organisations (by gender,         Quarterlv Service Coverage
                                        PLWA organisation and age (15       -24,25-49)                  Report
                                        #of community home based care visits (by residence and by       Quarterly Service Coverage
                                        tvue of visit (clinician /volunteer))                           Report
                                         I,
Area 3: HlVlAlDSImpactMitigation        Obi               Improvethe                       indivi
                                        and               ffected by HI
Suuuort for Orohans and Vulnerable      #of orphans and other vulnerable children receiving             Quarterlv Selvice Coveraae
Children (OVC)                          care/support in past 12 months (by type of support              Report
Increased social, financial and legal   (psychosocial, nutrition, financial) and gender)
support for orphans and vulnerable
children
                                        A of community inliatives or commbn ty organ'zations            Quarterly Service Coverage
                                        receiv ng support to care for orphans (by d strict)             Report
                                        A of (orphaned) chiloren whose schoo fees are paid for at       MOGCS school fee registers
                                        seconoaly school eve (by gender)

Sectoral Mainstreaminq                  % of large private companies andpubl~insriturions that have     Workplace survey
Increased level of resources, effort,   H/V/A/DSworkplacepolicies and mainstreaming
and coordination to respond to the      programmes (by type of inst tution (pLb idprivate) and by
HIV/AIDS epidemic in all sectors of     type of expend ture) (GFATM)
the economv
                                        # and % of employees and their spouses in the public and        Quarterly Service Coverage
                                        private sectors that have been reached by interventions         Report
                                        defined in their employers' workplace policy (by type of
                                        institution (oublic/Drivatesector))


CaDacitvBuildina and Partnershius       Amount and % of overall funding received bv the NAC that IS     FMA Financial Manaaement
Increased capacity and participation ir granted to CBOs, local NGOs, internationalNGOs, FBOs,           System Report
decision-making and action among all    government, private sector, educational institutions and
organizations engaged in the national   international organisations in the last 12 months (GFATM)
response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic
                                        #of CBO alliances created by the NAC or in which the NAC        NAC database
                                        participates in order to increase demand for and supply
                                        services to taraet oouulation (GFATM)




                                                                      - 84 -

LEVEL, AREA, AND                     CORE INDICATORS                                              DATA SOURCE
OBJECTIVE

                                     when the grant proposal is receivedto when funding is        System Report


                                                                                                 -Report


National Management and              Amount of funds spent on H/V/A/DS(by category of             UNAIDS/NCPI Financial
Commitment                           expenditure and funding source (government,civil society     Resource Flow survey
Improved national commitment,        and donor agencies))
leadership, and management of the
national responseto the HIV/AIDS
epidemic
                                     National CompositePolicy lndex (by questionnaire             NCPl Questionnaire
                                     component)
                                     #of times in which the NAC decision-making structures        NAC meeting minutes
                                     operate to review progress data or to decide program
                                     management issues (# of meetings, aaenda, list of
                                     participants, decisions made) (GFATM)
                                     Dissemination of annual publication, the National HIV/AIDS   National HlVlAlDS M&E
To generate empirical data and       M&E Report, by NAC at the annual NAC M&E dissemination       Report
informationthrough biological and    seminar (by sector)
behavioural surveillance, research,
programme monitoring, and financial
monitoringthat will direct HIV/AIDS
prevention, care and support, and
imoact mitioation efforts.


                                     time (by type of partner)
                                     Annual sentinel sutveiilance has been completed on time by   National HlVlAlDS M&E
                                     MOHP                                                         Report
                                     Development of a National HIV/AIDS Research Strategy         National HIV/AIDS M&E
                                                                                                  Report
                                     Development of functioning, accessible research inventory    National HlVlAlDS research
                                     database that registers HIV/AIDS-related research            database
                                     implemented in Malawi
                                     % of HIVIAIDS-related research studies in Malawi that are in National HlVlAlDS research

                                     the national HIV/AIDS research database (by programme



                                     conference




                                                                - 85 -

- 86 -

  -                   1
51    P             r"




          - 87 -

                   Additional Annex 14: District Government and HlVlAlDS
                           MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)

Background

At the district level, there is currently no statutory department or unitto deal specifically with
HIV/AIDS. Inmany districts, District AIDS Committees (DACCs) were formed prior to the
Decentralization law. These DACCs were ad hoc committees made up o f various directorates o f national
ministries along with some community members. They have n o allocated staff or operating budget and
have relied on ad hoc funds from the National Government, Local Government Departments and external
partners. Some DACCS have been constituted as subcommittees o f statutory committees, but these have
generally been under the Health-related committee and have not been seen as multi-sectoral groups. In
most cases, de facto coordinators were district health officers who were given D A C C coordination as an
additional task.

Although many districts have identifiedHIViAIDS as a key priority, inpractice it has not always
featured strongly inthe activities o f districts, often due to a lack o f dedicated resources. Some DACCS
have produced District AIDS Plans and some activities are occasionally funded by districts and local
partners. The main source o f capital funding at the district level
--                                                                   -- the District Development Fund(DDF)
    does not include provision for HIV/AIDS, and it i s not clear whether any District Governments (DAs)
set aside 2% o f the ORT budget for HIV/AIDS this fiscal year. All local authorities were encouraged in
a recent circular to have a budget line for HIV/AIDS, to be funded from their own revenues. To
reinforce this recommendation, the Decentralization Secretariat i s planningto integrate HIV/AIDS and
gender into support for the District Planning system. The idea i s to develop a manual for integrating
HIV/AIDS into district planning and to conduct training inthis regard.

Wayforward -pending questions (policy)

Recent research and experience indicate that a number o f elements are key to effective local government
responses to HIVIAIDS. These include leadership and advocacy by councilors and chief
executives/mayors and the existence o f a well-resourced coordinating unit reporting directly to the chief
executive that provides the institutional home for the HIV/AIDS program. To bring such a framework
into existence inMalawi, will require certain policy and operational issues to be addressed relating to the
role and structuring o f the DACCs:

(i) possibilityofestablishingtheDACCasastatutoryauthority
(ii) possibilityofestablishingthepostofDACCCoordinatorwithinthedistrictcivilservicestructure
(iii)optionsforfundingthisposition(includingprosandconsofdonorfundsforthispurpose)
(iv) clarifying the reporting responsibilities o f the chief executive and other sector directors inrespect
o f HIV/AIDS
(v)    the inclusion o f HIV/AIDS indicators inthe performance evaluation o f district sector department
officers
(vi) the fundingmechanisms for supporting the DACCS andDistrict AIDS Programs

The N A C has started to discuss these policy questions with the Decentralization Secretariat, the Ministry
o f District and Local Government, and the Department for HumanResource Management (DHRMD).
The answers given to these questions will shape how support for HIV/AIDS activities at the district level
should be structured.



                                                      - 88 -

Wayforward -pending questions Cfunctions)

Experience from other countries shows that the local levelunit (DACCs or a successor entity) should
have a coordination mandate, rather than an implementation mandate (except in so far as workplace
programs for district authority staff are concerned). This coordination mandate i s key, since district
departments should be integrating HIV/AIDS into their sector plans at district level rather than have it
seen as a separate activity. For example, districts could engage inthe fight against HIV/AIDS inthe
following ways:

a. Leadership/Advocacy (councilors, chief executive/mayor)
b. Internal workplace programs (staff)
c. External service delivery
    i. integratedplanning(eachdepartmentcandosomethingwithintheirfunctionalarea)

d. Coordination function - across departments, between levels o f government, with external partners
    ii.healthsystemcontinuumofcare

e.  M&E
f. Channelingfundsto CSOs andassociated fiduciary responsibilities

Stakeholders operating at the district level believe that districts could be engaging directly ina. through
d. above, ifthey were to receive support and assistance fromNAC. Iti s generally felt that the functions
ine. and f.above will require considerable capacity within a district, and that this should thereforebe
considered a medium to long term objective.

Wayforward -pending questions Cfinancing)

At a financial level, decisions are required as to the most appropriate mechanismfor channeling funds to
districts for HIV/AIDS activities. There are a number o f options which can be considered singly or in
combination: i)GOM funds earmarked for HIV/AIDS (the 2% HIVIAIDS ORT allocation), ii)N A C
funds for AIDS programs channeled directly to the district DDF,iii)N A C funds for AIDS programs
channeled directly to DACCs, iv) etc. The Ministryo f Local Government's preference i s to use the
DDFmechanism, providing ifnecessary a "ring-fenced" window for HIV/AIDS to reduce riskso f
fungibility (there is also a provisionfor separate accounts for donor funds).New internal audit
procedures and newly appointed district financial managers are expected to reduce risks (apparently
funds can (and have) beenfrozen and repaid where there is misappropriationo f funds). As long as AIDS
activities are inapproved District Development Plans (DDPs), procedures are not overly cumbersome.

Wayforward -pending questions (capacity building)

Inorder to determine what support strategy mightbeneededto enable districts to performthe functions
identified above, an assessment o f capacity would be helpful in establishing a baseline and identifying
where capacity-enhancement might be most needed. Such an assessment should also recommend the
resources (staffing and budget) that DAs/DACCs would need to undertake these activities:

    Coordination between departments
. Coordination with external partners
    Linksto local leaders, centralministries andN A C
. Training andmaterialsdevelopment
*   Establishing workplace programs
*   Supporting integratedplanning
    Disseminating good practice


                                                     - 89 -

*   M&Eand tracking coverage
*    Obtaining and managing D A C C HIV/AIDS funds
*    Channeling AIDS funds to departments or external partners (for AIDS) programs (where capacity
     exists)

Linkage with theNAC GrantsFacility

The Grants Facility o f the NAC i s the instrument through which the scale-up o f service delivery for
HIV/AIDS i s to be effected nationally, at district level, and at the local level. Inview o f the current
weakness o f existing districts and DACCs, and the needto clarify basic policy, function, and financing
questions regarding organization o f AIDS activities at the district level, the NAC has adopted a two
pronged strategy: (i)   inorder to increase outreach inthe short term, umbrella organizations will be
contractedto act as intermediaries inproviding funds and technical support to smaller CSOs; (ii)       over the
medium term (within 3 years ?),Districts with sufficient capacity will take over this grant-making and
technical support role from the umbrella organizations.

T o ensure that the districts and DACCs (or their successor committees) do in fact have the capacity to
take over the full list o f functions described earlier, two types o f support are envisaged. First, the
umbrella organizations will be required under their TOR to work with the DACCs to build their capacity
to disseminate information, to coordinate responses among partners, and to eventually take over the
direct contracting o f CSOs. The latter could be accomplished through inclusion o f DACCs inprocesses
such as appraisal, approvals and monitoring o f sub-project grantees such that they can learn what
fiduciary responsibilities are required. Second, a capacity support strategy for districts would be
developed and carried out, based on the capacity assessment o f the districts and DACCs described above.

T o facilitate this process, the N A C i s considering appointing a D A C C Liaison Officer responsible for
supporting DACCs in the fight against HIV/AIDS. This person would be responsible for liaison with
central bodies (such as the MDLGand Decentralization Secretariat) as well as for coordinating support
to the DACCs (including the necessary TA for the capacity support strategy).

DAs/DACCs will be able to submit project proposals to the N A C for district level responses, if these are
based on the DDPs.

Links with MASAF-funded Activities

Under MASAF's main program interventions, a participatory rural appraisal (PRA) i s conducted by
district staff and used to identify a community's top development priority. While HIV/AIDS may be
identified as a priority problem inthe community, if it i s not the first priority, M A S A F does not support
an extended PRA to develop specific proposals. Ifthe district technical team working with M A S A F
could share community PRAs with the relevant N A C grant facility umbrella organization, it would
enable the umbrella organization to identify and establish contact directly with those communities who
have expressed HIVIAIDS as a priority.

Under MASAF's SSP component, vulnerable groups (including those affected by HIV/AIDS) can apply
for funds on a demand-driven basis through a CSO acting on their behalf. There i s a negative list o f
activities and an indicative positive one, including feeding schemes and income generating activities. The
appraisal team for such proposals i s chaired by the District Social Welfare Officer, and may include
members from relevant sector ministries,NGO/CBOs, and the DACCs. After approval, M A S A F
publishes inthe newspaper all sub-projects that it is funding by district. NACgrants facility umbrella
organizations, working with the DACCs intheir area o f intervention, should monitor M A S A F approvals


                                                       - 90 -

of SSP grants, inorder to maintain a comprehensive perspective on HIV/AIDS activities and partners
operating within each district.

Summary of Next Steps

The following actions were identifiedby the NAC and key LGpartners as beingon the critical path for
increasingthe local government responseto HIV/AIDS:

(i) Conductacapacityandneedsassessmentinthedistrictsforstrengtheningdistrictresponsesto
HIV/AIDS.
(ii)AppointaDistrictLiaisonofficerinNAC
(iii)Prepareapolicyoptionspaperandreachagreementonpolicyissues(DACCinstitutionalstructure,
      staffing, legal basis, financing mechanisms.)
(iv) Develop strategy for implementingLGHIV/AIDS Responses, based on (i)           above
(v)   Develop TORSand contract T A to implement strategy i.e provide support to DACCS to implement
      HIV/AIDS programs.
(vi) ImplementProgramo f Capacity Buildingfor DACCs inDistricts

With respect to (i) the NAC is inthe process of drawingup TORSfor such a capacity assessment
                   above,
which would be funded from the N A C basket. This assessmentwill be complementary to a study by
UNDP o f capacity needs in 9 districts. Together, these assessmentswill identify the needs o f DACCs and
how they should be strengthened.Next step: finalize TOR and recruit consultant.

Basedon the findings o f the district level capacity assessments, the N A C would like to contract a single
consultancy to conduct items (iii), and (v) above. The consultancy would needapproximately three
                                     (iv)
weeks to complete. This consultancy would be financed by N A C but could be supported under the UNDP
or a combination o f this and/or basket funds. A District Liaison Officer would ideallybe inplace inN A C
to work with the consultant on (iii), (iv) and (v). Next Step:NAC to develop TORSfor consultancy to
conduct (iii),(iv) and (v) above, usingcapacity assessments as key inputs.

Buildingon the outputs ofthe previous consultancy, NAC would like to contract an implementation
support agency to work on a 2 year program o f capacity buildingin districts to respond to HIV/AIDS,
harmonizing efforts with the UNDP programin9 districts and other partners working inthis area. N A
S A : NAC to include capacity buildingsupport contract inthe first year Annual Work Plan, andinitiate
recruitment when TOR are available for the program.




                                                    - 91 -

            Additional Annex 15: Health Care Waste Management Action Plan
                         MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)

1.0     INTRODUCTION

The Health Care Waste Management Action Plan has been developed within the framework o f the
national HIVIAIDS and infection prevention program whose objectives are to contribute to the reduction
o f HIV/AIDS prevalence and to reduce impacts o f HIV/AIDS on infected and affected people, through a
community and multisectoral approach. The Health Care Waste Management Plan was developed based
on an assessment o f Health Care Waste Management (HCWM) in29 Health Facilities o f Malawi.

Health care services in Malawi are provided by three main institutions: the Ministry o f Health and
Population (MOHP); the Christian Health Association o f Malawi (CHAM); and the Ministry o f Local
Government. Health services are provided at three levels: primary, secondary and tertiary. The country
has 504 health care facilities, which include central hospitals, district hospitals, rural hospitals, private
hospitals, health centres, maternity units and dispensaries. In 1998, the health staff comprised 6,699
agents.

1.1     Context:

The assessment found that the main constraints in H C W M are:

-   The institutional and legal framework i s weak: HCWM i s not a priority in the national health policy,
    and the institutional framework i s marked by a lack o f national strategy, clear responsibilities,
    specific guidelines and procedures inH C W M .

-   Organization, collection and treatment o f H C W are deficient: In spite o f remarkable efforts in some
    health centres, the organization o f HCWM by health facilities leaves a lot to be desired: absence o f
    reliable data on amount o f waste produced; n o persodteam responsible for H C W issues; insufficient
    protective equipment for staff; lack o f H C W segregation; inadequate pre-collection, collection and
    storage containers; unsustainable H C W treatment systems; and inadequate financial resources.
-   Knowledge and good H C W M practices are generallv insufficient: Several socio-professional
    categories (hospital staff, collection staff, scavengers, people using recycled objects, etc.) come into
    direct contact with H C W and are at direct risk for HIV/AIDS contamination. Generally, medical staff
    are relatively conscious o f the risks associated with H C W manipulation, even though most o f them
    were not trained in HCW management. Ward attendants, ground staff and cleaners (responsible for
    the removal and emptying of wastes dustbins within the health centres) have little awareness o f the
    impacts and effects o f bad H C W management. Health workers responsible for collection generally
    have a low level of education. Most o f them work in poor hygienic and protective conditions: not
    enough safety equipment, etc. Informal scavenging and recycling activities inthe garbage dumps are
    opportunities and sources o f income for poor people. Due to their very low level o f education and
    precarious living conditions, it i s difficult  for them to understand the dangers related to waste
    scavenging and handling. The general public needs information about the dangers related to the
    materials collected from HCW, especially people using recycled products and those giving and/or
    receiving health care at home.
-   Private companies are not involved in H C W M : In Malawi, no private companies are involved in
    solid waste collection (City Assemblies perform this function). For external transportation o f HCW,


                                                     - 92 -

   the inexistence of specialized companies constitutes a major constraint for the health centres in need
   o f external treatment.

-  Financial resources allocated to H C W are not sufficient: Solid waste management suffers from lack
   o f financial support from the state and local governments. Inhealth facilities, financial resources are
   generally allocated more to clinical services than to waste management.

Inorder to addressthese weaknesses, ahealthcarewastemanagementplanofactionwas developed.

2.0      THE HCWM PLANOF ACTION
2.1      Goal:

         The goal o f the Plan o f Action (POA) i s to prevent and mitigate the environmental and health
         impact o f H C W on health care staff and the general public.

2.2     Objectives:

(i)     to reduce infections due to HCW
(ii)    to improve service in H C W M and mitigate the impacts o f H C W o n individuals and communities
(iii)   to establish a well-managed multi-sector institutional framework for co-ordination and
        implementation o f H C W M measures

2.3      Components:

Measures advocated inthe H C W M plan have been structured around the following components:

Objective1:Improve the institutionaland legal frameworkfor HCWM

   Activities:
         Set up a structure for co -ordination and follow up o f the HCWMplan
         develop regulations for H C W M
         develop technical guidelines for H C W M

Objective2: Train the hospitalstaff and the HCW handlers

   Activities:
         Develop training programs
         Train trainers
         Train all staff working in health care waste management
         Evaluate implementation o f the training program

Objective3: Improve HCWMin healthfacilities

   Activities:
         Regulate H C W M inthe health facilities
         Supply the health facilities with materials and equipment for H C W M
         Promote the use o f recyclable materials
         Set up procedures o f control in H C W management
        Allocate financial resources for H C W M activities



                                                     - 93 -

Objective 4: Makethe generalpublic aware of the riskslinkedto HCWM

    Activities:
         Informpublic o f dangers linkedwith HCW and reuse o f scavenged materials
         Ensuresound HCWMinthe household (home based care)

Objective 5: Support private initiativesandpartnership in HCWM

    Activities:
         Informprivate companies o f the businessopportunities insolid waste management
         Set up framework andpartnership betweenpublic sector and private sector inH C W M

Objective 6: MonitoringandEvaluationof HCWMplan

    Activities:
         Follow up the execution and evaluate the H C W M Plan

2.4      Treatment and elimination systems

A comparative analysis, taking into account economic and technical criteria, resultedin the following
treatment recommendations :

--  modern incinerators inCentral /national and district hospitals because o f their fairly low cost;
    local incinerators (built with local material) inhealth centres and urban health posts becauseo f their
--  very low cost and small quantities o f HCW produced inthese facilities;
    pit latrines inrural healthposts because of very low HCW production;
    stabilized sides o f pits and bottompits for health posts.

All solid waste cannot be incinerated. Inappropriate incinerators as well as technical infeasibility o f
complete combustion for certain wastes (plastic, chemical and radioactive products, mercury, heavy
metals, etc.) can generate air pollution. For this reason, incinerators are recommended inthe action plan
as part o f a waste segregation strategy at the source, in order to greatly reduce the infectious wastes and
restrict the contamination o f other non-contagious wastes (papers, plastics, pipes and syringes, etc.). All
types o f wastes shall not be incinerated. Selective sifting will be used to send all non-contaminated
wastes towards more classical treatment systems (disinfection, burial, garbage dumps), so that only the
contaminated or risk-based wastes (needles, etc.) will be incinerated. These categories o f wastes do not
emit toxic products (or very few), especially dioxins and mercury. Moreover, the system allows total
melting o f needles which are the most feared vectors for the accidental transmission of HIV/AIDS. In
health centres located in district and rural areas, the quantities o f health care wastes produced are very
small. If segregation i s respected, the volume to be incinerated will be insignificant. In addition, the
promotion o f the use o f non-chlorinated plastic containers will help reduce pollution stemming from
incineration. In order for institutions to meet waste management standards, the following alternative
options are proposed: chemical disinfection; safe land-filling or burial within hospital grounds (if
appropriate area i s available). Other systems (autoclaving, microwaves) are not recommended because
they are very expensive and require highly qualified staff for operating.

For liquid wastes, chemical disinfecting i s the most effective way o f treating infectious wastes. A
combined system would be recommended (disinfecting and septic tank) for Regional and rural health



                                                    - 94 -

facilities. In the central hospitals, owing to the important volumes of water involved, it i s preferable to
choose a physico-chemical treatment, including a disinfecting post. However, this system requires more
detailed study interms o f feasibility.

3.0      ACTION PLANFORIMPLEMENTATION
3.1      ProgramSequencing

Before such an elaborate plan i s implemented, certain activities can be started immediately, and others
can be implemented over the mediudlong term.

3.1.1.   Immediateactivities
The following actions couldbe carried out immediately:
         set up a structure for coordination and follow up o f the POA
         elaboration and disseminationo f regulations and basic technical guidelines inH C W M
         elaboration o f H C W M training program
         elaboration of public awareness programmes
         planning o f start-up activities
         set up o f H C W Mprocedures inhealth facilities, includinghealth staff responsibilities

3.1.2    Short term activities:
         training o f trainers
         training all the stakeholders involved inthe H C W M
         diffusingpublic awarenessprogrammes
         assessmentof training program implementation
         halfway appraisal

3.1.3    MediumAongerterm activities:
         improvement o f H C W M inhealth facilities
          Supporting private initiatives and partnership inH C W M
         Monitoring and evaluation o f the H C W M plan

3.1.4    Timetable
The following timetable shows the proposed implementation schedule of HCWM Plan over a five year
period.

II                       HCWMPlanActivities                              YR 1 IY R 2 I Y R 3 I Y R 4 I Y R 5 I
  Set UD a structure for coordination and follow up o f the POA       II-__                                         I
  Planning o f initial activities                                     ---
  Regulation o f HCW management                                       _--__---__
  Development o f technical guidelinesfor H C W M                        ---___--
  Elaboration o f training programs and training o f trainers         __--
  Training for health staff active inH C W M                          ................................

I Public awareness (general public)                                   I...........................................  I



3.2      InstitutionalArrangements


                                                     - 95 -

3.2.1    Improvementof the institutionaland legalframework

The Ministry o f Health and Population (MOHP) will be responsible for the improvement o f the
institutional and legal framework. These activities shouldbe conductedinthe first year o f the programme
by the Department o f Preventive Health Services (DPHS) and through the Environmental Health Service
(EHS).

3.2.2    HCWM improvement at healthfacilities

EHS and Health facility managers will work together to introduce improved HCWM systems at health
facilities. EHS will regulate the HCW management in health facilities, DPHS will supply health facility
managers with H C W M equipment and materials, and execution o f H C W M improvement programs will
be conductedby health facility managers and their staff.

3.2.3    Training

The training activities should be led by the DPHS / EHS o f the MOHP. This structure has competence in
H C W M and could be assisted by training institutions in this field. At district levels, management of
training activities should be assigned to the District team. Specific training activities will be done in the
first two years o f the programme

3.2.4    Public awareness

The Health Education Unit of the MOHP will lead the activities intended to make the general public
aware about HCW. At the local level, the District team will do the supervision. These activities will take
place over a five year period, through district public meetings, radio and television messages, posters, etc.

3.2.5    Control and Monitoringof the POA

At the local level, the control and monitoring ofHCWMplan implementation should be done by the
District team which will ensure monthly monitoring, while the yearly follow up will be realizedby
EHWDPHS.

3.2.6    Evaluationand supervisionof the POA

The evaluation o f the H C W M Plan should be assigned to international consultants (under supervision o f
EHS/DPHS), to ensure objectivity. This evaluation should be done halfway through (at the end of the
2nd year) and at the end o f the first phase program (year 5).

4.0      MONITORING PLAN

Waste management i s a continual task demanding a permanent effort from each and every person at a
health facility. Duringthe upgradingphase, the process o f H C W M needs to be investigatedand recorded.
Once the requiredlevel i s reached, regular monitoring should ensure that the desired standard i s
maintained. The monitoring o f H C W M i s part o f the overall quality management system. To measure the
efficiency o f the H C W M Plan, as far as the reduction o f infections i s concerned, activities will be
monitored and evaluated, in collaboration with concerned institutions: MOHP, MNREA, City
Assemblies,NGOs, etc. A Logical Framework for the Plan of Action has beenprepared.




                                                     - 96 -

                          Additional Annex 16: Supervision Framework
                           MALAWI: Multi-Sectoral AIDS Project (MAP)

General

The donors participating inthe pooledbasket find have agreed on a common approach to program
oversight, and the Bank's supervision role has been designed within that framework. The common
approach takes advantage o f the shift to joint work programming andjoint reporting to structure the
external oversight relationship around monitoringprocesses that are N A C managed and N A C owned. In
practice, this means that external oversight will be linked to the quarterly review schedule agreed with
the NAC and to the annual stakeholder events planned for September and March each year (the first tied
to the retrospective annual program review and the second to the annual M&Ereport). The second
characteristic o f the joint approach to program supervision i s that no one donor partner has to provide the
entire complement o f specialist skills required to oversee a multi-sectoral, multi-stakeholder, national
program.

Review Cycle

The quarterly reviews (QRs) are scheduled to take place 45-60 days after quarter end (September,
November, February, May). At their most basic, quarterly reviews will provide the opportunity to review
progress inmeeting implementation targets defined inthe Annual Work Plan and Budget, as captured in
the quarterly program monitoringreports (PMRs), and future funding requirements based on actual
expenditures. However, some quarterly reviews will involve more in-depth reviews and assessments, as
follows:

      November QR: i s the first QR meeting o f the fiscal year to review the P M R from the first quarter
       (July-Sept); this QR will also review the annual financial audit report and the annual procurement
      report which will have been produced for the previous fiscal year program (first such audit reports
       due inNovember 2004).
       February QR: i s the second QR of the fiscal year and combines both program review and forward
      planning tasks: inaddition to reviewing the 2nd quarter P M R (Oct-Dec), this QR will review the
       interim audit report and an interimprogramprogress report, both reports covering the
       July-December period; lastly, this QR will provide the first opportunity for NAC and partners to
       exchange views on the preliminary version o f the annual work plan for the next fiscal year.
       M a y QR: i s the thirdQR o f the fiscal year to review the 3rd quarter P M R (Jan-March); this QR
       will handle any final reviews tied to the annual planning cycle (ie, final presentation o f annual
       work plan, annual budget, annual procurement plan, etc.) and agreement on the final financing plan
       (basket shares).
       September QR: is the final QR o f the fiscal year; this QR will combine review o f the 4th quarter
       P M R and the annual program progress report on SMP implementation.

Inaddition to the quarterly review cycle, two annual reviews will take place each year. InSeptember, the
National Joint Stakeholder Review will be organized to review the N A C Annual Report on SMP
implementation duringthe previous fiscal year (the quarterly review and the annual stakeholder review
will be held back-to-back). InMarch, NACwill organize the National M&EDissemination Conference
to share the findings o f the annual monitoring report and to flag trends, areas o f concern, and priorities
for attention inmanaging the national response. As inthe case o f the September stakeholder meeting, the
annual M&E conference will be combined with a NAC-donor meeting. The March NAC-donor meeting
will be to review the revised draft annual work plan which takes into account preliminary donor



                                                      - 97 -

comments as well as recommendations from the annual M&Ereport.

An important aspect of thejoint supervision approach o fthe basket partners is the agreement to rely on
N A C monitoring processes as much as possible, rather than bringing in large teams o f donor staff and
donor-hired consultants. Instead, the basket partners will rely primarily on the interim and annual
progress reports produced by an independent team o f multi-disciplinary experts to be hired by NAC.
These reports will complement the quarterly PMRs by strategically assessing programprogress,
providing feedback on observed trends, and identifying areas requiring attention. Selection o f the
multi-disciplinary team would bejointly agreed betweenN A C and its funding partners; the team would
be accountable to N A C but its outputs would be shared with all financiers participating inthe September
and February quarterly reviews. Inrecruiting the specialized firm to provide this service, priority will be
given to maintaining continuity o f team members over a multi-year period inorder to build institutional
memory o f the Malawi national program design and issues. Team composition would include both
international and national experts, and would ensure coverage o f themes relevant to effective program
implemen-ta-tion: institutional development; monitoring & evaluation; prevention, care and support;
social development (impact mitigation, gender, young people, psycho social support); grant management,
community participation, etc.

Donor Coordination

The members o f the donor group participating inthe pooled fundingarrangement have organized
themselves so that the Country Office o f each basket partner (CIDA, DfID,NORAD, IDA) has a senior
officer inpost responsible for program oversight who will participate in all quarterly review meetings
and other meetings as may be required from time to time. The September and March meetings are
expected to attract home office senior managers and specialized staff in addition to Country Office staff,
as they provide the forum for strategic oversight and dialogue, linked to the Annual Program
Implementation and the Annual M&EReports. Most earmarked donors participating in the program also
have in-country representatives (CDC, Global Fund,UNDP) who will participate inthese regular review
meetings.

Bank Role

Within the supervisionframework described above, the Bank will take the lead on monitoring the
fiduciary systems which are key to smooth functioning and credibility o f the pooled basket arrangement.
Inparticular, the Bank financial management/disbursement team will work with the N A C andFMA
financial team to ensure that the financial management systems inplace are generating the quality and
level o f expenditure data desired; they will also participate in quarterly reviews to ensure that P M R
information submitted i s clear and complete. With respect to procurement supervision, the MOU
signatories have agreed that the Bank will perform the prior review function for purchase o f goods,
works, and services over agreed thresholds. To ensure that the review of procurement documentation
and issuance o f "no-objections'' does not become a bottleneck to timely implementation, the regular
procurement team will be complemented by an additional procurement-accredited member hired o n a
part-time basis to be available "on-call'' whenever reviews are needed.

Inadditiontothisfiduciary supervisionrole, the BankMAPsupervisionteamwillalsoplayaproactive,
facilitating role in areas where the Bank as an institutionhas a comparative advantage: engaging the
private sector inthe fight against HIVIAIDS, facilitating access to international pharmaceutical products
for Malawi HIVIAIDS programs, and ensuring coordination with related initiatives (such as fiduciary
reforms inthe health sector under the health sector SWAP and community-driven programs supported by
MASAF). The Country Office MAP team will be strengthened by the addition of a full time team


                                                    - 98 -

member, supported by DfID,to provide technical expertise related to workplace programs, functional
mainstreaming, and organizational attrition. The Global HIV/AIDS Unit at the Bank i s providing
technical support for in-country Monitoring and Evaluation systems through "IMEST" (International
Monitoring and Evaluation Support Team); this support will be carefully coordinated with assistance
from other partners with recognized expertise and important programs inthis field (CDC, USAID,
UNAIDS).

FY04MissionPlanning

Bank supervision during FY03/04 will concentrate on working with N A C and donor partners on putting
inplace the procedures and working relations necessary for the basket mechanismto work effectively.
Three missions are planned to coincide with the quarterly reviews inNovember 2003, February 2004,
and M a y 2004 and will be staffed by members o f the financial management and procurement fiduciary
networks. Additional missions inthe areas o f private sector engagement, district-level mainstreaming,
community-driven interventions, and the health sector HIV/AIDS response will be organized
independently o f the quarterly review process to combine with other planned missions to Malasi. The
supervision budget for FY04 i s $165,000.




                                                   - 99 -

- 100 -

