E714 vol. 2
May 2003
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
MINISTRY OF HEALTH AND POPULATION
In conjunction with
UNICEF               WORLD BANK                WHO
HEALTH CARE WASTE MANAGEMENT
PLAN OF ACTION
Draft
Dr. John PHUKA, Lilongwe Central Hospital, Malawi
Steve TAULO, University of Malawi, Malawi
Mbaye Mbengue FAYE, Environmental Health Consultant, Senegal
FML 



MALAWI
HEALTH CARE WASTES MANAGEMENT PLAN OF ACTION
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS .............................i
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY ............................                                      ii
1. CONTEXT                                        ..I
1.1  The institutional and legal framework is inadequate .
1.2  Organization, collection and treatment of HCW are deficient .
1.3  Knowledge and good HCWM practices are generally insufficient .
1.4  Private Companies are not involved in HCWM               .2
1.5  Financial resources allocated to HCW are not sufficient     .2
2. Goal Of The Hcwm Plan Of Action                           .3
3.     Strategic Objectives Of HCWM POA                       .4
4.     Components of The Plan of Action                      .5
OBJECTIVE 1: Improve the institutional and legal framework for HCWM    .      5
OBJECTIVE 2: Improve HCWM in health facilities                .5
OBJECTIVE 3: Train hospital staff and waste handlers           .6
OBJECTIVE 4: Make the general public aware of the risks linked to HCWM   .    7
OBJECTIVE 5: Support private initiatives and partnership in HCWM     .7
OBJECTIVE 6: Capture management information for HCWM plan execution /
adjustment                          .7
5.     Partnership framework and funding                     ..9
5.1  Potential Partners and field of intervention           .9
5.2  Involvement of private companies in HCWM                .9
6.     Environmental and social Measures       ..                                   I1
6.1  Measures for mitigating negative environmental impacts.                  1
6.2  Measures for mitigating negative social impacts          .I 1
7. The Monitoring Plan .12
7.1 Principle and Objective .12
7.2 Methodology .12
7.3 Measurable Indicators .12
8.    Institutional Framework and Implementation Responsibilities  .   .14
8.1 Institutional framework .14
8.2 Responsibilities .14
8.3  Institutional arrangements for HCWM Component Implementation .15
8.4 Timetable 18
9. HCWM Plan Of Action - Costs .19



LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table 1: Logical framework of the HCWM POA ........................................................8
Table 2: Potential field of intervention ........................................................9
Table 3: Implementation Plan for M&E .......................................................  12
Table 4: Implementation Responsibilities by Component .......................................................   17
Table 5: Implementation Timetable .......................................................  18
Table 6: Implementation costs of the HCWM Plan .......................................................1 9
LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1: Treatment Systems and Technologies .21
A. SOLID WASTES TREATMENT .21
B. LIQUID WASTES TREATMENT                   .          .26
C. CHOICE OF LANDFILL SITES                 ..28
Table 1:  Comparative analysis of solid HCW treatment systems .23
Table 2:  Comparative analysis of sharps treatment systems .26
Table 3:  Comparative analysis of liquid waste treatment systems .27
ANNEX 2: Training and Public Awareness Strategy .29
A. OBJECTIVE .29
B. TARGET GROUPS .29
C. TRAINING STRATEGY .30
D. POPULATION AWARENESS STRATEGY .32
Table 1:  Topics of training and public awareness guide  .     .33
ANNEX 3: Model of "WHO" incinerator made with local materials .35
ANNEX 4: Urban area with access to a modern waste treatment facility .36
ANNEX 5: Urban area without access to modern waste treatment facility .37
ANNEX 6: PERI-URBAN AREA .38
ANNEX 7: RURAL AREA WITHOUT ACCESS TO MODERN WASTE TREATMENT .34
ANNEX 8: RURAL AREA WITH ACCESS TO MODERN WASTE TREATMENT .                          40



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AD                     Auto-Disable (type of syringe)
AIDS                   Acquired ImmunoDeficiency Syndrome
BCG                    Bacille Calmet-Guerin
CBO                    Community Based Organization
CI                     Confidence Interval (used in data tables)
Cl-AM                  Christian Health Association of Malawi
DEA                    Department of Environmental Affairs
DFID                   UK Department for International Development
DTP                    Diphtheria - Tetanus - Pertussis
EPI                    Expanded Programme on Immunization
GAVI                   Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization
GTZ                    Deutsche Gesellschaft fur Technische Zusammenarbeit
HepB                   Hepatitis B
HepC                   Hepatitis C
HCW                    Health Care Waste
HCWM                   Health Care Waste Management
Hib                    Haemophilus Influenza Type B
HIV                    Human Immunodeficiency Virus
IS                     Injection Safety
JHPIEGO                affiliate of John Hopkins University (non-profit co-operation)
JICA                   Japanese International Co-operation Agency
KfW                    Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau
KAP                    Knowledge Attitude and Practice
LG                     Local Government
MACRO                  Malawi AIDS Counselling and Resource Organisation
MK                     Malawi Kwacha
MOHP                   Ministry of Health and Population
MNREA                  Ministry of Natural Resources and Environmental Affairs
NGO                    Non-Governmental Organisation
POA                    Plan of Action
r                      Number of positive values (the measured variable; used in data
tables)
STC                    Short Term Consultant
STI                    Sexually Transmitted Infections
TST                    Time, Steam, Temperature (Indicator device for sterilization
cycles)
UNFPA                  United Nations Population Fund
UNICEF                 United Nations Children's Fund
WB                     World Bank
WHO                    World Health Organisation



EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
1.0   INTRODUCTION
The present proposal has been developed within the framework of the national HIV/AIDS and
infection prevention program whose objectives are to contribute to the reduction of the HIV/AIDS
prevalence and to reduce the impacts of the HIV/AIDS on the infected and affected people, through
a community and multisectoral approach. The objective of this report is to elaborate a Health Care
Waste Management Plan appropriately assessed, with clear institutional dispositions for its
implementation. The plan of action was developed as a result of an assessment of Health Care
Waste Management (HCWM) in 29 Health Facilities of Malawi.
Health care services in Malawi are provided by three main institutions: the Ministry of Health and
Population (MOHP); the Christian Health Association of Malawi (CHAM); and the Ministry of
Local Government. Health services are provided at three levels: primary, secondary and tertiary.
The country has 504 health care facilities, which include central hospitals, district hospitals, rural
hospitals, private hospitals, health centres, maternity units and dispensaries. In 1998, the health
staff comprised 6,699 agents.
1.1    Context:
The assessment found that the main constraints in HCWM are:
- The institutional and legal framework is weak: HCWM is not a priority in the national health
policy, and the institutional framework is marked by a lack of national strategy, clear
responsibilities, specific guidelines and procedures in HCWM.
- Organization, collection and treatment of HCW are deficient: In spite of remarkable efforts in
some health centres, the organization of HCWM by health facilities leaves a lot to be desired:
absence of reliable data on amount of waste produced; no person/team responsible for HCW
issues; insufficient protective equipment for staff; lack of HCW segregation; inadequate pre-
collection, collection and storage containers; unsustainable HCW treatment systems; and
inadequate financial resources.
- Knowledge and good HCWM practices are generally insufficient: Several socio-professional
categories (hospital staff, collection staff, scavengers, people using recycled objects, etc.) come
into direct contact with HCW and are at direct risk for HIV/AIDS contamination. Generally,
medical staff are relatively conscious of the risks associated with HCW manipulation, even
though most of them were not trained in HCW management. Ward attendants, ground staff and
cleaners (responsible for the removal and emptying of wastes dustbins within the health
centres) have little awareness of the impacts and effects of bad HCW management. Health
workers responsible for collection generally have a low level of education. Most of them work
in poor hygienic and protective conditions: not enough safety equipment, etc. Informal
scavenging and recycling activities in the garbage dumps are opportunities and sources of
income for poor people. Due to their very low level of education and precarious living
conditions, it is difficult for them to understand the dangers related to waste scavenging and
handling. The general public needs information about the dangers related to the materials
collected from HCW, especially people using recycled products and those giving and/or
receiving health care at home.
- Private companies are not involved in HCWM: In Malawi, no private companies are involved
in solid waste collection (City Assemblies perform this function). For external transportation of
HCW, the inexistence of specialized companies constitutes a major constraint for the health
centres in need of external treatment.
li



Financial resources allocated to HCW are not sufficient: Solid waste management suffers from
lack of financial support from the state and local governments. In health facilities, financial
resources are generally allocated more to clinical services than to waste management.
In order to address these weaknesses, a health care waste management plan of action was
developed.
2.0    THE HCWM PLAN OF ACTION
2.1     Goal:
The goal of the Plan of Action (POA) is to prevent and mitigate the environmental and
health impact of HCW on health care staff and the general public.
2.2    Objectives:
(i)    to reduce infections due to HCW
(ii)  to improve service in HCWM and mitigate the impacts of HCW on individuals and
communities
(iii)  to establish a well-managed multi-sector institutional framework for co-ordination and
implementation of HCWM measures
2.3    Components:
Measures advocated in the HCWM plan have been structured around the following components:
Objective 1: Improve the institutional and legal framework for HCWM
Activities:
-  Set up a structure for co -ordination and follow up of the HCWM plan
- develop regulations for HCWM
-  develop technical guidelines for HCWM
Objective 2: Improve HCWM in health facilities
Activities:
-  Regulate HCWM in the health facilities
-  Supply the health facilities with materials and equipment for HCWM
-  Promote the use of recyclable materials
-  Set up procedures of control in HCW management
-  Allocate financial resources for HCWM activities
Objective 3: Train the hospital staff and the HCW handlers
Activities:
-  Develop training programs
-  Train trainers
-  Train all staff working in health care waste management
-  Evaluate implementation of the training program
iii



Objective 4: Make the general public aware of the risks linked to HCWM
Activities:
- Inform public of dangers linked with HCW and reuse of scavenged materials
- Ensure sound HCWM in the household (home based care)
Objective 5: Support private initiatives and partnership in HCWM
Activities:
- Inform private companies of the business opportunities in solid waste management
- Set up framework and partnership between public sector and private sector in HCWM
Objective 6: Monitoring and Evaluation of HCWM plan
Activities:
- Follow up the execution and evaluate the HCWM Plan
2.4     Treatment and elimination systems
A comparative analysis, taking into account economic and technical criteria, resulted in the
following treatment recommendations:
-  modem incinerators in Central /national and district hospitals because of their fairly low cost;
-   local incinerators (built with local material) in health centres and urban health posts because of
their very low cost and small quantities of HCW produced in these facilities;
-  pit latrines in rural health posts because of very low HCW production;
-  stabilized sides of pits and bottom pits for health posts.
All solid waste cannot be incinerated. Inappropriate incinerators as well as technical infeasibility of
complete combustion for certain wastes (plastic, chemical and radioactive products, mercury, heavy
metals, etc.) can generate air pollution. For this reason, incinerators are recommended in the action
plan as part of a waste segregation strategy at the source, in order to greatly reduce the infectious
wastes and restrict the contamination of other non-contagious wastes (papers, plastics, pipes and
syringes, etc.). All types of wastes shall not be incinerated. Selective sifting will be used to send all
non-contaminated wastes towards more classical treatment systems (disinfection, burial, garbage
dumps), so that only the contaminated or risk-based wastes (needles, etc.) will be incinerated.
These categories of wastes do not emit toxic products (or very few), especially dioxins and
mercury. Moreover, the system allows total melting of needles which are the most feared vectors
for the accidental transmission of HIV/AIDS. In health centres located in district and rural areas,
the quantities of health care wastes produced are very small. If segregation is respected, the volume
to be incinerated will be insignificant. In addition, the promotion of the use of non-chlorinated
plastic containers will help reduce pollution stemming from incineration. In order for institutions to
meet waste management standards, the following alternative options are proposed: chemical
disinfection; safe land-filling or burial within hospital grounds (if appropriate area is available).
Other systems (autoclaving, microwaves) are not recommended because they are very expensive
and require highly qualified staff for operating
For liquid wastes, chemical disinfecting is the most effective way of treating infectious wastes. A
combined system would be recommended (disinfecting and septic tank) for Regional and rural
health facilities. In the central hospitals, owing to the important volumes of water involved, it is
preferable to choose a physico-chemical treatment, including a disinfecting post. However, this
system requires more detailed study in terms of feasibility.
iv



Logical Framework for HCWM POA
Objective - Result - Strategy                     |    Indicators
Objective 1: Improve the institutional and legal framework for HCWM
Result 1. Resp nsibilities, standards, and sanctions are clearly defined
Strategies     Set up an structure for coordination and follow up of the POA  Structure put in place
Develop regulations / law for HCWM                        Regulation adopted
Develop technical guidelines for HCWM                     Guidelines prepared
Objective 2    Improve HCWM in health facilities
Result 2      HCW are collected and treated in a secure way
Strategies     Regulate HCW management in health facilities              HF HCWM plans
adopted
Supply HF with HCWM equipment and materials               Number of equipment
Ensure appropriate protection equipment to health staff   Number of equipment
Promote use of recyclable materials                       Recycled materials
Set up control procedures for HCW management              Procedures in place
Objective 3: Train hospital staff and waste handlers in HCWM issues
Result 3: The actors involved are conscious of risks and demonstrate good H  WM practices
Strategies     Elaborate training programs                               Programs elaborated
Train trainers                                            Nbr of trained trainers
Train all the health staff acting in HCW                  % of trained staff
Evaluate training program implementation                  Appraisal reports
Objective 4: Make the general public aware of the risks linked to HCWM
Result 4. The populations are conscious of risks linked with HCWM
Strategies     Inform population of dangers linked with bad HCW management  Posters, radio and
practices                                                televised messages,
Inform population of dangers linked to scavenged HCW materials  public animations
Inform home-based care givers / traditional healers of risks linked  sessions, etc.
to improper HCW handling
Objective 5    : Support private initiatives and partnership in HCWM
Result 5.     : Private sectors involved in HCWM
Strategies     Inform private companies of the business opportunities in solid Awareness programs
waste management
Develop sustainable financing mechanism for HCWM activities  Annual financial
flows
Set up partnership framework between public sector and private Nbr of Partnership
sector in HCWM                                            agreements
Objective 6: Capture information for HCWM Plan implementation and adjustment
Result 6: HCWM activities are monitored, evaluated and documented
Strategies     Monthly operational control reports                       Monthly reports
Mid-term evaluation (end yr 2)                            Evaluation report
Final Evaluation (end yr 5)                               Evaluation report
v



3.0    ACTION PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION
3.1    Program Sequencing
Before such an elaborate plan is implemented, certain activities can be started immediately, and
others can be implemented over the medium/long term.
3.1.1  Immediate activities
The following actions could be carried out immediately:
-      set up a structure for coordination and follow up of the POA
-      elaboration and dissemination of regulations and basic technical guidelines in HCWM
-      elaboration of HCWM training program
-      elaboration of public awareness programmes
-      planning of start-up activities
-      set up of HCWM procedures in health facilities, including health staff responsibilities
3.1.2  Short term activities:
-      training of trainers
-      training all the stakeholders involved in the HCWM
-      diffusing public awareness programmes
-      assessment of training program implementation
-      halfway appraisal
3.1.3  Medium/longer term activities:
-      improvement of HCWM in health facilities
-      Supporting private initiatives and partnership in HCWM
-      Monitoring and evaluation of the HCWM plan
3.1.4  Timetable
The following timetable shows the proposed implementation schedule of HCWM Plan over a five
year period.
Implementation Timetable
HCWM Plan Activities                   YR 1 YR 2 YR 3 YR 4 YR 5
Set up a structure for coordination and follow up of the POA
Regulation of HCW management
Development of technical guidelines for HCWM
Improvement of HCWM in health facilities                          _         _
Public awareness (general public)                         -
Elaboration of training programs and training of trainers
Training for health staff active in HCWM               .
Supporting private initiatives and partnership in HCWM
Planning of initial activities
Monitoring and evaluation of the HCWM plan                            -
vI



3.2    Institutional Arrangements
3.2.1   Improvement of the institutional and legal framework
The Ministry of Health and Population (MOHP) will be responsible for the improvement of the
institutional and legal framework. These activities should be conducted in the first year of the
programme by the Department of Preventive Health Services (DPHS) and through the
Environmental Health Service (EHS).
3.2.2   HCWM improvement at health facilities
EHS and Health facility managers will work together to introduce improved HCWM systems at
health facilities. EHS will regulate the HCW management in health facilities, DPHS will supply
health facility managers with HCWM equipment and materials, and execution of HCWM
improvement programs will be conducted by health facility managers and their staff.
3.2.3   Training
The training activities should be led by the DPHS / EHS of the MOHP. This structure has
competence in HCWM and could be assisted by training institutions in this field. At district levels,
management of training activities should be assigned to the District team. Specific training
activities will be done in the first two years of the programme
3.2.4   Public awareness
The Health Education Unit of the MOHP will lead the activities intended to make the general
public aware about HCW. At the local level, the District team will do the supervision. These
activities will take place over a five year period, through district public meetings, radio and
television messages, posters, etc.
3.2.5   Control and Monitoring of the POA
At the local level, the control and monitoring of HCWM plan implementation should be done by
the District team which will ensure monthly monitoring, while the yearly follow up will be realized
by EHS/DPHS.
3.2.6   Evaluation and supervision of the POA
The evaluation of the HCWM Plan should be assigned to international consultants (under
supervision of EHS/DPHS), to ensure objectivity. This evaluation should be done halfway through
(at the end of the 2nd year) and at the end of the first phase program (year 5).
4.0    COST OF THE HCWM PLAN
The cost of implementing the HCWM plan of action amounts to 971,000 USD in total. Activities
related to the reinforcement of the institutional and legal framework, training and public awareness,
and program coordination, monitoring and evaluation are estimated to cost 423 000 USD, while the
investment costs required to improve HCW collection and treatment in health facilities are
estimated to amount to 548 000 USD. Details are provided in the next table.
vii



Implementation costs of the HCWM Plan
Objectives            Strategies                    Unit    Quantity   Unit cost   Total
USD       USD
Improve the         Development of HCW regulation  Man/day  60        200        12 000
institutional and  and technical guidelines
legal framework     Printing guidelines           U         2000      4          8 000
Sub-total                                                    20 000
Improvement of      Supply the health services with                              110 000
HCWM in the         adequate HCW collection
health facilities   equipment
Acquire modern incinerators for  U       5         20,000    100 000
Central and District hospitals
Build local material incinerators  U    400        800       320 000
in health centres and urban health
posts
Build stabilized pit latrines for  U    60         300       18 000
HCW in rural health centres
Sub-total                                                    548 000
Training programs   Training of trainers          Man/day   600       50         30 000
Training of medical staff     Man/day    3000      50        150 000
Training of supplies staff    Man/day    3000      30        90 000
Sub-total                                                    270 000
Public awareness    Televised messages            U         30        500        15 000
Radio messages                U          120       200       24 000
Posters in Health centres     U          10 000    2         20 000
Public animation sessions     U          110       200       22 000
Sub-total                                                    81 000
Support for the     Plan starting activities      Man/day   30         100       3 000
execution of HCWM   Monitoring at national and local  Man/day  250     100       25 000
Plan                level
Halfway evaluation            Man/day   30         400       12 000
Final evaluation              Man/day   30         400       12 000
Sub-total                                                    52 000
TOTAL                                                                      971,000
viii



MALAWI
HEALTH CARE WASTES MANAGEMENT
PLAN OF ACTION
1. CONTEXT
1.1     The institutional and legal framework is inadequate
HCWM is not a specific priority in the national health policy. The institutional framework is
characterized by a lack of national strategy in HCWM: there is no policy document or any formal
management procedure for health care wastes. The proposed law on HCWM is being prepared
without a proper policy framework. The legal framework does not ensure sustainable HCWM, as it
does not define in a clear and precise way the roles, responsibilities and field competency of actors
involved in HCWM, nor does it provide internal regulations at the level of the health facility. The
present laws and regulations don't provide for standardization of HCW collection, transportation,
storage and treatment procedures. To make these legal documents more operational, they must
reinforce the technical guidelines about HCWM, implement a specific regulation for each health
facility and settle procedures of control. In addition, the laws and regulations, elaborated at the
central level, should allow the City Assemblies to legislate locally about HCWM.
1.2     Organization, collection and treatment of HCW are deficient
HCW management inside the health facilities is characterised by a number of deficiencies, despite
the efforts noted in some health centres. The major constraints are: lack of plan or internal
procedures; absence of viable data about HCW production and classification; no responsible
person/team designated to follow up on HCW management; insufficiency of appropriate collection
materials and protective equipment; no systematic segregation of HCW and mixing with household
wastes; constraints in designing, building and operating local incinerators.
1.3     Knowledge and good HCWM practices are generally insufficient
Waste collectors, health workers (supply staff) and waste handlers do not have sufficient
knowledge for good HCWM behavior and practices. While paramedical staff (doctors, midwives,
nurses) had knowledge and fairly good behavior in HCWM, efforts would be necessary to train and
make the other staff (such as ward attendants, grounds workers, cleaners) be aware of proper
procedures. For these staff, management systems are not well known or followed, which is very
often a source of accidents, causing wounds and infection. The poor level of knowledge of people
handling wastes in health facilities, the inappropriate and inadequate storage equipment, collection
and HCW disposal methods, cause an extraordinary mixing of HCW with other solid non-toxic
wastes (or less toxic). Winds full of dust can carry dangerous pathogens coming from inappropriate
HCW storage in hospitals, clinics and open-air landfills. The health staff, public agents and general
public need to be informed of dangers associated with HCW. There should also be an
implementation of a national program for training of trainers about sanitary risks, good behavior
and practices linked with HCW management.
As for the public in general (scavengers, children, people at landfill site) its knowledge on risks
linked with the handling of HCW is very weak . For these actors, it is necessary to develop
information and public awareness programmes on risks linked with HCW. In this field, public
information should be given priority, mainly with the support of NGOs and CBOs who normally
enjoy a large experience in information dissemination at the community level.



1.4     Private Companies are not involved in HCWM
No private companies are involved in solid waste collection in Malawi at the present time.
Municipalities and cities of Blantyre, Lilongwe, Mzuzu and Zomba generally manage household
wastes. This poses a limitation to managing health care wastes in a professional manner, as the
management skills and financial resources of the private sector are not being tapped. The proposed
action plan for HCWM supports initiatives to develop a partnership between public and private
sector with civil society. To accomplish this, it will be necessary to develop sustainable financial
resources for HCWM.
1.5     Financial resources allocated to HCW are not sufficient
Solid waste management suffers from inadequate financing from the state and local collectors. The
financial resources for HCWM are symbolic in health centres: priority in recurrent budgets is given
to purchase of medicines and medical supplies, as opposed to purchase of waste storage or disposal
equipment. This is the reason why major constraints are encountered at all stages of the HCWM
cycle. Collectors are not motivated, equipment is hardly replaced and collection is irregular.
Without a regular budget allocated to HCWM (mainly in health facilities), it is nearly impossible to
improve management. Without a sustainable financing mechanism for waste disposal in general, it
will not be possible to attract the private sector into playing a greater role for HCWM.
2



2. GOAL OF THE HCWM PLAN OF ACTION
The goal of the HCWM Plan of Action (POA) is to prevent and mitigate the environmental and
health impact of HCW on health care staff and communities. This goal may be further broken
down into the following broad objectives:
* To reduce infections due to HCW
* To improve services in HCWM and mitigate the impacts of HCW on individuals and
community;
* To establish a well-managed multisectoral institutional framework for coordination and
implementation of HCWM measures
3



3. STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES OF HCWM POA
To improve HCWM in a sustainable way, the HCWM plan of action should address the main
constraints observed during the field assessment: absence of specific operational policy about
HCW; lack or insufficient regulations; inadequate budgetary resources; limited qualified human
resources; absence or deficiency of management equipment; insufficient knowledge about HCW.
The HCWM plan should initiate a process and support the national response to these questions. It
must focus on preventive measures, mainly the initiatives to be taken in order to reduce the health
and environmental risks associated with mismanaged waste. It should also focus on the positive
pro-active actions, which, in the long term, will allow a change of behavior, sustainable HCW
management, and protection of actors against risks of infection.
To achieve this, the intervention strategy should be organized around the following measures:
* Organize training activities for actors concerned (health staff, HCW handlers, municipal
collectors of wastes, managers of public landfills, etc.);
* Implement information and education campaigns about HCW for the general public;
* Reinforce institutional and technical capacities and improve existing regulations;
* Support partnership initiatives between public, private and civil society in HCWM.
These actions should be accompanied by complementary measures, mainly initiated by
governmental programs, in terms of HCWM upgrading in health facilities.
4



4. COMPONENTS OF THE PLAN OF ACTION
The proposed HCWM plan is structured around the following operational objectives and major
components.
OBJECTIVE 1: Improve the institutional and legal framework for HCWM
The institutional and legal framework needs to be improved. In particular, it is necessary to set up a
structire to coordinate and to follow up the POA and to develop specific technical guidelines for
the health centres in terms of definition of responsibilities and setting standards and norms for good
HCWM practices (eg, reduction, selection and separation at source), and procedures for storage,
handling, transformation, treatment and disposal.
Strategv:
- Set up structure for coordination and follow up the POA
This structure would include all the actors involved in HCWM (MOHP, MNREA/DEA, NGO, City
Assemblies, Health facilities, etc.)
- Develop regulations (law) for HCWM
This law (regulation) on HCWM should include the following: a clear and properly categorized
definition of hazardous waste; detailed legal requirements for all persons who are producers,
carriers, or who are engaged in the treatment and disposal of hazardous HCW so as to prevent harm
to human health or pollution of the environment; the methodologies for record keeping and
reporting; a regulatory system for enforcing the law; the penalties applicable to offenders; and the
designation of the law courts where cases will be tried.
- Develop technical guidelines for HCWM
The technical guidelines should be practical and directly applicable, and include the following
specifications, with a sufficient degree of detail : legal framework covering safe health-care waste
management; hospital hygiene and occupational health safety; limits on emissions of atmospheric
pollutants and releases into water resources; responsibilities of health-care facilities, health-care
waste producers, and public waste disposal agencies; safe practices for waste minimization;
segregation, handling, storage and transport practices of health-care waste; recommended treatment
and disposal methods for each health-care waste category and waste water.
OBJECTIVE 2: Improve HCWM in health facilities
Strategy:
Regulate HCW management in health facilities
- Define the roles and responsibilities for HCWM;
- Implement, for each health facility, an internal HCW management plan;
- Designate an individual officer responsible for monitoring the HCWM plan;
- Define treatment system for each HF;
- Schedule financial provision for HCWM in the health centres budget;
-  lImplement and adopt procedures of positive and negative sanctions for staff, according to their
involvement in HCW management.
5



Supply Health Facilities with HCWM equipment and materials
- Supply the health facilities with collection and storage materials;
- Implement an efficient HCW treatment system (for example modern incinerators for central
and district hospitals; local incinerators in health centres and health posts);
- Install liquid waste treatment systems in health facilities (septic pits/tanks with a chemical
disinfection system for the provincial hospitals, district hospitals and health centres; as for
central and general hospitals, a physical and chemical treatment is recommended);
- Operate systematic HCW segregation procedures.
Note: The health centres should be supplied specific boxes for needles and other sharp objects.
Already used empty bottles (flacons, mineral water bottles, etc.) could replace these boxes. Plastic
containers for temporary storage should be supplied to health care rooms.
For more detailed information on the choice of treatment systems and why certain technologies
have been recommended, please see Annex 1.
Promote use of recyclable materials
- The use of recyclable materials (drug containers and other plastic materials, flacons, empty
bottles, etc.) is a serious option in minimizing the volume of waste, because it would
potentially reduce the solid waste to be incinerated or treated. Packaging materials can be
recycled (paper and cardboard, glass, metal containers, plastic wrapping, etc). However,
consideration should be given to segregation of recyclable materials, according to the market
opportunities. Sorting of non-infectious waste materials can be more formal if a cooperative
agreement between scavengers active in landfills and the health center is set up. This option
will help to reduce infectious risks in the landfills. Materials should only be reused if they are
designed for re-use. Plastic syringes should be discarded after use. The use of non-chlorine
containing plastics will help to reduce the polluting by-products of solid wastes incineration.
Set up control procedures for HCW management
- Elaborate specific EIA guidelines for waste management, including HCW;
- Implement clear directives for health control agents;
- Set up a register for HCW quantities produced by health centres;
- Define the mechanisms of control in needles and sharps collection and disposal process;
- Organize regular monitoring by technical staff in Provincial and District Health Departments.
OBJECTIVE 3: Train hospital staff and waste handlers
Strategv:
Develop training programs and train trainers
- Identify the training need and the groups to be trained in the health facilities;
- Train trainers.
Train all staff involved in health care waste management
- Train health staff in health facilities (doctors, nurses, midwives), health and sanitation technical
teams at district level, municipal technical services supervisors;
- Train waste handlers in health facilities (ward attendents, ground workers, cleaners, etc.).
For more detailed information on the target groups and content of the proposed training programs,
please see Annex 2.
6



Evaluate implementation of the training program
-  HCW monitoring in health facilities should be carried out regularly, in order to improve waste
management and to ensure that good practices are actually performed after training. Measures
should be adopted to ensure that problems and risks involved are identified while enhancing
safety and preventing the development of future problems. Supervision should concern the
following: segregation, collection routines and labelling, internal treatment system, internal
storage of HCW, transportation, worker safety measures, disposai at sanitary landfill, etc.
-  In addition to this, it is recommended to update pedagogical references of training institutions
in medicine, midwives and nurses schools, by integrating HCWM issues in their pre-service
training programs.
OBJECTIVE 4: Make the general public aware of the risks linked to HCWM
Awareness programs for the general public should mainly be aimed at scavengers, children playing
on the landfills, population performing or receiving home health care, those using recycled objects,
and people living near the landfills. NGOs and CBOs enjoying a large experience in community
communication and health activities would be best suited to conduct them.
Strategy:
Inform public of dangers linked with HCW and reuse of scavenged materials
-  messages on television (about dangers related to the handling of HCW);
-  radio messages (mainly in local languages);
-  national awareness raising campaign (posters in health facilities, billboards, monthly public
animation sessions in the provinces and districts).
Ensure sound HCWM in the household (home based care)
For more detailed information on the target groups and content of the proposed public awareness
programs, please see Annex 2.
OBJECTIVE 5: Support private initiatives and partnership in HCWM
Strategy:
Inform private companies of the business opportunities in solid waste management
Develop sustainable financing mechanism for HCWM activities
Set up framework and partnership between public sector and private sector in HCWM
OBJECTIVE 6: Capture management information for HCWM plan execution / adjustment
Strategy:
Monitor execution regularly, and evaluate the HCWM Plan
-  monthly control and monitoring at regional and national level
- halfway appraisal (end of 2nd year);
- final appraisal (end of 5th year).
7



Table 1: Logical framework of the HCWM POA
Objective - Result - Strategy                     |    Indicators
Objective 1 : Improve the institutional and legal framework for HCWM
Result 1. Resp nsibilities, standards, and sanctions are clearly defined
Strategies     Set up an structure for coordination and follow up of the POA  Structure put in place
Develop regulations / law for HCWM                        Regulation adopted
Develop technical guidelines for HCWM                     Guidelines prepared
Objective 2   : Improve HCWM in health facilities
Result 2      HCW are collected and treated in a secure way
Strategies     Regulate HCW management in health facilities              HF HCWM plans
adopted
Supply HF with HCWM equipment and materials               Number of equipment
Ensure appropriate protection equipment to health staff   Number of equipment
Promote use of recyclable materials                       Recycled materials
Set up control procedures for HCW management              Procedures in place
Objective 3: Train hospital staff and waste handlers in HCWM issues
Result 3: The actors involved are conscious of risks and demonstrate good HCWM practices
Strategies     Elaborate training programs                               Programs elaborated
Train trainers                                            Nbr of trained trainers
Train all the health staff acting in HCW                  % of trained staff
Evaluate training program implementation                  Appraisal reports
Objective 4: Make the general public aware of the risks linked to HCWM
Result 4. The populations are conscious of risks linked with HCWM
Strategies     Inform population of dangers linked with bad HCW management  Posters, radio and
practices                                                televised messages,
Inform population of dangers linked to scavenged HCW materials  public animations
Inform home-based care givers / traditional healers of risks linked  sessions, etc.
to improper HCW handling
Objective 5     Support private initiatives and partnership in HCWM
Result 5.     : Private sectors involved in HCWM
Strategies     Inform private companies of the business opportunities in solid Awareness programs
waste management
Develop sustainable financing mechanism for HCWM activities  Annual financial
flows
Set up partnership framework between public sector and private Nbr of Partnership
sector in HCWM                                            agreements
Objective 6: Capture information for HCWM Plan implementation and adjustment
Result 6: HCWM activities are monitored, evaluated and documented
Strategies     Monthly operational control reports                       Monthly reports
Mid-term evaluation (end yr 2)                            Evaluation report
Final Evaluation (end yr 5)                               Evaluation report
Fina Evluaion(en yr5)                               valatin rpor



5. PARTNERSHIP FRAMEWORK AND FUNDING
5.1      Potential Partners and field of intervention
Delivery of essential health services and the fight against HIV/AIDS relies on the involvement of a
wide range of actors -- public and private sectors, NGOs, and civil society. So it is necessary to
establish a partnership framework to identify the roles and responsibilities of each category of
actor.
Table 2: Potential field of intervention
Actors                                   Potential field of intervention
Technical services of  - inform the local and national authorities
the State (MOHP /   - facilitate co-ordination of FICWM plan activities
MNREA)              - supply technical expertise
- execute control and monitoring activities
- train the health staff
- supervise the training process, monitoring and evaluation
City Assemblies /   - participate in the mobilization of populations
District Governments  - ensure HCW are properly disposed in their landfill
- participate in training, monitoring and evaluation
Public health facilities - participate in training activities
/ Private health     - supply staff with security equipment
facilities          - elaborate internal plans and guidelines about HCWM
- allocate financial resources for HCWM
- ensure HCW management plan is implemented
Private operators   - invest in HCWM (eg, treatment, transport, disposal)
- operate as sub-contractors (City Assemblies / District Govts / Health Facilities)
NGOs and CBOs        - inform, educate and make population aware
- participate in / offer training activities
Training Institution  - provide health staff training
5.2      Involvement of private companies in HCWM
HCW collection is a major concern for public and private health facilities. According to
environmental regulations, health facilities must ensure sustainable management of their wastes.
However, in practice health facilities have very limited financial resources, and no public health
establishment has funds to pay for collection or disposal services for wastes. For health facilities
having incinerators, waste collection is less of a concern. For private facilities, the major
constraints are the absence of alternative solutions to their present practices: HCW co-mingled with
general wastes and crude disposal. Most of them can't afford appropriate equipment for treatment.
Both public and private facility managers and staff express a willingness to participate in an
institutional arrangement whereby costs of treating their HCW could be shared under a common
agreement. Such a public-private partnership arrangement could be put in place on the basis of the
following principles:
-   selected public health facilities would be equipped with incinerators to serve a defined
geographic radius;
-   health centres equipped with incinerators would agree to accept and treat HCW from private
facilities and smaller health centers within their service area;
-   private health facilities receiving such HCW treatment services would agree to pay a collection
/ treatment fee as per the terms of the cost sharing agreement.
Annexes 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8 depict a variety of scenarios showing how health facilities might manage
HCW treatment and disposal, depending on whether they are located in urban or rural areas in the
vicinity of modern treatment facilities or not.
9



Long-term private sector involvement in the HCWM business will depend on whether national,
district, and municipal governments are able to put in place self-sustaining sources of financing to
cover investment and operating costs for this critical environmental and public health service. If
the financial equation is solved, then private sector operators can be expected to identify their
individual comparative advantage and explore contractual arrangements to provide a range of
services for health facilities and landfill sites (eg, transport, treatment, disposal).
10



6. ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL MEASURES
6.1     Measures for mitigating negative environmental impacts
The operation of incinerators has negative impacts on environment and health. However, the
quantities of HCW to be incinerated daily by each establishment are quite small, so environmental
and health impacts will not be significant and the harm caused will not be big. Nevertheless, the
following measures should be taken:
* When installing incinerators inside health facility grounds, a location should be selected that is
distant from the admission rooms and health care rooms.
* To minimize noise disruption and smoke discomfort during working hours of the facility, the
incinerator should be operated at night.
* To reduce polluting by-products from solid wastes incineration, non-chlorine plastic containers
should be promoted; for example, they should be recommended as dustbins for waste
collection.
For the large central disposal sites, wire fencing and locks should be installed to reinforce security
and to minimize the access of scavengers and children. These protection measures will allow site
managers to: (i) control and regulate access to the landfill, (ii) identify the scavengers and (iii)
make users aware of danger.
6.2     Measures for mitigating negative social impacts
Implementation of the HCWM Plan might have negative social impacts on scavengers earning their
daily living at landfills. Their income may decrease as a result of well-organized management of
HCW, particularly when segregation is done at source. Health facilities should explore developing
a mechanism for giving local scavengers non-infectious reusable objects (such as empty bottles),
for example, authorizing them to come and collect items according to well-defined modalities.
For the populations neighboring the landfills, the risks of being driven away and resettled in other
areas are minor. Generally, these populations did not come to settle around the landfills : instead,
the disposals sites have been created inside these districts.
There are cultural issues relating to disposal of anatomical wastes (amputated body parts, placenta,
etc.), which communities may be strongly sensitive to. These cultural aspects should be taken into
account in each health facility HCWM action plan, to better ensure the acceptability of disposal
methods. For example:
* the placenta could be buried or put in septic pits, as it is the case presently in some health
facilities;
* anatomical wastes (such as body parts) can be buried inside the hospital; they can also be given
to the patients or their family if they wish;
* liquid wastes from washing of the dead are generally evacuated in septic pits.
Generally, these practices have been found to be culturally acceptable in Malawi and are currently
in use at health facilities and centres.



7. THE MONITORING PLAN
7.1     Principle and Objective
Waste management is a continual task demanding a permanent effort from each and every person at
the health facility. During the upgrading phase, the process of HCWM must be investigated and
recorded. Once the required level is reached, regular monitoring should ensure that the desired
standard is maintained. The monitoring of HCWM is part of the overall quality management
system. To measure the efficiency of the HCWM Plan, as far as the reduction of infections is
concerned, activities should be monitored and evaluated, in collaboration with concerned
institutions: MOHP, MNREA, City Assemblies, NGOs, etc.
7.2     Methodology
The HCWM Plan will be executed over 5 years and implementation monitoring will be carried out
as follows:
Table 3: Implementation Plan for M&E
Objective                   Timing/Period                Responsible Party
Institutional and legal framework  At the beginning of the program  DPHS/MOHP
(first year)
Planning activities         At the beginning of the program  DPHS/MOHP
Implementation of health facility  Yearly, according to the time-table
HCWM Plan                   established                  DPHS/MOHP
Control and follow up of the  Daily                      Health facilities
execution of HCWM Plan      Monthly                     Hlealth Department in the Districts
activities                                              (MOHP)
Yearly                      DPHS/MOHP
Training                    -   two first years          - DPHS/MOHP, National Consultants,
Training Institutes
Awareness                   -   yearly                   - DPHS/MOFIP and NGOs, CBOs
HICWM Plan Evaluation       Half-way (at the end of the 2nd DPHS/MOI-IP, with the support of
year)                       international consultant
At the end oi the 5"' year  DPHS/MOHP, with the support of
international consultant
Supervision                 Six-monthly                  Dl'HS/MOHP, MNREA; City
Assemblies
7.3     Measurable Indicators
Program level indicators are presented in Table 1, the Logical Framework for the HCWM POA. At
the facility level, the following framework and measurable indicators could be developed into a
standard format to facilitate comparability and usefulness of the data:
-   HCW management structure: reduction of waste, increase in efficiency; standard of hygiene;
awareness of staff and patient; statistical data on waste generation; financial resources;
functioning of responsibilities; training and awareness creation activities; monitoring and
recording activities;
-  HCW    collection: sufficient and appropriate collection containers; efficiency of waste
segregation; frequency of waste removal; environmentally friendly handling of waste;
responsibilities;
-   HCW transportation and storage: cleanliness and functioning of transport equipment; execution
of recommended transport procedures; status of storage facilities; cleanliness; separate storage
of hazardous items; emergency equipment; lock and safety measures; responsibilities;
-  HCW    treatment: incinerator for infectious waste; proper functioning of incinerator;
maintenance procedure; safety regulation for operation; safe disposal of ash; responsibilities;
sewage system; functioning of septic tanks; maintenance procedure; wastewater treatment;
12



-   HCW   disposal: proper operation of landfill site; proper operation of waste pit for infectious
waste; transport of chemical and radioactive waste; responsibilities;
-   General cleanliness: containers not overfull; no used sharps outside or protruding from sharps
containers; no foul-smelling waste in facility or on premises; no litter in facility or on premises;
no faeces on premises; waste pits not overfull.
13



8. INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK AND
IMPLEMENTATION RESPONSIBILITIES
8.1     Institutional framework
At the national level, the HCWM Plan is part of the Government's Environmental Health strategy,
of which it is an important component. Implementation will be coordinated by the DEH of the
MOHP, in concordance with other stakeholders (MNREA, City Assemblies, NGOs, etc.) who will
participate in a range of activities - from implementation to supervision.
8.2     Responsibilities
Part of improving HCW management involves clarifying who is responsible for what functions and
identifying the fields of competencies of each institutional actor involved in this process. A brief
synopsis of functions and competencies is provided below.
At the central level:
The MOHP is responsible for national health policy and ensures the guardianship of the health
facilities. The Department of Preventive Health Services (Environmental Health Section) will take
the lead in coordinating implementation of the HCWM plan because: (i) it is part of its mission, (ii)
it has competent staff in this field, and (iii) it has decentralized services at district level. The Health
Education Service Unit also has a role to play because it is concerned with activities of public
information and awareness raising.
The MNREA will be responsible for supervising HCWM activities at the health facilities and local
landfills. It will watch over the means of collection, transportation and destruction of the wastes. In
addition to this, the MNREA must watch over the respect of environmental norms and procedures,
particularly as they are contained in the Environmental Impact Assessment guidelines for wastes
and health care wastes.
The Malawi Bureau of Standards will be responsible for developing norms and standards for soil,
water and air protection, mainly as they relate to the use of landfill sites for HCW disposal. In these
conditions, the MBS should develop norms and standards for landfills so that they could receive
HCW in a safe manner.
At the district level / city assembly level:
The City Assemblies and District Assemblies will need to put in place arrangements to make sure
that HCW are not mixed with general wastes in their public landfills. They should also give their
opinion about the HCWM plan activities proposed for health facilities in their jurisdiction, in case
some may have negative impacts on the local population's health. Coordination of the monitoring
and reporting on implementation of the HCWM POA will be exercised by the Health Team, in
particular the Environmental Health Officer.
Local governments should design their landfills according to the norms and standards defined by
MNREA and MBS, in order to avoid soil, water and air pollution in case of reception of HCW. To
accomplish safe disposal of HCW, specific areas should be reserved for that purpose. In addition,
local governments should enact regulations to: refuse to receive mixed HCW with non infectious
wastes at local landfills; forbid uncontrolled HCW disposal; and set up strong waste management
controls in their landfills (materials for covering, restriction for non authorized public access,
equipment protection, etc.).
14



At the health facility level:
The manager of each health facility shall be responsible for HCWM in his/her establishment. S/he
must ensure that a HCWM plan is prepared and then watch to snsure that procedures and
regulations are respected. S/he must designate the teams charged with HCW segregation,
collection, transportation and treatment.
8.3     Institutional arrangements for HCWM Component Implementation
Effective implementation of the HCWM Plan components requires that institutional arrangements
and responsibilities be clearly defined. The following institutional arrangements are proposed:
i)     Improvement of institutional and legal framework
The co-ordination structure should be set up by the DPHS. This department, through the EHS,
should take the lead in developing the HCW  regulations and technical guidelines. National
consultants, having acquired a large experience in HCWM, could realize this task under the control
and supervision of EHS.
ii)    HCWM improvement at health facilities
The improvement of HCWM at health facilities should be managed by EHS and Health facility
managers working together. For example, EHS should regulate the HCW management in health
facilities, under supervision of DPHS and DEA/MNREA. DPHS should supply health facility
managers with HCWM equipment and materials, but actual execution of HCWM improvement
programs should be conducted by health facility managers and their staff. Health facility managers
should promote use of recyclable materials and set up control procedures in HCW management,
under supervision of EHS and DPHS.
iii)   Training
Training activities should be led by the DPHS (EHS) of the MOHP. This structure has competence
in HCWM and could be supported by training institutions like the Polytechnic, Lilongwe School
for the Health Sciences, etc.
At district level, management of training activities should be assigned to the District Health
Management team. The specific training activities will be done in the first two years of the
programme. National Consultants will train trainers in health facilities, but also in the other
institutions (City Assemblies, NGOs, etc.). Then trained key staff should train their employees.
The EHS and the District Management teams do not have the human resources to prepare and
diffuse the training courses about HCWM. The EHS could prepare the TOR, and do the control and
supervision at national level while District Management teams would assume the monitoring at
local level. In other words:
* The EHS prepares the Terms of Reference for developing the training programs, and does the
control and supervision at national level;
* Health Training Institutes or National Consultants having acquired a large experience in
HCWM will prepare the training courses;
* In each district, a training of trainers workshop will be held and will be conducted by Training
institutions or national consultants, under the supervision of district management teams. The
latter must prepare periodic reports to be sent to the central level (EHS/MOHP);
* In each health facility, the supervising staff trained in the district workshops will ensure the
training of medical and paramedical staff, cleaners, etc., under their supervision. The heads of
the health establishments must supervise this work and prepare periodic evaluation reports.
15



iv)    Population awareness
The Health Education Unit of the MOHP will lead the activities intended to increase the awareness
of the general public about the risks associated with HCW. At local level, District Management
Teams will do the supervision. These activities will cover the 5 years of the program, through
district animations, radio and television messages, posters, etc., and will be done as follows:
*  The Health Education Unit of the MOH will elaborate, with the help of the EHS, the content of
these messages, of posters and district animation;
*  The televised messages will be diffused by the National Station;
*  The radio messages will be diffused by the local radio stations, in english and local languages,
under the supervision of District management teams
*  Private companies (printing enterprises) will make posters to be used in the health centres;
*  Public animation sessions will be led by NGOs acting in the health and the environmental field,
under the supervision of Regional and District Management Teams.
v)     Strategy for private sector involvement and partnership
The elaboration of measures to involve private companies more directly in HCWM will be
coordinated by the MOHP, in collaboration with district governments and City Assemblies.
vi)    Baseline Survey and Activity Planning
National consultants, supervised by district management teams and EHS, will carry out a baseline
survey at the beginning of the investment phase. During this task, the consultants will indicate the
situation prevailing presently in the health facilities, elaborate evaluation criteria, and prepare the
execution plan.
vii)   Monitoring of the HCWM plan
At the local level, it is recommended that the District management teams ensure regular program
oversight and provide monthly monitoring reports, while the six-monthly follow up will be realized
by EHS/DPHS.
viii)  Evaluation of the HCWM Plan
It is recommended to assign this evaluation to international consultants (under supervision of
EHS/DPHS), to ensure its neutrality. This evaluation must be done halfway through (at the end of
the 2nd year) and at the end of the first phase of the program (year 5).
The following table shows the implementation responsibilities for the HCWM Plan.
16



Table 4: Implementation Responsibilities by Component
Components and Activities                         Execution              Control and
Supervision
Improvement     Set up a structure for coordination and  El-IS           DPHS/MOHP
of HCWM         follow up the POA
institutional   Develop regulations for HCWM      Consultants            DPHS
and legal       Develop technical guidelines for  Consultants            DPHS
framework       HCWM                               ________
Improve         Regulate the HCW management in    EHS                    DPHS/MOHP and
HCWM in         health facilities                                        DEA/MNREA
health facilities  Supply HF with HCWM equipments  Flealth facilities    EHS/DPHS
and materials
Ensure appropriate protection     I-lealth facilities     EHS/DPHS
equipment for health staff
Promote use of recyclable materials  Health facilities    EHS/DPHS
Set up procedures of control in HCW  Health facilities    EHS/DPHS
management
Elaborate training programs and train  Consultants/training  EHS/DPHS
Training        trainers                           Institutes
Train all health staff active in FICWM  Supervising staff/  EHS/DPHS
Training Institutes
Evaluate the training program      Heads of Health centres  EHS/DPHS
implementation                     Health Districts
Public          Televised messages                National Television    Health Education Unit
awareness       Messages radio                    local Radios           Health Education Unit
Posters in health facilities       Printers societies     Health Education Unit
Public animation sessions          NGO and CBO            Health Education Unit
Support the     Diffuse information about business  EHS                  DPHS
private         opportunities in solid waste
initiatives and  management
partnership in  Develop partnership arrangements   EHS /1-lealth Facilities  DPHS / Ministry of Local
HCWM            between public sector and private  District and City     Government
sector for HCWM                    Assemblies
Support the     Plan HCWM activities              National Consultants   EHS/DPHS
execution of    Monitor the execution (national and  Health District     EFIS/DPHS
HCWM Plan       local level)
Evaluation of the HCWM POA         International          DPHS/MOHP,
(halfway and final)                Consultants            DEA/MNREA and City
Assemblies
17



8.4     Timetable
The following timetable shows the proposed implementation schedule of HCWM Plan over a five
year period.
Table 5: Implementation Timetable
HCWM Plan Activities                   YR 1 YR 2 YR 3 YR 4 YR 5
Set up a structure for coordination and follow up of the POA
Regulation of HCW management
Development of technical guidelines for HCWM
Improvement of HCWM in health facilities
Public awareness (general public)                         -           -
Elaboration of training programs and training of trainers
Training for health staff active in HCWM                  -           -
Supporting private initiatives and partnership in HCWM                            -
Planning of initial activities
Monitoring and evaluation of the HCWM plan                -
Before such an elaborate plan is implemented, certain activities can be started immediately, and
others may be realized over the medium/long term.
The following actions could be realized immediately:
-      set up a structure for coordination and follow up of the POA
-      elaboration and dissemination of regulation and technical basic guidelines in HCWM
-      elaboration of HCWM training program
-      elaboration of public awareness training modules and supports
-      planning of starting activities
-      set up HCWM procedures in health facilities, including health staff responsibilities
In short term:
-      training of trainers
-      training all the stakeholders involved in the HCWM
-      diffusing of public awareness programmes
-      assessment of training program implementation
-      halfway appraisal
In medium/longer term:
-      improvement of the HCWM in the health facilities
-      Supporting of the private initiatives and partnership in HCWM
-      Monitoring and evaluation of the HCWM plan
18



9. HCWM PLAN OF ACTION - COSTS
The estimated cost of implementing the HCWM POA and initiating this process of proper
handling, disposal and management of medical waste is 971,000 USD. Of this amount, 423,000
USD is for institutional, training, and coordination/monitoring activities, and 548,000 USD is for
investments in equipment and supplies to upgrade HCWM at the health facility level. Table 6
below provides details per component of the POA, and Table 7 provides estimated yearly costs of
POA implementation.
Table 6: Implementation costs of the HCWM Plan
Objectives            Strategies                    Unit    Quantity   Unit cost   Total
USD        cost
USD
Improve the         Development of HCW regulation Man/day   60        200        12 000
institutional and   and technical guidelines
legal framework     Printing guidelines           U         2000      4          8 000
Sub-total                                                    20 000
Improvement of      Supply the health services with
HCWM in the         adequate HCW collection
health facilities   equipment
- Boxes for syringes          U          1,000     15        15 000
- Containers in health care rooms  U     1,000     15        15 000
- Boots for cleaners/ground   U         2,000      20        40 000
workers
- Masks for cleaners/ground   U          10,000    2         20 000
workers
- Gloves for cleaners/ground  U          2,000     10        20 000
workers
Acquire modem incinerators for  U        5         20,000    100 000
Central and District hospitals
Build local material incinerators  U    400        800       320 000
in health centres and urban health
posts
Build stabilized pit latrines for  U    60         300       18 000
HCW in rural health centres
Sub-total                                                    548 000
Training programs   Training of trainers          Man/day   600        50        30 000
Training of medical staff     Man/day    3000      50        150 000
Training of supplies staff    Man/day    3000      30        90 000
Sub-total                                                    270 000
Public awareness    Televised messages            U         30        500        15 000
Radio messages                U          120       200       24 000
Posters in Health centres     U          10 000    2         20 000
Public animation sessions     U          110       200       22 000
Sub-total                                                    81 000
Support for the     Plan starting activities      Man/day   30         100       3 000
execution of HCWM   Monitoring at national and local  Man/day  250     100       25 000
Plan                level
Halfway evaluation            Man/day    30        400       12 000
Final evaluation              Man/day   30         400       12 000
Sub-total                                        _           52 000
TOTAL                                                                      971,000
19



Table 7: Annual costs of the HCWM Plan
HCWM Plan Activities            YR 1     YR 2     YR 3     YR 4     YR 5   TOTAL
Regulation of HCW management          12 000                                        12 000
Development of technical guidelines for  8 000                                       8 000
HCWM
Improvement of HCWM in health                  137 000  137 000  137 000  137 000  548 000
facilities
Public awareness (general public)     16 200   16 200   16 200   16 200   16 200    81 000
Elaboration of training programs and  30 000                                        30 000
training of trainers
Training for health staff and others actors  80 000  80 000  80 000                240 000
active in HCWM
Planning of initial activities        3000                                           3 000
Monitoring and evaluation of the HCWM  5000    17 000   5000     5000     17 000    49 000
plan
TOTAL                                 154 200  250200   238200   158200   170200   971000
20



ANNEX 1: TREATMENT SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGIES
A.      SOLID WASTES TREATMENT
HCW treatment systems should be efficient, environmentally sound, and permit access controls, so
as to protect persons from voluntary or accidental exposition to waste during the treatment process.
Technology choices should de made according to the following criteria:
-  Performance and efficiency of treatment
-  Environmental viability.
-  Easiness and simplicity in the settling, the operating and care.
-  The spare parts should be available, easy to get.
-  Costs of investments and operating.
-  Social acceptability
In addition to this, the waste treatment system should be close to the waste generating point.
a. Microwave disinfection
This method is used to disinfect bio-medical waste in stationary or mobile plants. The waste is
heated by means of microwave energy. This method needs high investment and operating costs.
b. Autoclave sterilization
This type of treatment is used in health facilities (medical analysis laboratories) for the sterilization
of reusable medical equipment. In this process, a dry heat sterilizer is used and heat of 180C is
generated for 30 minutes or longer, for activating vegetative microorganisms and most bacterial
spores. This process is able to handle only limited quantities of waste and therefore is commonly
used only for highly infectious waste such as microbial cultures from clinical or research
laboratories. Autoclaving is environmentally sound, requires fairly high investment and moderate
operating costs, and ensures good disinfection efficiency under appropriate operating conditions.
However, it cannot be used for all type of waste and generates contaminated wastewater. In
addition, operation requires qualified technicians and its shredders are subject to frequent
breakdown.
c. Incineration
Waste incineration is a thermal treatment, which aims at destroying organic waste parts by
oxidation. Various types of equipment are in use:
*  Pyrolitic incinerator: This has a treatment capacity ranging from 500 to 3,000 kg wastes daily,
at a combustion temperature of 12000 or 1600 C; its initial cost is very expensive. It also needs
highly qualified staff. The remnants of wastes are sent to landfill disposal sites.
*  Pyrolitic incinerator (modern incinerator): its treatment capacity is from 200 to 10,000 kg/daily,
with a combustion temperature ranging from 800 to 9000 C; its requirements in terms of
investment and care taking are somewhat high; it needs qualified staff; the remnants of wastes
are sent to the landfill disposal sites.
*  Incinerator with combustion room (artisanal construction, with local materials): Its investment
and care taking costs are relatively low; it can work effectively, even with low-qualification
staff.
Incineration provides very high disinfection efficiency and drastic reduction of weight and volume
of waste. It is relatively low in cost and does not need qualified staff for operating. But it generates
significant pollutant emissions.
21



d. Chemical disinfection
Chemical disinfection, frequently used in health facilities to destroy microorganisms on medical
equipment, floors and walls, is now being extended to the treatment of biomedical wastes.
Chemicals are put in the waste to destroy or inactivate the pathogens. This treatment usually is
more efficient as in disinfection than in sterilization. Chemical disinfection is most suitable for
treating liquid waste such as blood, urine, stools or hospital sewage. Solid (and even highly
hazardous) biomedical wastes, including microbiological cultures, sharps, etc., may also be
disinfected chemically. Chemical products such as hypo-chlorine and other acids are used to
destroy pathogens, before wastes are burned or transported to disposal sites. The most frequent
chemical disinfectants are:
*  Chlorine - which is a universal disinfectant, very active against micro-organisms. In case of
possible HIV/AIDS infectious materials, concentration of 5 g/liter (5000ppm) of chlorine is
recommended.
*  Formaldehyde - which is an active gas against all micro-organisms except at low temperature
(<20C); the relative humidity must be near 7 %. It is also sold in the form of gas dissolved in
water at concentrations of 370 g / liters. This disinfecting product is recommended for Hepatitis
and Ebola virus (but not for HIV/AIDS). The risk associated with formaldehyde is that it can
cause cancer.
The drawback of this system is that the disinfected wastes are still there and other methods of final
elimination must be devised. This method gives highly efficient disinfection in good operating
conditions, and some chemical disinfectants are relatively inexpensive. But it requires highly
qualified technicians for operating the process.
e. Burial in municipal landfills
This practice consists in disposing of HCW directly in municipal landfills. In fact, this is not a
treatment system: the wastes are stored with household wastes. This system requires very low
investments, but it presents huge health and environmental risks, in view of scavenging practices at
public landfills. However, landfilling is better than leaving hazardous wastes accumulated at
hospitals or other publicly accessible places. More suitable treatment methods should immediately
be envisaged.
f. Burial inside health facilities
Burial at the origin of HCW production - the health facility - is another form of elimination, mainly
used where there is no treatment system or means of waste transportation to public landfills. The
risk in this case is that the destruction of infected wastes is not sure, according to the burial place.
Also, there is always the risk of digging out wastes, most of all, the sharp objects.
g. Open air burning
When done in open air, the burning of HCW constitutes a factor of pollution and harm to the
environment. Since HCW is generally burned in a hole, the destruction is never complete: often the
quantity of unburned residue constitutes 70 % of the original wastes. This encourages children and
scavengers to look for toys and reusable objects.
h. Encapsulation
This method consists of disposing of wastes by filling metal or plastic containers 3/4 full with waste
materials and topping the container up with plastic foam, bituminous sand, cement mortar or clay
material. The process is cheap, safe and very appropriate for health centres that cannot envisage
other methods to treat sharps, chemical and pharmaceutical waste. Encapsulation is not
recommended for non-sharps infectious waste. The main advantage is to prevent the risk of
22



scavengers getting access to these wastes in landfills and to reduce mobilization of toxic
substances.
i. Comparative analysis of solid HCW treatment systems
Table I demonstrates the advantages and drawbacks of each treatment system, along with its fitness
in the economic and socio-cultural context of Malawi.
Table 1:    Comparative analysis of solid HCW treatment systems
System      Technical  Investment   Operating   Easiness/  Availability  Environ-     Social
Feasibility    Cost        Cost      simplicity  of spare     mental    acceptance
_____ _parts  Viability
Autoclave     Very        Fairly high  Average    Very        Not         Ecological,  Very good
efficient but                       qualified   available    but gener-
cannot be                           staff       locally     ates con-
used for all                                                taminated
types of                                                     wastewater
waste
Microwave     Very        Very high   Very high   Very        Not         Very        Very good
irradiation  efficient                            qualified   available   ecological
staff       locally
Pyrolyse      Very        Very high   Average     Qualified   Possible    Very        Very good
efficient                           staff                   ecological
Pyrolitic    Very         Fairly high  Average    Limited     Possible    Little      Very good
incinerator  efficient                            skills                  pollution
(modern
incinerator)
Local         Fairly      Weak        Weak        Limited     Available   Polluting   Very good
material      efficient                           skills
incinerator
Chemical      Fairly      Weak        Weak        Qualified   Available   Polluting   Fairly good
disinfection  efficient                           staff
Burial in    Inefficient  Weak        Weak        Qualified   Available   Very        Bad
municipal                                         staff                   polluting
public                                                                    and risky
landfills
Burial inside  Inefficient  Weak      Weak        Limited     Available   Polluting   Bad
health                                            skills                  and risky
facilities
Incineration  Inefficient  Weak       Weak        Limited     Available   Polluting   Very bad
at open air                                       skills                  and risky
Encapsulation Very effi-  Weak        Weak        Limited     available   Non         Good
cient for                           skills                   polluting
sharps,
drugs but
not recom-
mended for
non-sharps
23



j. Recommendations
The comparative analysis, based on the above mentioned economic and technical criteria, leads to
the following recommendations:
* Modem incinerators in Central / national / and district hospitals, because of its fairly low cost
and operating skills requirements;
* Local incinerators (built with local material) in health centres and urban health posts, because
of its very low cost and small quantities of HCW produced in these facilities;
* Pit latrine in rural health posts, because of very low HCW production.
Inadequate incineration, or incineration of non- incinerable (halogenated plastic, radioactive waste,
reactive chemical waste, silver salts or radiographic waste, mercury or cadmium, heavy metals,
etc.) waste can release pollutants into the air. The incineration of materials containing chlorine can
generate dioxins and furans, which are classified as possible human carcinogens and can have other
adverse effects. Incineration of heavy metals or materials with high metal contents (in particular:
lead, mercury and cadmium) can increase the spread of heavy metals in the environment. Dioxins,
furans and metals are persistent and remain in the environment. Materials containing chlorine or
metal should therefore not be incinerated.
To ensure that inappropriate materials are not incinerated, the waste incineration system must be
based on a strategy of segregation at source, to reduce as much as possible the infectious waste
stream and to prevent the contamination of other wastes (papers, plastic objects, etc.). All types of
wastes must not be incinerated, mainly the non-incinerable ones mentioned above.  Waste
segregation will allow the non-contaminated, non-infectious and non-incinerable wastes to be
disposed at municipal landfills. Only the contaminated wastes (needles, sharp objects, blood stained
cottons, etc.) are reserved for incineration. The latter don't produce (or produce very little) toxic
elements. In addition, this system of treatment allows a complete melting of needles, which are the
main vectors of accidental transmission of HIV/AIDS.
Modem incinerators, with special emission-treating equipment, are able to work at 800-1000 C,
and can ensure that no dioxins and furans, or only insignificant quantities are produced. Smaller
models, built with local materials and able to operate at these high temperatures are currently being
field-tested and implemented in some countries.
In the health centres, the quantities of HCW produced are insignificant. If waste segregation is
performed well, the quantities to be incinerated will be reduced and negative impacts on the
environment will be insignificant. In addition, promotion of the use of non-chlorine plastic
containers can reduce polluting by-products in solid waste incineration.
Although incineration has its critics, it is difficult to choose another system for developing
countries such as Malawi, given the economic and technical conditions. The proposal is not to
incinerate all solid urban waste (household wastes, industrial wastes, etc.), but only selected
contaminated health care wastes. Appropriate incinerator technology is supported by the WHO
elsewhere in Africa. For example, during vaccination campaigns against tuberculosis in Togo and
Benin, the WHO has supported, since 2001, a program to produce craft incinerators (made of local
materials, cement with clay), in order to destroy the syringe needles used in the vaccination
program. WHO organized a workshop in Bamako in 2001 to train some African technicians in the
building of these types of incinerators. These models can reach very high temperatures (800 C)
able to get the needles and sharp objects melted (the model is shown in annex xx).
Presently, there are no environmentally sound options at low-cost for safe disposal of infectious
wastes. Incineration of wastes has been widely practiced, but alternatives, which may be preferable
under certain circumstances, are becoming available, such as autoclaving, chemical treatment and
microwaving. Landfilling, when safely practiced, may also be a viable solution for part of the
already segregated wastes.
24



Autoclave, microwaves systems are surely more efficient and environmentally sound, but more
difficult to operate, too; they are very expensive and require qualified staff for operating. They
cannot be used for all types of waste and generate contaminated wastewater, and in case of
malfunction, the spare parts are not available locally. So, these types of technologies should not be
recommended in Malawi, given the present economic situation. Chemical disinfection requires
chemical products permanently and qualified staff for operating; the disinfected wastes must also
be sent to landfill disposals or other systems of disposal after such treatment.
It is therefore important that where incineration is recommended, it should be accompanied by: (i)
appropriate skills training of those who will operate the incinerators; (ii) appropriate and
continuous monitoring of level of inflammability and type of waste incinerated.
Whenever incinerators become an increasingly difficult option to use, the following treatment
systems should be proposed:
Chemical disinfection:
This method gives highly efficient disinfection, and some chemical disinfectants are not expensive.
As for drawbacks, the method requires highly qualified technicians for operating and it is
inadequate for pharmaceutical, chemical and some types of infectious waste. In central, general and
provincial hospitals, which produce rather important quantities of HCW, the latter should be
disinfected with chemical products, then evacuated to the public landfills where specific areas have
been prepared before hand.
Disposal at municipal landfills:
In case hazardous health-care waste cannot be treated or disposed elsewhere, direct burying in the
municipal landfill should be recommended. To prevent the important disease burden currently
created by these wastes, it is necessary : to prepare specific areas for HCW disposal, to limit access
to this place (wire fencing and lock) and to bury the waste quickly to avoid contact with people or
animals. It is a temporary solution before more suitable treatment methods are found.
Burying inside hospital premises:
In health centres where the HCW production is small, a ditch should be dug. Its bottom and walls
must be cemented (or stabilized) to avoid contamination of the water table and prevent the walls
from collapsing. The HCW thrown in the ditch must be covered with sand. The same procedure is
repeated every time a new quantity of HCW is disposed, until the hole is full; in such a case,
another hole is dug nearby. The hole must be protected (fence/lock) to avoid access and accidents.
The main drawback is that burial places are not always available inside the health centres.
In all cases, the principle of waste segregation at source of production must be seriously respected,
to minimize the contamination of general wastes by the infectious ones.
k. Sharps and needle treatment
Probably the most frequent risk is created by sharps (needles, scalpel blades, blood vials, glassware,
etc.) in contact with infectious germs. In health facilities, needles and sharps should be collected in
non-reusable containers, such as puncture-proof "sharps boxes", specific cardboard, metal or plastic
boxes, or in empty rigid plastic bottles (with a tight fitting lid), if financial resources are not
available. One must not put sharp objects in any container to be recycled or returned to a store.
Table 2 demonstrates the advantages and drawbacks of each treatment system for sharps, along
with its suitability in the economic and socio-cultural context of Malawi.
25



Table 2:    Comparative analysis of sharps treatment systems
Technology    Technical  Investment  Operating   Easiness /  Availability  Environ-  Social
feasibility   Cost        Cost     Simplicity  of spare    mental    acceptance
parts     viability
Autoclave     Very        Very high   Average    Needs very  Not        Non         Very good
Microwave     efficient                          qualified   available  polluting,
irradiation                                      staff                  but requires
disposal of
residue
Melting in     Very       Medium for Low         Low skills  Possible   non         Good
incinerator   efficient   modern                 staff                  polluting
incinerator)
(or needle                and low (for
incinerator)              craft ones)
Chemical      Efficient   Low         Low        Qualified   -          Polluting   Fairly good
disinfecting                                     staff                  and requires
disposal of
residue
Storage in    Fairly      Very low    Low        Low skills  -          non         Fairly good
specific      efficient                          staff                   polluting,
containers                                                              but risks
then landfill                                                           digging out
burial                                                                  sharps
Burial in the  Inefficient  Very low  Very low   Low skills  _          risks of    Bad
site of health                                   staff                  digging out
centre                                                                  sharps
Mechanical    Very        High        Low        Low skills  Not        Non         Good
grinding      efficient                          staff       available  polluting,
but ground
sharps must
be disposed
Encapsulation  Efficient  Low         Low        Low skills             Safe and    Good
staff                  non
polluting
The melting of sharps in incinerators is very efficient. Whenever incinerators become an
increasingly difficult option to use, encapsulation (filling metallic or plastic containers up to /4 with
wastes then filling up with cement, bituminous sand, etc.), chemical disinfecting, storage in specific
containers (then landfill burial), should be recommended because of the very low cost. Autoclaving
is a very efficient system, but it is very expensive.
B.       LIQUID WASTES TREATMENT
For liquid wastes, there are many treatment systems among which: (i) physical and chemical
treatment; (ii) intensive biological systems (activated mud system; biological disk; bacterial field,
etc.); (iii) septic pits/tanks; (iv) disinfection; and (v) decanting and digesting basin. Table 3
demonstrates the advantages and drawbacks of each treatment system for liquid wastes, along with
its suitability in the economic and socio-cultural context of Malawi.
26



Table 3:    Comparative analysis of liquid waste treatment systems
System of       Technical Characteristics  Technical  Investment and  Recommendation for
treatment                                 Efriciency  Operating Cost        Malawi
Decanting and    - Mud draining              Medium      Fairly high     Recommended in
digesting basin  - very weak area (buried)                               central and district
hospitals
Septic pits      - Mud draining              Medium      Very low        Recommended in health
- very weak area (buried)                               centers
Activated mud    - sifting                   Very high   Very high       Not recommended (very
system           - mud draining                                          expensive)
- ventilation
- fairly important area
Biological disk,  - sifting                  High        Very high       Not recommended (very
bacterial field  - mud draining                                          expensive)
- fairly Important area
Physic and       - sifting                   Very High   Very high       Recommended for
chemical         - chemical products                                     central or general
treatment        - fairly important area                                 hospitals only
Chemical         - use of chemical products only High    Medium          Recommended
disinfection     - little area is necessary
- No investments in
infrastructure
Disinfection is clearly the most efficient way to deal with liquid infectious wastes. That is why this
option should be favored among the other interventions, because the HCWM plan is focused
especially on HIV/AIDS related waste management. Consequently, a combined system
(disinfection then storage in septic pits) is recommended for the provincial hospitals, district
hospitals and health centres, which don't produce much liquid waste. For the central and general
hospitals, a physic and chemical treatment, comprising a disinfection system, is recommended. The
implementation of this option requires a feasibility study.
27



C.      CHOICE OF LANDFILL SITES
In big cities such as Lilongwe and Blantyre, incineration residues, which are considered as
household waste, can be disposed in the public municipal landfill, if specific burial areas are
prepared, mainly to receive sharp objects not melted during the process. These types of waste hurt
scavengers and street children even though they are sterilized during incineration. At District and
local level, the remaining wastes after burning can be buried inside health centers, away from
patient treatment areas.
D.     DECISION TREE SCENARIOS
Five scenarios have been developed to describe the context within which health care facilities
operate and must find solutions for the safe management of their wastes. The scenarios mainly
distinguish between the population density of the area, the proximity to modem waste treatment
facilities, and whether facilities are located in urban, peri-urban or rural environments. Five
decision trees corresponding to each scenario are presented to show treatment choices and disposal
options:
* Scenario I (Annex 4): Urban area with access to a modern waste treatment facility or located
within reasonable distance of a larger health-care facility with treatment facility
* Scenario 2 (Annex 5): Urban area without access to modern waste treatment facility
* Scenario 3 (Annex 6): Peri-urban area
* Scenario 4 (Annex 7): Rural area without access to modern waste treatment or disposal facility
* Scenario 5 (Annex 8) : Rural area with access to modem waste treatment or located within
reasonable distance of a larger health-care facility with treatment facility.
28



ANNEX 2: TRAINING AND PUBLIC AWARENESS STRATEGY
A.      OBJECTIVE
Correct attitudes for effective HCWM result from knowledge and awareness regarding the potential
risk of healthcare and administrative procedures for handling the waste. Apart from a general
understanding of the requirements of waste management, each category of actors (doctors, nurses,
caretakers, ward attendants, ground workers, administrative staff, etc.) working within the health
facility has to acquire his or her own individual waste management skills. Staff cannot be assumed
to have the theoretical knowledge and practical skills, but must be taught and trained. For the
training to be successful and to lead to changed behaviour, participants must become aware of the
risks linked to HCWM.
B.      TARGET GROUPS
In health facilities, two target groups may be distinguished:
-      Principal group : (i) Management and administrative staff; (ii) Medical and laboratory staff;
(iii) ward attendants, caretakers, ground workers and other support staff;
-      Secondary group: Patients and visitors.
i)     Management and administrative staff
It is the task of the management to build up the awareness of waste management in each type of
health facility. However, often the management itself is not totally aware of all the risks resulting
from HCW, and in many cases does not know about appropriate waste management technologies
and procedures. Some guidance is needed before the management staff of health facilities will be
able to install a proper waste management structure and procedures.
ii)    Medical and laboratory staff
Due to their professional training, doctors, nurses and the other medical staff have the broadest
knowledge about health risks resulting from HCW. They, in turn, should create awareness among
the other members of health facility staff. Although, they may be aware of the health risks, doctors,
nurses and other medical staff also need training in proper waste management and handling
technologies and procedures.
iii)   Ward attendants, ground workers, caretakers and other support staff
Ward attendants, ground workers, caretakers, cleaners, kitchen and laundry personnel constitute
the group of people having the greatest daily contact with HCW and the least knowledge about
health risks or waste management practices. Therefore, they need extensive training and regular
supervision to ensure the desired improvement in waste management practices actually occurs.
iv)    Patients and visitors
Due to the permanent fluctuation of patients and visitors, it is virtually impossible to teach this
group of people systematically about the principles of HCWM. One possibility may be to offer
advice on basic HCWM subjects during the waiting periods. Patients and visitors should be made
aware of the proper use of waste containers to dispose of their waste. Attentive hospital staff might
guide patients and visitors from time to time regarding their waste management practices. Relevant
posters may often provide the public with additional information.
29



v)     Waste Management Operators
The waste operators have a daily and direct contact with HCW because they are mainly responsible
for waste handling. For this reason, they need to be informed on risks and advised about infection
prevention and security protection.
vi)    Waste Transportation Staff
Waste transportation staff (mainly off-site transportation) need to be trained because HCW should
be collected in specific containers and specific vehicles. In addition, procedures for HCW handling
(loading and unloading) need to be known because of the special characteristics of HCW, and
because handling and transport require specific protection equipment to prevent infection by HCW.
vii)   Treatment Systems Operators
HCW treatment systems require specific capacities. That is why the operators in charge need to be
trained in order to master the operating process, to know health and security related to the operating
system (mainly the procedures in emergency cases), to learn how to care for the equipment.
viii)  Disposal Managers
The staff (municipal staff) who manage landfills disposal need to be informed about health and
security linked to HCW. The must be aware of the necessity of protection equipment and personal
hygiene and they must control scavenging activities and recycling of used instruments inside these
specific sites.
C.      TRAINING STRATEGY
The training program aims to operationalize the HCWM plan by: promoting the emergence of
experts and professionals in HCWM; raising the sense of responsibility of people involved with
HCWM; and safeguarding health and security of health staff and waste handlers. The training
strategy will be articulated around the following principles:
- Training trainers: this involves training the senior officer in health centres (doctors, EHO, and
technical services' supervising staff in City Assemblies).The training sessions will be held in
every health district, (5 trainers per district and LCH, for 22 districts, during 5 days, nearly 600
person/day);
- Training health care staffs in health centres (medical staff, nurses), by the already trained senior
staffmember. These training sessions will be held District by District and will be performed by
the already trained key staff ( 40 participants for each district and LCH, during 3 days, nearly
3000 person/days);
- Training HCWM supporting staffs in health centres (ward attendents, ground workers,
cleaners). These training sessions will be held in health centres and will be performed by
already trained key staff (3000 person/days, with 3 agents during 2 days, for nearly 500 health
facilities).
The training modules will deal with risks in the handling of HCW : sustainable management
process (collection, storage, transportation, treatment, disposal) ; good behaviors and practices;
caring for installations ; protection measures. The training of medical and paramedical staff remains
a priority if the program is to have a major impact on HCWM. The recommended content of these
training modules is presented below:
30



Training module for waste management operators
- Information on the risks; advice about health and security
- Basic knowledge about procedures of wastes handling, including the management of
risks.
- The use of protection and security equipment.
Training module for waste transportation staff
- Risks linked with waste transportation;
- Procedures for waste handling: loading and unloading;
- Equipment such as vehicles for waste transportation;
- Protection equipment.
Training module for treatment systems operators
- treatment and operating process guidelines;
- health and security related to the operating system;
- procedures in emergency cases and help;
- technical procedures;
- caring for equipment.
- control of waste production;
- watching over the process and the residues.
Training module for disposal managers
- Information about health and security
- Control of scavenging activities and recycling of used instruments;
- Protection equipment and personal hygiene;
- Secure procedures for the management of wastes at the disposal site;
- Measures concerning emergency cases and help.
Tranin2 modules for HF staff
Administrative staff
-      Information on the risks
-      Advice about health and security
-      Basic knowledge about procedures of HCWM waste collection, storage, transportation,
treatment and final disposal including the management of risks.
-      The use of protection and security equipment
-      Health care waste management guidelines
-      Financial resources to be allocated to HCWM.
Doctors, clinicians, nurses, midwives, etc.
-      Information on the risks; advice about health and security
-      Basic knowledge about procedures of HCWM waste collection, storage, transportation,
treatment and final disposal including the management of risks.
-      The use of protection and security equipment (protective clothes)
-      Strategies to control and ensure that used disposable equipment/materials are placed in
appropriate disposal and collection facilities and to ensure that all patients are safe
from injury or hazards resulting from HCW
-      HCW segregation at source
-      How to orient the staff on the guidelines for waste management
-      Good practices on HCWM
Cleaners, ward attendants, grounds attendants, other personnel in touch with waste, etc.
-      Information on the risks; advice about health and security
-      Basic knowledge about procedures of HCWM waste collection, storage, transportation,
treatment and final disposal including the management of risks.
-      The collection and transportation of HCW containers
31



-      The use of protection and security equipment (protective clothes)
-      Good practices on HCWM
D.      POPULATION AWARENESS STRATEGY
The awareness raising strategy will aim at the general public and scavengers. They must be
informed about dangers in HCW handling. This objective can be achieved through information and
awareness campaigns on local radio (120 messages, 2 message per month, durant 5 years) and
television (30 messages, 6 messages per year, during 5 years), but mostly, by animation sessions in
popular districts, organized by NGOs and CBOs active in health and environment management
(nearly 110 animations, 5 per district x 22 districts). These actions can be reinforced by education
campaigns (1000 posters, 20 unit for 500 health facilities) in health facilities in other highly
frequented places.
Another concern is to ensure that HCW from home care are well-managed. In fact, advances in
medicine now allow monitoring family health and treating some sickness at home. Such activities
have the effect of introducing infectious wastes closer to households. These health care wastes
include: used needles, syringes and lancets, medicine unused or outdated, broken thermometers,
etc. They must also be managed at home where health care is practiced, to avoid their mingling
with household wastes and increasing hazardous risks. For example, it is noticed that razor blades
are widely used at home (scarification, etc.) and they can be sources of infection if they are not well
managed. For this reason, it is necessary to elaborate information and awareness programs (radio or
televised) towards the health agents (professionals, traditional, and family members) who exercise
in the home. The targeted actors must be advised to have specific containers for needles, sharp
objects (box, empty bottles, etc.) and other HCW (cotton, gloves, bandages, etc.) and not to mix the
HCW with the general household or office wastes.
Used needles, syringes, lancets and other sharps may be safely disposed with other home solid
wastes, provided that special care is taken while packaging them. The safe packaging of these
wastes may be done very simply at home : one can use rigid plastic bottles (with a tight fitting lid),
such as empty laundry detergent bottle; and one must not put sharp objects in any container to be
recycled or returned to a store; needles and syringes don't need to be recapped. The rigid bottle will
minimize possible needle pricks and when they are full, the lid should be tightly fixed and the
bottle placed with other solid waste for disposal.
Unused and outdated medicines stored at home are considerable risks for children and careless
people. These medicines may be safely disposed by throwing them into a flushing toilet. A
thorough cleansing of empty medicine containers with warm water should then be done. After that,
close the lid tightly and dispose with other home solid waste. Medicines should be out of reach of
children who should not play with unclean empty medicine containers.
Contaminated bandages, pads, gloves, etc., may be double bagged in standard plastic waste bags
and securely fastened. This material may then be combined with other household waste for
disposal.
Condoms are not considered as Health Care Waste (they are protective materials against HIV/AIDS
infection). It is possible, in the programs for public awareness raising, to draw people's attention to
the necessity of managing these wastes well: condoms should not be dropped anywhere; after use,
they should be disposed of by throwing them into flushing toilets, burying them safely, or double-
bagging them in standard plastic waste bags (securely fastened) for combination with other
household waste disposal.
Health agents (both formal and informal) who exercise at home must have collection containers,
which they should carry to the nearest health centre for treatment and disposal. They should also
have sterilizing products in order to sterilize all the HCW before disposal. The needles must be
buried if there is place for this inside the house; if not, they must be put into bottles or other closed
32



boxes, then evacuated to the public landfill (or health care facility). Other HCW (cotton, gloves,
bandages, etc.) could be disposed in the public landfill after sterilization. Gloves should be torn to
prevent people from re-using them and risking infection.
Table 1: Topics of training and public awareness guide (Health Staff)
Training subject                                                Cate o   of targetgp
A       B       C     D
Basic knowledge about HCW
Waste categories                                             X       X      X
Hazardous potential of certain waste categories              X       X      X      X
Transmission of nosocomial (hospital acquired) infection     X       X
Health risk for health care personnel                        X       X       X
Proper behavior of waste generators
Environmentally sound handling of residues                   X       X       X     X
Waste avoidance and reduction possibilities                  X       X             X
Identification of waste categories                           X       X
Separation of waste categories                               X       X
Knowledge about appropriate waste containers                 X       X       X
Proper handling of waste
Adequate waste removal frequency                             X               X
Safe transport containers and procedures                     X       X       X
Recycling and re-use of waste components                     X              X
Safe storage of waste                                        X               X
Cleaning and maintenance of collection, transportation and storage X         X
facilities
Cleaning and maintenance of sanitation facilities, drains and piping  X      X
Handling of infectious laundry                               X               X
Handling of chemical and radioactive waste, outdated drugs   X       X      X
Maintenance of septic tanks and other sewage treatment facilities  X         X
Maintenance and operation of incinerator for infectious waste  X             X
Maintenance and operation of waste pit and landfill site     X               X
Safety regulation in waste management, protective clothing   X       X       X
Emergency regulations in waste management                    X       X       X
Establishment of a waste management system
Establishment and implementation of a waste management plan  X
Sampling of waste quantities, monitoring and data collection  X      X
Monitoring and supervision of waste management practices     X       X       X
Cost monitoring of waste management                          X
Establishment of a chain of responsibilities                 X       X       X
Set-up of occupational safety and emergency regulations      X       X       X
Interaction  with City assemblies or private sector waste handling X
structures
Public relation and interaction with local community         X
A                Management and administrative staff
B                Medical and laboratory staff
C                Ward attendants, caretakers, ground workers and other support staff;
D                Patients and visitors
33



Table 2: Topics of training and public awareness guide (Non-Health Staff)
Training subject                                                Cate ory of target roup
E       F       G     H
Basic knowledge about HCW
Waste categories                                             X       X      X      X
Hazardous potential of certain waste categories              X       X      X      X
Transmission of nosocomial (hospital acquired) infection     X       X      X      X
Health risk for health care personnel                        X       X      X      X
Proper behavior of waste generators
Environmentally sound handling of residues                   X       X       X     X
Waste avoidance and reduction possibilities                  X       X      X      X
Identification of waste categories                           X       X       X     X
Separation of waste categories                               X       X       X     X
Knowledge about appropriate waste containers                 X       X       X     X
Proper handling of waste
Adequate waste removal frequency                             X       X
Safe transport containers and procedures                     X       X
Recycling and re-use of waste components                     X       X      X      X
Safe storage of waste                                        X       X       X     X
Cleaning and maintenance of collection, transportation and storage X  X      X     X
facilities
Cleaning and maintenance of sanitation facilities, drains and piping  X
Handling of infectious laundry                               X       X
Handling of chemical and radioactive waste, outdated drugs   X       X
Maintenance of septic tanks and other sewage treatment facilities  X
Maintenance and operation of incinerator for infectious waste  X             X
Maintenance and operation of waste pit and landfill site     X               X     X
Safety regulation in waste management, protective clothing   X       X      X      X
Emergency regulations in waste management                    X       X      X      X
Establishment of a waste management system
Establishment and implementation of a waste management plan  X
Sampling of waste quantities, monitoring and data collection  X
Monitoring and supervision of waste management practices     X       X       X     X
Cost monitoring of waste management                          X
Establishment of a chain of responsibilities                 X       X       X     X
Set-up of occupational safety and emergency regulations      X
Interaction  with City assemblies or private sector waste handling X               X
structures
Public relation and interaction with local community         X                     X
E                Waste management operators
F                Waste transportation staff
G                Treatment systems operators
H                Disposal managers
34



ANNEX 3:          MODEL OF "WHO" INCINERATOR MADE WITH
LOCAL MATERIALS
Some technical characteristics :                          Efficient model of local incinerator (WHO-Togo)
-      Materials : red sand (laterite), clay, white cement   -
-      Bricks of cooked sand
-      Galvanized metal sheet Chimney
Structure:
-      06mx lmx l.5m
-      Height of chimney : 5 to 6m
-      Opening << A > for lighting and ashes recuperation
40cmx30cm
-      metallic gate (Galvanized metal sheet galvanized)
for opening < A >>
-      metallic grate for burning the waste
-      opening <e B >> for the introduction of waste: 40 cm
x30cm
-      mobile lid for shutting opening << B >>
-      Concrete paving stone (2m x 2m)
Face view                                               Profile view
Chimney             b
Chimney                                                  Opening < B >>
Structure
Opening <e B >>                               //
Structure
Opening (A >
Grille
Paving s
F "` 



ANNEX 4:           URBAN AREA WITH ACCESS TO A MODERN WASTE
TREATMENT FACILITY
Waste
Minimization
Segregation
S harps,                    Infectious Non-            Non-Infectious    _     Municipal waste
in sharps boxes                Sharps In                                       stream
Bags/Containers
Contact waste treatment facilities or large health-care facilities and explore
*   The use of a treatment facility authorized to treat healthcare wastes
(prefer alternative to incineration)
*   Facility requirements for disposal of health care wastes
*   Organization of waste transport
*   Fees for waste treatment and transport
Sufficient funds              Inform managers on risks related to
for off-site                  wastes and obtain budget for future.
treatment in the  >           In the meantime    proceed  as in
scenarios 2 or 3 (annexes 5 and 6)
|    yes
no          nformal
Recycling
practices in the
community           yes
Check number of injections against
number of safety boxes
Safe  transportation
vailable                   no
* Disinfect with bleach
(not if incineration), needle
+    yes                       cutter or other methods
Transport for off-site *
treatment   at   the
modern facility
I     ] 1  These solutions should only be
btused duarng a emited time, and
better arrangements should be
sought
36



ANNEX 5:            URBAN AREA WITHOUT ACCESS TO MODERN WASTE
TREATMENT FACILITY
MODERN WASTE TREATMENT FACILITY
Waste
Minimization
Segregation
+
Sharps, in sharps           Infectious non-sharps        Non-infectious             Municipal waste
boxes  ~ ~   ~   ~    inbags/containers                                  10  stream
Explore waste treatment facilities in the area
Waste incinerator (if                  IF
modern facility available                                     No facility other
(see scenario I or annex 4)       Controlled  landfill         than  open   wafste
available                    dump
no            Info                         Informal          no
/____  Recyclng                     Recyclying
practices in the               practices in
\n    community                        the
community
t   yes                t      yes
Check number of injections against number of
safety boxes (scenario I or annex 4)
Disinfect syringes and needles with
bleach/destroy or remove needles with
cutter or other methods
s  Syringes without needles    | Needles
and nonsharps
Safe transport for offsite treatment or _    _    _      Encapsulate
disposal .                                               needles
Make managers and authorities aware of nsks, and lobby                    These solutions should only be used
for more funds to prevent disease as a direct consequence of          l   during a limited time, and better
mismanaged health care waste                                              arrangements should be sought
37



ANNEX 6:            PERI-URBAN AREA
Waste
Minimization
Segregation
Sharps,          |      |    Infectious Non-             Non-Iifectious           Municipal waste
in sharps boxes                sharps in                                         stream
bags/Contamners
Explore waste treatment facilities
n the area
/ odern treatment facility availlb                                          ..
or arrangement with larger health          yes        Transport to off-site facility for
<  care facility possible with available              treatment (see scenario 2 or
funds and with safe transportation                    annex 5 for more details)
| no
yes            ense           no         Pssity to          es
/ Space available on  \   /     populated area     n         train staff and   y       Build small
Spremises a    o                 (people living               allocate                  incinerator
<50 m)                    resources  to
\   /         \               /            \   m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~icineration /
no  yes
no                                                        no               ~      ash
If possible, destroy or                                       sh
remove needles with
cutters or other                                        Municipal
methods                                                 waste
l                                                stream
yes
BurIal pit on
premises
See scenario 2
(annex 5)
38



ANINEX 7: RURAL AREA WITHOUT ACCESS TO MODERN WASTE
TREATMENT
Waste
minimization
Segregation
| Infectious non-o|n/H \ Y  biodegradable
Sharps,                  Infectious non-            Non-infectious                used fororaimtel
in safety boxs           sharps                          waste                infectious waste            and use non-
bags/containers                                                                 organic part as
combustible
no
On-site
treatment                                                                         Municipal
waste stream
Aviae ona                     puled              no       PossibIity to train   yes
available on           /     popula!ted area  \       /   staff and allocate
premises         /     \      (people living              resources to
<50 m)                      incineration
Acceptable
+  yes                                 /   operating           no
conditions for
yes               If possible, destroy or                             incineration
remove needles with
cutters or other                                           l
methods                                                         yes
yes                                       Small
yes rincinerator
f ~   ~       ~       ~      f ,                    '| ash
Burial pit on                                                 ash
premises
39



ANNEX 8:            RURAL AREA WITH ACCESS TO MODERN WASTE
TREATMENT
Waste
Minimization
|    Segregation
Separate
OSite              biodegradable
Sharps, in                   Infectious Non-         Non-lnfcctious           incineration used  yes organic material and
sharps boxes                    sharps                                       for infectious waste    use non-organic part
bags/containers                                    \        /as combustible
no
Possibility of off-si e                                               Municipal
waste stream
/   treatment 
/n*         Reliable facility recognised by  \
no  <          authorities
\  trasporationaval and* 
l yes
Infornal             no
recycling  in
community
yes
Check number of
injections against number
of safety boxes
Safe
transportation               yes
available                                        Transport to off-site
treatment facility
lno
See on-site
treatment on                                  Either a central waste treatment facility, or contact larger health-
annex 7                                       care facilties to explore arrangement for transferring waste to
the4r site
\     2                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~health-care facilities to cxplore arrangement for transferrnng
waste to their site



