Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ON4LY
Report No. 8091
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1002-MAG)
SEPTEMBER 28, 1989
Infrastructure Operations Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



THE WORLD BANK                FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
Washington. DC 20433
U-SA.
Offie o offvinhuoasw
September 28, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Madagascar
Water and Sanitation Proiect (Credit 1002-MAG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on Madagascar - Water and Sanitation Project (Credit 1002-
MAG)* prepared by the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Evaluation Department.
Attachment
Tbhis dbumnth asaruuie  disbutf and may be NW by bWeits aidy inte W(fam
of their olikb dutba ItIl Cotnls maY M0 otheewi be dliwiod witou Wald 0ink *ull_dm



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1002-MAG)
TABLE 0F CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE  .       ......................................................                        i
EVALUATION SUMMARY  ............................................                              ii
PART I
I.     INTRODUCTION           ................................... .                            1
II.    PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL  .......................                              1
Project Background .....................                                         1
Identification .........................                                         1
Preparation ..........................                                           2
Appraisal    ...................................                                  2
Negotiations and Approval  ......           ............. .                      3
M4ajor Objectives of the Project  ..... ............ .                            3
Project Description  .................           ..    ..............            4
III. IMPLEMENTATION ..........................                                                 4
Effectiveness .........................                                          4
Project Management  .......         ............... .                            4
A.  Major Revisions  .................................                           4
B.   Implementation Schedule  .........................                          5
C. Procurement                              .5
D.  Costs  ...........................................                           6
E.   Disbursements  ...................................                          7
F.   Performance of Consultants and Contractors                  ......          7
G.  Reporting  .......................................                           7
IV.    INSTITUTIONAL,  FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE                    .......           7
A.   Institutional Aspects  ...........................                           7
B.   Financial Performance  ...........................                          8
C.   Economic Justification ..........................                          10
V.      THE ROLE OF IDA  ......................               ...................            10
VI.    CONCLUSIONS               .............................................               11
PART II
A.   WATER SUPPLY  ...........             ....................................              12
I.    INTRODUCTION  ........................................                         13
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION,  PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL   ...                       14
III. EXECUTION  ...........................................                          19
IV.   OPERATING RESULTS  ...................................                         22
V.    FINANCIAL BALANCE SHEET  .............................                         23
VI.   ROLE AND DEVELOPMENT OF INSTITUTIONS  ....                  ............       24
Thisdocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Cont.)
Page No.
B.  DRAINAGE AND SEWERAGE .................                 .....................         27
Report on Sanitation in Antananarivo .               ....................         29
C.   SOLID WASTES               ............................      ......                  45
I.    INTRODUCTION   .          .................................                 4,
II.   PROJECT IDENTIFICATION,  PREPARATION ANr APPRAISAL ...                      48
III. EXECUTION            ...........................................             48
PART III
KEY PROJECT DATA..52
KEY  ROJCT  ATA...............................................                      5
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS ....... ................................                         52
OTHER PROJECT DATA .            .............................................             52
MISSION DATA ..........  53
EXCHANGE RATES .          .................................................               53
PROJECT COSTS  .          .................................................               54
PROJECT FINANCING           ..............................................                55
JIRAMA BALANCE SHEET .........             ..................................             56
JIRAMA INCOME STATEMENT                 ........................................          57
SOURCES AND APPLICATION OF FUNDS STATEMENT ...............               ......           58
FINANCIAL INDICATORS ........             ...................................             59
ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE  ........            ...................................             60
CHARTS



i
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1002-MAG)
PPEFACE
This ic the P:oject Completion Report (PCR) for the Water and
Sanitation Project in Madagascar, for which credit 1002-MAG in the amount
of USS 20.5 million was approved on April 1 1980. The Credit was closed on
June 30, 1986, one year behind schedule. Seven million were cancelled on
June 30, 1985, the remaining amount, US$ 13.5 million, was fully disbursed
and the last disbursement was on November 4, 1986.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations
Division of the South-Central and Indian Ocean Department, Africa Regional
Office (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Borrower
(Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final
supervision mission of the project in December 1986, and is based, inter
alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit and Project Agreements;
supervision Reports; correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and
internal Bank memoranda.



ii
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
i
MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1002-MAG)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Obiectives
1.        The project's major objetives were: (i) to improve and develop
the existing water supply, sewerage, drainage and solid waste facilities in
the Antananarivo area; (Li) to strengthen the relevant institutions to
attain proper standards of operation and maintenance; (iii) to assist the
Government in developing appropriate cost recovery policies; and (iv) to
help the Government prepare a long-term development program for urban water
supply (para.2.08).
Implementation Exuerience
2.        The wate.r supply component was implemented by JIRAMA, the
national water and electricity company. On the technical side, its
performance was very good: they prepared final design with their own staff,
as well as the bid documents, and supervised the works satisfactorily. As
regards the institution, the project played an important role in convincing
JIRAMA to to implement a major reorganization and to reduce its staff
(para.4.01).
3.        On tbh  financial side, the project was successful in addrcssing
deficiencies in tariff policy and financial management. Although tb4
tariffs are not yet sufficient, no decision would have been obtained
without the strong pressure exerted by IDA (para.5.02).
4.        The Ministry of Public Works was responsible for implementation
of the sewerage and drainage component of the project. Major difficulties
oce.ured with the preparation of the final design and bid documents. It had
been agreed that the Ministry would carry out the studies with its own
staff but, later on, they requested IDA to finance a contract with a local
consulting firm. IDA agreed but the performance of this consultant led to
its replacement by JIRAMA, with IDA's concurrence. At that time,
implementation was about two years and a half behind schedule (para.3.03).
5.        In addition to the bad quality of the bid documents, the
Ministry issued the invitation to bid without awaiting the IDA comments and
approval. IDA required that the bidding process be stopped imediately and
seven US$ million were cancelled on June 30, 1985 (para.3.05).
6.        The rehabilitation of water and electricity facilities damaged
by Cyclone Kamisy in April 1984 (US$ 2.9 million) was implemented by JIRAMA
very efficiently (para.3.07).
7.        Project completion took one year and a half more than foreseen
in the appraisal schedule. nonetheless, the project completion time
compares favorably with Bank water supply projects averages and with other
Bank projects in East Africa (para.3.08).



il
Results
8.        On the water supply side, the project was successful in
addressing deficiencies in water availability, tariff policy and financial
management. As regards drainage and sewerage, the studies carried out
under the project were used for the preparation of the Tana Plain
Development Project which was appraised in July 1989 (para.6.01).
Findinis and Lessons Learned
9.        The main lessons to be learned are the necessity to have the
final design available at appraisal, for at least a part of the project,
and not to accept the recruitment of local consultat.ts if their experience
and competence are not clearly established (para.6.02).



MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit 1002-MAG
Prolect Completira Report
Part I: Project Review '&rom Bank's Perspective



REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1002-MAG)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01     Madagascar's population at the time of project identification in
early 1977 was about 8 million, with an average density of approximately 14
inhabitants per km2. The population growth rate, at 2.52 per year, was
average for the region. About 82X of the population was scattered in rural
areas. The urban population, located in towns of more than 2,000
inhabitants, represented about 182 of the total population. Its rate of
growth was around 6% p.a., and Antananarivo, the capital city, was by far
the largest center in the country with more than 600,000 people. Its
population has now reached 800,000 inhabitants, 1 million when the suburbs
are included.
1.02     The principal institutions in the water and sanitation sector are
the Ministry of Public Works, for sanitation, the Ministry of Industry and
Energy, for water supply, and the Ministry of Health for both sanitation
and water. The Antarianarivo Municipality is responsible for water supply,
sanitation and garbage collection and disposal. The Municipality was
unable to carry out its responsibilities because of insufficient human and
financial resources. In 1976, JIRAMA (Jiro sy Rano Malagasy, which means
Electricity and Water of Madagascar) was established as a totally
goverrment-owned enterprise to operate power and water facilities
throughout the country. It took over the operations of a private company
(Electricite et Eau de Madagarcar, EEM) which had been nationalized
earlier. Although EEM had a contract with the Municipality until December
1979, JIRAMA was established without the Aunicipality's concurrence, and
this had bad consequences with respect to the payment of water charges by
the Municipality. Under the framework of the International Decade of Water
and Sanitation, a National Water snd Sanitation Committee, chaired by the
General Director of Planning, has been established to assume a coordinating
role.
11. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Proiect Background
2.01     The Water and Sanitation Project was the first project financed by
IDA in Madagascar for the water and sanitation sector. From 1971 to 1975,
UNDP (with WHO as executing agency) financed a master plan and feasibility
studies for the water supply and sewerage sector in Antananarivo. The
studies, carried out by a foreign consulting firm, included an urban water
and sanitation sector study for the whole country. At the time, a number
of Bank missions to Antananarivo helped influence the direction of the
studies.
Identification
2.02     In December 1976, the Government formally requested that the Bank
Include the Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project in its lending



2
program. In February 1977, a Bank mission initiated discussions with the
Government on the preparation of this project. It was agreed that it would
be the first stage of the project designed by the UNDP financed studies
(see para 2.01). The project had four physical components. The water
supply component would meet the water demand up until 1986, with a service
level of 60X of the population. The drainage component would reduce the
frequency of floods in the low areas of the city caused by rainstorms and
would substantially reduce the risk of city floods caused by intruding
water. The sewerage component, although modest in size, would complete the
sewerage facilities in the densely populated quarters of the city center
where the situation was most critical. The solid waste component would
improve the conditions of refuse collection and disposal arrangements.
Preparation
2.03     In April and December 1977, an IDA mission completed the
identification and initiated the preparation of the project. It was agreed
that detailed engineering studies and supervision of works would be carried
out by JIRAMA for the water supply component and by the Ministry of Public
Works for the drainage, sewerage and solid waste components. The mission
was asked to include a flood control component in the project, composed of
several hydraulic works and an erosion control program in the catchments of
the Ikopa River and its subsidiaries. Since these works were not supported
by any feasibility study, the mission proposed that consideration be given
to the financing of a global study which would first review all the ideas
and studies already done on this subject, and justify among several
alternatives which hydraulic works had to be constructed to protect the
city against a 50-year flood cycle and prevent the yearly flooding of the
surrounding ricefields which precluded the harvesting of two crops per
year. Finally, it was agreed at appraisal that this sttudy would not be
included in the project but would be financed by an engineering credit
(Credit 1086-MAG, of SDR 1.8 million, signed on January 30, 1980), for
which the agriculture division was responsible.
Appraisal
2.04     The project was appraised in July 1973 by two IDA staff members.
The Issues Meeting, held on August 21, 1978, discussed and reached
conclusions on the following:
(i)   Financing Plan: the IDA Credit of US$ 15.0 million would finance
only 522 of the total project cost of US$ 29.0 million, the
meeting proposed to request the Government to seek co-financing
from other external :-nders;
(ii) Water Tariffs: aecording to the appraisal estimates, the water
tariffs had to be doubled ovar the construction period in order to
achieve a satisfactory rate of return. This could only be done in
steps. The meeting recommended that the first step be a condition
of Board presentation, rather than a condition of effectiveness;
(iii) Tax resources: since only the Government had the authority to
raise taxes, the meeting wanted to have confirmation that future
allocations to the Sanitation Department of the Municipality would



3
be sufficient to meet the needs of that department for proper
operation and maintenance of the facilities;
(iv) Relending Terms: the meeting recommended to request clarification
from the Government, since under previous projects assistance to
municipalities had been done on a grant basis.
2.05     During a mission to discuss the Economic Report, in June 1979, it
was said that the Government was ready to reject this project because of
the Bank's tough conditions. Another Programs' mission, in December 1979,
concluded that the only remaining issues would be the water tariffs and
cost recovery for the Sanitation Department of the Municipality.
Negotiations and Approval
2.06     Negotiations were held in Washington from December 10 through 14,
1979. The Malagasy delegation requested IDA to increase its contribution
from US$ 17.5 to US$20.5 million since, due to the delays and new estimates
of international and domestic inflation, the project cost had reached USS
33.7 muillion. By telex dated January 14, 1980, IDA agreed on a Credit
amount of USS 20.5 million. Water tariffs were increased by 12% in January
1980. During negotiations, JIRAMA informed IDA that it had been engaged in
operations which were not directly related to its public utility services,
i.e., the manufacture of water meters and electrical home appliances.  It
was agreed that JIRAMA would limit its activities to public utility
operations and before December 31, 1980, transfer to a separate entity the
assets and obligations not related to public utility operations.  It was
also agreed, on Government's request, to extend from 30 to 35 years,
including 5 years of grace, the repayment period for funds onlent to the
Municipality.
2.07     The Credit was approved on April 1. 1980 and signed on May 8,
1980.
Maior Obiectives of the Proiect
2.08     The major project objectives were:
(a)   to improve and develop the existing water supply,
sewerage,drainage and solid waste facilities in the
Antananarivo area;
(b)   to strengthen the relevant institutions to attain proper
standards of operation and maintenance;
(c)   to assist the Government in developing appropriate cost
recovery policies; and
(d)   to help the Government prepare a long-term development
program for urban water supply.



4
Proiect Description
2.09     The project consisted of four physical components:
(a)   water supply, production and distribution;
(b)   drainage, collectors, storage basins, river dykes and a
pumping station;
(c)   sewerage, collectors, pumping station and a pilot
stabilization pond; and
(d)   solid waste, construction of 560 dumping containers, supply
of 19 collection trucks, equipment to properly operate the
existing landfill and improvement of the existing composting
plant.
2.10     The project also included training for JIRAMA water supply staff
and sanitation staff at the Municipality of Antanararivo, with the
financing of 302 of the extension of the JIRAMA training center and a
contribution to the cost of training abroad and locally.
IIIW *HPLENENTATION
Effectiveness
3.01     The initial date of effectiveness was October 8, 1980.  It was
twice postponed, to November 30, 1980, then to January 30, 1981. The only
conditions of effectiveness were the signing of the subsidiary loan
agreements between, on one side, the Government and, on the other side, the
Municipality of Antananarivo and JIRAMA. The Credit was declared effective
on December 17, 1980.
Proiect Management
3.02   There were three executing agencies: (i) JIRAMA for the water supply
component; (ii) the Ministry of Public Works for the drainage and sewerage
component; and (iii) the Fivondronana (mt'nicipality) for the solid waste
component. In order to assure good coordination between these agencies,
the Government proposed that a staff of the General Directorate of Planning
be appointed as Project Coordinator. IDA agreed but this solution proved
to be very disappointing (para 3.14).
A. Nalor Revisions
Drainage and Sewerage Component
3.03     The major project revisions were due to the delays in carrying out
the final design and the preparation of bidding documents for the drainage
and sewerage components. It had been agreed that the Ministry of Public
Works, the executing agency for these components, would carry out the
studies with its own staff. Later on, they requested IDA to finance a
contract with a local consulting firm. IDA agreed, but at the end of 1980



5
the performance of the consultant selected by the Ministry (SECMO) led to
its replacement by JIRAMA in January 1982, with IDA's concurrence. At that
time, implementation was about two years and a half behind schedule.
3.04     Since JIRAMA had no experience in drainage or sewerage, it
selected,as sub-contractor, the foreign firm which had carried out the
master plan and the feasibility studies for UNDP. Ic was a good choice,
but this firm was only a sub-contractor, with no direct access to the
Ministry.   Bid documents were finalized by the Ministry and sent to IDA on
August 28, 1984, without any drawing. IDA replied by telox, dated
September 13, requesting to postpone the bidding process until IDA received
the drawings and camment on the bid documents.
3.05       However, the bidding documents were issued on September 15, as
scheduled. Because of this mis?rocurement, IDA required that the bidding
process be stopped immediately, and proposed to cancel part of the Credit
1002-MAG and to prepare a new project, which would include the sanitation
component of the present project and the flood control project studied by
the Credit 1086-MAG. Seven million US dollars were cancelled on June 30,
1985.
3.06       During a mission, in December 1984, it was agreed to extend the
closing date from June 30, 1985, to June 30, 1986, and to finance
additional sanitation equipment for the Fivondronana and a program of
urgent works, mainly rehabilitation of existing sewers and rehabilitation
study for existing pumping stations (Isotry and 67 Ha), in order to
eliminate adverse sauitary conditions within low-lying areas of the city.
Cyclone Rehabilitation Prolect
3.07     On April 9 and 11, 1984, the regions of Antsiranana (Diego-Suarez)
and Mahajanga were severely damaged by Cyclone Kamisy. An appraisal
mission, in May 1984, proposed to finance rehabilitation of water and
electricity facilities from Credit 1002-MAG, in order to contract
[mediately for equipment and repair works.  An urban development and
drainage study for Mahajanga was also financed by the credit. The
Development Credit Agreement was accordingly amended on May 21, 1985, and
US$ 2.9 million were allocated to Cyclone rehabilitation.
B.Imilementation Schedule
3.08     Project implementation was originally scheduled for a four-year
period, but was not completed until June 1986, i.e., five and a half years,
due mainly to the delays in carrying out the drainage and sewerage studies
(para.3.03 and 3.04), and to the rehabilitation of water and electricity
facilities damaged by Cyclone Kamisy (para.3.07). Otherwise, the project
could have been completed one year earlier.
C. Procurement
3.09     Procurement problems were the mai.s source of delays and led to the
cancellation of the drainage and sewerage component. The Government's
reluctance to recruit international consulting firms adversely affected the
implementation: the local firm recruited for the drainage and sewerage



6
implementation: the local firm recruited for the drainage and sewerage
studies was incompetent and was dismissed one year later, and after this
experience the Ministry of Public Works awarded the contract to JIRAMA, a
company relatively well-organized for the production and distribution of
water and electricity but obviously not for drainage and sewerage studies.
In many quarterly reports and in a letter from the Minister of Public
Works, dated August 1, 1984, there were claims that JIRAMA did not carry
out the studies correctly and in a timely manner.
3.10       In addition to the bad quality of the bid documents, the
Ministry issued the invitation to bid without awaiting the IDA comments and
approval (see para 3.05). This was due to the complexity of the Malagasy
procurement regulations, which are extraordinarily long, cumbersome and
complicated, and to the Government's reluctance to adapt them to
international practices.   Practically all bid documents and contracts need
the approval of the UC-1-ission Centrale des Marches' (CCM), and this takes
between four to six months. There is a study uader way made by Maheux
Noiseux, financed by IDA (Credit 1161-MAG), which is looking at the
procedures of the CCM. Once the findings of this study are complete, it
will be possible to recommend changes to improve the procurement procedures
in Madagascar.
D.Costs
3.11     The comparison between appraisal estimates and actual costs of the
project is shown in Part 3. It is difficult to provide any meaningful
comparison, because the original project was revised, as previously stated:
an important part of the project was almost completely cancelled (drainage
and sanitation) and a new component was added for 2.9 million dollars
(cyclone rehabilitation). In addition, during the implementation period,
the exchange rate between the US dollar and the Malagasy franc rose from
225.8 FMg for 1 US dollar in 1980 to 769.8 FMg in 1986 (and 1234.3 FMg in
1987).  Nonetheless, it is possible to explain the main differences:
-     civil works for water supply exceed appraisal estimates by US$ 1.8
million because of the delays and local inflation;
-     actual cost of civil works for drainage, sewerage and solid wastes
was US$ 1.75 million instead of US$ 12.58 million because the
drainage and sewerage component was reduced to some urgent works;
-     equipment and pipes for water supply amounted to US$ 2.54 million
against US$ 6.52 million estimated at appraisal, because
everything was imported from France, when the US dollar was very
high against the French franc;
-     consulting expenses were very low for water supply because JIRAMA
carried out studies and supervision by itself;
-     consulting expenses for drainage and sewerage were reduced by USS
1.5 million because there was no supervision of works; and
-     civil works, equipment and consulting services for the Cyclone
Rehabilitation Project were added (for USS 2.67 million), since



7
this emergency component was not included in the project at the
time of appraisal.
E..Disbursements
3.12     Actual disbursements from the Credit by year compared with
appraisal estimates are given in Part 3. Disbursements took place over
five and a half years, as estimated at appraisal, but with a delay of one
year. The delay was due primarily to a delay of six months of Credit
effectiveness and to delays in making decisionsa on procurement. The
original closing date of June 30, 1985 was extended by one year to June 30,
1986.
3.13     A graph (Part 3) also gives a comparison of the disbursement
performance of this project with the disbursement profile for Madagascar.
F.Performance of Consultants and Contractors
3.14     The consulting firm which had carried out the feasibility studies
was competent, and the basic design criteria and approaches they proposed
were followed. As explained in paras. 3.03 and 3.04, the local firms
recruited by the Ministry of Public Works for the drainage and sewerage
final design performed below expectations. The first was replaced by
JIRAMA, which had no experience in drainage and sewerage. In addition, it
has never been a consulting firm. The foreign firm, recruited as sub-
contractor by JIRAMA, could not fully play its role, because it had no
decision power. Moreover, its contribution was reduced because of a lack
of foreign currency. IDA proposed to finance a new contract signed
directly with it, but the Ministry did not follow up.
3.15     The overall performance of private contractors was very good.
G. Revortina
3.16     Quarterly reports were submitted by JIRAMA in a timely manner to
IDA for the water supply component. The other executing agencies, the
Fivondronana and the Ministry of Public Works, who did not do the same
because the project coordinator (within DGP), who was supposed to do the
quarterly reports, was unable to carry out his duties.
3.17     An independant auditor was retained by JIRAMA for its own
accounts. Audited accounts were prepared regularly through 1987. Delays
occurred at the beginning, but generally the audit reports were recelved
within one year after the end of the fiscal year, instead of five months,
as required by the Project Agreement (section 4.02.ii).
IV. INSTITUTIONAL. FINANCIAL AND ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE
A.Institutional Aspects
4.01       One of the main objectives of the project was to strengthen
JIRAMA and the Fivondronana. A reorganization study for JIRAMA was
financed by the Credit and led to a profound reform of its structures,



8
implemented in February 1986. JIRAMA's organization charts at the
beginning and at the end of the project are give:; in Part 3. Under
JIRAMA's old structure, operations were shared between two directorates, on
a geographic basist the Interconnected Areas and the External Areas. These
directorates were abolished and replaced by three technical directoratess
(i) Electricity Generation and Transmission; (ii) Electric Power
Distribution; and (iii) Water Production and Distribution. In addition,
operational activities are decentralized to the regional directorates,
which have been given greater management autonomy. The regional directors
are responsible directly to the General Manager. Between 1980 and 1985,
the labor force declined by an average of 91 employees a year, or 4.2X per
annum. The figures are as follows:
1980       1981      1982       1983     1984       1985
Managements  305         332      328        329       323       330
Others:    4,425      4,496    4,062       4,006    3,900      3,946
Total:     4,730       4,828    4,390      4,335    4,223      4,276
4.02     On the technical side, JIRAMA's performance was very good: they
carried out final design with their own staff, and prepared the bid
documents as well as the supervision of the works without any problem. The
Cyclone component also was lmplemented in a satisfactory and timely manner,
in less than one year. About 600 new house connections were installed
every year. Operation and maintenance improved during the project
implementations although the actual production of the water treatment plant
is over the capacity of the station, the water quality remains acceptable.
The new treatment plant, planned at appraisal for 1983-84, has not yet been
constructed, however, the population served has increased from 858,000
(86%) in 1982 to 1,081,000 (89%) in 1986. To meet the future needs, Caisse
Centrale de Cooperation Economique, from France, is ready to finance a new
project including a treatment plant of 50,000 m3 per day and the
reinforcement of the distribution system. In addition IDA is planning a
Water Sector Project with a program of low cost house connections for
Antananarivo, Toamasina and Antsirabe.
4.03     The project's impact on the Fivondronana was less important, since
the majority of its component was cancelled, and its financial situation
improved only in 1987, after the closing date.
Bs Financial Performance
JIRAMA - Overall Financial Situation
4.04     While JIRAMA's audited financial statements for 1979  to 1986 do
not show a strong perrormance, a slight improvement can be detected in its
annual results over the years. Operating income showed significant annual
increases peaking at FMG 5.7 billion in 1985. The company, however,
suffered net losses for four consecutive years, 1983-1986, largely due to
heavy financial charges particularly in its electricity operations stemming
from foreign exchange losses as a result of the weakened FMg. Its accounts
receivables situation worsened progressively rising to 50% of total current
assets in 1985 and 822 of total operating revenues in 1986, largely due to



9
overdue payments from central and local governments and state-owned
companies. Steady increases were also evidenced over the 1980-86 period in
the company's long-term liabilities (normal for a company undertaking
expansion) and short term liabilities (a more worrisome trend due io
increasing accounts payable and recourse to high interest bank overdrafts).
Water Operations
4.05       At the time of project appraisal, the Government's stated
objectives for its water operations were: to achieve financial viability
through recovery of costs; to finance some 642 of its capital requirements
for the period 1980-86 from internally generated sources; and to adjust its
historically low water tariffs to achieve rates of return of 2.41 in 1981
and 1982 and 62 from 1983 onward. These objectives were partially
achieved. Approximately 492 of its investments during 1980-86 amounting to
FMg 12,330 million were financed from internally generated sources. JIRAMA
was able to achieve and exceed the covenanted 62 rate of return for the
first time in 1985 (two years later than had been anticipated) largely due
to persistent financial management efforts, including regular tariff
increases. Continued strong performance was affected, however, by a
significant fall in sales, due to the deteriorating economic situation of
the country. Among private subscribers, for example, average consumption
declined by 4.72 between 1980 and 1986; a stagnation and reduction of
commercial and industrial activities is also evident in the operating data.
4.06       JIRAMA's concern about its weak financial positior (particularly
its accounts receivables situation) has led to a number of steps taken
jointly with the Ministry of Finance with a view to liquidate the
delinquent government accounts and prevent future arrears accumulation.
The most important of these was the putting into effect of contracts with
the consumers which will allow JIRAMA to effectively sanction government
agencies by cutting off services. With respect to the management of the
company's growing long-term liabilities stemming to a large extent from
excbange rate differences, Jirama requested that the Government take over
the exchange rate differentials resulting from matured loans. With respect
to the decline in consumption, the Government is giving serious
consideration to setting up a credit facility to encourage new connections
to the water supply system to compensate for the decline in existing
consumption. It is expected that the follow-on Bank-financed project would
include a line of credit for household connections.
4.07     Beginning in 1986, JIRAMA initiated a rigorous financial reform
program in the context of a Bank Group financed Energy Project (Cr. 1787-
MAG). A combination of actions including debt relief on borrowings related
to unproductive assets (power sector only), settling of Government related
arrears through 1986, divesture of unproductive subsidiaries and power rate
increases have contributed to a minor improvement in JIRAMA's financial
situation for 1987 and 1988. Substantial improvement cannot be expected in
the future, however, without: (1) adopting and regularly adjusting power
and water rates to reflect investment, operating and maintenance costs and
(2) resolving the basic budgeting and discipline problems responsible for
the persistent arrears accumulated by the Central Administration.
municipalities and the regional universities. Financial management within
JIRAMA will also need to be reinforced by introducing integrated investment



10
and financial planning systems for water operations similar to those being
used for power operations.
Fivondronana of Antananarivo - Sanitation Division
4.08      Financial management of the Sanitation Division was expected to
be strengthened through: (a) establishment of pro forma accounts in
accordance with principles of accrual accounting; (b) certification of
opening balance sheet as of January 1, 1980; (c) annual review of fixed
assets and revaluation; (d) provision of Fivondronana's funds to the
Sanitation Division calculated on the basis of the Division's pro forma
accounts at least equal to the Division's operating, maintenance cost and
capital expenditures; and (e) annual adjustment by JIRAMA on the basis of
recurrent costs of drainage and refuse collection services to the rate of
the surtax for development works collected by JIRAMA on behalf of the
Municipality. Despite the proposals made at the time of appraisal and
subsequent agreements reached with the Government, the financial position
of the Sanitation Division remained weak throughout the project due largely
to the lack of qualified personnel to implement and maintain an adequate
accounting system.
C. Economic Justification
4.09     The internal rate of return had been calculated at appraisal
only for the water supply component of the project. It was 7.4% taking
into account the tariffs proposed at appraisal, and only 2.3Z with the 1979
tariffs. In re-evaluating the economic rate of return for the water supply
component, the actual cost of the project has been combined with the cost
of the treatment facilities which had been constructed separately by JIRAMA
(the second step scheduled for 1983 had not been realized). Also included
in the cost stream are the future maintenance costs estimated at 5% of the
investments costs. The actual costs were deflated to represent prices in
1980 which served as the base year (see Part 3). Costs and benefits were
considered over the period 1980-2000.
4.10     On the basis of these assumptions, the economic rate of return was
calculated to be 1.2%, compared to 7.4% at appraisal. The reasons for this
difference are the following: (i) from 1980 to 1986, compounded inflation
was 163% but water tariff increases were only 112%; (ii) expansion of the
production facilities, scheduled for 1983-84 has not yet been done, which
has limited the water sales; and (iii) completion of the works was behind
schedule. The calculation of the ERR, however, underestimates the true
economic rate of return, as the water revenues alone do not reflect the
full economic benefits related to health and other environmental and social
factors.
V. THE ROLE OF IDA
5.01     IDA supervision was relatively continuous, as only one change in
project officer occurred during the life of the project. During the
implementation period, a total of 10 supervision missions visited
Madagascar. The number of staff-weeks spent on this project, by task, is
given below:



11
EX       1977  1978  1979  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  1985  1936  1989
LOP            0.5   0.1   11.9  2.8
LENP           0.5   17.6
LENA                  42.1
LENN                        1.1   12.9
PAD                               0.5                0.4   2.6   2.5   0.6
SPN                               2.5   4.7   5.2   11.4  9.4   5.4   5.2
PCR
6.5
TOTAL          1.0   59.8  13.0  18.7  4.7   5.2   11.8  12.0  7.9   5.8
6.5
5.02           This represents a total of 146.4 staff-weeks for the whole
cycle of the project. No consultant was recruited by IDA. IDA played an
important role in convincing JIRAMA to implement an important
reorganization and to reduce its staff. IDA was also instrumental in
discussing the tariff increases with the Government. Although the tariffs
are not yet sufficient, no decision would have been obtained without the
strong pressure exerted by IDA.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01     On the water supply side, the project was successful in addressing
deficiencies in water availability, tariff policy and financial management.
On the drainage and sanitation side the bad performance of ti.e local
consulting firms recruited, associated with the complexity of the Malagasy
procurement procedures, jeopardized the entire component which was
cancelled except for some urgent works. Nevertheless, the drainage and
sanitation works will be reactivated, combined with flood control, under
the Antananarivo Plain Development Project. The review of the existing
studies, carried out for its preparation, led to major revisions and better
coordination between the various components of the project. Concerning the
Fivondronana, its deficiencies on the financial and technical sides are
being addressed under the First Urban Project (Credit 1497-MAG).
6.02     The main lessons to be learned are the necessity to have the final
design available at appraisal, as it is done now, and not to accept the
recruitment of local consultants if their experience and competence are not
clearly established.



12
MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit 1002-MAG
Proiect Completion Report
Part II: Project Review from Borrower's Pcrspective
Water Supply



13
Antananarivo
Water and Sanitation Project
Credit 1002-MAG
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I.   INTRODUCTION
A number of public agencies are in.ilved in the weLer sector:  the
Miti stry of Industry, Energy and Mines, the  inLStty of Public Works, the
Ministry of Agricultural Production and Agrarian Reform, the Ministry of
Animal Production and Water and Forest Resourtes, and the Ministry of Health.
II iddition, non-governmental agencies still concern themselves with certain
rual areas and there are one or twta muricipal authorities.  Currently, a
Warpr Supply and Sanitation Committee set up under the International Decade of
Potable Water and Sanitation is responsible for coordinating, guiding and
monitoring all water supply and sanitation activities.
The general objectives for water supply are:
-    study of the means of providing a satisfactory waLet stupply to the
entire population;
-    gradual construction of schemes aimed at serving tht whtolte
population;
-    standardization of the terms (especially tariffs) otn which people
are supplied;
-    financial viability of water supply entities;
-    recovery of water service costs.
The City of Antananarivo Water Supply and Sanitation Project marks a
decisive step forward since it helps meet the needs of the capital city, which
contains more than a third of Madagascar's urban population.
It also lays the bases for a long-term urban water supply
development program and will provide a framework for later supply to rural
areas. In 1976 the Government set up JIRAMA, a 100% state-owned enterprise
responsible for building and operating water and electricity supply facilities
throughout Madagascar. JIRAMA operates all urban water supply networks except



14
for a few municipal authorities. It takes over these authorities as and when
the public finances permit. JIRAMA is also responsible for rural water supply
lines and is expanding more and more into the rural areas through the
construction of new conduits.
II. PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Preparation of the project arose out of the City of Antananarivo
Water Sector Master Plan study which was carried out by the French consulting
firm of Omnium Technique Holding (OTH) on behalf of the World Health
Organization (WHO) under the aegis of the United Nations Development Program
(UNDP).
The World Bank, which has kept in touch with the studies from the
start, included this project in its lending program in December 1976 at the
Government's request.
Before going into the details of the "Initial Program" we shall
recapitulate the history of the potable water supply system of the city of
Antananarivo.
A.   The system was originally designed to supply the historic center,
largely concentrated on the hillside. Water was drawn from a small natural
lake, easily supplied by the Ikppa River. The production facilities comprise:
-    a water treatment plant at Mandroseza with a rated capacity of
85,000 m3/day of filtered water;
-    a general pumping station providing boosting and distribution of
potable water 24 hours a day.
From this production center, six feeders supply the city's main
reservoirs (2 , 250, 1 x 350, 1 x 450, 1 x 500 and 1 x 600 mm diameter),
climbing the hill slopes or circumventing the points of most difficult
relief. A number of neighboring communes are currently served.
The city is divided into several distribution zones or levels,
comprising three main sections:
-    the medium-level zone, which supplies the bulk of city consumption
(about 80%) and is fed directly by the Mandroseza pumping station
and equipped with numerous reservoirs located between elevations
1334.7 m and 1344.7 m, i.e., about 95 m above the average level of
the Antananarivo Plain (1,248 m);
-    the higher-level zones, which supply high areas (70-200 m above the
plain) or remote sections, requiripg the use of boosters on the
network;
-    the low-level zones, which supply piedmont or plain areas.



15
The approximately 500-km distribution network has been extended
outward to serve the new neighborhoods. It also comprises boosters or relay
stations that feed the higher zones.
B.   The "initial program" at that time comprised three separate parts:
(1) The immediate program, covering the period 1975-76. comprising
urgent works to be financed out of own funds:
-    construction of reserroirs R17-Obser-vatory (pilot reservoir)
and R18-Ambohimamory (equalizing reservoir);
-    improvement of distribution by extending the Betongolo 350-mm
conduit and strengthening the 200-mm conduit between the
Anosibe grade crossing and the Western road terminal by a
300-mm conduit.
-    enhancing plant production reliability by laying a 200-r
conduit to Alasora which could be used to pump Alasora
underground water to Mandroseza in cases of exceptional
shortage.
(2) The first-stage program covering tAe period 1977-80. comprising:
-    increasing the plant's production capacity by 25,000 m3/day by
strengthening the water intakes on the Ikopa River,
installation of a new 2,000-m3/hr pump at the Ikopa intake
station, construction of a grit removal tank, expansion of the
raw water pumping station (one 1,500 m3/hr pump) and a 3,000-m3
tank;
-    constitution of the "low-level" zone with isolation of the two
conduits to the right of the hills of Itaosy and Ampitatafika
which feed the western outskirts in the event of failure of one
of the conduits supplying R18, installation of a lifting
station near Rlg to pump the water to R10 (Itaosy), piping and
feeder links, reorganization of the West Plain network, and
installation of the East Ring with the R12 as pilot reservoir;
-    supply of the outlying communes of Alasora, Ambohitrimanjaka
and Ilafy. Supply of Alasora by a 200-mm conduit; supply of
Ambohitrimanjaka by an independent system using the water table
of the neighboring plain; supply of Ilafy by a 12-mm PVC pipe
in the extension of the SOMACOU plant;
-    strengthening and expanding the distribution network by
remaking reservoir R3-Ambohijatovo, with a reserve of 2,200 m3
compared with 1,100 m3 at present; linking the 600-mm feeder at
the right of reservoir R17 to the 250-mm conaduits that partly
supply the Guillet relay by means of a 400-m conduit;
strengthening in stages of the 200-mm conduit linking Anosibe



16
tN Anosizato by a 300-mm conduit; construction of reservoir R19
(above-ground reservoir, 1,000 m3) and extension as far as this
reservoir of the 250-mm conduit proposed for 1974 on the
Hydrocarbons Road; replacement of the Ambohimanarina booster
set by another, more powerful set; strengthening of the
northern outskirts reserves by constructing a 500-m3 equalizing
reservoir at the foot of Ambohidratrimo hill and laying a
200-m3 conduit which would link the booster to this reservoir.
(3) The second-stage program, covering the period 1980-85, comprising:
-    expansion of the MandrosezA plant;
-    taking into service of a new 25,000-m3/day production unit (in
1982), raising production capacity to 100,000 m3/day with
installation of two pumps on the "8 bars" level, construction
of 3,000-m3 tanks, installation of a water intake pump on the
Ikopa River and of a raw water pump at the plant, and taking
into service of the bypass canal around the lake;
-    completion of conistruction of the 1,320-m level which will ring
the city, with the following links: Fiadanana (R15)-Anosibe,
Anosibe-Isotry, Isotry-Antanimena, Antanimena-Hydrocarbons,
Hydrocarbons-Ampasampito (R22), R22-Mandroseza Plant;
-    strengthening of the "high level" zone (1,340  m);
-    strengthening of the "low level" zone (1,320 m) with
construction of reservoir R22 (5,000 m3) and doubling of
reservoir R15 (Fiadanana). Two pilot lines will link these two
reservoirs to the plant;
-    extension and strengthening of the city periphery branches.
in view of the operating constraints at that time (delay in start-up
of the first segment of the works and rapid growth of demand, resulting in
total saturation of production facilities), JIRAMA was compelled to finance
out of its own funds, in addition to the immediate program, part of the works
of the first segment (installation of the additional 25,000 m3/day unit).
As a result, the project was negotiated with the World Bc-k on the
b_sis of the first-stage program.
Genesis
A.   The project was ijade necessary by a variety of factors:
-    saturation of the production and distribution facilities (for
economic reasons, the maximum capacity of the plant matches that of
the network);



17
-    nearness of the concession expiration date;
-    lack of an overall plan and long-term development framework.
B.   The following agencies participated in project identification:
* - the Administration, represented by the Mines and Energy
Directorate. Its role was to provide coordination between the two
parties (concession-holder and local authority);
-    IDA (International Development Association), the chief supplier of
funds, which helped the participants identify the project;
-    the concession-holder, at that time the Societe Electricite et Eau
de Madagascar (EEM), which later became the Societe Malgache de
1'eau et de l'Electricite (SMEE).
C.   Choice of the optimum solution was determined hy a feasibility study.
Preparation, appraisal, negotiation and approval
A.   The project was conducted entirely by a local team of JIRAMA, from
preparation through appraisal and negotiation to execution.
B.   (1)  The changes in relation to the initial project mainly concern
the execution timetable. However, some minor alterations were made:
-    addition of a %ck-up electrical pump set at the Ikopa River water
intake;
-    addition of supplemental conduits to form a number of grids on the
distribution network (R13-Talatamaty, road dike-Ambodimita). The
administrative delays between the Administration and IDA caused the
project in general to fall behind schedule, as shown in tables I and
2 below.
On the other hand, both the dimensions and content of the works
remain unchanged.
B.   (2)  Following negotiation with IDA, a few corrections had to be
made as a result of changes in demand centers due to the economic situation at
that time.
Thus, works scbeduled for the second segment had to be brought
forward and a new spatial distribution of the consumption centers had to be
effected, involving minor changes in the distribution system:
-    alteration of the shape of reservoir R19 (Ivandry) to take
architectural account of the environment: upper-income residential
neighborhood;



18
alteration of the shape and capacity of reservoir R21-Ambohidratrimo
(change to 1,000 m3) in view of the appreciable increase in demand
in this area;
consequent modification of the number of grid and linkage conduits
of the new demand centers.
turpose
The program of long-term development of JIRAMA is currently being
formulated following setting-up of the new Economic Studies and Planning
Directorate.
Proiect descridtion
A.   Physical works
The works comprise mainly:
-    increasing production capacity by building a raw water pumping
station on the Ikopa with a 2,000-m3/hr pump (a second pump is
installed as back-up) and a grit extractor, then by installing a
1,500-m3/hr raw water pump on Lake Mandroseza and also a filtered
water pump, including raw water conduits, accessories and
electromechanical equipment (control panel, transformer, etc.);
-    increasing the capacity of the main distribution conduits, involving
a total of 33 km of diameters 125-350 mm;
-    increasing reserve capacity by building 4 reservoirs, at
Ambohijatovo R3 (2,200 m3), Ampasampito R22 (2,500 m3), Ivandry Rl9
(1,000 m3) and Ambohidratrimo R21 (1,000 m3);
-    strengthening heavy maintenance equipment by acquiring a
high-pressure Jet cleaner, a leak detection vehicle, two-way radios,
electromagnetic flowmeters, compressor, pneumatic hammers, discharge
pumps, pipe-cutter, winch, etc.;
-    increasing the trainee capacity of the Ambohimanambola Vocational
Training Center (CFPA):
construction of 6 new buildings:
block A-D, dormitory for 64 trainees, total area 1,015 m2
including the upper floor;
block AFG, lecture room, workshop and store, total area
898 m2;
block F, electricity and safety lecture room and workshop,
total area 195 m2;
block E, diesel lecture room and workshop, total area
274 m2;



19
block G, CUR lecture room and workshop, total area 195 m2;
*    block B-R, cafeteria and kitchen, total area 171 m2;
Rehabilitation of 3 existing structures:
block 1, library and lobby;
block J, basic workshop;
block K-l., electrotechnical lecture room, workshop and
measurement and testing connections;
-- expansion of teaching equipment and material (water analysis,
water system).
B.   Financial aspect
In accordance with point J of the recommendations contained in
appraisal report no. 2266a-4AG of January 26. 1980, a tariff study has been
carried out by JIRAMA.
C.   Institutional aspect
In May 1986, CEGOS, which was then carrying out a study mission
concerning restructuring of JIRAMA, was asked to propose a training program
for all water-sector personnel.
The proposal presented was not satisfactory to JIRAMA. In November
1985 a new proposal, drawn up together with CGE (Compagnie Generale des
Eaux), was approved in principle by IDA. A contract between the two parties
to formalize joint action was signed in early 1986.
A CGE expert mission to prepare for start-up of the training took
place during February 1986. However, tne training program could not
subsequently be put into effect for lack of credit funds.
The project was, however, able to finance:
-    sending two administrative managers to CEFIGRE;
-    sending an engineer to a seminar in Dakar.
III. EXECUTION
Operations
The equipment acquired under the project    piping (lots 1-2-3) and
electromechanical equipment (lots 4-5) -- improved water production operations
by improving extraction and pumping reliability. On the distribution side,
network output was raised with improved flow distribution and suitable service
pressure.



20
In civil engineering works there is an appreciable reserve capacity,
necessary for good response to consumption fluctuations, which gives a better
level Or service.  It can therefore be stated that no excessive deviation from
the original projections has occurred and that on the whole the results
obtained are satisfactory.
'Start-up of the project
Start-up presented no special problems. Getting the invitatior. to
tender documents into final shape took a little more time at the beginning but
the regular tempo of operation was quickly reached.
Execution of the project calls for no particular comments except
that, generally speaking, the actual time taken to execute the works was
longer than planned. All the works and services suffered more or less
substantial delays except for the Ambohimanambola Vocational Training Center
civil engineering works and laying of the piping. Pipe-laying had to be
deferred owing to local currency financing problems but the works execution
deadline was met (table 3).
It is also noted that while expenditures all exceeded the
projections, ti,ey remained within the credit ceiling (table 4).
Contracting
Temporary difficulties affected mainly the drafting of contracts at
the beginning of the project (lots 1-2-3, supply of piping) because the texts
in force in Madagascar sometimes conflict with those normally used for
international consultations. A compromise was eventually found and, apart
from delay in notification of some contracts, there were not too many
deviations.
Contractors and suppliers
Overall, this calls for no particular comment except perhaps that
the works contractor sometimes had difficulty in adhering to the conditions of
tender out of concern for the deadline. In the case of suppliers, the few
problems that arose concerned compliance with the administrative and general
clauses. It should be noted that no price revision in the true sense took
place since the execution deadline rarely exceeded 12 months, apart from lot
4-5 (14 months) for which the supplier did not request price revision.
Training component
The personnel training part was left until toward the end of the
project. An overall program was approved by IDA but could not be executed for
lack of credit funds. However, in view of the urgency, specific training
opportunities were provided for a number of trainees.
In addition, the Credit financed part of the works of construction
of the JIRAMA Vocational Training Center, the balance being provided jointly
by Credit 817-MAG, Andekaleka Hydroelectric Scheme.



21
Disbursements
Disbursements fell well behind schedule, reflecting the execution
delays.
We give below for comparison the original table and the end-of-
-project table (table 5).
Execution timetable
A.   The werks completed by the original deadline concern the civil
engineering works for the Ambohimanambola Vocational Training Center and
pipe-laying (taking into account the late start of the work). They represent
about 31X of project cost (table 6).
B.   The delay is due to two factors:
-    for lack of time, the invitation to tender documentation could not
be properly detailed (for example, the test drillings were not
done); also, bidders were asked to carry out prior inspection and
studies of the sites and to take the results into account in their
bids;
-    the bidder selected (the lowest bidder) was unable to take this
aspect into account for reasons of economy; this is reflected in the
difficulties encountered during execution (lot 7 in particular).
On the other hand, where the bidder took all the difficulties into
account at the time of his bid, the works could be completed ahead of time
(lot 8); this applies only to pipe-laying. The same problem was encountered
in remaking of roads, i.e., lack of in-depth advance knowledge, aggravated by
changes in roads due to works carried out by the Ministry of Public Works
after the contract was awarded.
Generally speaking, the original timetable was not adhered to, owing
to (a) a general time-slippage affecting the start-up of the operations, and
(b) supplemental works due to either terrain difficulties or changes in
quantities.
Costs
The actual costs are known precisely following settlement of the
invoices for the various works and services. At the time of writing this
report 99.9% of the actual costs are known.
A.   The actual costs are very exact.  The actual expenditures
effectively match the figures contained in the bids and the costs projected at
appraisal (including the provisions for quantity overruns and price
increases), both for the project as a whole and for each of its main
components (table 7).



22
B.        Costs rose where there were design changes (Ikopa intake, Ivandry
and Ambohidratrimo reservoirs) or supplemental works affecting quantities.
They were also affected by the exchange rate fluctuations. Overall, referring
to the currency of account, the US dollar, the overrun provisions were
adequate thanks to successive and lasting monetary realignments. The cost
overruns were in this way wiped out, and overall it can be said that the cost
of the project was less than projected. This left a residue which was used
directly to finance operations supplementary to the basic project.
Cleaning of Lake Mandroseza
Lake Mandroseza, which is fed by pumping from the Ikopa River, silts
up naturally due to erosion and river-borne material. The present theoretical
water reserve is 12 days but the actual reserve is undoubtedly lower. The
purpose of the operation is to increase the water reserve by clearing the Lake
of sediment.
Remote surveillance of the network
The Antananarivo city network comprises 21 reservoirs and 9 boosters
which are located far from the water plant. A car is used to monitor
reservoir levels and booster condition and it is practically impossible to
perform this task properly. Remote surveillance allows the data to be
transmitted to the plant and makes it is unnecessary to intervene unless a
breakdown occurs.
IV. OPERATING RESULTS
Between 1980 and 1986 total water sales volume rose by an average of
8.872.  The sharpest increase (36.37%) was posted by municipal services
(offices, wash-houses, street watering, miscellaneous). Consumption by
private subscribers (households, industry, business) and government services
(ministries and other consumers) fluctuates around 22.
Among private subscribers, average consumption per subscriber
declined between 1980 and 1986 by 4.70X, with the result that sales did not
develop as projected. The fall in sales seems to be due in part to
application of the tariff increases set forth in the appraisal report. Other
factors that help to explain it are:
-    stagnation and reduction of commercial and industrial activities;
-    reduction in household purchasing power;
-    inadequacy of water financing resources.
The first two factors, which are external tc JIRAMA, are difficult
to overcome.
The cash shortage, due to the increase in delinquent accounts
(accounted for in large part by the decentralized local authorities),
prevented JIRAMA from carrying out the necessary maintenance works.  Thus, the



23
renewal and maintenance works carried out between 1980 and 1985 amount to
about .... for the entire period.
This deficiency is the underlying cause of the increases in direct
water operating costs and is reflected in:
-    a decline in production capacity, which is now below rated capacity;
-    an increase in surveillance and maintenance labor costs;
-    the sharp fall in network output.
V.  FINANCIAL BALANCE SHEET
JIRAMA's financial situation is characterized by rising trends in
both (a) delinquent debtors and (b) long-term and short-term liabilities.
Out of debtors of FMG 19.9 billion in the 1986 balance sheet,
FMG 13.3 billion relates to government debts (central government FMG
7.4 billion, decentralized local goverumnents FMG 5.9 billion). The remaining
FMG 6.6 billion is accounted for by large companies and households. Of the
RMG 5 billion due from large companies, FMG 3 billion represents unpaid
accounts of state-owned companies in difficulty.
Financial rehabilitation operations have been started jointly with
the Ministry of Finance with a view to liquidating these delinquent accounts:
-    payment of decentralized local government arrears out of the
proceeds of charges and surcharges;
-    payment of central government arrears by the Ministry of Finance;
-    drafting of a new administration contract allowing JIRAMA to cut off
service;
-    drafting of a program contract (contrat-plan) for settlement of
future consumption billings.
The development of long-term Liabilities results from updating of
exterval debts. The contra to this updating, FMG 63.4 billion in 1986,
constitutes the "exchange difference" which appears in ....
Discussions have been initiated with the Government for the latter
to take over the exchange differences resulting from matured loans. These
exchange differences will be converted into a capital increase.
Income Situation
JIRAMA's income situation deteriorated steadily between 1980 and
1986. Overall, the cost of labor per quantity produced and sold was fairly
stable and therefore constitutes fixed charges. The growth of unit cost of
Labor in thermal generation from 1.87 to 3.60 is due to the reduction in
volumes produced by the thermal power stations.



24
Electricity operations were marked by a rapid rise in unit cost of
fuel, from 14.77 in 1980 to 47.95 in 1986. Other costs, accounted for largely
by spare parts for upkeep and maintenance, al'o rose fairly sharply.
In addition, the deterioration in the exchange rate meant that
Electricity had to bear a fairly large share of loan interest.
In Water, the most striking rise in unit costs was on the production
side. Consumption of chemical products rose from 0.9 in 1980 to 5.76 in
1986. The rise in cost of energy consumed, from 7.50 in 1980 to 12.78 in
1986, is due to application of the new tariff policy. Other costs, relating
to upkeep and maintenance of production and distribution facilities, rose
because of inflation.
Water Supply Finaacing
JIRAMA posted net self-financing capacity of FGM 8,850 million for
the years 1980 to 1986. The Government's participation of FMG 6,050 million
has to be regarded as own funds since it is non-reimbursable. Self-financing
by JIRAMA could therefore be put at FMG 14.9 billion.
Investment during the period reviewed amounts to FMG 12,330 million.
Kaintenance and renewal expenses amount to FMG 1,319 million.   This
represents 45% of the provision set up. Expenditure commitments could not be
made owing to cash-flow difficulties.
VI. ROLE AND DEVELOPMENT OF INSTITUTIONS
Under JIRAMA's old structure, operations were shared between two
directorates, primarily on a geographic basis:
-    the Interconnected Areas Directorate (Direction des Zones
Interconnectees -- DZI);
-    the External Areas Directorate (Direction des Zones Ext6rieures --
DZE).
The distinction between interconnected and external areas is
becoming more and more artificial. First of aLl, the management of a number
of isolated centers attached to the interconnected area resembles more that of
external-area sectors. Second, the DZE also possesses interconnected
localities such as Toamasina and Fianarantsoa. Moreover, these two
directorates have instituted relatively heterogeneous management styles.
Thus, each of the directorates possessed its own system of
management, both for electricity and for water. These problems were
aggravated by lack of a planning system.
In order to coordinate and unify operations in each sphere of
activity, the DZIs and DZEs were abolished and replaced by technical
directorates:



25
-    Electricity Generation and Transmission Directorate (Direction de
Production et Transport Electricite), responsible for technical
management of generating and transmission facilities;
-    Electric Power Distribution Directorate (Direction de Distribution
d'Energie Electrique), responsible for technical management of
electricity distribution facilities;
-    Water Production and Distribution Directorate (Directiotn de
Production et Distribution d'Eau), responsible for technical
management of water production and distribution facilities.
Administrative coordination of operating activities is provided by
the existing Audit and Internal Control Directorate.
The investment function is the responsibility of three directorates:
-    Economic Studies and Planning;
-    Electric Power Plant;
-    Water Supply Plant and Works.
With the object of installing a single management system for both
electricity and water and on the technical and administrative sides within the
near future, the organization unit has been converted into a Methods and
Systems Directorate.
Operational activities are decentralized to the regional
directorates, which have been given greater management autonomy. The regional
directors are responsible hierarchically to the Director General.
NOTE: The tables referred to in the text have been omitted due to thpir
illegibility.



26
ORGAN1ZATION CHART OF JIRAMA (February 1986)
GENERAL MANAGEMENT
Press and Public
Relations  _
Coordination and Contro
Auditing.
.                  .    - ~~~~~~~~-ltMthods and Systems|-
A                   71        0
Liia   ciaSW                     3 C   S
AJ                                                  SWI
2                      C
E-f~~~~~~~~~~~d
'I-~~~~~~~~~~~~   



27
MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit 1002-MAG
Proiect Com21etion Report
Part II: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
Drainage and Sewerage



-48
Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Antananarivo Plain Development                      Antananarivo, January 11, 1989
Project Office
No. 089 FAR/LNT/BPPA/89
Subj: Report on Sanitation in Antananarivo
Chief, Infrastructure Division
South-Central and Indian Ocean Department
World Bank
Attn: Mr. Gerard Tenaille
Washington, D.C.
Dear Sir:
Following your recommendation at the September 20, 1988 meeting to
the Directorate of Planning in Antananarivo, I have the boqor to enclose a
report on the Antananarivo urban sanitation studies and works carried out
since 1950. The studies done in 1968 by Societe Grenobloise d'Etudes et
d'Applications Hydrauliques (SOGREAH) are not included, owing to a lack of
documents.
Yours truly,
Is/ Royal Raoelfils
Director



29
Report on Sanitation in Antananarivo
Background and Overview
In 1949-50 the Water and Sanitation Company (Societe Eau et
Assainissement -- SEA) submitted a preliminary design for a sanitation project
in Antananarivo. That preliminary design covered some 1600 ha using a
seperate system for drainage.
Mr. Fontaine, an engineer, made a mission to Antananarivo in 1956,
essentially to reconcile the SEA sanitation study with the master urban
development plan for the city drawn up by the Department of Architecture,
Urban Development and Housing. To that end, a master sanitation plan for an
area covering 2,900 ha was formulated, i.e. approximately 1,300 ha more than
in the SEA plan.
In June 1973 Ommium Technique (OTH) began the studies on the water
supply and sanitation project. The studies involved essentially three
components: water supply, sanitation and drainage; disposal of solid wastes;
and a fourth component which mapped out national plannin- for water supply and
sanitation in Madagascar. For the studies on drainage and sanitation, OTH had
formulated master plans for both storm and waste water.
In the meantime, limited-scope works had been carried out. The
Sixty-Seven Ha pumping stations were built respectively in 1955/56 and
1964/65. The Isotry pumping station collects water from networks in the
combined system of the city center while the Sixty-Seven Ha station collects
water from the networks of a seperate system (Ampefiloha Cite, Mahamasina
watershed area and its environs).
Collector It known as the "downstream network," was built in
1962. It reaches the Sixty-Seven Ha pumping station after running along the
right bank of Andriantany canal and serves the above-mentioned watershed
areas. At the same time, a collector partially encircling Lake Anosy was
built and connected to Collector It.
About 1960, purification stations were built at Ambohipo, University
at Ankatso, Analamahitsy and Ivato. The Ivato station is the only one now in
operaticn.
Following the above-mentioned studies and in particular those done
by OTH, a project agreement was concluded between the Government of Madagascar
and the World Bank (IDA) in June 1980 with a view to finalizing the studies
done by OTH for the first phase so that the works in question could be carried
out.
A studies contract was signed with SECMO-MADAGASCAR in 1980/81, but
later cancelled.
The Department of Urban Development and Housing within the Ministrv
of Public Works reissued a limited invitation to bid, following which the
JIRAMA-OTUI group was selected in 1982. The engineering studies awarded to
that group took about two years (until mid-1984). It was pointed Out by the



30
donor that the disbursements were to end in June 1986 and as such the proposed
works under the studies done by JIRAMA-OTUI could not be carried out given the
very short time remaining (about one year).
In the meantime, a contract for sanitation works in the low-lying
areas of Antananarivo was signed with SARA et Compagnie and in early 1985 a
contract was concluded with the COLAS company for the rehabilitation of the
existing sewers in Antananarivo and the repair of the Isotry and
Sixty-Seven Ha pumping stations.
In 1986 the draft study entitled "Master Sanitation Plan" that
included the studies done by JIRAMA-OTUI and was supplemented by the
sanitation unit of the Department of Architecture, Urban Development and
Housing was incorporated into the studies contract for Antananarivo Plain.
That sanitation project is now pait of the Antananarivo Plain
Development Project.
Development of Master Sanitation Plans
Documenits on the preliminary sanitation design prepared by SEA could
not be located. It is merely known that the storm drainage system was
separate and that the studies done by SEA were undoubtedly revised and
supplemented by the team led by Mr. Fontaine.
A.        Fontaine Report
The Fontaine Report (January 21, 1957) essentially reconciled the
sanitation study prepared in 1949-50 by SEA with the Antananarivo master urban
development plan. To that end it drew up a sanitation master plan, together
with -- still within the framework of that master plan -- an FMG 300 million
sanitation works program to be carried out in three years (estimated at that
time).
The sanitation master plan (Fontaine Report) had three parts:
-    Fill operations for low-lying areas;
-    Storm drainage;
-    Disposal of waste water.
As mentioned earlier, the master plan covered an area of more than
2,900 ha and a total population of 189,924. Of that total, some 160,000
people lived within the area.*
1.        Fill operations for low-lying areas
The notion of fill operations for low-lying areas originated with
the urban development plan at the time, which called for extending
Antananarivo over more than 1,000 ha of low-lying areas. Gravity drainage of
*TN:  Logic of original is elusive; translated literally.



31
runoff water was impossible without coordinated fill operations in accordance
with a master plan.
A pumping system was consequently devised for storm dra4nage and the
some 1,000 ha divided into a large number of zones, each of which was to have
a pumping facility.
Average height
Zone                        Area (ha)           ml of Fill          of fill (m)
Northeast                       185              3,748,000               2
Southwest
(a) east of
Andriantany Canal           75              1,102,000                1.50
(b) west of
Andriantany Canal          620              7,040,000                1.15
Southeastern basin              210              1,070,000               0.50
1,090             12,960,000               1.30
The fill operations posed two main problems:
(a) investment: about FMG 4 billion;
(b) site for extracting the some 13,000,000 m3 of fill material.
2.        Storm drainage
AccorGing to the report, Andriantany canal was the main storm
collector for Antananarivo, and the drainage of runoff water posed serious
difficulties there. The dimensions and very low slope of the canal severely
limited its flow to below current volumes. Nevertheless, except for sevaral
unfavorable months, it did not appear that the situation as a whole was too
bad.
This was because of two reasons:
-    There were a number of regulating basins such as Lake Anosy, Lake
Behoriri1ba and Lake Tsimbazaza, which eased the runoff problem.
Along its entire length Andriantany canal was bordered by rice
fields, which it could irrigate or drain.
The study had taken into account the comments made by the Department
of Architecture (Ministry of Public Works) on tne 1949-50 study, regarding
grading, outlets, the calculation of runoff flows and water storage ponds
(retenues), and determining the drain sections.
The pre-existing outlets that still remain are the Mamba and Ikopa
Rivers and Andriantany canal.



32
As the plain still had the characteristics of a "polder" during the
flood season, the master plan envisaged doubling the (capacityl of Andriantany
canal by builling another that would run immediately south of Soanierana and
to the west along the newly expanded low-lying areas of Antananarivo, and
later rejoin Andriantany canal to the north.
The Fontaine project had assumed the Adriantany canal's intake would
be maintained at Tanjombato along with the construction of a dam that could be
opened or closed between that intake and southern Antananarivo. Consequently,
the project proposed using the upstream stretch of the canal for the ricefield
irrigation studied by the rural engineering offices. At the same time,
Andriantany canal could also be used, with the dam lowered, to transport
irrigation water outside the rainy season to irrigate the ricefields
downstream of Antananarivo.
The doubling of the canal was thus called for in the project to
transport all rainwater from the southeastern valley to downstream of
Antananarivo, along with the runoff water from a portion of the low-lying
extensions to the west.
The works envisaged for Antananarivo's storm drainage network as a
whole, including the necessary secondary collectors in the expansion areas and
the water storage ponds, would represent an investment of FMG 1.1 billion.
3.        Disposal of waste water
The Department of Architecture had moreover concluded from its
findings that the study prepared by SEA could serve as a framework for the
waste water system.
The main objective of the Fontaine master plan was essentially to
update the overall thrusts of that study, given the urban development plan at
the time and its projections regarding the expansion areas and the future
population there.
About 160,000 people lived in the area to be developed.
For water consumption, supply in 1956 (inl Antananarivo was
21,000 m'/day, of which connected customers accounted for a maximum of 43X.
The remainder corresponded to standpipes and losses.
Given the small number of private connections to the sewerage system
(1,756), the project ostimated that the maximum volume of waste water conveyed
by the sewers was about 7,000 m'/day.
The project called for basic treatment of weste water before
discharge into the Ikopa. Treatment was done by auto-purificaticn (lakes) or
simple decomposition.
The pump sites were as follows:
-    a flood pump in Andohatapenaka;
-    a main pumping station in Isotry;



33
a pump at Ankadifotsy;
a pump for the Manjakaray-Nanisana area;
three facilities for the expansion area west of Antananarivo;
a facility for the low-lying area south of Antananarivo.
Amount of Investments
waste water drainage system  FMG 2,200,000,000
purification stations         FMG 1,000,000,000
FMG 3,200,000,000
Recapitulation of estimates excluding TUT
fill of low-lying areas       FMG 4,000,000,000
storm drainage                FMG 1,100,000,000
waste water drainage          FMG 2,200,000,000
purification stations         FMG 1,000,000,000
FMG 8,300,000,000
Conclusion
The FMG 300 million works program represented only a small portion
of the sanitation picture.
B.        OTH Report
I.        Storm Drainage Master Plan
The study for the storm drainage system by and large covered the
area in the prefecture of Antananarivo.
The prefecture covers about 8,000 ha, of which 5,000 ha are hills
and 3,000 ha plains.
The master plan sought to identify the most economic solution to
meeting the needs relating to water supply using rainwater between the present
and the year 2,000.
Current problems, which are discussed at length in the study on the
existing system, are of two types:
(a)  Localized floods due to the inadequacy or lack of secondary
collectors. The flood water can be reabsorbed in about an hour.
(b) Generalized floods in several neighborhoods located downstream,
owing to the inadequacy of the mains and shortcomings of the outlet
system, which can cause the water to stagnate for several days in
the low-lying areas.



34
The prospects and demographic changes projected in the socioeconomic
report suggest, for a medium-case scenario, that the population in the
prefecture will be 900,000 by the year 2,000. The population at the time was
400,000.
I.1       Description of the project
Because it has the characteristics of a polder, the embanked urban
area requires downstream pumping.
The complicated relief of the hills, large number of watershed areas
and sudden break in slope between the hills and plain require many upstream
water storage ponds.
The primary network consists of three main north-south canals:
-    the Sixty-Seven Ha canal, which runs up to the downstream retention
pool (basin d'accumulation);
-    doubling of Andriantany canal;
-    Andriantany canal, with the two branches east of Eastern and Masay
Valleys.
(a) Downstream pumping station
A site for the station had been selected along the banks of the
Mamba in order to avoid large backflows from the retenticu ponds.
The water passes through a reservoir upstream of the pumping
station, and which is crossed by a canal and extended by an embanked channel.
This system would provide 30-year protection against the floods of
the Mamba. Water retention works (fermeture) to the north of the city
consisted of raising the height of the dike on the left bank to 1251.50 [?m],
requiring two additional operations:
-    strengthening of the dike:  Laniera Road from Soavimasoandro to the
Mamba;
-    relocation of the Laniera drainage outlet beyond Highway RN4
(Mahajanga Road) downstream of the new dike route.
Alternatively, an embankment between Soavimasoandro and
Ambohimanarina had been envisaged (route of the future main bypass).
(b) Pre-pump and retention ponds
The ponds to the west would be embanked up to 1249.20 [ml and those
to the north up to 1248.20 (ml. Spillages were also planned for the overflow
of excess water above the elevations of 1248.90 and 1247.90 in the secondary
reteation ponds.



35
(c) Primary network
The primary plain network would consist of the existing
Sixty-Seven Ha canal extended to the retention pond (south of Anosipatrana) by
an earthen structure 10.80 m high (de plaford). In its upstream portion, the
canal would be laid up to the storm reservoir (24 ha) to the right of Highway
RN1 (Arivonimamo Road).
Andriantany canal and its downstream doubling
Rerouting was planned from Anosipatrana Road to Antanimena,
connecting at elevation 1246.00 at the confluence with the Masay outlet.
Its doubling, starting from the center, would have the identical
profile.
(d) Unserved urban areas -- conservation raeasures
The adoption of service standards had ultimately led to limiting the
infrastructure for the large basins of the city center, plain and east.
The use of the low-lying areas and ricefields as natural retention
areas or a storm reservoir would make it possible to postpone urbanization as
long as possible, conservation measures in these areas were adopted (eg.
construction ban).
(e) Irrigation and drainage system
Andriantany canal, the primary irrigation channel for its urban run,
serves as backup collector (?collector de garde) and must be protected from
the rain.
The irrigation system now receives its water from Tanjombato Dam,
where the Andriantany canal originates. A diversion structure with a capacity
of 10m3/sec 400 m from the Soanierana Dam running east-west and then
north-south to Anosipatrana Road, where it would connect with the existing
irrigation system, consequently mt'st be built.
I.2       Phases of the Proiect
The project has three phases:
I.2.1     For the short run:  1980
(a) Construction of the downstream pumping station with a capacity of
8m'/sec (outlet operations) with northern reservoir (70 ha).
Raising'the height of the dikes on the Mamba and northern water
retention works;
(b) Recalibration of the Andriantany canal with discharge collectors
from the city center and extension via a new downstream canal to the
right of the northern industrial area;



36
(c)  Douoling uL Andriantany canal from Isotry to the northern reservoir,
with discharge works from Andriantany canal to the right of the city
center;
(d)  Connection of the Sixty-Seven Ha with the new canal referred to
above;
(e) Storm reservoirs for the eastern valley and the confluence with the
Masay up to the Andriantany and the mains from the eastern valley;
(f) Repair of the secondary and tertiary structures in the city center
(Tsaralana in particular, Mahamasina);
Additional secondary and tertiary structures in the Eastern Valley,
Anatihazo, Antohomadinika and Ambohimanarina.
New structures from the industrial area of AmbodiLsiry; Connection
of the southern section of the Andriantany (north Ambohimanarina)
(g) Protection of Lake Mandroseza
(h) Diversion of the irrigation network.
Paras. a, b, c, d, and e are part of the program for the short run.
I.2.2     For the medium run:  1990
(a) Primary canal from Masay Valley to the storm reservoir of Nanisana
Valley;
(b) Final outlet of the Sixty-Seven Ha canal;
(c) Retention pond and pumping north-south of Ambohimanarina with
connection to the northern reservoirs;
(d) Plain storm reservoir with connection to the Sixty-Seven Ha canal;
(e) Kain primary reservoirs in the southern industrial area;
(f) Additional secondary and tertiary struczures of Ivandry,
Soavimasoandro, and Tsimbazaza;
(g) Storm reservoir and retention ponds in the Tsimbazaza Valley with
southern pumping station;
(h) New secondary and tertiary structures on the plain and the left bank
of the Masay.
1.2.3     For the long run:  2000
(a) Development of additional retention areas;
(b) Mains in the valley upstream from the Masay;
(c) New secondary and tertiary structures for the plain and Wlasay Valley.



37
1.3       Estimated initial investment cost (millions of FMG)
1980:              2,767.46
1990:              1,277.73
2000:                 224.54
4,269.93
II.       Master Waste Water Plan
The scope of the study of the waste water system covers the same
urban area as that of the rainwater system.
The objectives of tLe project can be summarized as follows:
(a) Ensure the collection of waste water:
-    downstream from the combined system where it is stored;
-    by a new system when service standards so justify.  That system
would have to be extended to the individual or collective
connections.
(b) Eliminate localized pollution:
-    Andriantany canal, Lake Anosy and Lack Behoririka, if necessary
building intercepting collectors;
(c) Transport effluents from the urban area towards natural outlets.
11.1      Service Districts
-    District I:    from Soanierana to Sixty-Seven Ha (Western Plain)
-    District II:   city center
-    District III:  watershed basin of the eastern valley
-    District IV:   part of the Masay watershed basin
-    District V:    Tsimbazaza watershed basin
-    District VI:   area downstream of the plain
-    District VII:  Lake Mandroseza
-    District VIII:  valley occupied by the University
-    District IX:   northern areas of Analamahitzy
II.2      Constraints associated with existiam structures
The waste water system of Anatanarivo essentially has two major
structures:
(1) A separate collecteo in the western plain (District I). This major
structure has serious problems with water tightness. It connects
with the Sixty-Seven Ha pumping station.
(2)  A set of combined system collectors in District II, which dump into
the Andriantany.



38
II.3      General structure
The Antananarivo sewerage has three distinct units (see map):
-    a main network that collects 90Z of effluents;
-    two secondary networks, each with its own purification facilities.
Located downstream of the general collectors, the drainage facilities
are comprised of: pumping stations, gravity activated backflows or pipelines,
general pipeline, intake structures for discharge into the river or treatment,
etc.
There are three purification stations at present:
-    University and Ambohipo in the valley descending towards the Ikopa;
-    Analamahitsy on the southern slope of the Mamba.
II.4      Execution phases
One of the objectives of the master plan was to carry out only the
strictly vital works and to select the structures giving the best
price-service yield.
Given the density threshold beyond which the collective equipment is
indispensable (density threshold = 150 inhabitantsiha), the study on works
phasing resulted in:
(1)  postponing the collective equipment for districts where the density
thresholds had not been attained;
(2) giving priority to areas where the cost/collected flow ratio was
most favorable;
(3) first carrying out the additional works in those districts alreauy
having infrastructure, where sometimes minimal works can increase
the return on the entire system;
(4) requiring that construction permits take the foregoing into account,
such that the density thresholds are not exceeded in the areas where
collective sanitation is not planned.
The works that cannot be put off are:
-    District I, in particular Lake Anosy;
-    District II;
-    Collector VI and all related structures (pumping and backflow) to
the connections with the sewer on Andrianampoinimerina Avenue
(formerly Avenue de la Reunion);
-    Collector for the northern industrial area.



39
The works in the eastern valley czn be considered next priority.
All purification facilities can and should be postponed and would therefore be
part of subsequent works phases. From a practical standpoint, this first
phase would nevertheless make it possible to:
(a) clean up of the most critical pollution points (Andriantany) and
move that pollution into an area where the impact of the damage is
limited (Ikopa);
(b) connect all new expansion districts (southern industrial area,
eastern valley, northern industrial area, etc.);
(c) build all structures for the major urban restructuring works:
railroad station neighborhood, Isotry neighborhood, all areas
bordering on the Andriantany, etc.
II.5      Cost of works
The cost of the sewerage works envisaged under the master plan for
the year 2000 is about FMG 4 billion. Of that total, two-thirds would be for
tertiary equipment, i.e. the servicing of urban land, either in the current
city area, owing to delays that have already occurred, or in the areas of
future expansion.
A comparison of this estimate with the population figures shows that
the sewerage works would total FMG 4,500/inhabitant (FMG 6,500/inhabitant
taking into account solely those served); the basic infrastructure would
represent FMG, 1500/inhabitant, including purification.
III.      Flood control
The report discussed the present and future hydrological conditions
of the Ikopa and its affluents, as well as the constraints that these rivers
pose for sanitation in the city.
The main objective was that the city must:
-    protect itself against the risks of flooding from the river (dikes);
-    ensure storm drainage, above the dikes.
Works priority was split into two phases:
(a) Phase 1:
-    general strengthening of the existing dike on the right bank,
without raising the height of the dike;
-    dredging of the bed between Tanjombato and Mahitsy;
-    construction of an eastern spillway at Tsiazompaniry.



40
IV.       Action program for solid waste disposal until 1980
The proposed program did not envisage major modifications to current
infrastructure, but sought to present a list of low-cost actions that would
[? improvel the current situation and provide adequately for the disposal of
waste until 1980.
It can be summarized as follows:
-    establishment of collective multicellular containers in order to:
- permit airtight equipment at the collection point
- ensure more rapid loading of vehicles;
-    strengthening of the vehicle fleet, which needs to be totally
replaced;
-    waste disposal through the establishment of a true controlled
landfill, if possible west of the city;
-    rehabilitation of composting facilities and their development for
reasonable yields and good quality 'f products (10,000 tons/year)
Investments necessary by 1980
1. Collection
- collection infrastructure:  containers       FMG  49,600,000
- vehicles                                     FMG  83,600,000
2. Disposal
- landfill                                     FMG  L9,000,000
- composting (10,000/year)                     FMG  33,845,000
- additional dumping                           FMG   9,000,000
FMG 195,045,000
C.        Studies carried out by JIRAMA-OTUI
A project agreement (Credit 1002-MAG of May 1980) was concluded
between the Government of Madagascar and the World Bank (IDA) for sanitation
works in Antananarivo.
A studies contract was let to SECMO Madagascar in 1980, but was
later cancelled.
In 1982-the sanitation engineering studies for Antananarivo were
contracted to JIRAMA-OTUI under Credit 1002-MAG, Contract No. 9369/82.
The contract covered:
-    a study of [infralstructure and operations;



41
-    study of electromechanical facilities;
-    study of electric and special equipment for the storm and waste
water sanitation structures.
The work also covered the entire study phase, from technical
feasibility (1975) to price quotations from engineering firms (end 1982).
This required additional design research involving:
-    an analysis of the urbanization of areas involved in the works under
the first phase;
-    a review of unit costs and differential inflation with possible
impact on financial calculations;
-    adaptations of the project in the wake of recent developments in
technology;
-    study of overall arrangements for areas where the tertiary system
was to be installed.
These services were broken down into eight headings:
1. storm water pumping station
2. crossing structures (ouvrages de traversee)
3. storm reservoirs in the eastern valley and downstream retention
basins
4. temporary pumping station for waste water
5. temporary main for waste water
6. pilot station at Ampasimbe
7. tertiary waste water structures
8. irrigation and drainage canals.
An addendum to the contract was signed in June 1983, changing the
contracting parties and adding several additional services.
The following study headings were added:
9.  raising the height of the dikes on the Mamba
10. discharge collector at Tsaralalana
11. collector 1I2 at Tsaralalana
12. collector at Highway RN4;
13. intercepcor VI.
The contractor (JIRAMA) was also requested to provide procurement
services (automotive spare parts, photocopier, drafting supplies, etc.) and
logistical support.
Execution until December 1984.
With Addendum 1 the contract amount was FMG 118,766,745, including
taxes.



42
The location of the works is on the attached maps.
Execution of the Works
I.   Collector I,
This collector, known as the "downstream network," was built in
1962. It runs along Andriantany canal and reaches the Sixty-Seven Ha pumping
station (respective dimensions from upstream downstream: 0 700 - 0 900
- 0 1,000).
II. Peripheral collector around Lake Anosy
About the same time as the above collector, a collector running
partially around Lake Anosy was built by the Bati-Service firm. This sewerage
network collects effluents from the Mahamasina Nord watershed area and,
through a storm spillway near the lake, connects with collector It.
III. Partial rehabilitation of the sewerage system in the critical
low-lying areas of Antananarivo
A contract (No. 9449 FNDE/83) was let to SARA et Compagnie for the
rehabilitation of the sewerage network in the critical low-lying areas of
Antananarivo.
The contract amount was FMG 29,135,158, including taxes, under
Credit 1002-MAG.
The operations were very localized and included:
-    construction of a siphoni culvert (dalot siphon) to the right of
former Highway RNI at Anosibe;
-    repair of a storm spillway northwest of Lake Anosy and a rainwater
pipe;
-    construction of covered street drains at Ho Chi Minh Square
(Ampefiloha) with cross slabs of reinforced concrete under the
paving.
Execution took 75 days.
IV. Contract No. 9519
Contract No. 9519 was concluded with the COLAS firm for
rehabilitation of the existing sewerage network in Antananarivo. The works
were supervised and monitored under Contract No. 9554 by SETEC International.
SETEC also did a diagnostic study of the Isotry and Sixty-Seven Ha pumping
stations, with training of staff from the Ministry of Public Works and the
Municipality of Antananarivo Renivohitra.



43
The services provided by the contractor involved large-scale
dredging (Lakes Anosy and Behoririka) and the rehabilitation or renovation of
collectors of all types and all sizes with their related structures such as
sidewalk hydrants, manholes plus necessary repairs to paved areas, ditches
(demi-carniveaux) and sidewalks so that the water could be transported to the
collectors.
The works were broken down into lots and delimited by the following
main roads:
Lot 1 ( orthern district)
- Rue Pasteur
- Rue Razafinjohany Albert
- RN4
- Rue Rasamimanana
- Rue Razafindramanta
- Rue Ramisaray
- Rue Ravoninahitriniarivo
- Dredging of Lake Behoririka
Lot 2 (northeastern district)
- Rue Razafindralambo Pierre
- Rue Pasteur Rabezony Hans
- Avenue de Bataillon Malagasy
- Rue Gilbert Desvallon
- Rue Docteur Moss
- Rue Boudry Robert
- Dredging of Andravoahangy canal
Lot 3 (southwestern district)
- Rue Charles Rabemananjara
- Rue Ramamonjisoa
- Rue Docteur Ranaivo
- Rue Razafindranovona
- Rue Rainibetsimisaraka
- Rue L.P. Camo
- Rue Radama I
- Rue G6neral Ratsimandrava
- Dredging of Lake Anosy.
The amount of the contract was FMG 719,256,720, including taxes.
Execution period: 12 months.
A map showing the above streets is attached to this report.



44
Conclusion
Over the last 30 years few sanitation works have been carried out,
although the studies covered a long period. Moreover, both population growth
and urbanization continued, causing problems with the current capacity of the
existing networks and drainage to the outlets.
The sanitation project, particularly for the plain and in part in
.the urban area, has now been incorporated into the Antananarivo Plain Project,
under which the works wiLl be carried out only in 1990, although reductions
(allegements) of at least 50% are desirable for floods on both the plain and
in the city center.*
Lastly, the foregoing analysis of the sanitation system should be
continued with a view to carrying out works, even if they are only on an ad
hoc basis.
Antananarivo, January 5, 1989
Is/ Anderson Rasoamaronaka
Chief, Urban Development Office
Encl.: Mpps
*TN:      As the original french is unclear, the English rendition is only
approximate.



45
MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit 1002-HAG
Pro1ect Completion Report
Part II: Project Review from Borrower's Perspective
Solid Wastes



46
Democratic Aepublic of Madagascar
Municipality of
Antananarivo Renivohitra
No. 4776/FVP/ANT/RV/DEL/A.l.                  Antananarivo, (date obliterated]
President, Executive Committee
Municipality of Antananarivo Renivohitra
to
President, International Development Association
Attn. Mr. Buky
Washington,. D.C.
Subject: Water and Sanitation Project (Solid Wastes Component)
Dear Sir:
I have the honor to enclose the completion report for Part C (Solid
*Wastes) of Project 1002-MAG (Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Project).
Yours truly.
Is/ [illegible]
Vice President



47
Credit 1002-MAG
Antananarivo Water and Sanitation Proiect
Part C (Solid Wastes)
Completion Report
I.        Introduction
In addition to Parts A (Water Supply) and B (Drainage and Sewerage),
Credit 1002-MAG had a third component called Part C involving the collection,
disposal and treatment of solid household wastes.
Prior to the project, the solid wastes collection and disposal
system was reasonable in terms of the quantity collected but inadequate in
terms of disposal and conditions of collection.
People disposed of solid wastes in three types of containers: a
small number of private bins, collective bins and numerous fixed concrete
containers. The collective bins were often stolen and the concrete containers
not well designed, so wastes were of en carelessly dumped in uncontrolled
areas (outside collective bins, in illegal dumping areas, in drainage canals,
etc.).
Solid wastes were collected at 820 locations spread over 14
districts. Each district generally had two collection routes, the collection
truck being full at the end of a route. Each district was served by one
vehicle (6 to 8 ton truck running about 50 to 70 km per day and manned by two
teams in shifts). Wastes were generalty collected at night and the same
trucks used during the day for sewerage, roads and other works.
At the time, 160 tons of household wastes were collected a day,
meeting about 90% of needs. All urban areas with a population density of more
than 25 inhabitants/ha were served.
After collection, wastes were dumped 8 km from the city center on
Toamasina Road on an area covering 15 ha. The landfill was not properly
operated, as wastes were not covered periodically with earth. Nevertheless,
burning, disinfestation, grading and compaction were performed regularly.
Although in use since 1966, the area could still be used for a few more years.
Small quantities of wastes were composted by facilities which
included handling equipment, a hammermill and a composting area covering
450 m2 where refuse stacked in heaps was periodically turned over until the
putrescibles decomposed. The hammermill theoretically had a capacity of
10,000 t/year but lack of presorting, screening and adequate handling
equipment limited production to 600-800 t/year. Only 200-300 t/year of
compost was sold because its quality was poor. Although the percentage of
putrescibles was very high (75%), the quality was poor because of the presence
of dangerous debris (scrap iron, glass, etc.) as a result of the lack of
presorting equipment.



48
II.       Project IdentiFication, Preparation and Appraisal
Following the feasibility studies by OTH, project negotiations in
December 1979 in Washington resulted in Appraisal Report No. 2266A-KAG of
January 25, 1980 and the signature of a credit agreement between the World
Bank and the Malagasy Government on May 8, 1980.
According to the appraisal report, the solid wastes component would include:
1.   The construction of additional collective dumping containers for
household wastes in Antananarivo (80 containers of 600-liter
capacity and 480 containers of 300-liter capacity). Each container
would be of multicellular construction, each cell housing a plastic
bin of 150-liter capacity;
2.   The supply of 19 ordinary trucks of 6-8 tons capacity to reinforce
and partially replace the fleet of vehicles used to collect solid
wastes throughout the city;
3.   The supply of heavy equipment (bulldozers, wheeled and tracked
loaders, weigh bridge, 4 trucks) to make the existing dumping site a
real "controlled" sanitary landfill and maintain it as such;
4.   Improvement of the existing composting facility to enable it to
produce 10,000 t/year of good quality compost.
III.      Execution
Following the signature of the credit agreement on May 8, 1980, the
following operations were carried out:



FVP/ANT/RV Share
World Bank           Already       To Be Paid,        Including
Item                             InTotal           (IlDA)              Paid         Excluding TU*          TU
I   EquiPmezkt
23 dump trucks                  375,687,750        277,585,171         49,099,828                         49.002,750
3 tanker trucks                  86,485,750         60,479,678         14,795,322                         11.280,750
Rolling stock                   263.904,990        208,864,470                          23,299,125        55.040.520
Lightweight vehicles            191.366.525        137,478,589                          28,927,086        53,887.936
Wheels                            74,845,680        55,743,761                           9.339,439        19,101,919
Insecticides                     49,985,100         44,372,772                           5 612.328
Standpipes                      350,175,000        271,461,750                          33,038,250        78,713,250
Meters                            14,333,600         11,507,272                            959,728         2.829,328
Metal containers                 38,341,805         21,671,455                          11,669,245        16,670,350
Equiptiient for treatment
ol household wastes           586,814,731        456,326,811                          53,946.968       130,487,920
Subtotal                      2,031,940,931      1,545,491,729         63,825,150      166,792,069       417,014,723
I I SLUaMiH
a)  JIRAMA (OTUI)                    133,900,000         56,027,498         51,959,488
b)  SOMEAHi-SOGREAH
(ON treatment plant)           33,151,500         22,908,225         10,243,273
c)  OINIKA                            77,786,000        24,630,516                          53,155,484                                   ^
d)  fees                               4,830,000          4,200,000                                              630,000
Subtutdl                        249,667,500        107,766,239         62,202,763       53,155,484           630,000
III Salaries                                   -          1,743,900
IV  Works (Anosibel                  ?7,166,060         64,427,093                          11,369,487        22,730,974
Grand Totdl                       2,360.774,499       1,719,420,961        126,027,913     213,317,040       440,303,697
^TN: Taxe Unique sur les Transactions, or transfer tax.



50
The following expenditures were made under Part D (Training):
Year               Amount
Internship expenses              1982             6,386,000
1983             6,539,000
1984             9,133,000
1985             3,334,400
1986             5,835,000
1986             6,296,000
Antananarivo, (date obliterated)
/s/ (illegible)
President, Executive Committee
Municipalitr of Antananarivo



51
MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit 1002-MAG
Project Completion keport                                        L
Part III: Statistical Information



52
REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
CREDIT 1002-MAG
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
______________________
PART  III
KEY PROJECT DATA
Item                                  Appraisal         Actual
Estimate
--------------------------------------------------------------
Total  Project Cost  (USS million)                   33.7              15.9
Cost Overrun (%)                                                        0.0
Credit Amount  (USSmIllIon)                          20.5              20.5
Disbursed                                            20.5              13.5
Cancelled                                                               7.0
Date of Physical Completion                       12/31/84          06/30/86
Time Overrun  (%)                                                      38.0
Economic Rate of Return  (X)(for water)                 7.4%            1.2%
--------------------------------------------------------------
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
( USS Thousands )
FIscal  Year        Appraisal  EstIm    Actual             Actual/Estimate(%)
---------------------------------------------------__---------
1981               4500.0                 0.0               0.0
1982               9500.0              783.9                8.3
1983              15500.0             2381.4               15.4
1984             20000.0              4634.6               23.2
1986             20500.0              5551.8               27.1
1988                     -           11981.9               52.0
1987                     -           13499.8               66.0
--------------------------------------------------------------
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                                  Appraisal         Actual
Estimate
--------------------------------------------------------------
First Mention  In FlIes                                             09/14/76
Negotiations                                                       12/10-14/79
Board Approval                                                      04/01/80
Credlt Agreement Date                                               05/08/80
Effectiveness Date                                                  12/17/80
Closing Date                                      06/30/85          06/30/86
Borrower                                  Republic of Madagascar
Executing Agencies                      -Ministry of Public Works
- JIRAMA
-Municipality of Tananarive
Flscal  Year of Borrower                January 1 -- December 31
Follow-on Project                       Tana Plain Project  (FY 91S)
--   -  -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  --  - -  -  - -  - -  - -  -  - -  - -



53
--------------------------------------------------------------
MISSION DATA
No. of No. of    Staff-      Date of
Month/Y  Days  Persons   Weeks       Report
--------------------------------------------------------------
Identificatlon  04-05/77    12        1    2.4         05/26/77
Preparation i      12/77      9       3    6.4         12/30/77
Preappralsal      04/78       5        1    1.0        05/16/78
Appraisal          07/78     23        2    9.2        08/10/78
Post-Appraisal    02/79       8        1    1.6        03/26/79
Supervision I  04-05/80       a        1    1.0        05/28/80
Supervislon II  05-06/81      7       2    2.8         08/18/81
Supervision iII   02/82      14        1    2.8        04/13/82
Supervision IV    11/82      10       2    4.0         01/28/83
Supervision V   04-08/83      8       2    3.2         06/27/83
Supervision VI    02/84      11        1    2.2        03/30/84
Supervision Vil   12/84       6       2    2.4         02/11/85
Supervision V11105-08/85      8       2    3.2         08/20/85
Supervision IX  01-02/86      7        1    1.4        02/26/86
Supervislon X   11-12/86      7        1    1.4        02/11/87
Completion         02/89      5        1    1.0        05/15/89
45.0
EXCHANGE RATES
_______________
-----------------------------------------------------------__------
Currency Unit          Maigache Franc ( FM9g )
Annual Averages
YEAR : 1980   1981    1982      1983   1984   1985   1986   1987
USS lmFMg 225.8   287.4  387.7   492.2  658.0  635.8  769.8 1234.3
April 26. 1989



54
MADAGASCAR
-m...-- .
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
COMPLETION REPORT
Project Costs
_____________
(US$ thousands)     Appraisal       Actual
Category                                   Estimste         Cost
l.a. Civil Works Water Supply             3,075.60       4,864.25
l.b. Civil Works Drainage, Sewerage,     12,579.60       1,745.42
and Solid Wastes
I.e. Civil Works Cyclone Rehabilitation                     75.46
2.a. Equipment and Pipes Water Supply     6,520.80       2,540.58
2.b. Equipment Drainage, Stwerage,        3,5,.o20       3,356.62
and Solid Wastes
2.c. Equipment Cyclone Rehabilitation                     1,864.71
3.a. Consultants Water Supply             1,689.60           48.93
3.b. Consultants Drainage, Sewerage,      2,178.00          655.76
and Solid Wastes
3.c. Consultants Cyclone Rehabilitation                       3.11
3.d. Consultants Mahajanga Study                            727.52
Total                                   29,620.80       15,882.35
N.B.t Land Acquisition has boen excluded from this cost "stimate.



55
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO WATER & SANITATION PROJECT (CR 1002-MAG)
PROJECT FINANCING
Planned          Revised
Cr/Agreement     (08/21/85)        Final
_______----__    US$ million    ----------------
IDA Expenditure Categories
1A Civil Works Part A           1,400,000.00     2,517,270.95    4,134,611.11
1B Civil Works Part B           8,000,000.00       215,489.09    1,483,606.83
1C Civil Works Part C                                     0.00       64,141.37
2A Equipment Part A             5,000,000.00     1,499,000.59    2.159,493.48
2B Equipment Part B-C           3,200,000.00       894,616.41    2,855,125.91
2C Equipment Part D                                       0.00    1,585,005.63
3A Cons. Training Part A          200,000.00              0.00       41,592.57
3B Cons. Training Part B-C        200,000.00       196,532.59       557,394.01
3C Cons. Training Part D                                  0.00        2,640.27
3D Cons. Training Part E                                  0.00      618,388.82
4 Unallocated                   2,500.000.00              0.00            0.00
Subtotal (IDA)             20,500,000.00     5,322,909.63   13,500,000.00
Government Participation        13,200,000.00
TOTAL                33,700,000.00      5,322,909.63   13,500,000.00
=======~~~======.=  = =_ -= === ====-=t



56
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT (CR 1002-MAG)
JIRAMA BALANCE SHEET
(FUG Millions)
1980     1981     1982      1983     1984      1986     1988
ASSETS
Net plant in operation      34,073   39,588   39,106   87,760   89,300   98,122  102,992
Work in progress A long-
term investment            20,135   38,814   52,283    8,166    8,700    4,664    7,580
Other                        4,981    6,247   14,102   27,291   44,100   41,625   59,312
69,189   82,649  105,490  123,206  142,10C  144,611  169,884
Current assets
Cash and banks                282       430      786      649       800      893       531
Inventories                 6,764    8,162    8,238    8,641   11,400   12,444   13,896
Accounts receivable         3,728    7,337    9,843   12,626   15,800   17,267   20,076
Others                        483       795    1,636    1,274    3,500    3,814   12,928
Total Current Assets   11,235   16,724   20,482   23,190   31,800   34,418   47,430
TOTAL ASSETS            70,424   99,373  126,972  146,396  173,400  178,929  217,314
G= _                      C= G 3= G -_-===
LIA8ILITIES
Equity
Capital & Ret Earn.         5,611    6,368    6,628    6,936   (7,300) (10,966)  16,474
Others                     28,414   33,652   37,714   44,449   44,200   78,169   67,945
Total Equity              34,025   40,020   44,342   51,384   36,900   67,203   84,419
Long-term debt              24,627   39,983   55,932   67,863   84,800   81,980  101,109
Current Liabilities
Overdraft                   5,366    6,253    6,056    4,426    4,100    2,932          67
Others                      3,408   14,137   20,642   22,726   47,600   28,791   31,908
Total Curr. Liabilities  11,772   19,390   26,698   27,150   61,700   29,723   31,965
TOTAL LIAB. A EQUITY    70,424   99,373  126,972  146,397  173,400  178,906  217,493
RATIOS:
Current Ratio                  1.0       0.9      0.8      0.9       0.6        .2      1.5
Receivables/Revenue X           33        64       61        69       80        73       82
Receivables/Assets X           6.3       7.4      7.8       8.6      9.0       9.7      9.2
Receivables/days               120       197      224       262      292       268      298
Debt/equity                   72.4      99.9    128.1    132.1    229.8    122.0    119.8



57
JIRAZA INCOME STATEMENT
(FM  MlilItons)
1080     1081     1982     1oss     1984     185      1986
OPERATING REVENUES                   - ---    --         -                 -         -
Electricity                9,137   10,774   12,67    14,088   16,222   18,542   19,282
Water                      2,287    2,084    t3,41    4,260    4,281    5,138    6,806
- -- - --   - -- - --   - -  - -    - - - - - -     _   
Total operating revenues  11,374   18,608   16,016   16,263   19,605   23,680   24,688
DIRECT COSTS
Electricity                4,830    6,895    6,416    6,482    7,919    8,756    9,271
Water                      1,184    1,419    1,716    1,685    1,960    2,202    2,879
--  -; -_ 7-6 _~ __-7 - _ 5;
Total direct costs         6,014    7,814    8,131    8,267    9,870   10,968   11,660
ADMINISTRATIVE COSTS
Electricity                1,470    1,500    1,525    1,677    1,634    1,455    2,198
Water                        837      894      406      824      614      360       412
Total admin. costa         1,       1,894    1,930    2,401    2,248    1,816    2,610
DEPRECIATION
Electricity                1,603    2,067    2,542    4,974    3,600    4,281    5,797
Water                        627      613      642      612      790      881    1,262
Total depreciation         2,190    2,670    3,164    5,6      4,489    5,162    7,069
OPERATING INCOME
Electricity                1,274      622    2,593    1,060    1,970    4,060    2,016
Water                         88      408      60N      989      917    1,695    1,253
- ---    - __       - _     _      - -   ---  _
Total operating income     1,2   1,230    3,202    2,039    2,6897    5,45    8,260
FINANCIAL CHARGES
Electricity                  u63      627      984   4,711    5,794    5,999    6,659
Water                         18      178      186      263      651       304      646
Total tflnncisl chars"       53       800    1,10     4,904     ,45    6,303    6,206
OTHER EXPENSES
Electricity                    0        0    1,831    3,121    7,686      814       714
Water                          0        0        0        0        0        0         0
Total othor expens      O               0    1,831    3,121    7,586      814       714
NET INCOME (LOSS)
Electricity                  789      195     (222)  (6,782) (11,410)  (2,763)  (4,357)
Water                         70      236      428      708      8S     1,391       707
800      430      201   (6,076) (11,044)  (1,872)  (3,860)
Operating ratio                 so       91       83       89       85       76        87
Rate of Return                 1.4      0.5      0.2    -4.9    -7.8    -0.9    -2.1
Rate ot Return (Water)        n.e.     n.e.     n.e.     n.a.     n.e.       7.7      3.2



58
SOURCES AND APPUCATION W FUNDS STATEMENT
(Water Operations)
1980     1981     1982      1988     l98      1 98S     1086
SOURCES OF FUNDS                 --       ----      -        ----
(Fig eillone)
Internal Genaration
Net Income                        70      2a6      428       706      8S      1,391      707
Depreciation                     627      ol6      642       012      790      981    1,282
Subtotal                       697      848    1,065    1,818    1,160    2,272    1,989
LoSe debt service                 60      187       187      1?4      222       146        6
Not Internal Generation          683?      01        878    1,144      984    2,126    1,9864
Govt Participation                618      141      782    1,476       479    1,789       821
Long-term loan                    487      815      665       463    1,867       542    1,917
Advanco                           15       16        11       20       10        21       14
Total Sources of Funds    1,782    1,132    2,880    8,102    2,790    4,426    4,716
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Investments                       687    1,259    1,291    2,298    1,662    2,188    8,096
Extraordinary maintnenace         1SS       95      211       16n       71       146      628
Increase in working capital       890     (224)     838       642    1,157    2,144    1,093
Total Application of Fu   1,732    1,180    2,856   8,103    2,790    4,428    4,718



59
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO WATER A SANITATION PROJECT (CR 1002-MAC)
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
(Actual vs Appraisal)
1980     1981     1982     1988      1984     1986      1988
JIRAMA
Water sales in (million m3)
(Appr. Est.)             46.2      49.6     62.9     68.7      60.7     84.9     69.6
(Actual)                 44.0      44.7     44.8     46.9      48.4     61.1     51.8
Net income before ;nterest (FMG millions)
(Appr. Est.)                0       303      896    1,264    1,448    1,668    1,724
(Actual)                   52        62      237      423      (165)   1,087      181
Number of JIRAMA employees
(Appr. Est.)            3,910    3,920    3,920    4,060    4,050    4,060    4,080
(Actual)                4,73C    4,828    4,390    4,336    4,223    4,278
Average price/m3
(Actual)                 48.2      55.3     70.1     78.3      88.4     99.9    102.3
Unaccounted-for-water
(Appr. Est.)               10        10       10       10        10       10       10
(Actual)                   11        11       13       14        12       12       16



60
4ADAGASCAR
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
____________________________
CMePLETION REPORT
Economcl Ppetfonmuce
----------------------
1980     1981      1982     1983     1984      1985      1986 1987 to 2000
Water Ssles(m3)        44.0     44.7    44.8       46.9      48.4     51.S      51.8
Incremental sales       0.0      0.7       0.8      2.9       4.4      7.1       7.8
Avev,ge Prtc.e.3       48.2     55.3      70.1      76.3     86.4      99.9    102.3
*Iacremental Raven.      0.0     38.7     56.1    221.3    380.2    709.3    797.9          797.9
Project Cost          600.0     36.9    404.7    688.9   1659.5    508.0   1474.5
MsSntenence Cost       30.0     31.8      32.1     86.5    169.5    194,9    268.6         238.6
Total Cost            630.0     68.7    456.6    775.4   1829.0    02.9   1743.1           238.6
Balance              -630.0    -30.0   -400.7   -554.1  -1448.9        6.4   -945.2   -
Inflation              25.4     27.0      31.9     13.6      11.8     11.6      10.7        10.0
Deflator              100.0     79.7      62.8     47.6      41.9     37.5      33.6        30.3
Benefit                 0.0     30.9      35.2    105.3    159.3    265.9    268.0         242.1
Costh                 630.0     54.8    286.8    369.1    766.5    263.5    585.5            72.4
Cash Flov            -630.0    -24.0   -251.6   -263.8   -607.2        2.4   -317.5        169.7
RATE OF RETR  1l.22
0T.moWsR



61
I"                         Ii
cc ~ ~    ~    ~     0
cc
1                                  1''~~~~~~~~~~~
II!eo                                   
~~~j~~~~~h         Isunws



.SiS ______   C
FflSi F __[I
[11l9TSxS Fo I~~~ _  i'
_______  2<0o
-~~~EIEf~lE 'XSa' i4f
In



MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO WATER AND SANITARY PROJECT
Organizatlon Chart of Jlrama (February 1906)
ev"'m~~~~~~~~~~~a
I~~~~~ liiiS I
w:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1W45



