Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2741-MAG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT IN ANTANANARIVO
March 13, 1980
W This document has a restricted distbutbn and may be used by recipients only In the perfonmsance of
their oficial duties. Its contents may not otberwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1979                             January 1980
Unit               Malagasy Franc (FMG)   =  Malagasy Franc (FMG)
US$1.00            FMG 212.72              =   FMG 201.91
FMG 1,000     =   US$4.70                  -  US$4.95
FMG 1,000,000 =   US$4,701                 =   US$4,952
(The Staff Appraisal Report is based on US$1 = FMG 210)
ABBREVIATIONS
JIRAMA                               Malagasy Electricity and Water Company
WHO                               =  World Health Organization
DUH                                   Direction de l'Urbanisme et de
l'Habitat, Ministry of Public Works
EEM    .                              Eau et Electricite de Madagascar
EdF                               =   Electricite de France
UNDP F                                United Nations Development Program
Government                            Government of the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar
SODEMO                            =   Societe pour le Developpement economique
de la region de Morondava.
SEM                              =   Societe d'Energie de Madagascar
GOVERNMENT OF MADAGASCAR FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
MADAGAS CAR
ANTANANARIVO WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:              Democratic Republic of Madagascar
Beneficiaries:       - Malagasy Electricity and Water Company (JIRAMA)
- Municipality of Antananarivo (Fivondronana)
Amount:                US$20.5 million
Terms:                 Standard
On-Lending Terms:      To JIRAMA US$7.3 million for a period of 25 years,
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of
8 percent per annum.
To Antananarivo Fivondronana US$13.2 million for a
period of 35 years, including 5 years of grace at an
interest rate of 4 percent per annum.
Project           (i)  Objectives:  The principal objectives of the proposed
Description:          project are:  to increase access to treated water for
the Antananarivo urban population and to improve sani-
tation conditions in the city area, thereby reducing
health hazards; to assist the beneficiary institutions
to renew and modernize their facilities, improve the
reliability and efficiency of their services and
operations and strengthen their financial management.
(ii) Main Project Components: The project components are:
(a)  Construction of water production works and trans-
mission mains; extension and reinforcement of the
water distribution system (reservoirs, pipes, booster
station) and supply of heavy maintenance equipment;
(b) construction of drainage collectors, a pumping
station, river dykes, 10 storage basins and
canals and dredging of an existing canal;
(c) construction of a sewerage collecting system, a
pumping station, pumping discharge mains and pilot
stabilization ponds;
(d) construction of collective dumping containers;
purchase of collection trucks and maintenance equip-
ment and upgrading of an experimental composting
facility to produce 10,000 tons of compost annually;
(e) Training for JIRAMA staff and sanitation staff.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
(iii)  Benefits:  Expanded water production to meet increased
demand in the Antananarivo area until at least 1986;
access to piped water supply for additional 200,000
urban dwellers; increased efficiency of JIRAMA's and
the Sanitation Division's operations; improved health
conditions through the provision of drainage facilities
and the collection and disposal of refuse to meet the
needs of the area until 1984.
(iv)  Risks:  Inexperience of the implementing agencies in
carrying out projects in accordance with acceptable
standards.   'Failure to introduce the required water
tariff increases and inability of the Sanitation Divi-
sion to secure sufficient funds for its operations.
To minimize thlese risks, consultants will be employed
to assist in project execution and appropriate financial
covenants haves been agreed upon with the Government.
Estimated Costs:
…-----US$ million-----
Local   Foreign   Total
(a)  Materials and Equipment             1.06       6.59      7.65
(b)  Civil Works                         7.90       3.96    11.86
(c)  Land Acquisition                    3.99        -        3.99
(d)  Engineering Services                1.90       0.07      1.97
(e)  Training                            0.70       0.27      0.97
Total base costs                15.55      10.89    26.44
Contingencies
Physical                            1.62       1.07      2.69
Price                               2.55       2.01      4.56
Total Project Costs (including taxes
and duties of US$3.2 million)        19.72      13.97    33.69
Financing Plan:
Total
Water Supply  Sanitation   Project  Percent
(Jirama) (Fivondronana)
Government                           4.4            0.6          5.0      16.5
IDA                                  7.3           13.2         20.5     67.0
Antananarivo Fivondronana             -              5.0         5.0      16.5
Total (excluding taxes)        11.7           18.8        30.5    100.0
Taxes (to be financed by
Government)             0.4            2.8         3.2
Total (including taxes)        12.1           21.6        33.7



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:
1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
IDA FY                    ------US$ Million---
Annual                     4.5    5.0    6.0    4.5    0.5
Cumulative                 4.5    9.5   15.5   20.0   20.5
Economic Rate of Return:  7.4 percent for water supply component, assuming
that benefits are limited to the incremental
revenue.  Real benefits are, however, not quanti-
fiable and should be substantially higher.
Staff Appraisal Report: No. 2266a-MAG, dated January 25, 1980
Maps: IBRD 13935R1
IBRD 13936
IBRD 13937






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
TO THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
FOR A WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT IN ANTANANARIVO
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Democratic Republic of Madagascar for the equivalent
of US$20.5 million on standard IDA terms to help finance a water and sanitation
project in Antananarivo. The proceeds of the IDA credit would be on-lent to
JIRAMA (US$7.3 million) for 25 years including 5 years of grace, at an interest
rate of 8 percent per annum and to Antananarivo Municipality (US$13.2 million)
for a period of 35 years, including 5 years of grace at an interest rate of 4
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Madagascar - Recent Economic Developments and
Future Prospects" was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 24,
1979. A summary of its findings is set out below. Country data sheets are
provided in Annex 1.
3.        With a population of 8.0 million and a GNP per capita estimated at
US$250 in 1977, Madagascar is one of the poorest countries in the world. It
is predominantly an agricultural country and 85 percent of its population
live in rural areas with a per capita income of about US$120 per annum. In
many areas the standard of living is at the subsistence level. Although the
country is sparsely populated (an average of 14 inhabitants per square kilo-
meter), there is great pressure on cultivable land in some regions. Owing
mainly to different ecological conditions, the highlands are more advanced
than the coastal areas, and the south is particularly poor with a harsh, arid
climate and infertile soils. The east coast is rich agriculturally, but crops
are frequently devastated by cyclones. Internal migration is common and has
accelerated as improved roads have provided access to new areas. However,
poor roads remain a major constraint to development; many of the main highways
are not passable during the rainy season in a country where production centers
may be as far as 800 kilometers from main points of consumption. Many areas
are cut off from the rest of the country for several months each year.
4.        Over the past few years the growth of the economy continued to be
slow and uneven. Having risen but marginally in 1975, real GDP fell in 1976
by 2.9 percent owing to a slight decline in agricultural production and a
steep drop of about 14 percent in manufacturing output. GDP is estimated to
have increased by 3.9 percent in 1977; even so, output of goods and services
showed only a slight increase over the period since 1974; and, with population
increasing by about 2.5 percent annually, per capita GDP fell by about 5
percent. Budgetary investment outlays were stepped up considerably after



--2-
1975; but the investment rate remained practically unchanged at about 14
percent as the sharp rise in Government capital expenditures was largely
offset by a substantial decline in private investment. The savings rate
also continued to be fairly stable and fluctuated around 10-11 percent.  The
resource gap as a consequence has been maintained at a low level.
5.        Agricultural production has not recorded any marked growth over
the last three or four years. Even over the longer period since 1970 it has
increased at an annual rate of only about 1 percent. Despite periodic good
crops, paddy production did not keep pace with demand; and production in 1977,
estimated at 2.0 million tons, was only about 7 percent higher than in 1970.
Groundnut production, after rising significantly in 1976, fell back to
47,000 tons in 1977, while meat production did not register any significant
rise. Imports of rice and edible oils have increased to 105,000 tons and
16,000 tons, respectively, and were about three to four times as large in 1977
as in 1970-71. Sugarcane production continued to stagnate as there has been
no addition to the refinery capacity for several years. Among other cash and
export crops, coffee production, except for a 6 percent drop in 1976, has been
rising steadily, reaching some 89,000 tons in 1977.  However, raw cotton pro-
duction, which had been increasing fairly fast, levelled of-f after 1975 due
to shortages of fertilizers and pest:icides; vanilla output declined, while
pepper showed no noticeable increase!.
6.        The development of the industrial sector after independence in 1960
was encouraged by promotional measures such as fiscal incentives, protection
against competition from imports and, provision of institutional term financing.
Industrial production now accounts for about 14 percent of GDP. Despite
significant diversification of capacity that has taken place, manufacturing is
still dominated by food processing, textiles and apparel industries. Together
they account for close to 70 percent of the manufacturing output. Among other
industries the important ones include tobacco manufactures, chemicals (mainly
soap and matches), petroleum refining and production of construction materials.
7.        Industrial growth since 1972 has been erratic.  Following a marked
9.3 percent rise in 1974 the industrial production index declined again in
1975 and 1976; and despite recovering somewhat in 1977 it remained below the
level attained in 1974. Within the mnanufacturing sector itself, however,
performance varied between different industry groups. While the output of
processed foods and textiles followed a stagnant or a declining trend after
1974, some of the comparatively minor industries, such as chemicals, tobacco
manufactures, rubber and paper products maintained a fairly steady growth.
8.        Over the past few years a number of industrial establishments con-
sidered to be of national importance were taken over by the State. Some
unprofitable enterprises facing closure were also nationalized to prevent
layoff of workers.  In some other cases the State assumed majority control.
The important foreign-owned industrial enterprises that were nationalized
include the oil refinery (January 19,'6), the power and water supply company
(January 1976) and two sugar firms (December 1976).  At present, the State
owns, or has acquired majority participation in all major industrial units
employing a thousand or more workers.



- 3 -
9.        Madagascar's fiscal situation deteriorated considerably after 1975,
due to a sudden and sharp rise in current budget expenditure and Government
spending on capital development. Current expenditures rose steeply with the
rising wage bill of the Government and increasing outlay on maintenance; and
the current budget surplus, which used to be substantial, dwindled as revenues
failed to keep pace with the growth of expenditures. Furthermore, as Govern-
ment intensified its efforts to raise investment levels and stimulate the
economy, public investment expenditure rose from 11.2 billion FMG in 1975 to
20.5 billion FMG in 1977. The outlays on the consumer rice subsidy, although
they declined in 1976, rose again to 3.6 billion FMG in the subsequent year.
The overall Treasury deficit, which more than doubled to 20 billion FMG
between 1975 and 1977, was financed increasingly through recourse to Central
Bank advances. The budget for 1978 envisaged a 26 percent increase in total
outlay as compared to the estimated actual expenditures in 1977, while capital
spending was proposed to be raised by nearly 80 percent to 36.4 billion FMG.
Revenues also were expected to go up sharply, partly as a result of tax reform
measures. The overall deficit might, however, turn out to be somewhat larger
than the projected 16.1 billion FMG owing to underestimation of expenditure on
personnel and the settlement of payments deferred from 1977 on the one hand,
and shortfalls in revenues on the other. Even so, the overall fiscal situation
is likely to have shown some improvement in 1978 as compared to the preceding
year. The Government is contemplating economies in current expenditure,
particularly by paring consumer subsidies, so as to minimize the burden of
unproductive outlays in the future.
10.       Monetary and credit developments since 1975 have been influenced
mainly by the Government's deficit financing needs.  Outstanding domestic
credit went up by more than 50 percent to 126 billion FMG during 1975-77, due,
for the most part, to the steep and continued rise in net claims on Government.
As a result, money supply, which had been increasing moderately, rose by 15
percent in 1976 and as much as 25 percent in 1977.  Despite this monetary
expansion and little growth in the output of goods and services, the annual
inflation rate has been moderate -- about 9-10 percent during 1976-77, largely
because of increasing demand for cash balances and the consequent accumulation
of idle funds.
11.       The balance of payments situation which had been deteriorating
showed a substantial improvement in 1976, when a surplus of 2 billion FMG was
recorded; but the payments surplus in 1977 is now estimated to have been much
smaller. The turnaround in the balance of payments situation occurring in
1976 is attributable more to exogenous factors than to any significant im-
provement in the structure of the balance of payments. Trade surpluses were
recorded in 1976 and 1977 as a result of (a) a sharp rise in prices of exports,
particularly coffee, which reversed the continuing deterioration in the terms
of trade, and (b) the imposition of more strict quantitative restrictions on
imports in 1976. There was a substantial decline in the availability of
imports after 1975. On the other hand, the volume of exports dropped sharply
in 1976, and continued to fall in 1977, while there was no lasting reduction
in the services deficit, nor any sustained rise in capital inflows. In recent
months, pressures on the balance of payments have begun to build up again,
owing to production problems encountered by major export crops such as
vanilla and coffee, on the one hand, and international inflation, rising
energy prices and the adverse impact of high levels of public investment
expenditures on the demand for imports on the other.



- 4 -
12.       The growth and development of the Malagasy economy have over a
fairly long period been affected by constraints resulting from shortage of
savings, slow growth in markets for major primary exports and low productivity
of traditional agriculture. The country, however, is relatively well-endowed
with natural resources and has a well-established administrative set-up. With
appropriate policies and adequate external capital assistance, medium and
long-term prospects for the economy should be favorable. There is consider-
able scope for the expansion of agriculture and livestock production.  Only
about a fifth of the arable land .is at present being cultivated, while fer-
tilizer consumption, estimated to be some 14,000 tons in 1976, is still rather
small. The irrigation potential has as yet been only partially exploited.
The outlook for further development of manufacturing based on locally avail-
able materials is promising. On the whole, sustained growth at an average
annual rate of 4-5 percent appears to be feasible.
13.       The Government has been taking far-reaching steps to strengthen
national control of the economy. As a part of this process, economic and
financial institutions, productive sectors, foreign trade and internal market-
ing have undergone extensive reorganization. Inspired by the basic needs
approach, the Government has also formulated long-term development objectives
which envisage a more egalitarian income distribution and satisfaction of
specified minimum consumption requirements of the population by the end of
the century. The Government also stresses national self--sufficiency and the
eventual establishment of an industrial base large and diversified enough to
meet the domestic demand for basic. equipment and other essential consumer
goods.
14.       A Three-Year Plan, which is to be the first of a series of medium-
term investment programs designed to attain these long-rtn development objec-
tives, was launched in 1978. The Plan envisages overall expansion of the
economy at an average annual rate of 5.5 percent during 1978-80. The rate of
investment is projected to rise to 17.1 percent of GDP by 1980 from the Plan
estimate of 11.5 percent in 1977. The savings rate is to be stepped up,
partly through the mobilization of additional budgetary resources for capital
development. But about a quarter of the investment outlays during the Plan
period is expected to be financed through external loans and grants. Greater
emphasis will be placed on the development of food crops; and household con-
sumption is targeted to rise, in real terms, by 3.6 percent per year. The
Plan accords high priority to manufacturing, particularly basic industry
and processing of agricultural raw materials.
15.       Madagascar's external public debt, outstanding and disbursed,
amounted to US$202.8 million at the end of 1977. Slightly over half of it
(US$102.3 million) was owed to the Bank Group, and as much as 37.8 percent
to IDA alone. The Bank Group share of debt service in 1977 was 20.8 percent.
Among bilateral donors France and the Federal Republic of Germany are the most
prominent, each holding about 14 percent of the disbursed debt. Japan and the
People's Republic of China ranlc next in importance (about 5 percent each)
followed by the USA (3 percent) and Italy (1.1 percent). Suppliers' credits
and commercial borrowing (4.6 percent of the disbursed debt) have been rela-
tively unimportant. The Government, in fact, has been generally prudent with



regard to external indebtedness; the outstanding disbursed debt at the end of
1976 thus amounted to nearly 11 percent of GNP as compared to the average of
21 percent for low-income countries. Because of relatively limited reliance
on external assistance and concessionary terms of most loans and credits, debt
service payments have remained small.  The estimated debt service  atio of 3.5
percent in 1976 was only marginally higher than in 1970. However, since 1977
the debt service ratio has tended to increase mainly as a result of foreign
borrowing on commercial terms by some major public enterprises to finance
their pressing investment needs.
16.       The Bank Group should be prepared, in appropriate cases, to provide
some local cost financing. In terms of performance, Madagascar appears to
have performed about as well as other countries at the same level of develop-
ment encountering similar constraints. Its current domestic savings rate of
10 - 11 percent compares favorably with the average of 8 percent for countries
in the low-income group, indicating that Madagascar has made a reasonable
effort to mobilize domestic savings; but its savings fall far short of the
country's requirements. The Government's policy of emphasizing self-reliance
has contributed further to scarcity of external resources. Despite consid-
erable restrictions on imports, the country's balance of payments and reserve
position have continued to be weak.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN MADAGASCAR
17.       Outstanding IDA credits to Madagascar amount to US$221.43 million
and Bank loans total US$31.80 million. About 54 percent of Bank Group lending
has been for transport, 14 percent for electric power, 24 percent for agricul-
ture and 8 percent for education. IFC's first investment was made in March
1977 with an equity investment of US$290,000 and a loan of US$11.0 million for
the expansion of a textile mill; other projects in leather and ferrochrome are
under consideration. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and
IDA credits, and of IFC investments as of January 31, 1980, as well as notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
18.       The priority given to transport investment recognizes that improve-
ment in communications is a precondition for Madagascar's development. Four
projects have been for the construction of all-weather highway links between
the island's different regions; a fifth highway project for road maintenance
was signed on July 30, 1979. There has been a project for improving
Madagascar's main port of Toamasina and one for modernizing the railway line
between Toamasina and the capital, Antananarivo; a second project supporting
the railways' modernization efforts was signed on June 25, 1979. Bank Group
lending for agriculture consists of two livestock development projects, two
irrigation projects and a forestry project. A credit for an agricultural
development project in the Mangoky delta was signed on May 17, 1979. A study
of the problem of agricultural marketing and meat pricing is being executed
with the assistance of an international consultancy firm. Bank Group involve-
ment in the utility sector includes the financing by IDA of part of the cost
of the large Andekaleka hydroelectric project for which substantial bilateral
assistance was secured by the Government. Additional financing of US$10
million to help cover a doubling in cost of civil works was approved by the



- 6 -
Executive Directors on January 29, 1980. A first credit of US$5.0 million
for a development finance company (BNI) was also approved by the Executive
Directors on January 29, 1980.
19.       In our future lending to Madagascar, we expect agriculture to
absorb a larger share of Bank Group lending, in line with Government strategy
stated in its long-term development plan where it is recognized that expansion
of agricultural production is a prerequisite to development of the country. A
pipeline of possible projects has been identified in a sector memorandum
discussed with the Government in mid-1979 and is reproduced on page 16 of
Annex I to the Madagascar Economic Report dated October 24, 1979. IDA is
assisting the Government in preparinig an agricultural credit project, two
rural development projects, a small-scale irrigation project, a third livestock
project and a second forestry projeci:. We will also continue to support
infrastructure development in such areas as education, urban development,
roads, railways and ports.  A petroleum exploration promotion project was
appraised in October 1979, and is expected to be submitted to the Executive
Directors around May 1980. We expect: the Government to seek cofinancing from
external lenders for some of the pro:jects, and we intend to assist the Govern-
ment in its efforts to mobilize new external sources of financing.
20.        In the past, problems have arisen in the course of execution
of several projects. There were delays in execution, cost overruns and
deficiencies in institution building, especially in agriculture. The
Morondava Project had to be substantially reduced, and the Government has
prepared a plan of action to deal with the remaining problems.  The main
aspects of this plan include a redefinition of the implementing agency's
(SODEMO) responsibilities and financial structure, completion and audit of
overdue accounts, and preparation of an investment program and budget for
development of the Morondava area. Implementation of the pl]an of action
has started and is being closely monitored by the Government. and the
Association. Implementation of the Village Livestock Project has improved
substantially, although the disbursements remain slow. The first three
highway projects have been completed. The fourth project is still being
implemented; the road construction component is nearly completed and the
maintenance studies have been completed. However, there has been a delay in
the start of the recommended training program for personnel in the Ministry of
Public Works on highway maintenance. Since training local staff is essential,
Government has agreed that training consultants will be employed and that
construction of training facilities will begin by April 1, 1980.
21.        Since the start of our program in Madagascar only two major con-
struction projects have been completed and audited by the Operations Evalua-
tion Department. The audit report No. 2143 of July 27, 1978 concluded that
the Madagascar Third Highway Project was well justified and had a good rate of
return despite the substantial cost overrun experienced by the project. The
audit confirmed that training of local staff and adequate provisions of
Government funds were essential factors for a successful road maintenance
program. The report No. 2299 of D)ecember 22, 1978 concluded that the physical
objectives of the Tamatave Port Project were satisfactorily achieved, but
pointed out that the institutional objective was not accomplished during
project implementation because of inadlequacies in the staffing of the port
authority and the failure of the technical assistance component.



- 7 -
PART III - THE WATER SUPPLY AND SANITATION SECTOR
Sector Organization
22.       Several governmental agencies are involved in the water supply and
sanitation sector. The Directorate of Industry and Mines of the Ministry of
Economy and Commerce is responsible through its Energy Department for develop-
ing policy for water supply, assessing water resources and providing general
guidance to water supply undertakings. The Directorate of Urbanism and Habitat
(DUH) of the Ministry of Public Works is responsible for elaborating master
plans for sanitation (sewerage, drainage and solid wastes) and implementing
the construction of new facilities. The Directorate of Rural Engineering and
the Waters and Forestry Department of the Ministry of Rural Development are
involved in rural water supply, irrigation and river protection. The Ministry
of Interior's Department of Health and Population is responsible for over-
seeing the health aspects in the sector. Practically all water allocation has
to be authorized by the Government. Statutory standards for water pollution
control need to be completed while minor improvements to the legislation
governing water quality standards, the protection of water sources and
standards for discharge of effluents, are still needed.
23.       The power and water supply companies were consolidated in 1976 to
form a new company, JIRAMA (Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy - Malagasy Electricity and
Water Company) responsible for power and water supply in the country as a
whole (see paragraph 43). Presently, JIRAMA operates all the urban water
supply systems except a few municipally-operated entities which it expects to
take over within a few years. Although legally JIRAMA is responsible for all
water supply systems in the country, in practice it has not been involved in
rural water supply. The Ministry of Rural Development, through its rural
engineering departments in each province, and religious institutions (Church
World Service, Catholic Relief Service) are active in rural water supply.  To
rationalize the management of the sector, a study to determine the most
appropriate organization and the long-term development program for rural water
supply will be required.  The IBRD/WHO Cooperative Program has offered assist-
ance for the study but the Government has decided to start it after 1980 when
the implementation of the Government's decentralization policy reaches a more
advanced stage. Operation and maintenance of sewerage, drainage and solid
waste facilities, which have recently been decentralized, are the responsibi-
lity of the local authorities. Newly completed works are handed over to these
authorities, but in general they do not have sufficient funds to operate and
maintain them.
24.       The level of water service in Madagascar is slightly better than the
average level in Africa. Of the estimated 1.46 million urban population about
71 percent are supplied with treated water (one third through private connec-
tions, two thirds through public standpipes and water taps), 10 percent are
supplied through low standard water supply systems and 19 percent have no
public supply. Standards of service are higher in larger towns than in
smaller ones. The rural population is about 6.5 million, of which 16 percent
are supplied with piped water. The situation is less satisfactory on the
sanitation side. Only 3 percent of the urban population have access to public



- 8-
sewers; the remainder is served through individual facilities.  Some of the
smaller communities and regions do not even have individual facilities and
lack of waste disposal arrangements often means that water sources are not
sufficiently protected and consequently water-borne diseases spread easily.
25.       Water connections in JIRAMA's systems are metered and water charges
are billed to customers and collected by JIRAMA. Water consumed through
public standposts and water taps is billed to municipalities.  JIRAMA's 1979
water tariffs were low at about FMG 34 or 16 USO per cubic meter on average
and were insufficient to cover costs. Sewerage, drainage and other sanitation
services are paid for through local taxes, mainly property taxes. The costs
of special services such as cesspool emptying and use of public lavatories are
partially recovered through the payment of small fees by the users.
Sector Objectives
26.       The national objectives for water supply development as established
by the Government include: (a) study of the means of providing a satisfactory
water supply to the entire population; (b) gradual construction of these
schemes; (c) standardization of the tariffs and the terms on which water is
supplied; (d) financial viability oE water supply entities and (e) recovery of
costs for all water supplied. Water delivered through public standpipes is to
be paid for by local governments which are required to earmark funds for water
bills. The Government expects that by the year 2000 all households will have
access to piped water supply. To achieve the above objectives, the Government
commissioned, between 1971 and 1975, water supply and sanitation sector
studies with UNDP financing and WHO as Executing Agency. The studies, which
aimed at developing a master plan for water supply and sanitation construction
programs, included feasibility and design studies for the Antananarivo area.
The studies' recommendations provide for a phased development program com-
prising an immediate works program, a series of five-year programs for water
supply and a series of seven-year programs for sewerage and drainage. The
immediate works program for water supply and minor portions of the first phase
program are now under implementation. For the remaining urban areas, the
studies recommend that priority be given to disinfection facilities for the
existing systems, to the protection of water sources in cities without a
public water supply system, and to public education on health hazards of
inappropriate methods of human waste disposal.
Sector Constraints and Development
27.       On the water supply side, the major constraint is financial.  Between
1969 and 1977 no major investments were made in the water supply subsector.
Present water tariffs are inadequate to meet operating expenses including
depreciation allowances. Under this project, JIRAMA would carry out and
complete by June 30, 1982 a nationwide study of water tariff structure and
pricing policy and would consult with the Association regarding the study's
recommendations (Section 2.07 of the draft Project Agreement with JIRAMA).
Tariff adjustments would be applied gradually through 1983 and following the
proposed study, it is expected that water tariffs based on long-term marginal



- 9 -
cost would be introduced by January 1, 1984 (Section 2.07 of the draft Project
Agreement). These tariff increases would help JIRAMA meet its operating costs
and make a reasonable contribution to its water supply construction program
from internally generated funds. JIRAMA intends to spend $49 million in its
1977-1984 water supply development program, to be distributed as follows: 44
percent in the Antananarivo region, 46 percent in existing systems in the rest
of the country and 10 percent to serve the localities not yet supplied. This
program appears reasonable considering the special needs of the Antananarivo
area where one third of the urban population lives. As JIRAMA is a new
institution, a more precise and more justifiable long-term program has not yet
been worked out. JIRAMA will set up a long-term development program for water
supply in urban areas by June 30, 1981 (Section 3.05 of the draft Project
Agreement). For water supply in rural areas, a sector study would be carried
out by the Government (see paragraph 23 above).
28.       On the sanitation side, the major constraints relate to staff
development and financial arrangements. The existing capability of the local
authorities to operate the sanitation systems is inadequate and needs to be
substantially strengthened by hiring higher caliber staff and setting up train-
ing programs. In the case of the Municipality of Antananarivo (Fivondronana),
new key officers have been appointed at the Sanitation Division. These
appointments include 2 engineers, 2 senior accountants, 1 senior technician
and 1 training officer. Financial arrangements are also inadequate. The
present accounting system of Fivondronana is unsatisfactory. The finances of
the Sanitation Division form an integral part of the overall municipal finances
and there is no separate accounting for the Division. The lack of specific
allocation of funds to sanitation operations is in part responsible for the
poor state of maintenance of sanitation works and equipment. To permit sound
financial management, the resources allocated to sanitation should be clearly
identified and related to recurrent costs and investment needs.
Demand forecasts for water supply and sanitation facilities in the
Antananarivo area
29.        Assuming an average population growth rate of 3.25 percent, the
population in the Antananarivo area is expected to reach 745,000 by 1980
with 220,000 in the suburbs and over one million by 1990 with 325,000 in the
suburbs. It is estimated that by 1985, all centers of more than 1,000 people
around the city of Antananarivo representing 30 percent of the total suburban
population would be supplied with water through private connections or public
standposts, compared to 13 percent in 1975. By the year 2000, all centers of
more than 500 people representing 80 percent of the total urban population
would be served. Water consumption by Government entities is expected to
decline to less than 10 percent of total consumption by the year 2000 from the
present 20 percent. Consumption by municipalities, excluding public standpipes,
which constitute 8 percent of total consumption is expected to remain at the
same level in the future. In 1986, water demand for domestic use would
reach about 40,000 cubic meters per day compared to about 23,000 cubic meters
per day in 1978; industry and commerce would require about 28,000 cubic meters
per day compared to 17,000 cubic meters per day in 1978; and consumption by
public entities would be 20,000 cubic meters per day compared to about 14,000
cubic meters per day in 1978. In 1986, peak day water demand is expected to
be 110,000 cubic meters, compared to 68,000 in 1978.



- 10 -
30.       To meet the expected increases in water demand, the capacity of
the water treatment facilities is being increased from 60,000 cubic meters per
day to 85,000 cubic meters per day and starting in 1983 the construction of
additional facilities would provide a further 25,000 cubic meters per day to
cope with the peak day demand unti:L 1986.
31.       Estimates of waste water in the Antananarivo area have been prepared
up to the year 2000. Collection of: waste water through a public sewer system
is envisaged for high population density areas but individual systems of waste
water disposal would continue to be! used in the hilly areas with a low popula-
tion density. A master plan for public sewerage has been drawni up covering the
period to the year 2000 but for technical and financial reasons its implemen-
tation would have to be carried out in stages.
32.       The need for drainage facilities in the area has; been estimated
taking into account technical, demographic and economic ccnsiderations. On
the basis of a master plan for drainage facilities covering the period up to
the year 2000, a phased development program has been worked out.
33.       Demand for solid waste collection service has been estimated for
the next six years. In 1984, 780 tons of solid waste per day would have to
be collected. This would call for a total capacity of 400 cubic meters of
refuse containers.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
34.       A report entitled "Madagascar - Antananarivo Water and Sanitation
Project-Staff Appraisal Report" (No. 2266a-MAG), dated January 25, 1980, is
being distributed separately. A cresdit and project summary appears at the
beginning of this report and a supp:Lementary data sheet is given in Annex III.
The project was prepared by the Government on the basis of a master plan
and feasibility studies completed in 1975 under a UNDP/WHO project. It was
appraised by an IDA mission in July 1978. Negotiations were held in Washington,
D.C., from December 10 to December 14, 1979. The Malagasy delegation was
led by Mr. Leon Rajaobelina, Governor of the Central Bank of Madagascar and
included Mr. Randriananja, the Chairman of the Antananarivo Municipal Council.
Project Objectives and Description
35.       The project, which is the least cost solution for providing water
supply, drainage and sewerage facilities for the Antananarivo area, would meet
the water demand of the Antananarivc area until 1986 by improving and extend-
ing the existing water supply system, and reduce the frequency of floods in
the low areas of the town by improving drainage facilities. It would help
complete the sewerage facilities in the densely-populated quarters of the city
center where the situation is most critical and improve the conditions of
refuse collection and disposal to meet the needs of the city until 1984. It
would also help the implementing institutions, especially in the sanitation
subsector, attain proper standards of operation and mainterLance, assist the
Government in developing appropriate cost recovery policies and provide a
framework for the preparation of a revised, long-term development program for
urban water supply from which a sector lending strategy could be devised.



- 11 -
36.       The project would also assist JIRAMA to increase the capacity of its
water production facilities other than treatment (mainly pumping facilities)
and would help increase the distribution capacity to deliver water to 200,000
additional consamers.  Water needs of industry, commerce and Government would
be met through the facilities provided under the project.
37.       The project includes the first stage of the city's sewerage
development plan and would provide extensions to the existing public sewerage
system in the city center where the population density is high and where
sanitation needs urgent improvement. Sewerage cayacity would be increased
from the present 8,000 cubic meters per day to about 18,000 cubic meters per
day in 1984 when the project will be completed.
38.       Under the project, the first stage of a drainage program for the
city would be implemented to meet the most urgent needs. This component would
help reduce the frequency of floods in the low areas of the city and in so
doing lessen present health hazards; reduce damage to roads and dwellings;
increase the amount of building land, reduce losses of rice crops and farm
produce in areas in and around the city perimeter, and improve traffic con-
ditions.
39.       Finally the project would improve Antananarivo's  solid waste
collection service by providing additional collective dumping containers,
trucks and heavy maintenance equipment, and improvement in the sanitary
conditions of the existing dumping site. Also under this component, an
attempt will be made to test under local conditions the viability of a full-
scale composting plant as a useful method of solid waste disposal. The
planned composting facility is expected to produce 10,000 tons of compost
annually for use in agriculture. The Ministry of Rural Development which
promotes composting in the area, is committed to buying the entire production
of the facility at unit prices which will cover the incremental cost of
composting (Section 3.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.       The project consists of the following elements:
(a) Construction of water production works, about 19km of water
mains, extension and reinforcement of the water distribution
system (reservoirs, pipes, booster station) and supply of
heavy equipment for maintenance;
(b) Construction of drainage collectors, a pumping station,
river dykes, 10 storage basins, a new 3km drainage canal,
dredging of an existing canal over 10km and rerouting of an
irrigation canal;
(c) Construction of sewage collectors and reticulation, a pumping
station, discharge mains and pilot stabilization ponds;
(d) Construction of about 560 collective dumping containers,
supply of about 19 collection trucks and heavy equipment
to upgrade and properly maintain the existing dumping
site, and upgrading of an experimental composting
facility to produce 10,000 tons per year;



- 12 -
(e) Training for JIRAMA senior staff and middle and lower level
staff as well as a contribution to the construction and
equipping of an extension to the JIRAMA training center in
Antananarivo; and
(f)  Training for lower level sanitation staff in Madagascar and
for higher level staff abroad as well as supply of training
equipment.
Project Cost and Financing
41.       The estimated cost of the project is US$33.7 million, including
taxes of US$3.2 million of which about US$14.0 million is foreign exchange.
Physical contingencies of 12 percent have been added to the base costs of
civil works, equipment and land acquisition; and 10 percent to the costs of
training. Price contingency allowances of 15.7 percent of total base cost
have been added to the cost estimate. Detailed costs of the proposed project
are as follows:
--------US$ million---------
Item                         Local     Foreign       Total
(a)  Materials and Equipment          1.06         6.59         7.65
(b)  Civil Works                      7.90         3.96        11.86
(c)  Land Acquisition                 3.99          -           3.99
(d)  Engineering Services             1.90         0.07         1.97
(e)  Training                         0.70         0.27         0.97
Total base costs             15.55        10.89        26.44
Contingencies
Physical                         1.62         1.07         2.69
Price                            2.55         2.01         4.56
Total Project Costs (including
taxes and duties of
US$3.2 million)                   19.72        13.97        33.69
42.       The proposed IDA credit of US$20.5 million would finance about 67
percent of project cost, net of duties and taxes. It would cover 100 percent
of foreign costs and 39 percent of local expenditures, net of taxes. The
proceeds of the proposed IDA credit: to the Government would be on-lent by
the Government to JIRAMA (US$7.3 million) and to the Antananarivo Fivondronana
(US$13.2 million). The credit would be on-lent to JIRAMA at an 8 percent per
annum interest rate over 25 years, including a 5-year grace period, and to the
Fivondronana on terms of 4 percent interest rate per annum over 35 years,
including a 5-year grace period. Interest during the construction period
would be capitalized on both subloans. In the past, water and sanitation
projects have been financed with Government grants and concessional loans. In
the case of this project, the Government's contribution to the financing of
the project would be in the form of capital contributions to JIRAMA and the
Fivondronana. The Fivondronana would provide US$5.0 million towards the
financing of the sanitation part of the project.



- 13 -
Implementing agencies
43.       JIRAMA was set up in 1975 as an autonomous and financially inde-
pendent public body responsible for carrying out the national objectives in
electricity and water supply. Following the takeover of the Societe d'
Energie de Madagascar (SEM) and Electricite et Eau de Madagascar (EEM) in
1976, JIRAMA received the power and water assets throughout the country. In
the water supply subsector, it operates 44 water supply systems, but a few
municipal systems are still run by local governments. JIRAMA's Board is
composed of four Government representatives, two company staff and two outside
members, all appointed by the Government. The Board has delegated to a
General Manager the day-to-day running of the company's operations but has
retained the right to decide on and approve major investments, borrowings and
other important matters. A General Controller, appointed by the Prime Minister,
ensures that the company operates in accordance with its statutes and promotes
Government policy. The "Charter of Socialist Enterprises", under which more
Government involvement and increased worker participation in the running of
companies is required, applies to JIRAMA but is not yet being enforced on it.
In any case, the enforcement of the charter is not expected to have an adverse
impact on this project.
44.       JIRAMA is reasonably well organized.  It comprises eight depart-
ments in all. There are two operating departments: the Department of the
Interconnected Zone, which accounts for two-thirds of power sales and half of
water sales in the Antananarivo region; and the Department of Outside Zones,
which covers the rest of the country. The other departments are in charge of
accounting, management systems, personnel, procurement and sales. Planning
and construction activities come under the Department of Development. JIRAMA
employs a total work force of about 3,900 people of whom about 1,300 are
assigned to its water supply operations. The company's senior management is
well qualified and competent, including the General Manager who is a civil
engineer. Senior technical positions are also filled with qualified engi-
neers. However JIRAMA, like many Malagasy companies, suffers from a shortage
of qualified accounting staff. The credit agreement 817-MAG for the Andekaleka
Power Project of which JIRAMA is the beneficiary and the draft project agreement
for this project provide for consultations with IDA before making appointments
to the posts of Interconnected Zone Manager, Development Manager or Administra-
tive and Financial Manager (Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
45.       JIRAMA presently operates a training center in Antananarivo with
assistance from Electricite de France. Trainees, mainly lower echelon staff
and recruits, are given courses in technical and administrative subjects.
Upper echelon staff and senior officers are sent abroad for higher learning
on a full-time basis or short seminars. These training activities will be
pursued under the proposed project.
46.       Fivondronana.  In 1976, local governments were restructured and
decentralized. The new organization was designed to provide greater autonomy
to local authorities from the level of the province downward. The Fivondronana



- 14 -
of Antananarivo covers the capital city metropolitan area. The government
structure of the Fivondronana includes a General Assembly which elects members
of the Executive Committee, a policy-making body. An Administrative Body
implements the policies of the Committee. The Administrative Body comprises
several operational branches covering all public services. The technical
branch is subdivided into several divisions, one of which is the Sanitation
Division. The Sanitation Division is responsible for operating and maintain-
ing the sewerage, drainage, and solid waste facilities and for the design and
construction of minor works.
47.       At present, the Sanitation Division has 825 staff.  However, the
staff at all levels have inadequate qualifications. The facilities of the
Division are poorly maintained and training is nonexistent. On the financial
side, the Fivondronana has up to now suffered from a lack of specific alloca-
tion of funds for its operations and from the deficiencies of its present
accounting system. Under the proposed project, recruitment and training
programs would be undertaken to stresngthen the staff (Section 3.02 of the
draft Project Agreement with the Fivondronana). Between 1980 and 1982, the
Sanitation Division intends to increase substantially its staff as well as
upgrade the overall level of qualif:Lcations in the Division, in order to
ensure efficient operation of the expanded facilities under the project.
Assurances were obtained at negotial:ions that additional staff, namely 16
technicians in 1980/81, 28 foremen and skilled workers and 31 semi-skilled
workers in 1980/82, will be hired as planned. New higher echelon staff would
be recruited from local technical schools and the training officer would be in
charge of implementing recommended t:raining programs for new staff and setting
up training schemes for the existing staff for future implementation. The
financial measures designed to improve the Sanitation Division's finances and
accounting system are discussed in paragraph 52 below.
Financial Aspects
48.       The financial position of JIRAMA is not satisfactory and efforts are
still being made to separate the accounts of the company's two main activities,
i.e. electricity and water, and to evaluate its fixed assets which come from
two unrelated companies. JIRAMA.'s cash position has deteriorated from a
surplus of US$7 million at the end cf 1976 to a deficit of US$6 million and
US$11 million at the end of 1978 and. 1979 respectively. A rapid increase in
operating expenses, lack of sources for long term borrowing for new fixed
assets, large administrative arrears owed to JIRAMA by Government agencies as
well as the company's involvement in the manufacture of water meters and
electrical home appliances are among the major causes of the deficits.
49.       JIRAMA's water operations resulted in losses in FY77 (US$0.8 million),
in FY78 (US$1.0 million), and in FY79 (an estimated US$1.1 million). Under
the terms of the agreement for the Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project (Credit
817-MAG), the Malagasy Treasury covered the loss for fiscal year 1977 in May
1979 and has committed itself to pay JIRAMA a further US$1.1 million this
calendar year. Parallel to this, the National Industrial Development Bank
made in October 1979 a loan of US$1.9 million to JIRAMA at an annual interest
rate of 8.5 percent, repayable in 10 years.



- 15 -
50.       To remedy this situation the Government undertook at the time of
negotiation of the Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project (Development Credit
Agreement 817-MAG of June 19, 1978 to (i) pay off the existing administrative
arrears - US$3.8 million was paid in 1979 and a similar amount will be paid
in 1980; (ii) limit future arrears to a maximum level of three months' con-
sumption; and (iii) cover JIRAMA's deficits for water operations (Section 3.03
of the Development Credit Agreement 817-MAG). Furthermore, JIRAMA has employed
a consultant since May 1979 to make recommendations for tightening accounting
procedures and for the close monitoring of the level of expenses at JIRAMA.
In addition, a budgeting group and an internal audit unit have been established
at JIRAMA. The head of the budgeting group, a chief internal auditor and
acting financial manager have been appointed. The search for a suitable
candidate to fill the post of financial manager is underway. Moreover,
JIRAMA has agreed not to incur any new short term debt if such debt would
exceed one-sixth of its consolidated gross revenue for the preceding twelve
month period (Section 4.04 (a) of the draft Project AGreement). JIRAMA will
also confine its activities to public utility operations exclusively, and
before December 31, 1980 will transfer to a separate entity all assets and
obligations which relate to operations other than public utilities (Section
3.06 of the draft Project Agreement).
51.       The present levels of water tariffs which averaged 16 USd per cubic
meter in 1979 are too low to meet the operating costs of water service. To
improve the financial performance of water operations, a phased increase in
water rates is rtquired. As a first step toward this objective, JIRBAMA raised
its water tariffs by an average c,f 12 percent in January 1980. JIRAMA has
further agreed tc increase water tariffs from time to time so that it will
earn a rate of return on its revalued net water supply assets which will be
positive in 1980 and not less than 2 percent in 1981, 4 percent in 1982 and 6
percent from 1983 onwards (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement). No
funds are to be transferred by JIRAMA from its water supply operations to its
electricity operations before the completion of the project (Section 4.05 of
the draft Project Agreement). 7he financial situation for water operations is
expected to improve zo the extciit that 64 percent of the capital requirements
::or the 1980-84 period would be financed with internally-generated funds.
JIRAMA is also required to have its accounts and financial statements audited
each fiscal year by independent auditors acceptable to the Association (Section
4.02 of the draft Project Agreement).
52.       The Fivondronana's present accounting system is unsatisfactory.
The finances of the Sanitatiox. 3ivision form part of the overall municipal
finances, with no separate accounting for the Division. Budgetary allocations
to the Sanitation Division are ilot related to the cost of operation, mainte-
nance and renewal of the sanitation facilities. Under the proposed project,
the financial management of th/; Sanitation Division will be strengthened.
First, the Fivondronana has agreed to keep as a management tool for financial
decision-making pro forma acc.unts for its Sanitation Division in accordance



- 16 -
with principles of accrual accounting, including preparation of balance
sheets, statements of expenses including depreciation al:Lowances, statements
of expenditures for fixed asset replacement and new construction as well as
debt service and borrowings. It has further agreed that the opening balance
sheet of the San tation Division will be certified as of January 1,1980 by an
auditing firm satisfactory to the Association and that the fixed assets of
the Sanitation Division will be reviewed annually and revalued as necessary in
accordance with valuation methods satisfactory to the Association   (Section
4.01 of the draft Project Agreement).  Second, the Fivondronana will provide
its Sanitation Division with funds calculated on the basis of the Division's
pro forma accounts at least equal to the Division's operating, maintenance
cost and capital expenditures (Section 4.03 of the draft Project Agreement).
Third, the Fivondronana will from time to time exchange views with the
Association on the adequacy of the. budgetary allocations to its Sanitation
Division, taking into arcount cost increases due to inflation and growth in
the Division's operations (Sections 4.03 and 4.04 of the draft Project Agree-
ment). Furthermore, the Government has agreed to cause JIRAMA to adjust
annually on the basis of recurrent costs of drainage and refuse collection
services the rate of the surtax for development works collected by JIRAMA on
behalf of the Municipality (Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement).
53.       During the period of project execution (1979-83), total financing
requirements of the Sanitation Division are estimated at about US$27.6 mil-
lion. Government's contribution and the proposed IDA credit would cover
about 65 percent of these requirements while the Sanitation Division itself
would provide the remaining 35 percent.
Implementation
54.       JIRAMA staff will carry Dut the detailed engineering, prepare the
tender documents and supervise the construction works for the water supply
component. The sewerage and drainage components will be executed on behalf
of the Fivondronana by the Ministry of Public Works with assistance from
consultants. The Ministry of Public Works, through its Directorate for
Urbanism and Habitat, will administer the drainage and sewerage components
(Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Directorate
for Urbanism and Habitat will carry out the detailed engineering for part of
the work but will be assisted by local engineering consultants for the more
sophisticated part (Section 3.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
This external assistance will cover detailed design and the preparation of
tender documents. The Directorate for Urbanism and Habitat will supervise
the construction works. The effectiveness of these arrangements will be
periodically reviewed and if required, corrective measures will be taken in
consultation with the Association (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). Consultants employed by the Ministry of Public Works and
the Fivondronana to assist in the execution of the sanitation components will
be hired on terms and conditions acceptable to the Association (Section 2.02(b)
of the draft Project Agreement). O)verall coordination for the project is being
assured by a project coordinator in the Planning Department of the Ministry of
Finance and Planning.



- 17 -
55.       Implementation of the solid waste component and the sanitation
staff training will be carried out by the Fivondronana of Antananarivo
through its Technical Department. A training officer has been recruited to
organize and implement the training component at the Sanitation Division
(Section 3.02 of the draft Project Agreement). The Fivondronana has agreed
to employ a local engineering consultant satisfactory to the Association to
carry out the detailed engineering for the improvement of the composting
facility (Section 2.02(a) of the draft Project Agreement).
56.       Assuming that no major delays are encountered, the project should
be completed by December 31, 1984. However, various problems relating to
transportation, inexperience of local engineers in dealing with Bank Group
procedures, etc. may lengthen the design and construction period and an
allowance has been made for a delay of three to nine months in project com-
pletion. This has been taken into account in both the contingency allowances
and the project implementation schedule.
Procurement
57.       Construction works for the water supply component (US$10.2 million)
would involve three bidding packages: (a) supply of pipes, valves and fit-
tings; (b) supply of electromechanical equipment and (c) civil works. Con-
struction works for the drainage and sewerage components (US$17.8 million)
would also involve three bidding packages: (a) supply, transportation
and installation of electromechanical equipment; (b) civil works and (c)
supply and laying of sewerage mains. The solid waste component (US$3.51
million) would involve several small contracts for civil works (phased con-
struction of collective dumping bins, composting facility) and for equipment
supply (plastic bins, vehicles, maintenance and composting equipment).
58.       Electromechanical equipment for water supply would be erected and
water pipes laid on force account by JIRAMA's Electromechanical Department
and Water Distribution Department. JIRAMA has always successfully carried
out this kind of work with its own qualified staff. All other works would
be carried out under contract. Works executed on force account will not be
financed by this credit. All contracts of $100,000 or more would be awarded
on the basis of international competitive bidding in accordance with the Bank
Group guidelines on procurement. Contracts under $100,000 would be awarded in
accordance with local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the Associa-
tion. Total expenditures under such contracts would not without the Associa-
tion's further approval exceed $400,000 for the water supply component and
$500,000 for the sanitation components.  A preference of 15 percent or the
applicable customs duty, whichever is lower, would be applied to the bids of
local manufacturers of equipment. A preference of 7.5 percent would be
applied to bids from local civil works contractors.
Disbursement
59.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against 85 percent of
total costs for civil works, excluding the laying of water mains; 100 percent
of foreign expenditures for equipment and pipes; 100 percent of local expendi-
tures ex-factory or 80 percent of local expenditures for locally-procured
imported items; and 100 percent of foreign expenditures for consultancy (10
man-months) and training services. The credit closing date would be June 30,



- 18 -
1985. It is proposed that retroactive financing of up to US$100,000 be
approved for the cost of engineering consultancy services provided after
January 1, 1980.
Project Benefits
60.       An economic rate of return for the water supply component has been
computed on the basis of the proposed project and a treatment plant presently
under construction by JIRAMA to meet demand in the Antananarivo area until
1986. The economic rate of return based on shadow pricing of foreign exchange
and labor would be 7.4 percent for the water supply component, assuming that
benefits are limited to the incremental revenue.  Real benefits are, however,
not quantifiable and should be substantially higher. Additional benefits
relate to health and other environmental factors. No attempt has been made to
calculate a financial rate of return for the sanitation components as there is
no direct relation between the new services the proposed project would provide
and the revenues of the Sanitation Division which are derived mainly from
property and sales taxes.
61.       Numerous benefits would be derived from the proposed project.
The water supply component would meet the increasing water supply needs of
Antananarivo and its suburbs for the next six to eight years. The level of
service to domestic consumers would be improved with about 200,000 additional
people having access to piped water supply. This component would also meet
the needs of industry, commerce and Government whose water demand would in-
crease by 17,000 cubic meters per day up to 1986. By reducing the frequency
of floods in the low areas of the tcown, the drainage component would lessen
health hazards, damage to roads and dwellings and loss of building land and of
working hours due to traffic congestion. The sewerage component would double
the present sewage capacity and improve sanitary conditions in the densely-
populated areas of the town. The solid waste component would improve the
level of service in the area presently served, expand service to new areas,
improve the sanitary conditions of the present dumping site and provide
experimental results which would permit evaluation of the potential benefits
under local conditions of a full-scale composting plant. The training compo-
nent would improve the efficiency of management, operation and maintenance of
water supply facilities throughout the sector and sanitation facilities in the
area.  Finally, the project would strengthen the beneficiary institutions.
The Sanitation Division of the Antanananrivo Fivondronana, which encounters
exceptional drainage and sanitation problems, would be substantially reinforced
through improved staffing at both the technical and administrative levels,
organization and training. The water operations of JIRAMA would be placed on
a sounder financial footing.
62.       The project would have a significant impact on the poverty group
in Antananarivo. It would mainly benefit the suburbs which have a high
concentration of urban poor and where water demand is increasing 2.3 times
faster than in the city. The drainage component would benefit the whole
community but particularly those living in the low areas of the city which
are now periodically flooded. The separation of the irrigation and drainage
functions of the existing Andriantany canal and its dredging would mainly
benefit the population on the plain. The sewerage component would improve
health conditions in the city's center which is densely populated, espe-
cially during the day when the large avenues are transformed into crowded



- 19 -
markets. By increasing the number of collective bins and by improving
collection, the solid waste component would benefit the whole population but
especially the poor as it is in their areas that the bulk of these services
would be provided.
Project Risks
63.       The main project risks relate to the sanitation components.  The
Urban and Habitat Directorate of the Ministry of Public Works has limited
experience in preparing and evaluating tender documents consistent with Bank
Group procedures and in supervising construction works. Delays may therefore
occur during engineering and construction of the drainage and sewerage com-
ponents. Because of the institutional weakness of the Fivondronana's Sani-
tation Division, engineering of the solid waste component, and operation and
maintenance of the sanitation components may be inadequate. These risks are
nevertheless limited because (a) the WHO/UNDP feasibility studies, which are
detailed and of high quality, would be used as the basis for the detailed
engineering and (b) a major part of detailed engineering would be carried
out with the assistance of local engineering firms. Provision for possible
delays has been made in the project implementation schedule. Furthermore, the
effectiveness of these arrangements would be periodically reviewed to ensure
their appropriateness and relevance and if required by developments, Govern-
ment would consult with the Association in order to take the necessary correc-
tive measures (Section 3.02(b) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
To reduce the risk of inadequate operation and maintenance of the sanitation
facilities, the project provides for the strengthening of staff and the
financial structure of the Fivondronana's Sanitation Division. However, this
objective may encounter difficulties because of low salaries and inadequacies
in management. The proposed recruitment of new staff and upgrading of exist-
ing positions are designed to remedy this situation. Finally there are risks
associated with failure of JIRAMA to introduce the required water tariff
increases and inability of the Sanitation Division to secure sufficient funds
for its operations. To minimize these risks, appropriate financial covenants
have been agreed upon with the Government.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
64.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Democratic
Republic of Madagascar and the Association, the draft Project Agreements
between the Association and JIRAMA and the Municipality of Antananarivo
(Fivondronana) and the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in Article
V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being
distributed separately to the Executive Directors.
65.       The draft Development Credit and Project Agreements conform to
the usual pattern of agreements on water supply and sanitation projects. As
additional conditions of effectiveness, the Borrower shall have concluded
subsidiary loan agreements with JIRAMA and the Municipality. Special con-
ditions of the project are listed in Section III of Annex III of this report.



- 20 -
66.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
67.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
March 13, 1980



21                                                     ANNEX 1
Paj
TABLE 3A
KADAdASCAR - SOCIAL IYDICATORS DATA SHEET
MiDAGASCAR                 REFERENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AyERAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SO IQtM.)                                            _-  os        A RECENT ESTINET  I
TOTAL  '         5.0                                                    SA                   NZXT
AGRICULTURAL     368.6                                XOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOXEfi
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c  GROUP /d   GROU? le
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                 120.0       180.0    250.0            306.1      209.6        467.5
NEIRGY CONSUXPT20N PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALEST)      38.0        71.0      66.0            80.6       83.9       262.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TION. ID-YEAR (MIONS)               5.5         6.8       8.1
UEJAN POPULATION (PERCEN  OF TOTAL) 11.l        14.9      16.4.           17.1       16.2        24.6
POPVLATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                      15.0
STATIONARY POPUWION (MILLIONS)                          39.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACED                  2160
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. 1r.                        9.0        12.0      14.0            18.4       49.4        45.3
PER SQ. Kn. AGRICULTURAL LAND     15.0        18.0      22.0            50.8      232.0        149.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YnS.                         44.6        44.4      45.0            44.1       43.1        45.2
15-64 YRS.                         52.8        52.9      52.0            52.9       53.2        51.9
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                   2.6         2.7       3.0             2.8        3.0         2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              1.8         2.2       2.5             2.7        2.4         2.7
URBAN                              4.0         5.1       4.3             5.7        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER TROUSAND)     47.0        45.0      45.0            46.3       42.4        39.4
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     27.0        22.0      19.0            17.2       15.9        11.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE              2.9         3.2       3.0             3.1        2.9         2.7
FAMILY PLANNlNG
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)       ..          ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)   ..           ..        ..              ..       12.2        13.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)         100.0       101.0      96.0            94.3       98.2        99.6
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF P
REQUIREMENTS)                  104.0       108.0    105.0             89.5       93.3        94.7
PROTEINS (CORMS PER DAY)          55.0        53.0      57.0            55.8       52.1        54.3
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE       17.0/f      17.0      15.6            17.9       13.6        17.4
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE     41.0        32.0      27.0            22.3       18.5        11.4
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    37.0        42.0      46.0            47.0       49.3        54.7
INFANT ItORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                      177?.o       ..              ..      105.4        68.1
ACCESS SO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               *-        11.0      26.0            20.3       26.3        34.4
URBAN                               ..        67.0      76.0            53.9       58.5        57.9
RURAL                                          1.0      16.0            10.1       15.8        21.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..            22.5       16.0        40.8
URBAN                               ..        S8.0        ..            62.5       65.1        71.3
RURAL                               ..          ..       9.0            13.9        3.5        27.7
POPULATION PER PYYSICIAN          8800.0    11390.0   10780.0          17424.7    11396.4      6799.4
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON         ..      3760.0   3760.0           2506.6     5552.4      1522.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            510.0       400.0    410.0            502.3     1417.1       726.5
URBAN                               ''       170.0    220.0            201.4      197.3       272.7
RURAL                               ..       520.0     510.0          1403.6    2445.9       1404.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED           ..          ..        ..            23.4       24.8        27.5
HOUSING
AVEBASE SIZE OF HOUSISOLD
TOTAL                               *-         5.8       4.7             4.9        5.3         5.4
URBAN                                          5.3       5.0             4.9        4.9         5.1
RURAL                               ..         5.9       4.7             5.5        5.4         5.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                               ..          ..        ..
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..
RURAL                               ..         ..         ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DVELLINGS)
TOTAL                               ..         5.0        ..              ..       22.5        28.1
URBAN                               ..          ..        ..              ..       17.8        45.1
RURAL                               ..          ..        ..              ..         ..         9.9



22 
22                                        ~~~~~~~ANNEX 1
Page 2
TABLE 3A
MADAGASCAR - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROU?S ( 0.3USTED A¶ERAGES
MADAGASCAR                     -. MOST RECENT ESTIXATE) -
SAYE        SAME      NEXT HlIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGR.APHIC    INCOME      INCO.M1E
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    CROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLME.NT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 52.0         83.0       92.0 /h          59.0       62.3         82.7
MALE                  58.0         90.0        ..             64.2        79.1         87.3
FEMALE                45.0        77.0         ..             44.2        48.4        75.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                  4.0         11.0       14.0 lh           9.0        16.7        21.4
MALE                   5.0         13.0        ..             12.0        22.4         33.0
FEMALE                 3.0         8.0         .;              4.4        10.2         15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 OF SECONDARY)   9.0           9.0        7.0              7.0         5.6         9.8
PUPrL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            70.0         65.0       61.0             42.2       41.0         34.1
SECONDARY                          24.0         20.0       24.0             22.9       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)           ..        39.0       50.0/h           20.8        31.2        54.0
CONSU?YTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          4.)          6.0        6.4              4.0        2.8          9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         15.0         80.0      112.0             44.3       27.2         76.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..         0.5        1.0              2.9         2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
TROUSAND POPULATION                    8.0          8.0       9.0              5.6         5.3        18.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.'5          0.7        0.4              0.4         1.1         2.5
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)      2960.t       3570.0    3900.0
1EIMALE (PERCENT)                  46.1         45.7       46.0             31.9       24.8         29.2
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               92.E.       89.4       84.0             77.6        69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  2.8          3.4        5.3              7.9        10.0        11.9
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 53.7        52.3       51.3             40.8        36.9        37.1
MALE                                  58.7        57.7       56.6             53.9        52.4        48.8
FEMALE                               48.9         47.0       46.0             25.6        18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.9         0.9        0.9              1.2         1.2          1.4
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OP HOUSEHOLDS   41.01i          ..         ..                .          ..        15.2
HIGREST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS  60.1/i           ..        .. I.                        ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    5.27T          ..         ..               ,.          ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   13.0o7          ..         .. I.                        ..        16.3
POVERTY TkRGET GROUPS
ESTDtATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      150.0            187.6       99.2        241.3
RURAL                                ..           ..       86.0             96.8       78.9        136.6
ESTI?ATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
IURBAN                               ..           ..      135.0            138.4       91.9        179.7
RURAL                                ..           ..       86.0             71.0       54.8        103.7
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTF
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URSAN                                 ..          ..       50.0             34.5       44.1         24.8
RtURAL                                ..          ..       50.0             48.7       53.9         37.5
Noc available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and i961; for 1970, between 1969
and t971; and for Most Recent Eatimate, between 1974 and 1977.
Ic  Africa South of Sahara;   /d  Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);  /e  Lower tiddle Income
(9281-550 per capita, 1976);   /f  1961-63;   ig  1965-66;   /h  1978;   i  Populacion.
Most Recent Estimate of GNP per capita is for 1978.



23                                                                                              ANNEX 1
PPIIOSO  SOCIAL IPDIATiBS                                                                       Page   3
Notes   fichoogh the date ar  drai  fEeoote  gemerelly judged the eat eatbanitatio  end reliable, it ehr-Id also ha noted that they may not hainere
ti-ltaiyoaepsrable baoaaa  at the lth  of soenderdi-d detiitiane  end  -anregn   aced by differet o-atHf- to col-eont   the data.   The data ar.eeahnieas,
anera  to describe  -ode-  of   gItd. diosoc  trends, end tec  tainteonin eso   differenoec  beeeeooatraa
lboadfantd groa a              fraata  a.ch iodl-"te  er  popolatla- iaht.ged geetrit mean, eatlding the  tatrs   talon   of tha  adi-teto  end thn et  populated
LaatIn ,e:I group,  Doe to lark of data, group avenget at el  inditetre  far Capital Stupluc Oil top-aran  and atbdttrff mceto eater sdecra
diptloning,moa-  diatrlbarlan  and P-nary for other ....ntry grope  re papua-io-uelghttd gemetrit mact aith-a  eaIt iao   of the  -at-n  o-j-e  and
the. ea  poaaedoutr.  linac tim tvrnof o ttniat  -ane tha Indi.taton  deoede an evelsbilit- at dais and is mat -nif.-n, -atiun  -It he ',art "Id
to  elalonsoeaset o  at  tdi-t-r to snonbar. PTsM       veaeea  onyastla  snerate aa o  "e-eaed"a-iee  hn  tamp-nis  theoia  ofon
indicato  at a time snoo.    i  tattmadceraeere.
LOtD ARtA lthoa-ad to. lot)                                                                &aeae to ennetadeau   taret atf eneotetin     - tatel. urban, ad
Latal   Total tarf-c  Area o op,ieg land area end iniandoaer.toa  - Wb,~a  ofppi. (tate, uran  ed roreil eavd by  -narts dia-
Ooic.lcord  - ro- tIrootn  aba-te  of agricaIl totl arts  ued rmparerilY                paai as percntges of their -apec no   papolatjnia.  ttEt-a  dfaooss
orpe.oa...to  far  -tpu,paae  ,-aket sod kich-t gardene ortomy iotlade  the col11-tton aod diapasa1, aith or oith-otcrsnet
'Is fullaa.                                                       ~~~~~~h-. tatret  sad aeennrby tar-c-hon    yt-cc     or the .a. of pI,
ftpfitCOITO001   -CN? P.r cailugae  -taa  sorn    -tk~tt prit-,                     Ph.lsim  e  emitian. -PoPo1atio  diofded ho  -ache  of Po-cLilng  phyat-
oslcootodhr tme cocec   -a mehod so War1d 3leobM Atla  f19S-I  hic               os-  qualified fran a mditeI a-ho-I at ci..reity Iene.
lO    070,_ao  1077 data.                                                           Panlta   c   atn               e-Ppulation  ditided by  -ob- at praciclog
mansd fami   rdat   aao  practIc1  -one, aod sseiuot-nrto.
CiOfl  002t'lT   C  T T -NOtoa-1 --toptiot at t-,saaiai coergy boa1                       Panolatiat ne bhnbou1 bed - tota, -rbe ,. ad ttl-Pp ta   ttl
sodIlfio    eria,ttrlgtand hydra-, -acea  gad geothermal                                ors   ad rarel) dfiodod by ther rnp  tie _ob-r of hospItl  ed
o I-irlit-  It kilogam o..        a   qlaen   o   eia  lib,  97                         -teialbl  in public And prio-t  gan-re   - d op-tiLined hoptlodc-
aol 7t    et.-                                                                        hobil intatcener   H. apltal~ tArn ntabliath--t   P-r             -I,tl  arftod hr
PtOWiOTA71T  IND IITAL SATIaTiICIa InAutaer ioi-E.ta-bliulm-ti   pro-lding pci-oipa11taatdia1
Tota oaalotlr.  ld-ync llilto-A. of laly 1. 19th. 190T,ad                      cArear  totooldod.  OR-s1 hoaPiolo , h--cer   InoIrde health and  ndI'-
aooooto,1900, 191  god 1975 dat.                                            tla-t   a  ha-oltal led - Tota    _bhn  of adm.ioet  too   dlt-h-c0-
daastaft.A_etba                                                                     fe  helt    dioidad 00 tho  -tob- of hnda.
Pecel-ea Ia Pes  2000 - torret pagpietie prej-tnia    ena henS  M
1971 tunsi popolanit  by ege and tan end ehaic metality an lfrilty                                                                                                4     
atting life sep..t.iay  t hirth itnraceig eitb  .tetry'a  Per napita                  A  asaadnmaaea       rapa   tdodsl   ieeeeliigqsge
lef-   lol   edfsl   iP  apeteap ecahifefeg at 77.h yeet.                               end theifti -   m.a-.a.  A bearer ar ladoec mp enmy eat be Imelded fa tit
TheP pamtnefa  fetiit   netsatt  haca 3 i.-I.e seesieg  denim                           haeathld ftareai  ia   patpme.
in fetilIty at dtenig ta la elEe  and pane fnily plas1la  P-t                         Ana   ie   tmos    ere-ntl  nt.  m  oa                                A--A-r..ease
torent.  fE-boo--t   it'then ecignad en  aP theta 9 ombination                          ef Pe.-apeM        aeinel.ati,an   ua  onepie  nm-timesi dwellIngs.
at -raiyadfeti.ity  trends fan pD_'It upna.naaaley                                                inalnga  amide ese-patmnen  ten,ect-   sad unenpied pae..
hcLner  onlto   - leOr  niaar  Ppesiano, titan L  no geerth                          A-" na eL-ati,,rfeeaattyelsl-naa    ce   a   ea
e-ete he. binob r-tsL ieqaei to tha death rena, eed eIe  the ege                        Peestinea  dsL      taaaibceefit   nloe   qete   epe eeea
t-lioton    rehaina cntat    baienimdayefa feniyrtn                                      na, -rhac, end  -ara  dfhling.er-pentieay.
genea cln o  anaa  -pl.r.s itself snanly.  Ph.ita  ntilnan  Papaisties        mncc
siaos  a tiestd    tlth (basi Doth .pomted oharsatanitn   at th                 udusad arliet rtni
papolation in the Yea  210, an!d 0the rte af d-aliecf fertiity motrn,eha    itl  samdtea Lrn   ue,mleadtel   nal
to replacantant Intel.                                     nest af eli egee at the~~~~P prmey lee   tpneegeatesmno    rmr
tea  oeit sar P aatln it nasohed - The yea  --m  Stetlanay Papela-                       enea-aepasletite; ea--Ily i-eladatholdnee eged b-il yeer  hal 
alo  al. ba hateshjd.                                                            adjaned P a  differner leeahe at primay ade...tle; f- anithnla 
Paran.be   - ff-per ppoaile  er  qoae   lisra   110 hrrranLtt:itetLd .duttien enrolmet may e-ed lOl p-ret  J-.e tea  pupIl. ens
oftau  area..                                                                           hele-np an abere kl-t    U0  .   the affialal acitml ag.
Pan qa. he. a to    1orl en    - Camp.t.d ee  bha-  foragitlarl  ed                     iemdrcehm  - .ae. t es n f         _     eel  - P    ae   s   he        eadrreoa
only,                                                                                   genra   nennnl  ontete  treinlag  = --ntnen   taP-eP,i   sel o
Pnaela  a    troaar  (entice     - Children  fl-ia    .een :I,  t-king-edge       12 t  17 peac  at a g; tanni..pndeena anre.te aeenrlly secluded.
year Papulanien; 1960, 1970 end 1977 dana.                                              emimne,tdani                     - a   na  pTee-  abihi  prn   nepnetyo 
Paesieeaahre t    rsc -ntl-dna  greete  rtta at ntal-                            dnpnte-nt. at stoedery in ttitmee
Poosin0a 40-f   917,ed196070-71.d                                                  spodi0 i77le
-oaahi ttrst Innr toasedi -tonal lon troheperthatasd of                  adu -l-t hersa rate. -feercea         -dLtrt a-dolee  labia ta read end anted   a
pet popaa -iat .160 1960, a9~nd  1977da.                                      csP- . ppItm.ldI                         ...i          sd1    .t    
fatl alnni    -soanA gs. a nualbthe feedal-  otel.   m        ibrlflrena    to-gners  rahiltd pewltitene   t  eoain,anoa  elcn
acoptreathithaanrl  eone  ode aif        pie       pro a....    nti              rrtor o tonrise.-n  ernu.n.g.tsne   at radi  eats set It
famly latin-osne onreI  OPmrre at -Nretgea                                         ebolle        thd lcn inghtp.     -;     .d.      ...
manne d nenee ofrddbain    g   1-4  er)woat   it-etrl                                 p aeita I   Ine in-adea             l-i-oe     -  Alrateye   farbrndce fto gmodi
d5aloe toall   arrid aenn insaneage  rasp.pabta pe  t_etand papitien; ehaciade  ftltea PPltirae-odrs   -intoa-d
..Pi   ti-.l f-trtean  inyersoha  eiieraia   a  T  set.Bee i   efet.d..t_                                             i
till 500 brjttlTIoN                                                            tess-)-h.  eeeearrtictulavthieedtear thueedeaalnie -V       fhen  the-eae   tirol-1
id-i.at foo  needootlange  sn  ins 119b9-71 ps                                             pbI-de    fpt  aiatie   atdal th onred   intret  seepe', deieda    ei-dloa in tit
annoa  prdAN       ta   l   odcmaiia.Peata   eldsse   n                                   tenon -dmote p.rlmeh..rtreadn   geee  eases,'I              It is toaieedt
fed Tnd Ia  O olna   erbse           amoiiettrpltr   e                               e'al  if  ioppara=laa  t ten  iet  a  tak
leg  eaarcte  narod  l sger  obob  re  dibe  eA  entinmitinca linms onoi atensnn et cait or ee-`Baseid  at rs e ier a  tbinbr
it  aad a  ntioal  ...sg   pidte.   pri aigts.7n1n
emryeuole   f cot land e dppie  .o.i.  i ..       totatr  par.d.   tapic  LAdfl pORCI
per dy.   balableeapylee capris  dLentpaeto,IpreIs                           ea  ao  ot               Ytaaems  --dctmecl  activ   peeI,   nt-lidi..g amd
iaot.  o   hng   ittoh.htoppieet  aeennifediefs ae                                       and   nm pla -a at anood..    hmamoe         tden,ec    eti
quna it ea aod i  lan   proeetio. ad losedIn ~.dienlhrlndBe                 feesintafba atenastneno   knprela
aIg. te  age. and tea d-e 1ndatlan   at Ppoetg-        P ed  ai     ..hn   I  pen       an  percd tad    o        ionsi lebe  force.                             d -il
o  lt,.     laan    tbOgno.oaP.ei  pndysd1   oe                                         aeitt   ae    nn eda Tatl.mae,  ed-                    ee-   later fens ee~ -
100 InteThr  od n        yand  lon g.                                                   are...   nd.tl.l   R-t- tre  -aife- auot
Pet ent    Itatrl .anely los  FAnIa and etle ph       Pro rei-ln apd   o foo             tnl dFedm -             1 rtI     I.- l   a-t ra  poaten   ade  15 end. hlendtea f to
denedfrn ninlean  pateeId,n gre  perday                                                 rhor.ehor genre in-t ag  gro-  a.t 1-6  yesreg            -- ,   -t. -4   i
_hild lagnee    . I- -     orai.tyrin fear f pbaasal ,-,tna -dae p11 er to p-        ibtIBsilt  .                      Ibtf...
edIt Lg ripih  ed t   bire   vthefn ttP  ttmat                                     Prafdso eiea  on   (ohI  osob -                 atad fad t tore1 e h.ribsr
R.q.i-nt.  f.t  .11 ---i-  ..tperent  rihea  20perent phreeb70paUSDtAanpporend40pafono
AIthIth                                                                                   ofgt   ft.t1enneboidady .d  2   V
lIfenroap at-..-     b-Irth pt-ergh  - aterag  at,,B  of years of ltife rerain-                                        .df l.PPI.it                      S.--t-
tar at hirth; 1960  1977, end 1970 data.                         POPitlt"  01190,190 lil  5dtfyh.l..LD.   .tlp.j                            ..      f-j
OTfatta. .  1 to rate.   Ittr I thoosad) f- 75a dorch  of trtaol p    ndt r           Itinatddbetot roen  hneleiIO   e  sla     ra   n   ua 
one Zea  if sot ye Phtetad hot- birtha fOhohats poverty indmen intel.is than  tocam    tece  heledn whc  a  nii
AOcc  toin     oe  erne  fgnliel-tta.ohn  n   oe                                        ooniitilaeqae   itip ou netenntiaoa-fod.r rnole.tmt i_    t tat
sate aster  orply ftocodte  creatd aorisoeate-e  a   atinnate  ho       teimtd eado noontrfo  X " incs Ine  01nroact   ra   n   aa
orctnmlira   oatttat  a  that fre  prtctdhoele Ppragi                             Naal,e.alonpo grt   ite  Ine  to-6   an-thr    fsorg    ero a
av t orao eI,, a          aoetg o     al teitInpono           a oiiaa                   p ntel l c t af te oanr.             7ba     neli_eitd         m t thPoa
toot toi- -ooteti-  dn,her a-i thef    lifotth l..ootl  on roared   ,                                                                      k--~t- _dbytfh.,
oloprototciomota  p,ro of aba dat to tettolth-the0lanaity pa-tr2teed-                                          to         aod   octa  tac   hl,ca.to
JEALTH                                                      f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OtenCt  oago   'oet~,toprro
cItf' -i-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mo11



24
ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1977                                                             Annual Rates of Growth
US$ Mln        %                  1970-75            1972-77
GNP at Market Prices                                  1,772.3      100.0                   0.9                0.4
Gross Domestic Investment                                282.9      16.0                  -1.0               -3.0
Gross Domestic Saving                                    233.7      13.2                  27.5               36.1
Current Account Balance                                  -33.5      -1.9                    -                  -
Exports of Goods, NYS                                    402.6      22.7                   3.1               -1.3
Imports of Goods, INS                                   451.8       25.5                  -0.9               -7.0
OUTPUT LABOUR FORCE AND                                                 1/                        2/
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976                                    Value Added               Labour Force               VA Per Worker
US$ Mln                   H Min              2        US$               Z
Agriculture                                           633.0         38.0        3.36             84.0       188.4            45.0
Industry                                              318.0         19.0        0.20              5.0    1,590.0            378.0
Services                                              654.0         39.0
Unallocated                                             69.0 3/      4.0   /   0.42              11.0    1,721.0            409.0
1,674.0       100.0        3.98             100.0      420.6           100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE                                        Central Government
FMG Bln         % of GDP
1978      1977   1975-77
Current Receipts                                      86.5       15.3    14.8
Current Expenditure                                   90.7       17.6    15.6
Current Surplus                                       -4.2       -2.3    -0.7
Capital Expenditures                                  33.1        4.6      4.2
External Assistance (net)                              4.6 4/    1.0       1.2
MONEY, CPREIT AND PRICES                                1975      1976    1977
(Billion TMG Outstanding at the End of the Period)
Money and Quasy Money                                  86.9       100.6   121.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                           12.4        19.4    28.5
Bank Credit to Private and Para-Public Sectors         78.4        82.2    95.9
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasy Money as Z of GDP                      22.8        25.0    27.4
GDP deflator (1975d100)                               100.0       108.2   115.3
Annual percentage changes in:
GDP deflator                                      *      3.2        8.2      6.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector                          148.0        56.5    46.9
Bank Credit co Private and Pars-Public Sectors          2.1         4.8    16.7
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at: the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/  At market prices.
D   Total labour force; unemployed workers are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
3/Import duties
4   1977 provisional.



25
ANNEX 1
TADE PA5TS AND CAPITAL FoWS                                 Page  5
(US3 N    lon)
BW-ANCE OF PAYMENTS                         1975             1976           1977
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1975-77)
UJS$ Min          %
Export of Goods, NFS                        392.9           341.9           402.6        Coffee                                          122.4           37.8
Imports of Goods, XFS                       482.5           401.3           451.8        Vanilla                                          19.0            5.9
Resource Gap                                -89.6           -59.4           -49.2        Cloves                                           43.7           13.5
Meat and Xeat Products                            5.3           1.6
Interest Payments                            -4.2            -4.6            -4.9        Fish and shellfish                                3.6            1.1
workers  Remittances (net)                  -29.4           -26.5           -24.4        Sugar                                            12.6            3.9
Other Factor Payments (net)                  -9.1             -0.1             -         Petroleum Products                               22.1            6.8
Net Transfers                                48.9             50.3           45.0        All other Commodities                            95.1           29.4
Balance on Current Account                  -83.4           -40.3           -33.5                Total                                   323.8          100.0
Direct Foreign Investment                     4.5              1.4            2.8        EXTERNAL lDEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
fet MLT Borroving:
USS Mln
Disbursements                            42.1            20.4            22.0
Amortization                            -8.4             -8.5            -8.3        Publlc Debt, including Guaranceed                       259
Subtotal                                33.7             11.9            13.7        Son-Guaranteed Private Debt
Capital Grants                               33.6            26.4            20.0        Total Outstanding & Disbursed                           259
Other Capital (net) 1/                      -15.6            -4.0            -2.6
Increase in Reserves C-)                     27.2             4.6            -0.4                                     !
Meno items                                                                               DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1978
Transactions with 7f1                         9.7              1.6            1.6                                                                 z
Grasu-Reserves                               35.6            42.2            68.9        Public Debt, including Guaranteed                       4.1
Net Reserves 3/                              57.2            57.8            56.9        Son-Guaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstanding & Disbursed                          4.1
RATE OF EXCRANGE                                                                         IBRD/IDA LENDING JANUARY 31, 1980 (US4 million)
IBRD     IDA
1975                  1976                    1977                    1978       Outstanding & Disbursed                         28.73    95.48
USSI.00YM0214.32       UsSl.Oo.FMG238.98       USS1.OOFMG245.67       US$S.OO7MG225.64 Undisbursed                                       3.07   125.95
.. G1.00-05$0.0047     EMG1.00 3S$0.0042       FMGl.OO0S$O.0041      FMl 00O13SS0.0044 Outstanding including Undisbursed              31.8 0    221.43
eLF and staff estimates.
_/ Includes errors and cmmissions, SDR allocations end other private short term capital.
2f Estimated ratio of debt service to exports of gooda and non-factor services.
3I Xet foreign assets of the banking system.



26
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
IN THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
A. Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits (as of January 31, 1980) 2/
Loan or                                                          US$ Million
Credit                                                      (net of cancellations)
Number      Year      Borrower       Purpose      Bank        IDA      Undisbursed
Seven Credits and four Loans
have been fully disbursed                       25.83      64.25         -
322-MAG  1972       "Irrigation                            15.30        2.24
506-MAG  1974                   Livestock II                9.60        7.06
1065-MAG  1974       "Forestry                    6.75                   3.07
641-MAG  1976                   Highways IV                22.00       11.92
663-MAG  1976                   Education II               14.00 1/   13.61
817-MAG  1978                   Andekaleka
Hydroelectric             43.00 4/   37.12
881-MAG  1979       "angoky                                12.00 3/   12.00
903-MAG  1979                   Railways II                13.00 3/   13.00
938-MAG  1979       "           Highways V                 24.00 3/   24.00
-MAG  1980                   BNI                         5.00 5/    5.00
TOTAL                                  32.58    222.15      129.02
of which has been repaid               .78       .72
TOTAL now outstanding                  31.80    221.43
Amount sold
of which has been repaid              -
TOTAL now held by Bank and IDA        31.80    221.43
TOTAL Undisbursed                       3.07    125.95      129.02
B. Statement of IFC Investments (as of January 31, 1980)
Loan        Equity     Total
(US$ Million)
1977      Sotema - Textile Mill at Majunga    11.0             0.29      11.29
1/   Including a Norwegian grant participation of US$7.0 million.
2/   Prior to exchange adjustments.
3/   Not yet effective.
41   Credit 817-MAG includes a supplemental financing of US$10.0 million
approved by the Executive Directors on January 29, 1980 but not yet
signed.
5/   Not yet signed.



27
ANNEX II
Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
r          Credit No. 322-MAG:      Morondava Irrigation and Rural Development Project;
US$15.3 million credit of June 30, 1972; Date of
Effectiveness: April 30, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
Initially, the project was to rehabilitate and extend, in the
Morondava area, existing irrigation systems, and develop 9,300 ha (4,700 ha
for smallholder rice, 2,700 ha for a tobacco state farm and 1,900 ha for a
cotton state farm); village development, roads, schools and health facilities
were included. The project as revised and substantially reduced in February
1976 will complete major civil works envisaged at appraisal, implement on-
farm development works on 2,500 ha of rice areas, establish an applied
research station, and provide agricultural support services, roads and health
facilities.
Major civil works (including construction of a diversion weir at
Dabara, rehabilitation of the Dabara Canal and the North Canal, construction
of secondary irrigation and drainage canals, and construction of the 8.1 km
road between Mahabo and Ankilivalo) are almost completed and work has been
satisfactory. However, SODEMO, the agency responsible for on-farm development
and agricultural services, faces serious management and financial problems and
as a result, on-farm development and construction works have lagged behind
schedule and agricultural production is poorly organized, with a small area
cultivated and very low yields. The Government and IDA have agreed on a plan
of action to clarify SODEMO's responsibilities and financial plan and to
improve overall management, but this will require careful monitoring in the
coming months. The closing date was recently extended to allow SODEMO time to
carry out the project as it has been revised and to permit land development,
which has just begun.
Credit No. 506-MAG:      Village Livestock and Rural Development Project:
US$9.6 million credit of August 21, 1974; Date of
Effectiveness: June 17, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The project encountered serious problems in the three years follow-
ing credit signature, and, principally because of legal and organizational
difficulties, little progress was made. Following significant changes in
institutional and management arrangements, the Credit Agreement was exten-
sively amended; the Amended Agreement became effective September 1, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered and the action taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



28
ANNEX II
Page 3
The project's situation is much improved. FAFIFAMA, the principal
project implementing agency, is now well-established and operational, with
a full staff complement. Implementation of the project's most important
component - the development of veterinary and livestock services for village
producers - is proceeding well.  Pasture improvement experiments are being
undertaken. Schools and health centers are being constructed, and the Ministry
of Health is preparing a utilizatLon plan for the health centers. The develop-
ment of water points and road improvement continue satisfactorily. Cooperation
with fokonolona institutions in all aspects of FAFIFAMA's work is excellent.
In the middle west, OMBY continues to provide machine services to villages
surrounding the ranches established under the IBRD-financed Beef Cattle
Development Project. The pilot piLg program and ODEMO cattle share fattening
programs have barely begun, with action limited to construction of some
buildings. Financing and administ:ration arrangements have been worked out
however, and the share fattening program should get underway shortly. The pig
program would be launched in early 1980 with cooperatives and on the basis of
breeding pigs to be imported. The study of cattle marketing and meat prices
has been completed and is being reviewed; so are the evaluation of the current
project and the preparation report of the second phase.
Loan No. 1065-MAG:       Mangoro Forestry Project; US$6.75 million loan and
Credit No. 525-MAG       US$6.75 million credit both of December 23, 1974;
Date of Effectiveness: July 8, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project assists in the planting of 35,000 ha of pine plantations
as part of an overall planting program of 96,000 ha, which it is proposed will
eventually supply a future pulp mill to provide pulp for export. The planting
program is progressing according to the schedule and cost estimates are in
line with forecasts, despite a reorganization of the project which entails
more building and infrastructure than originally estimated, and the need for
more intensive soil preparation than foreseen at appraisal. Technical diffi-
culties which occurred at the early stages of the project have been resolved.
Credit No. 641-MAG:      Fourth Higlhway Project; US$22.0 million credit of
June 23, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 19,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The project assists the Government in the construction of two major
roads with a view to reducing transport costs and providing access to areas
with a high agricultural potential. It also includes training and strengthen-
ing of the country's road maintenance organization. Project implementation
is satisfactory. However, start oi- the training program for personnel in the
Ministry of Public Works on highway maintenance has been ,delayed.
Credit No. 663-MAG:      Second Education Project; US$14.0 million credit of
December 10, 1976; Date of Effectiveness: August 15,
1977; Closing Date:  December 31, 1981
The project is designed t:o assist the Government in decentralizing
educational control and to improve the quality of basic education. It in-
cludes five Regional Education Cent:res and vehicles for school inspectorate,
one Teaching Materials Production Centre and funds for textbook development,
technical assistance and fellowships.



29
ANNEX II
Page 4
Architectural design work on all project institutions is now com-
plete.  Detailed operational planning for the Teaching Materials Production
Centre is being carried out. The two key technical advisors for this Centre,
provided by the Organization for Rehabilitation through Training arrived in
Madagascar during September 1977.  Architectural work has generally been well
executed although this has taken much longer than expected. Work on the major
project components, the Regional Education Centres, was completed about 14
months behind the appraisal schedule, although with ORT assistance, the plan-
ning schedule for the Teaching Materials Production Centre has been maintained.
The project is presently about one year behind schedule due to cum-
bersome Government approval/decision procedures, and the Government's recent
proposals for the "socialisation" of the construction industry has introduced
a further element of uncertainty which may adversely affect project imple-
mentation. Serious delays have also been encountered on: the preparation
of an educational sector survey; the establishment of task forces for educa-
tion evaluation; proposals for decentralization of education; and textbook
production.
Norway requested 50 percent participation in the project, and an
agreement to that effect was signed on December 16, 1977.
Credit No. 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 19, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
May 30, 1979; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Credit No. 817-MAG:      Andekaleka Hydroelectric Project; US$10.0 million
(Amendment):           (not yet signed); Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project would meet the growth in electricity demand until
1992 in the Antananarivo area and provide for the strengthening of JIRAMA,
Madagascar's national electricity and water corporation. It includes a
concrete diversion dam and an intake structure; a 4-km tunnel, underground
power house, tailrace and access tunnels; two turbines and two generators;
electrical and mechanical equipment; a transmission line to Antananarivo;
engineering services; preliminary investigation and design for a storage
reservoir; and technical assistance and training for JIRAMA Staff.
Contracts have been awarded for the civil works and all major
equipment and supplies. Total project costs are about 20 percent higher than
estimated at appraisal.  However, even at the higher cost, the Project is
still the least cost solution for the supply of power in Madagascar. A
supplementary credit of US$10 million was approved by the Executive Directors
on January 29, 1980 but is not yet signed.
Credit No. 881-MAG:       Mangoky Agricultural Development Project;
US$12.0 million credit of May 17, 1979;
Terminal Date of Effectiveness: April 1, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Project would support the development of about 3,700 ha for
production of rice and cotton, to be farmed by about 3,200 families. It would
complete an irrigation system serving about 10,000 ha in the Lower Mangoky



.30
ANNEX II
Page 5
Valley which has been under development since the early 1960s. These invest-
ments are based on a long-term master plan for the region which aims ultimately
to bring about 100,000 ha of land into production. The Project will be imple-
mented over a five-year period and would comprise: development of irrigation
and drainage networks, and road infrastructure for 3,300 ha including produc-
tion of concrete canal segments; improvement of water supply for about 400 ha
of traditional rice fields; consultant services for design and supervision;
applied agricultural research; social infrastructure; training and project
preparation for agriculture and rural development projects. IFAD is financing
about 25 percent of the total project cost. The terminal date of effectiveness
was extended to April 1, 1980 to enable the Borrower to meet effectiveness
conditions.
Credit No. 938-MAG:       Fifth Highway Project; US$24.0 million credit of
July 30, 1979; Terminal Date of Effectiveness:
April 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
The Project would prevent further deterioration of the paved high-
way network, thus reducing transport cost and avoiding early and costly
reconstruction works. It would also increase the maintenance capacity of
the Ministry of Public Works and provide for an all-weather road connection
between the regional district of AnL-omboka and the capital. Antananarivo.
Co-financing will be provided by a European Economic Community Special Action
Account credit of US$10 million. The credit was signed on July 30, 1979.
The terminal date of effectiveness has been extended to April 1, 1980 to allow
receipt of the legal opinion.
Credit No. 903-MAG:       Second Railway  Project; US$13.0 million credit
of June 25, 1979; Terminal Date of Effectiveness:
April 1, 1980; Closing Date: June 30, 1984.
The objectives of the Project are to help the Malagasy railway
company renew and modernize its facilities, improve the reliability and
efficiency of its operations and improve its financial management and
accounting methods. The Caisse Centrale de Cooperation Economique provided
US$20.5 million in co-financing. The terminal date of effectiveness has
been extended to April 1, 1980 to allow for signature of the subsidiary loan
agreement between the Borrower and the railway company.
Credit No.    -MAG:       Bankin'ny Indostria (BNI) Project; US$5.0 million
(not yet signed)
Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The project will support Madagascar's growing industrial sector
and BNI's crucial development role by providing BNI with part of its foreign
exchange requirements to finance projects in the artisanal/small-scale and
medium-scale enterprise sectors and by strengthening BNI itself through
technical assistance. The credit was approved on January 29, 1980 but is not
yet signed.



31
ANNEX III
Page 1
MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project       one and a half years
(b)  Preparation                         Government, JIRAMA with
assistance from WHO and
consultants
(c)  Initial discussions with the        December 1976
Association
(d)  Appraisal mission departure          July 1978
(e)  Negotiations                        December 1979
(f)  Planned Date of Effectiveness       August 1980
II. Special Implementation Action
None
III. Special Conditions of the Project
(a)  JIRAMA will before December 31, 1980 transfer to a separate
entity all assets and obligations which relate to operations
other than public utilities (para. 50).
(b)  JIRAMA will undertake and complete by June 30, 1982 a nationwide
water tariff study and following the study, water tariffs based
on long-term marginal costs will be introduced by January 1,
1984 (para. 27).
(c)  JIRAMA will set up a precise and justifiable long-term
development program for water supply in urban areas by
June 30, 1981 (para. 27).
(d)  An annually adjusted surtax for development works will be
collected by JIRAM4A on behalf of the Sanitation Division
(para. 52).



:32
ANNEX III
Page 2
(e) As conditions of effectiveness the Borrower shall conclude
subsidiary loan agreements with JIRAMA and the Fivondronana
(para. 65).
(f) The Municipality will keep pro forma accounts for its
Sanitation Division in accordance with principles of
accrual accounting as a basis for assessing the recurrent
and long term financial needs of the Sanitation Division
(para. 52).



MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
/5 Tainssiny                                                                                     WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
EXISTING    PROJECT
-          PIPES                                            Mai Roads
*            k*       TREATMENTWORKS                      ---is   Railways                                                  L
PUMP NG STATIONS                                 Rounds   Dist arct        F
t *     i     2      > RESERVOIRS                                      Risers
<                         %k\<        ~~~~~~~~~~~~Amabaidioa
KILOMETERS           E. E           t                      21
MOILES
-~~~~ ~0                                                       1.5
\                                                                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~           ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A tasahba soRe  llat
<3s                  .                                                                                       p k- I-",
C~~\                                                    As\                                   \                                 Abuotir o   NIAsaa
Thensnd  SossMajabay p|                                                                                                                         nkaindri,n 
*   ij    y.:;   J $        s      ;                 25     World bank eaeaff aurs,/vsivefnfrTnobaon                  
ToTTTE AtEt,TA 0EtfhZtAhE tiVOtAfti   OCA             Ten drasnomarinsi urE aisotre                                                                                                                                         me_
SeELET.,  MO    i- Intemarrorasnal      uxdne            World datnk andrrxs aflsuases. eov                                                   |                                                                                i \,    
32PSnondar 0: f b°   ;;:   ' tin5s,: au0    sor azena 5   of f5 ,sus siaidanbs VT                                                                                                           i s 
as"  ~~~~~s  or eorapraetet 05 suNS b;onda;,no ~ ~   ~       ~        ~        ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~       ~      ~      0  T"14VA






MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
SEWERAGE COMPONENT
EXISTING    PROJECT
-                =  PIPES                                -            Main Road
\  T          .      PUMPING STATIONS                    I-I-  Rariways
B.vir,,s 1istrict
<~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                                                     BcErr¶daries of Antananerlvo FivondronanaI
---.=fA                        --Fi Rivers  
Amb.hidro
KILOMETERS          'i
MtILES r
RU'' -t                                                           5            .5                         1 t.
tiTlEs5 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~Ab.ii
Ambehitremanieka  A                                                                  AbohyA-,iapis
,AmbvIidrapeto                                              rEMPORARY-
Z \Q, \ ;   TEjWPO5AIIRDlSCeTEPIP-                                                                                       AI,
, ,                                                  c4   _ M ~ r arhiap tee befln prepr.d br vS                                    x      
040    WoEevk~~~~~~~steR.eo)veecrtyfoo~B.-y                                              Bqd
5045  AFIC                                                tr Report Cecrhnhtstfc fl fnh ..                                  TanIombeto                                                                               o _
..  , SWAZILAND                                   rhe de,teev,,eheon acdsad tndet                                                                                                                           Cr
i;5i: -(< |  t   ;;    ' C;         ~      ~~~~~~ hodoie 000.00 enCtheprot 0_ 1 W
i   /                                       *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O torotero a, e, cedtio,nt                                                                                                             < 
00rl^P 40 1tP tY,tr                                                                                                                                             ptanLE=on
to"  ~ ~              o,.coRerenoc oteoohhecedcfl   ~       ~       A






MADAGASCAR
ANTANANARIVO
WATER AND SANITATION PROJECT
DRAINAGE COMPONENT
EXISTING   PROJECT
-   IRRIGATIONCANAL                    Main Rods
DRAINAGE CANALS         Railwa          ys
___      WoMne   Distrct
-*ondaries of Antan.nario- Fivondronana
2  River
KILOMETERS I                  i             25
MILES                                       1
0         .5?-/.  I,-'Rsror"Gr6aslrW   \  \  r1.5
Amhobitrrnsnjak                A                                   \o.  R                      mbritdy          ,                 Xriiaa
AehbhihrtD P                                              AG,
Ambohidraseto   \66ffi5y\:   k    Y    i  -    l r:    ;   V  I y
Sm pi tar  a tingo
OSWAAR. BP-~                         ; 0      _  r        rro  aTnrobt o s
renant to msbioR It is attsoAsd.Ah.dIbi
; g ; i ',/ z z    --irr=thtmlnpania Ohoaogle  onY thizsn                                        0\<                                                        n
)°:   : X    DRN E AN  480  Dr- OCEA  dootnpir,mg rrO/mf                               t -         r-
00 nRa pant of 0/ta ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~1
.y~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s.



