CREDIT NUMBER 1002 MAG
DOCUME1TS
Development Credit Agreement
(Water and Sanitation Project)
between
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                ,1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1002 MAG
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                    2        , 1980, between
the DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASC     (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter
called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association
to assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2
to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) the Project will be carried out by Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy
(JIRAMA) and by the Municipality of Antananarivo with the Bor-
rower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower
will make available to JIRAMA and the Municipality the proceeds of
the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions set forth hereinafter and in the Project
Agreements of even date herewith between the Association and
JIRAMA and the Municipality, respectively;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following
additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)   "Ministry" means the Ministry of the Borrower respon-
sible for public works;


﻿- 2 -
(b) "JIRAMA" means Jiro Sy Rano Malagasy, the Malagasy
Electricity and Water Corporation, created by Ordinance No. 75-024
of October 17, 1975;
(c) "Statutes" means the statutes of JIRAMA set forth
in Ordinance No. 75-024 of October 17, 1975;
(d) "Directorate" means the Directorate of the Ministry
responsible for Urbanism and Habitat;
(e) "Municipality" means the urban community (Fivondronana)
of Antananarivo-Renivohitra;
(f) "Project Agreement" means either or both of the agree-
ments between the Association and JIRAMA or the Municipality
of even date hrewith, as either may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes all schedules to the Project Agree-
ment and all agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement;
and
(g) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means either or both of the
agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and JIRAMA and
the Municipality, respectively, pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) and
(-) of this Agreement, as either may be amended from time to time,
and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Bor-
rower, on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit
Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to twenty million five hundred thousand
dollars ($20,500,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿-3-
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
set forth or referred to in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1990, and ending October 15,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause JIRAMA and the Municipality
to perform in accordance with the provisions of the respective
Project Agreements and Subsidiary Loan Agreements all the obliga-
tions therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all
action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable JIRAMA and the
Municipality to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.


﻿(b) The Borrower shall relend to JIRAMA the equivalent of
the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account for
Part A of the Project under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and JIRAMA providing for a term
of 25 years including 5 years' grace with interest at the rate of
8% per annum deferred and added to principal during such period of
grace and containing such other terms and conditions as shall have
been approved by the Association.
(c) The Borrower shall relend to the Municipality the
equivalent of the proceeds of the Credit withdrawn from the
Credit Account for Parts B and C of the Project under a Subsidiary
Loan Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and the
Municipality providing for a term of 35 years including 5 years'
grace with interest at the rate of 4% per annum deferred and added
to principal during such period of grace and containing such other
terms and conditions as shall have been approved by the Asso-
ciation.
(d) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive either of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision
thereof.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Municipality in
carrying out Part B of the Project, the Borrower shall cause the
Directorate: (i) to administer the carrying out of such Part B;
(ii) to employ such consultants under such terms of reference and
conditions of employment as shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion; and (iii) to assign its staff to the engineering and super-
vision of river dykes, storage basins, dredging of canals and
sewage collectors included in Part B of the Project.
(b) The adequacy of the arrangements made pursuant to
paragraph (a) of this Section will be reviewed from time to time
by the Association and the Borrower with a view to making such
changes therein as may be appropriate.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that the Municipality
will sell through the Borrower's fertilizer distribution channels
or otherwise, the output of the composting facility included in
Part C of the Project at unit prices which will cover the incre-
mental cost of composting.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain and cause
to be maintained by JIRAMA and the Municipality records and


﻿-5-
procedures adequate to record and, where appropriate, monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the goods
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Associa-
tion's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(b) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause JIRAMA and the
Municipality to prepare and furnish to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower, JIRAMA, the Municipality and
the Association of their respective obligations under the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement, the Project Agreements and the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements, and the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall cause JIRAMA to adjust each
year the rate of the "surtax for development works" collected by
JIRAMA on behalf of the Municipality; such adjustment to be
proportional to the increase, during the preceding year, in the
operating and maintenance expenses and depreciation allowances of
the Sanitation Division of the Municipality, as determined in the
pro-forma accounts referred to in Section 4.01 of the Project
Agreement between the Association and the Municipality, for the
following services and facilities: drainage system, and collec-
tion, treatment and disposal of sewage and solid wastes.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿- 6 -
(a) JIRAMA shall have failed to carry out any covenant,
agreement or obligation of JIRAMA under its Project Agreement with
the Association or its Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the Bor-
rower;
(b) the Municipality shall have failed to carry out any
covenant, agreement or obligation of the Municipality under its
Project Agreement with the Association or its Subsidiary Loan
Agreement with the Borrower;
(c) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
shall make it improbable that JIRAMA or the Municipality will be
able to perform their respective obligations under the Project
Agreements or the Subsidiary Loan Agreements;
(d) the Statutes shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as to materially
and adversely affect the ability of JIRAMA to carry out the
covenants, agreements and obligations set forth in its Project
Agreement; or
(e) the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablish-
ment of JIRAMA or for the suspension of its operations.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 30 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the
Association to the Borrower and JIRAMA or the Municipality, as the
case may be; and
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (d) or (e) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit


﻿-7-
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions, namely that the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have
been executed on behalf of the Borrower and JIRAMA and the Muni-
cipality, respectively.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that each of the Project Agreements have been duly
authorized or ratified by JIRAMA and the Municipality, respec-
tively, and are legally binding upon JIRAMA and the Municipality
in accordance with their respective terms; and
(b) that each of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements have been
duly authorized or ratified by the Borrower, JIRAMA and the
Municipality and are legally binding upon the Borrower, JIRAMA
and the Municipality, respectively, in accordance with their
respective terms.
Section 5.03. The date                            is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of Section 4.02 of this Agree-
ment shall cease and determine on the date on which the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty-six
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement, the Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purpose of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿-8-
For the Borrower:
Ministere aupres de la Presidence de la Republique
Charge des Finances et du Plan
Antananarivo
Madagascar
Cable address:                        Telex:
MINFINPLAN                          22339
Antananarivo
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                        Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF MADAGASCAR
By  S    t-
Authorized Representati e
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Regional Vice President
Eastern Africa


﻿- 9 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      ,xpenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works (except                           85%
laying of water mains)
(a) Part A of the             1,400,000
Project
(b) Parts B and C of          8,000,000
the Project
(2) Equipment; pipes
(a) Part A of the             5,000,000    ) 100% of foreign
Project                                ) expenditures or
) 100% of local
(b) Parts B and C            3,200,000     ) expenditures
of the Project                         ) ex-factory or
) 80% of local
) expenditures
) ex-store
(3) Consultants' services                         100% of for-
and training                                  eign expendi-
tures
(a) Part A of the               200,000
Project
(b) Parts B and C               200,000
of the Project


﻿- 10 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated       % of
(Expressed in     Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(4) Unallocated
(a) Part A of the              700,000
Project
(b) Parts B and C            1,800,000
of the Project
TOTAL              20,5003000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that with-
drawals, 'in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of


﻿- 11 -
$100,000 may be made in respect of Category (3) on account of
payments made for such expenditures before that date but after
January 1, 1980.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the. procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
Part A:   Water Supply
(1) Construction of water production works and water mains;
extension and reinforcement of the water distribution
system (reservoirs, pipes, booster station) and procure-
ment of heavy equipment for maintenance.
(2) Training of senior, medium and lower level staff of
JIRAMA; construction and equipping of an extension to
JIRAMA's training center in Antananarivo.
Part B:   Drainage and Sewerage
(1) Construction of drainage collectors, a pumping station,
river dykes, storage basins and a new drainage canal,
dredging of an existing canal and rerouting of an
irrigation canal.
(2) Construction of sewerage collectors and reticulation,
a pumping station, pumping discharge mains and pilot
stabilization ponds.
Part C:   Solid Waste and Sanitation Training
(1) Construction of collective dumping containers; procure-
ment of collection trucks and heavy equipment to upgrade
and properly maintain the existing dumping site; im-
provement of an experimental composting facility with a
10,000 T per year production capacity.
(2) Training in Madagascar of lower-level sanitation staff
and for higher-level staff abroad; and procurement of
training equipment for the purpose.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1984.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Parts D and F hereof, goods and civil
works shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower, JIRAMA or the
Municipality, as appropriate, shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later than
60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of the
first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto, as
the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower, JIRAMA or the Municipality, as
appropriate, shall provide the necessary information to update
such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain to be
procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿-14 -
Madagascar may be granted a margin of preference in accordance
with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Madagascar if the bidder shall have established to
the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Associa-
tion that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Madagascar equal to at
least 20% of the ex-factory bid price of such
goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Madagascar.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the evaluated bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 15 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to the evaluation of bids for any contract for
civil works included under Category (1) of the table set forth in
Schedule 1 to this Agreement and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A of this Schedule, the
Borrower, JIRAMA or the Municipality, as the case may be, may
grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic contractors, in
accordance with, and subject to, the following p---visions:
1.   Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying for such preference shall be asked to provide, as part
of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification established by the Borrower
and accepted by the Association, a particular firm or group of
firms qualifies for a domestic preference. The bidding documents
shall clearly indicate the preference and the method that will be
followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids to give effect
to such preference.
2.   After bids have been received and reviewed, responsive
bids will be classified into the following groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors eligible
for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
D.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts, the estimated value of which is below $100,000
equivalent, may be awarded following competitive bidding adver-
tised locally according to the applicable procedures of the Bor-
rower, subject to the provisions of Part E.2 of this Schedule.


﻿- 16 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Association in detail of
the procedure to be followed, and shall introduce such modi-
fications in said procedure as the Association shall reasonably
request. The list of prequalified bidders, together with a state-
ment of their qualifications and, where applicable, of their
eligibility for domestic preference under Part C above and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifi-
cation and for such eligibility shall be furnished by the Borrower
to the Association for its comments before the applicants are
notified of the Borrower's decision, and the Borrower shall
make such additions to, deletions from, or modifications in, the
said list as the Association shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to: (i) all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or more; arid (ii) all contracts of any
value for Part A of the Project proposed to be procured under Part
D of this Schedule the value of which, when added to the aggregate
value of all other contracts for Part A of the Project so pro-
cured, is expected to exceed $400,000 equivalent; and (iii) all
contracts of any value for Parts B or C of the Project proposed to
be procured under Part D of this Schedule the value of which, when
added to the aggregate value of all other such contracts so
procured, is expected to exceed $500,000 equivalent:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower, JIRAMA or the
Municipality, as appropriate, shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the
specifications and other bidding documents, together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower, JIRAMA or the Municipality, as appropriate, shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the
name of the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and


﻿- 17 -
shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its
review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the
bids received, and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower, JIRAMA or the
Municipality, as appropriate, and state the reasons for such
determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower, JIRAMA or the Municipality, as appro-
priate, shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guide-
lines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower, JIRAMA or
the Municipality, as appropriate, and state the reasons for such
determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower, JIRAMA or
the Municipality, as appropriate, shall inform the Association of
the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order and
the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines that the
proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower, JIRAMA or the
Municipality, as appropriate, and state the reasons for its
determination.


﻿- 18 -
F.   Procurement Without Contracting
The laying of water pipes and the installation of a portion
of electromechanical equipment for water supply may be carried out
by JIRAMA on force account.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day of
FOR SECRETARY


