Efts a                                    Document of
tILE COPy               The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.P-1832a-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
May 14, 1976
|  This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.  |



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1/
US$1                 =     YR 4.50
YR 1                 =     US$0.22
YR 1,000             =     US$222
YR 1,000,000         =     US$222,222
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
1   No par value for the Yemen Rial has yet been declared to the
IMF. All exchange transactions are effected at the Central
Bank rate which has been pegged to the US dollar since February
1973



FOR OFFICLAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed devel-
opment credit to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) for the equivalent of US$5.2
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Grain Storage and Processing
Project. US$3.4 million of the IDA credit would be relent to the Agricultural
Credit Fund (ACF) at an interest rate of 4 percent per annum for 20 years
including a six-year grace period. The Government would pass to Yemen General
Grain Corporation (YGGC) US$1.5 million as a contribution to its equity and
the remairning US$0.3 million as a grant to implement the nutrition component
of the project. The Saudi Development Fund (SDF) will participate in the
financing of the project with a loan of US$11.0 million on terms similar to
those of IDA.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Current Economic Position and Prospects of the
Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 840a-YAR), dated January 9, 1976, and based on the
findings of an economic mission which visited the Yemen Arab Republic in
September 1974 and an updating mission in October/November 1975, was distri-
buted to the Executive Directors on January 20, 1976. A country data sheet
is attached as Annex I.
Introduction
3.        The YAR is among the least-developed countries in the world with
a per capita income in 1974 of about $120 per annum. This under-development
has its roots in three major factors: (a) the country's long isolation from
the rest of the world, which started to end with the revolution against the
traditional Imams in 1962, but in fact was not fully overcome until the end
of the subsequent civil war (1962-70), (b) the paucity of natural resources,
and (c) the critical shortage of educational facilities and of modern technical
and administrative skills.
4.        The Government has successfully introduced basic elements of modern
administration in recent years and has sought to overcome the problems asso-
ciated with a meagre resource base by encouraging emigration of Yemenis
abroad and welcoming the inflow of foreign assistance. This policy has paid
increasing dividends, and workers' remittances and foreign aid and grants
(particularly from Saudi Arabia) have increased substantially, particularly
over the last two years. Limitations in YAR's absorptive capacity are con-
sequently becoming the main constraint to the rapid acceleration of develop-
ment expenditures. The Government is making substantial efforts to step up
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
its development outlays, while at the same time building up appropriate in-
stitutional structures and training of people in necessary skills. Pressure
on available skills is consequently high, and middle level skills as well as
specialized skills have to be imported from abroad.
Economic Structure, Development Objectives and Constraints
5.        YAR's economic structure, although changing, still reflects its
state of extreme underdevelopment. Over 80 percent of its estimated popula-
tion of 6.5 million (1975) is engaged in agriculture, largely in subsistence
production. Internal transport and communications, though expanding, still
leave many parts of the country isolated from each other. While the main
road system has been rapidly developed and the education system has expanded,
the economic and social infrastructure remains largely underdeveloped. The
literacy rate of YAR's population barely exceeds 10 percent and modern admin-
istration systems are still in their infancy and face an acute shortage of
qualified and experienced manpower. Political integration has been hindered
by tribal differences. The end of the civil war left the tribal sheikhs in a
stronger and more independent position than before. This fragmentation of
power, combined with the inadequacy of institutions and lack of trained cadres
at the central government level, has for many years hindered the Government's
ability to formulate national economic objectives and carry out a working pro-
gram of economic development. However, Central Government control has grad-
ually spread in recent years and continues to do so, and the building up of
an administrative and security framework is among the Government's highest
priorities.
6.        Despite these constraints, considerable progress has been made in
setting up national economic institutions. With significant technical as-
sistance provided by the IMF, the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, Yemen established
a Central Bank in 1971, a Central Budget and a Central Planning Organization
in 1972. Formal budgets were introduced from 1973/74. Moreover, a Three-Year
Development Program, covering the period of 1973/74-1975/76 was drafted,
which defined the general long-term development strategy for YAR as well as
medium-term development policies for the public sector. The project list
contained in the Program is confined to the public sector.
7.        The long-term goals for economic development, reflected in the
country's Development Program emphasize: (a) the development of agriculture
to achieve self-sufficiency in food; (b) the expansion of the transport and
communications infrastructure to improve economic and social integration;
(c) education and manpower development to secure the needs of Yemen's future
development efforts; and (d) government institution-building at the national
as well as at local levels. For the Program period, public sector develop-
ment expenditure of about YR 936 million (approx. US$208 million) is envis-
aged, 31 percent has been allocated to transport and communications, 21 per-
cent to education and manpower development, 15 percent to agriculture, and
about 10 percent each to industry (including mining), water supply and sewer-
age and health and other services.



8.        A basic constraint on development (besides the presently limited
absorptive capacity) is the country's narrow resource base. In agriculture,
which accounts for about two-thirds,of GDP and for virtually all of the
meagre exports (notably cotton, coffee, and hides and skins), development
is seriously constrained by physical limitations, particularly the erratic
nature of rainfall, the rugged mountainous terrain and the uncertainty of
groundwater supplies. Food grains (sorghum, millet, maize, barley and wheat)
for local consumption are the principal crops; only modest quantities of cash
crops (cotton, coffee and qat 1/) are produced. The agriculture sector is
predominantly devoted to rainfed grain production, and mainly as a result of
the prolonged drought of 1966-73, has been meeting a decreasing share of do-
mestic needs. Thus, food imports, in part provided through emergency relief
operations, have grown rapidly from about US$23 million in 1970 to almost
US$96 million in 1974, constituting about two-fifths of total recorded
imports. Abundant rainfall during the 1974/75 crop season resulted in the
harvesting of exceptionally large crops and preliminary estimates indicate
another good harvest during 1975/76; nevertheless, self-sufficiency in agri-
cultural production remains a distant goal.
9.        Yemen has little mineral resources of known commercial value.    Only
rock salt has been exploited so far. Unlike most countries of the Arabian
Peninsula, Yemen has no known oil resources, but exploration is currently
under way. Due to the scarcity of natural resources, but also because of
the small domestic market, industry was virtually non-existent until the
late 1960's. Since then a small number of medium-sized, import substitution
plants have been established, mostly with bilateral assistance. They include
a textile mill, a cement factory, a cigarette factory and other plants pro-
ducing light consumer manufactures and construction materials. Their overall
production, however, still represents only about 3 percent of GDP. Future
industrial growth will probably remain limited to these fields and the pro-
cessing of agricultural products unless other mineral resources in commercial
quantities are discovered. Other manufacturing based on imported materials
is likely to remain of relatively small significance due mainly to the narrow
domestic market.
Recent Developments
10.       YAR's economy remains heavily based on subsistence agriculture.
But gradual transformation of the economic structure is under way because
of rapid growth in construction, manufacturing, transport, commerce (parti-
cularly trading and banking) and government services. GDP at constant
prices has grown at about 4 percent a year during 1970-73, with agricultural
output rising in 1970 and 1971, but declining in 1972 and 1973 due to
drought. Estimates for 1974 and 1975 suggest a marked upsurge in economic
activity as a result of a large increase in agricultural production and the
1/   A mildly narcotic leaf, chewed by a considerable portion of the adult
population. In July 1975 the Government levied a new tax of 30 per-
cent on sales of qat so as to discourage its production.



- 4 -
inflow of capital and workers' remittances. Remittances from workers abroad
(largely in Saudi Arabia) and cash grants from the Saudi Government, in fact,
have become by far the largest sources of foreign exchange. They have enabled
the YAR to sustain large deficits in its balance of trade, and their rapid in-
crease led to a substantial addition to reserves in 1974 and the first half of
1975 (see paragraphs 12 and 13). Direct budgetary support finances the govern-
ment current deficit and the bulk of development outlays (see paragraphs 14-16
below).
11.       The recent sharp increases in international oil prices have also
affected the YAR--which is almost entirely dependent on imported products. 1/
The adverse effects have, however, been partly cushioned by an $11 million
interest-free credit from the Organization of Arab Oil Producing Exporting
Countries (OAPEC) (through the Arab Fund) and by a grant from Saudi Arabia
of 50,000 tons of petroleum products in 1974.
12.       Yemen's balance of trade has shown high and widening deficits in
recent years. This has resulted directly from Yemen's increased needs for
essential commodities (particularly oil and foodstuffs) which have had to
be imported at a time of sharply rising prices, and the limited nature of
its exports (comprising cotton, coffee, and hides and skins). Exports, which
amount to only 6-7 percent of imports, have grown in recent years (largely
as a result of improved cotton prices) and amounted to about $13 million in
1974/75. However, imports increased to about $259 million in 1974/75, result-
ing in a trade deficit of US$246 million, compared with US$180 million in
1973/74. The trade deficit in 1974/75 was financed (as in previous years)
in large part through workers' remittances and minor invisible receipts
($221 million). Commodity and cash grants received (almost entirely from
Saudi Arabia) amounted to $93 million in 1974/75, and together with net
medium and long-term capital inflows of $47 million in the same period
led to an increase in foreign assets by $115 million.
13.       YAR had previously been experiencing small but regular surpluses
in its balance of payments which had led to small increases in its foreign
exchange holdings. The exceptionally large surplus experienced in 1974/75
meant that by June 30, 1975, the gross foreign exchange reserves of the
Central Bank had risen to $243 million. Of this amount, US$189.5 million
represented free reserves, the balance being mainly blocked accounts with
the Central Bank of Egypt. The free reserves were equivalent to about eight
months of estimated import of goods at the 1974/75 level.
14.       Yemen's budgetary situation is characterized by persistent deficits
on the current account, because of the small tax base. YAR's aggregate tax
effort remains weak, and the tax/GDP ratio (less than 8 percent) is low.
However, budgetary performance has been slowly improving as indicated by the
1/   Total imports of petroleum products amounted to 165,009 tons in 1974
valued at about $22 million, but were expected to rise to 200,000 tons
valued at about $30 million in 1975.



- 5 -
higher growth rate of government current revenues compared with current ex-
penditures over the last five years, except in 1974/75. Current revenues
increased from about $33 million in 1971/72 to about $84 million in 1974/75,
i.e. at an annual rate of 35 percent (substantialy higher than the growth
of GDP), while current expenditures increased by about 27 percent per annum
over the same period (to about $105 million in 1974/75). Almost two-thirds
of the absolute increase in revenues was accounted for by higher customs re-
ceipts from increased imports (which now provide almost 60 percent of total
Government revenues). The increase in current spending resulted largely
from higher outlays on defense and security which in 1974/75 claimed 57 per-
cent of the total of about $60 million; and salary increases for the very
low-paid Government civil servants in mid-1974. Expenditures for security
(including cash grants to tribes) were considered necessary, given the socio-
political situation and the need to strengthen the central authority while
salary increases were necessitated by the need to build up and retain qualified
Government administrative staff. During 1975/76, the Government expects to
continue to restrain current expenditures--the current deficit is anticipated
at about $19 million (compared to $20 million in 1974/75). These current
deficits, together with the largest part of Government development expendi-
tures, are expected to be financed, as in the past two years, through direct
Saudi budgetary support. The Government has also changed from a substantial
net borrower in 1973 to a substantial net creditor to the banking system (see
Annex I). With the improved budgetary situation the Government has been
recently budgeting increased Government support (both for technical services
and project financing) for projects programmed through the Central Planning
Organization (CPO). The Ministry of Finance is also making direct allocations
to economic ministries for some development expenditures including small
projects which the ministries can implement on their own.
15.       The rapid increase in the Government's domestic and foreign assets
reflects some Government restraint in increasing current expenditures, and
its desire to husband as much as possible the newly available resources. It
also reflects however, limitations in YAR'.s absorptive capacity as indicated
by shortfalls in the Government's planned development outlays.
16.       The experience with regard to executing public development projects
has shown that projects involving a great deal of preparation with institution-
building and training elements faced greater problems than those confined to
physical work or the provision of foreign experts. The Three-Year Development
Program (see paragraph 7 above) had envisaged a total expenditure of $208 mil-
lion on specific projects over the period 1973/74-1975/76. The time pattern
of expenditure was expected to be $57 million in 1973/74, $76 million in
1974/75 and $75 million in 1975/76. Direct foreign contributions were ex-
pected to account for 75 percent of total Program outlays. Available data
indicate, however, that actual expenditure during the first two years, amount-
ed to 334 million (60 percent of planned targets) and $43 million (56 per-
cent of planned targets) respectively. Government contributions through the
budget amounted to 9 percent of total program expenditures. This substantial
short-fall is to a large extent attributable to institutional and manpower
constraints.



- 6 -
17.       The next planning exercise to be undertaken by the CPO for the four-
year period 1976/77-1979/80 will provide an appropriate opportunity to assess
the resources (domestic and foreign) likely to be available to the YAR for
development. A comprehensive investment program will be prepared. Appro-
priate criteria for project selection are expected to be framed in order to
bring the number and type of projects better in line with YAR's potential in
institution-building and manpower development. In addition, it is expected
that in conjunction with the inflows of foreign assistance, YAR will increase
its own financial participation in development efforts. Large domestic re-
sources will also be needed to meet the rapidly increasing recurrent expendi-
tures associated with the investment program.
18.       A dilemma facing YAR's planners relates to emigration of Yemenis
abroad. Workers' remittances finance to a very large extent (over 80 percent)
the foreign trade deficit. On the other hand, such emigration of workers
possessing even marginal skills reduces the country's absorptive capacity.
A viable solution at present appears to be to expand the supply of such man-
power through rapid development of training institutions. Efforts to attract
some selected skilled people back through special incentives should also be
explored.
External Debt
19.       The major aid donors of the sixties were mainly:    the USSR, China,
the German Democratic Republic and North Korea; these have now been replaced
in importance by Arab states and their development funds and by the United
Nations, IDA, the Federal Republic of Germany and the USA. Foreign assistance
received by the YAR is currently on highly concessional terms (largely due to
the cash grants from Saudi Arabia). However, continued dependence on foreign
aid has had a strong impact on YAR's existing external debt position and debt
service obligations. The external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1975
was estimated at US$409 million, of which US$157 million was undisbursed. The
major creditors were: USSR, the People's Republic of China, the Federal Repub-
lic of Germany, Saudi Arabia, the Kuwait Fund, Abu Dhabi and more recently, the
Association. Debt contracted with IDA accounts for US$83.6 million or about
20 percent of the total reported debt. The USSR and the People's Republic of
China have provided interest-free loans. Loans from Germany and the Kuwait
Fund have been at interest rates between 1.0 and 2.5 percent per annum; other
loans carry 4-6 percent interest per annum. The debt service for 1974/75 was
estimated at US$4.6 million, equivalent to 35 percent of total merchandise
exports but only to about 2 percent of total exports of goods and services,
including workers' remittances. In view of the fact that YAR is one of the
least developed countries in the world (as evidenced by its per capita income
of about $120 per annum), its grossly inadequate commodity exports, and the
potential instability of workers' remittances, YAR should continue to seek
external loans on concessionary terms.



PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
20.       The proposed credit would be the tenth to YAR, bringing total IDA
commitments to US$88.8 million. Not considering the proposed credit, about
13% of all credits have been disbursed and about 51% are committed under con-
tracts. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and Bank grants
and notes on the execution of on-going projects, as of March 31, 1976.
21.       The major focus of Bank Group activity has been to develop the essen-
tial prerequisites for development: the basic institutions, skills and physical
infrastructure, and to begin lending in the dominant productive sector--agricul-
ture. In 1971, the Bank made a grant of US$200,000 to help finance, jointly
with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning and
economic advisors; in September 1973 a second Bank grant of US$200,00 to make
possible the continuation and expansion of the planning team services, was ap-
proved. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant of US$120,000 to pro-
vide for the continuation of the services of a planning team including those of
a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait Fund joined with a grant
of about US$425,000. The Bank is also providing technical assistance for insti-
tution building to the Ministry of Agriculture through the services of seven
advisors, financed by UNDP with the Bank as Executing Agency.
22.       To assist in building up the essential physical infrastructure and
the related institutions, IDA has extended two Credits for Highways, one in
1972 for $7.7 million and one in 1975 for $9.0 million, which also helped to
create and support a National Highway Authority. IDA also extended a Credit
for Water Supply in Sana'a in 1974 for $6.3 million, and a Credit for Water
and Sewerage in Hodeida in 1975 for $8.1 million, both of which helped to
support the National Water and Sewerage Authority; in the latter project, the
Arab Fund for Economic and Social Development contributed $21 million to fi-
nance the sewerage component. To assist in the development of Education, IDA
has extended two Credits, the first in 1973 for $11 million, which together
with aid from UNDP,.. Germany and the United Arab Emirates,.finances expansion
of teacher training and secondary and vocational education; and the second
for $8.0 million in 1976 which is a follow up to the first project. To
develop infrastructure and production in YAR's major sector, agriculture, IDA
has made two Credits. The first Credit of $10.9 million in 1973 was for the
Tihama Agricultural Development Project, to which the Kuwait Fund contributed
$6.4 million; to meet major cost increases, the Kuwait Fund approved in 1975 a
loan of $9.6 million to the project, and IDA also approved a Supplementary
Credit of $10.3 million in March 1976. The second Agricultural Credit of
$10.0 million was made for the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project in
1975 in which the Abu Dhabi Fund participated with $10.0 million. A $2.3
million Credit for an Industrial Estate Project was approved in 1974. The
project is designed to stimulate investments in small-scale industry and
provide a model for future industrial development.
23.       Future Bank Group activity will concentrate on reinforcing the insti-
tutional progress made in the essential sectors of transportation, agriculture
and public utilities and help provide the necessary manpower training; and con-
tinue to help devise an appropriate development strategy and investment program.



Particular attention in preparing future projects will continue to be given
to the country's ability to implement these projects and to ensuring the
availability of key staff and other means needed for successful implementa-
tion. Projects under preparation include a livestock project, prepared with
the assistance of the Kuwait Fund, and appraised in November 1975, and a water
supply and sewerage project for Sana'a which was appraised in March/April
1976. Both projects will require co-financing from other sources. Appraisal
of a Port Development Project is scheduled for September 1976 and a textiles
project and a fisheries project are in the planning stage.   The Bank Group's
lending strategy recognizes that Yemen is among the poorest of the 25 least-
developed countries and thus requires special assistance, which justifies IDA
financing of a large part of project costs, including local expenditures.
Since project costs are in excess of the limited IDA funds available, efforts
have been made to obtain co-financing from other donors. In addition to its
own commitments of US$83.6 million, IDA has also, since 1973, successfully
played a catalytic role through its projects in securing about $69.0 million
of co-financing from other aid donors (Arab Fund $21.0 million; Kuwait Fund
$21.9 million; Abu Dhabi Fund $11.0 million; United Arab Emirates $8.0 mil-
lion; UNDP $6.61 million and the Federal Republic of Germany $0.58 million).
YAR's level of poverty and the weak structure of its balance of payments have
in the past justified a large portion of local currency financing by the
Association; however, YAR has contributed an. increasing portion of local cur-
rency financing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of
its development expenditures in the future.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Setting
24.       Agriculture is YAR's principal economic sector, accounting for about
70 percent of the country's GDP and employing over 80 percent of the population.
Agricultural output depends mainly on the amount and distribution of rainfall.
During the drought years (1966-73), agriculture production was more or less
static with substantial decline in some years. However, adequate rainfall in
1974/75 has resulted in a rise in agricultural output and food grain production
in fact has increased by almost 80 percent, exceptionally meeting national con-
sumption. Although agriculture remains essentially subsistence-based, it pro-
vides over 90 percent of national export earnings. Cotton, coffee, hides and
skins are the major agricultural exports. In 1974, cotton and cotton seed
accounted for about 60 percent and coffee for 10 percent of total merchandise
export value (about US$14 million). Despite the predominance of the agricul-
tural sector and the long tradition of terracing in the mountainous region and
irrigation in the wadis, YAR is unable to feed its own population, and food
imports, nearly half of which were cereals, typically accounted for about 50
percent of the total import value in 1974.
25.       The land area of Yemen totals approximately 20 million ha of which
1.5 million ha are cultivated with an additional 2.0 million ha kept fal-low
to be brought into production given sufficient pre-planting rainfall. Most of
the cropped area is classified as rainfed, with only 230,000 ha (15 percent)



- 9 -
being under some, form of supplementary irrigation from wells, perennial
springs or periodic wadi floods. Terrace agriculture is widespread in the
mountainous regions. Climatic conditions vary widely, rainfall is erratic
and annual variations influence crop production by affecting not only per
hectare yields but also utilization of rainfed and marginal cropland. Normally
the major rains occur in July-September with minor rains in March-May. On the
basis of rainfall, altitude and crop-livestock patterns, five main agricultural
zones can be distinguished in the country: (a) The Coastal Belt of the Tihama;
(b) the Western Slopes; (c) the Central and Southern Uplands including most of
the Taiz and Ibb Provinces; (d) the Inter-Montane Plains; and (e) the Eastern
Slopes (see map).
26.       Except for cotton growing, farmers have no access to institutional
credit. Cotton is financed through the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and
Development's (YBRD) line of credit to the Cotton General Company (CGC), the
Government-owned cotton marketing board which, in turn, extends short-term
interest-free credit in cash and/or in the form of seeds to the cotton
growers.   The CGC recovers its financial costs through the price arrange-
ments with farmers. Other farmers requiring credit to cover urgent family
and agricultural needs borrow from relatives or neighbors, or in some cases
purchase on credit from farmers.
27.       In order to create an effective agricultural credit institution, an
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) was established at the end of 1974 in connec-
tion with the Tihama Development Project and was also selected as the finan-
cial intermediary for the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project. It is
now functioning as a department of the Central Bank. The key managerial staff
has been appointed and several measures have been taken recently to increase
ACF's flexibility and widen its scope of activity in an environment which is
not yet familiar with the complex requirements of agricultural credit. These
include raising the approval authority of its field managers, easing the
collateral requirements for small loans and including in its activities loans
for small farm equipment and essential working capital. The Parliament has
recently passed a law establishing a wholly state-owned Agricultural Credit
Bank (ACB) under the Ministry of Agriculture. The Government has authorized
capital of YR 100 million (US$22 million equivalent) for ACB of which YR 20
million (US$4.5 million equivalent) are to be paid in 1976. ACB is expected
to start its lending operations during the second half of 1976. The possibil-
ity of merging ACF with the newly established ACB was discussed during negotia-
tions and the YAR delegation indicated that once ACB is operational, a merger
would be considered in order to avoid any possible duplication of efforts
between these two institutions.
28.       Despite the introduction on a limited scale in recent years of
modern agricultural inputs, such as groundwater pumps, farm machinery and
fertilizers, agriculture in YAR remains underdeveloped and its productivity
is among the lowest in the world. The major constraints to agricultural



- 10 -
development include: (a) inexperience in systematic programming, (b) lack
of institutional infrastructure, and (c) a weak resource base offering
limited opportunities for growth.
29.       The Government's present development policy in agriculture centers
on: (a) an annual increase in agricultural production of not less than 6 per-
cent, and the development of the necessary agricultural storage, processing
and marketing facilities; (b) achievement of self-sufficiency in the long
run in the basic foodstuffs with particular emphasis given to cereal crops,
oils, vegetables and livestock production; (c) improvement of the trade
balance through the increase of exports, especially cotton, hides and skins,
fresh and canned fish, vegetables and fresh fruits; (d) improvement of the
dietary standard of the population; and (e) provision of credit and support-
ing extension, marketing and input distributional infrastructure for agricul-
tural producers, especially the smaller farmers. While progress in estab-
lishing an agricultural credit system and extension services over the past
few years is encouraging; the first three objectives appear to be too op-
timistic. Particularly, the target growth rate for agricultural production
as well as self-sufficiency in cereals are unrealistic targets for the fore-
seeable future. Nonetheless, the Government is concentrating its efforts on
overcoming institutional weaknesses and improving the supply of basic agri-
cultural inputs in an attempt to modernize the sector and increase producti-
vity.
30.       There has been relatively little public investment in the agricul-
tural sector and virtually all such investments to date have been financed
from external sources, primarily the USSR, United Kingdom, German Democratic
Republic, Abu Dhabi, Federal Republic of Germany, UNDP/FAO, Kuwait Fund and
IDA. Additional technical assistance for groundwater and soils evaluation
and crops research is being offered by the United Kingdom, Mainland China and
the United States.
Food Grain Situation in YAR
Production Organization and Technology
31.       Farming systems vary regionally according to terrain characteris-
tics, climate, soil characteristics and water availability. Holdings range
between 0.25 and 10.0 ha, varying in size with region and degree of non-rain-
fed culture; in areas where cultivation remains rainfed-based and extensive in
nature, holdings generally fall in the upper portion of the range. The great
proportion of total cultivated land area remains under control of large indi-
vidual farmers and, to a lesser extent, State and religious institutions which
generally lease part or all of their land under sharecropping arrangements.
Under these arrangements the tenant is expected to supply required family and
bullock labor input and the landlord the full cost of hired labor. Procedures



for further cost and income sharing between landowners and tenants differ
widely, depending upon the particular crop cultivated as well as the avail-
ability and method of supplementary irrigation. In most cases, material input
costs, zakat (religious tax) and net production are divided between the tenant
and landowner in fixed proportion, with the tenant's share ranging from 25
percent on well-irrigated to 50 percent on rainfed land. Family labor remains
the primary source of manpower in farm operations; it is supplemented by hired
workers usually only in peak harvesting periods. Technology is underdeveloped
and utilization of modern production inputs at present negligible.
Production
32.       The total annual grain production averaged between 1.1 and 1.3 mil-
lion metric tons during the period 1970/71-1973/74; it rose exceptionally to
1.98 million metric tons in the high rainfall year 1974/75. Sorghum and mil-
let, displaying high drought resistance, represent the principal grain crops,
accounting for an average of 75-80 percent of total grain production. Barley,
wheat and maize requiring higher levels of moisture, cover the balance of
cereal production. Production limitations have resulted in wide fluctuations
in annual production and low productivity. It is expected that grain produc-
tion will grow at an annual average rate of 1.5 percent as to reach about 1.5
million tons in an average rainfall year by 1980 and 1.7 million tons by 1990.
The Government is making considerable efforts to increase grain productivity
through the introduction of suitable high-yielding varieties, particularly
cross breeds of exotic strains with local varieties more adapted to agro-
climatic conditions in YAR and increased consumption of chemical fertilizers
and pesticides. However, serious constraints are likely to limit a major
expansion of grain production: (a) vagaries in rainfall affect yields, hecta-
rage planted and risk levels associated with innovation adoption; (b) the
limitations imposed on chemical fertilizer use to terrace cultures because of
possible toxin build-up in inter-field irrigation drainage flows; (c) limited
scope for hectarage expansion especially in the high rainfall, highly produc-
tive Taiz and Ibb Governorates; (d) the substitution of cereal cultivation by
more profitable cash crops, particularly with increasing tube well irrigation;
and (e) the lack of a competent country-wide extension service, adequate seed
multiplication facilities and supportive transportation infrastructure.
Consumption
33.       Total annual grain consumption averaged 1.5 million metric tons
during 1969/70 to 1973/74 equivalent to a per capita consumption of 292 kg
per annum. Per capita direct human grain consumption averages about 146 kg
per annum. The most important factors affecting future demand for grain in
Yemen will be the rise in income and the population growth. Accordingly,
with an expected real income growth of 4 percent per annum up to 1980 and 5
percent thereafter, and with a present population growth rate of 2.4 percent
per annum and expected to rise gradually to 3 percent per annum by 1990, the
total grain consumption has been projected to increase to 1.8 million tons by
1980 and 2.7 million tons by 1990.



- 12 -
Government Activities in the Cereal Sector
34.       The Ministry of Finance collects the zakat and customs duties on
commercial cereal imports, predominantly in kind, at a rate of 5 percent and
administers the distribution of grants-in-aid grain imports. The Ministry of
Supply issues and monitors periodically price ceilings for imported wheat and
flour, at the wholesale and retail levels. The price control system for im-
ported wheat and flour is reasonably effective. The quasi-governmental Yemen
Foreign Trade Company imports small volumes of food commodities duty-free
and sells them in accordance with Ministry of Supply price guidelines; it
also handles the import of grain under grants-in-aid. Cereal stocks accu-
mulated by the Government from zakat and customs duty collections and grants-
in-aid, averaging 75,000-79,000 metric tons per annum (or about 5 percent of
total annual consumption), are utilized in public feeding programs for army
personnel, school children, hospital patients and charity recipients, or sold
in the market. The grain thus distributed would represent some 5 percent of
national grain consumption. The bulk of grain used in the feeding programs
is received as grants in aid (see para. 36) from external donors. The cost
to the Government budget of the program consists of expenditures for milling
the grain, baking and distribution of bread which is relatively small. In
rural areas, grain is distributed unprocessed. The Government has no plans
at present to intervene actively in the domestic grain market or to maintain
buffer supplies of cereal foods to help bridge shortfalls. With increasing
grain demand and imports in the future, as well as rising use of modern farm
inputs, the Government could play a more active role in the grain market to
avoid shortfalls, stabilize prices and encourage productivity of grain produc-
tion. Should at some time in the future the Government decide to become more
active in the grain market, the Yemen General Grain Corporation (YGGC), which
would be established under the proposed project, could be readily expanded,
along with facilities, to take over this responsibility.
Prices
35.       Farm prices for grain commodities in Yemen are relatively high com-
pared with international prices and fluctuate widely. The Government exerts
no effective price control over the domestically produced grain. The spread
between actual farm prices and eventual consumer prices for domestic grain is
reportedly sizable as is the post-harvest price buildup throughout the year.
Imports
36.       Commercial imports of all cereals averaged approximately 105,000
metric tons annually over the period 1969/70-1973/74 or about 9 percent of
total cereal supply. Predominant cereal imports were wheat grain and wheat
flour with annual import quantities varying in response to shortfall in do-
mestic supply, determined by the domestic crop success. Cereal imports more
than doubled during the period 1969/70-1973/74 while the value of such com-
modities increased more than four-fold reflecting major rises in world grain
prices. Imports have on the average entered the YAR port of Hodeida in the
wheat grain-flour ratio of 2:1. Average quantities received under aid



- 13 -
programs have been estimated at 62,000 metric tons per year during 1969/70-
1973/74, representing about 4 percent of YAR's total cereal supply. The
domestic supply shortfall for cereals in 1976 is estimated to increase from
a total of 199,500 metric tons or 12.6 percent of projected cereal consump-
tion to 347,300 metric tons or 19 percent of consumption in 1980, and
1,031,800 metric tons or 37 percent of consumption one decade later.
Grain Storage
37.       YAR needs both additional adequate grain storage facilities and
significant improvements in grain storage management. In rural areas grain
is usually stored in large petroleum drums for current needs and in sealed
earthen pits, called "madfans", for long-term storage to cover future re-
quirements and potential crop failures. Commercialized domestic grain, zakat
collections and imported cereals are typically handled in bags and stored in
flat warehouses or storerooms. Zakat commodities are often placed in mad-
fans, especially at intermediate distribution points. Although major grain
merchants as well as the Government own some good, relatively new, warehouse
space, most of the grain storage is improperly managed and insanitary. Based
on spot checks in YAR, losses have been estimated to average about 3 percent
of grain stored. Most of the storage space is owned by private merchants and
located in urban centers; the Government owns two new warehouses of a total
capacity of 5,000 metric tons in Sana'a. Apart from Sana'a the lack of
suitable storage space has limited the Government's ability to collect zakat
in kind and distribute it during the year under its institutional and social
feeding programs. There are no modern grain silos in Yemen.
38.       With the projected rise in grain imports, the problems of signifi-
cant grain losses due to inefficient handling and short weighing, high import
costs stemming from demurrage charges and high freight rates resulting from
port congestion, will be aggravated. A port silo with an estimated capacity
of 20,000 tons and ship unloading facilities are needed to increase grain hand-
ling efficiency. The obvious shortages in storage capacity for the short-term
have been determined and require immediate correction. Private storage space
in the urban centers has proved insufficient to handle Government acquired
stocks and sometimes unavailable on a sufficiently long-term basis to accom-
modate these quantities. Faced with these storage difficulties, the Govern-
ment has often in the past resorted to inefficient maintenance of its stock
in scattered facilities and to frequent shipments of supplies to satisfy
short-term needs. To cover the Government's most urgent present and future
needs up to 1980 six warehouses of a total capacity of 18,000 metric tons are
necessary: 3,000 metric tons in Sana'a; 5,000 metric tons in Ibb; 5,000
metric tons in Hodeida; 2,000 metric tons in Damar; 1,000 metric tons in
Saada; and 2,000 metric tons in Hajja. Additional storage facilities required
in the future and their location can only be determined on the basis of a more
comprehensive country-wide grain storage study taking into account existing
storage capacity and quality and a projection of production and consumption
trends by region.



- 14 -
Grain Marketing
39.       About 85 percent of the domestic crop remains on the farms for
subsistence, for animal feed and as seed and therefore fails to enter the
commercial market. Approximately 11 percent of the average crop moves in-
terregionally. Merchants acquire the grain at the lowest prices they can
negotiate at harvest time, and subsequently store and distribute stocks at
constantly increasing prices during the post harvest season. However, with
regard to cereals imports, five merchants dominate the commercial market with
the largest covering 50 percent to 60 percent of the market. These larger
importers also serve as agents for smaller buyers who are primarily whole-
salers. The absence of centralized controls over the volume and seasonal
distribution of imported cereals as well as the facility by which import
licenses and foreign exchange purchase authorizations are obtained have
resulted in large fluctuations in available supplies and considerable price
volatility.
Grain Processing
40.       There are no large and modern flour mills in YAR.    In the remote
rural areas, women manually grind the grain into whole grain flour. Many
larger villages and most urban centers have commercial, powerdriven, stone
mills for custom grinding for commercial bakeries as well as nearby private
consumers. Because grain is rarely cleaned before processing, flour often
contains significant quantities of ground foreign matter. Total milling
capacity presently is adequate and expansion is expected to parallel demand.
41.       Although most of the bread consumed in Yemen is homemade, a large
quantity, especially in urban areas, is prepared in commercial bakeries. To-
tal bread consumption in YAR is estimated at about 2,000 metric tons per day,
of which the presently existing commercial bakeries produce about 190-200
metric tons, or roughly 10 percent. The majority of these commercial units
have a daily capacity of 0.5-1.0 metric tons and are equipped with brick
hearth ovens fired by diesel or wood. Private bakeries are increasingly
engaging in custom baking of home-prepared dough. The total number of commer-
cial bakeries in YAR is estimated at between 220 and 230. Army garrisons in
urban centers typically maintain large-scale bakeries to supply in addition
to personnel rations, about 20 metric tons of bread for government-sponsored
schools and hospital feeding program, as well as a charity distribution program.
Principal problems encountered in the YAR bakery sector are (a) unsanitary
conditions, (b) improperly maintained plants, (c) inadequate storage space for
supplies, and (d) inefficient stock and operational management. Homebaking,
which has contributed to damaging deforestation, is declining because of the
high cost of wood that is used as fuel, and the inconvenience and health
hazards of homebaking. Also, the increasing urbanization supports the trend
towards consumption of bakery produced bread. However, switching to bakery
bread has, somewhat, been held back by the bakeries' failure to supply bread
of the homemade type, which is the traditional flat or kudam bread based on
a whole grain and white flour mixture.



- 15 -
42.       To achieve the Government's objectives in the bakery sector of
reducing homebaking and improving sanitation, investments are necessary to
build new bakeries and to rehabilitate existing bakeries, together with tech-
nical assistance on maintenance, sanitation and bread baking according to the
public's preferences. New bakeries will be necessary to supply bread for
expected increased demand of more than 7 percent per annum as a result of
both reduced homebaking and population growth. They would also serve as
demonstration units for bakery extension agents in their efforts to upgrade
existing bakeries. At present, there is no institutional source of invest-
ment credit for bakery construction and rehabilitation. If, however, credit
were available, bakers could perform rehabilitation and expansion invest-
ments. They have keen interest in borrowing medium and long-term funds for
such purposes.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
43.       The proposed project was identified by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Programme mission in March/April 1975. It was prepared by an IDA mission
assisted by FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme staff in August 1975 and ap-
praised by IDA mission in October/November 1975. It was subsequently dis-
cussed with a view to ensuring cofinancing with the Saudi Development Fund.
Negotiations were held in Washington from April 13 to 15, 1976. The Yemen
delegation was headed by Mr. Al-Hakimi, Minister of Supply. A report en-
titled "Appraisal of a Grain Storage and Processing Project in the Yemen Arab
Republic" (No: 1057a-YAR, dated May 6, 1976) is being distributed separately.
Objectives
44.       The proposed project would form the first major step in the effort
to expand and improve Yemen's grain handling, storage and processing facilities.
Taking account of local conditions, the project is designed to respond to the
immediate needs and prepare a program for future development in grain storage
and bakeries. It also introduces a modest nutritional program for the first
time in YAR. Specifically, it aims to (a) curb grain storage losses; (b)
reduce handling and imports costs; (c) improve the sanitary conditions of the
supply of bread; and (d) alleviate certain aspects of malnutrition and upgrade
nutrition standards through bread fortification and nutrition promotion. In
addition, provision of better bread would reduce inefficient home baking and
decrease damaging deforestation.
Project Description
45.       The project would include the following components:



- 16 -
(a) a 20,000 ton modern port silo in Hodeida with ship unloading
and bagging equipment;
(b) six regional warehouses with a total capacity of 18,000
tons;
(c)  two Government operated bakeries, including small whole grain
flour mills to serve them with a capacity of about 10 tons per
day each;
(d) a bakery credit component to provide loans to private sector
bakers;
(e) a study to provide a nation-wide storage investment program
based on a survey of existing grain storage capacity and quality
as well as on future production and consumption trends by region;
and
(f) a nutrition component including bread fortification with vitamins
and minerals, nutrition promotion and planning.
The project would also provide for the employment of engineering consultants
to assist in the design and construction supervision of the silo, warehouses
and Government bakeries; technical assistance to operate the facilities; a
training program for key management and operational personnel of the Yemen
General Grain Corporation (YGGC) and the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF); and
extension services to private bakers. The main features of the development
credit and project are summarized in Annex III. A map showing the location
of the proposed project items is also attached.
Project Costs and Financing
46.       The total project cost net of taxes is estimated at US$21.8 million
of which 69 percent or US$15.1 million would represent the foreign exchange
component. The proposed IDA credit of US$5.2 million would finance the
foreign exchange cost of engineering consultants and of technical assistance
as well as part of the cost of the warehouses, bakery credit and nutrition
component. The Saudi Development Fund Loan of US$11 million would be extended
to the Government on terms similar to those of IDA; it would finance, under
parallel financing arrangements, the total cost of the silo facilities and the
foreign exchange cost of the two 10-ton bakeries. The Government contribution
of US$4.9 million would finance the remainder of the warehouse component, the
local cost of the 10-ton bakeries and engineering consultants and technical
assistance and 40 percent of the small bakery investments. The sub-borrowers'
contribution of US$0.7 million would finance 20 percent of the small bakery
investments. The IDA credit and the Saudi Fund Loan would finance about 74
percent of the total cost of the project. The conclusion of an agreement
between the Government and the Saudi Fund for a loan of US$11 million would be
a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA credit (Section 6.01(a),
draft Development Credit Agreement). Details of Project cost and financing
arrangement are given in Annex III.



- 17 -
Project Execution
47.       At present there is no institution in YAR with the capability to
implement and subsequently operate facilities such as those planned under
the project. Therefore, a Yemen General Grain Corporation (YGGC), would be
established under the Ministry of Supply for this purpose. The YGGC would be
a semi-autonomous Government-owned enterprise to be run on commercial basis,
which will establish and later operate and maintain the project facilities.
During negotiations, the Government delegation submitted to IDA a draft
Charter for YGGC, which was discussed and commented upon by IDA. The Gov-
ernment's approval of YGGC's charter satisfactory to IDA would be a condition
of making the proposed credit effective (Section 6.01(b), draft Development
Credit Agreement).
48.       YGGC's main responsibilities would include:   (a) the establishment
of the silo, warehouse and 10 ton bakery components and subsequently their
operation and maintenance; (b) the implementation in cooperation with ACF, of
the bakery credit component and the organization and management of the techni-
cal assistance program for private bakers; (c) the initiation and supervision
of the grain storage study; and (d) the implementation and control of the
nutrition component. It was agreed that after the project's completion, all
existing Government-owned grain storage and processing facilities except those
operated by the army would be transferred to YGGC for operation and management
(Section 4.05, draft Development Credit Agreement). In accordance with YGGC's
responsibilities its legal powers would include: (a) the acquisition of land
for its facilities; (b) contractual arrangements with firms or agencies for
the employment of experts and consultants and for executing works and sup-
plying equipment, materials and services; and (c) the purchase and sale of
cereals and cereal products on behalf of the Government. It was agreed that
the Government would provide YGGC with the necessary funds, and other resources
and would also reimburse it for any loss that may result from or for any sub-
sidies in connection with the sales or purchases of cereals or cereal products
(Section 4.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
49.       YGGC would have a board consisting of the Minister of Supply as
Chairman, a representative each from the Central Planning Organization and
the Ministry of Finance, the General Manager of ACF, the Director of the
Hodeida Port Authority and the Project Manager and Co-manager of YGGC. The
board would decide on all policy issues, major investments and operational
matters and approve key personnel decisions, as well as approve the annual
balance sheet. The Project Manager would have the overall operational re-
sponsibility for project implementation and management. Three operational
divisions would be in charge of the individual project components, a silo, a
warehouse and a bakery division. An accounts and audit division would handle
the accounting and financial control function. The Project Manager in coope-
ration with the Division Managers would formulate operating, accounting and
auditing procedures for approval by YGGC's board. YGGC's Head Office and the
divisional offices would be located in Sana'a except the silo division, which
would be housed in the silo complex in Hodeida. It was agreed that YGGC's
Charter and organization may be amended from time to time by the Government
in agreement with IDA (Section 3.01(a), draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
50.       YGGC would provide bulk grain unloading, storage and baking serv-
ices for private merchants and the Government at service fees that would
cover its operating costs, depreciation, financial expenses and a reasonable
return on its equity. The silo would handle all bulk grain imported through
the port of Hodeida; a Government decree to this effect would be passed not
later than December 1979 (Section 4.07, draft Development Credit Agreement).
The warehouses would store the Government grain and would also rent out
available space to private merchants. The 10-metric ton bakeries would bake
bread for the Government-sponsored feeding programs and deliver it to the
appropriate institutions. The Government-owned grain or flour would be
delivered by the warehouse division to the bakeries. All service charges (of
the silo, warehouse and bakeries) would be adjusted annually in accordance
with cost changes that may occur over the lifetime of the project. Private
bakeries supplying bread for Government-sponsored feeding programs would
operate on a similar basis (Sect-ion 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).
51.       To ensure the availability of experienced and competent staff which
is necessary for successful implementation of the project, comprehensive
technical assistance and training programs have been incorporated in the proj-
ect. YGGC would be staffed with five senior expatriate experts, for periods
ranging from three to five years--project manager, silo superintendent, bakery
superintendent, bakery extension agent and accountant/controller. All of the
experts would have local counterparts. These experts would be responsible
both for project implementation and for training of their counterparts, who
would take over management responsibilities before the completion of the
experts' assignments. Progress to date in the recruitment of key project
personnel is encouraging. The project manager and his local counterpart,
have already been appointed, and the selection process for the other expert
positions and local staff is under way. Additional experts would be appointed
as part-time consultants for the grain storage study and nutrition survey.
The local counterpart staff would receive comprehensive overseas and on-the-
job training. It was agreed that these expatriate experts acceptable to IDA
and employed on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed
within fourteen months of the date of this credit (Section 3.04, draft Devel-
opment Credit Agreement). It was also agreed that YGGC would formulate within
sixteen months of the date of this proposed credit, a training program for
local counterparts, satisfactory to IDA, to be implemented by December 1979
(Section 3.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Credit Arrangements
52.       The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) would be the lending channel for
all credits extended under the project. It would appoint a senior expatriate
industrial credit expert and also an expatriate accountant/financial control
officer in its head office. It would open two new offices, one in Sana'a and
the other in Hodeida, and expand its Taiz/lbb offices. The branch office in
Sana'a would be located within the head office facility. Local counterparts
would be assigned to the expatriate experts; the new and expanded offices
would be appropriately staffed with local personnel.



- 19 -
53.       ACF would be the administrative channel for the Government's equity
contribution to YGGC (US$8.5 million) and would also provide medium and
long-term loans to.YGGC for its investments and to private bakers for the
construction of new bakeries and rehabilitation of existing ones (US$11.7
million). The contribution of private bakers would not be less than 20
percent of the investment cost. ACF sub-loans and Government equity would
each finance half of YGGC's investment costs i.e. the silo, warehouses and
10-ton bakeries. Technical assistance to ACF would be financed by a Govern-
ment loan. The Government loan to ACF for financing the sub-loans would be
for 20 years including a six-year grace period. ACF would also be the admin-
istrative channel for a Government grant of US$0.9 million to YGGC for the
implementation of the nutrition component. However, it would not charge any
commission or fees on the equity and grant portions.
54.       The onlending interest rates currently charged under the Tihama
Development Project (FY73) and the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
(FY75) are 8 percent for medium and long-term loans and 9 percent for short-
term loans. Under the proposed project, ACF's onlending rate to YGGC and to
private bakers would,be 9 percent per annum. The Government's interest rate
to ACF would be 4 percent per annum, giving ACF a spread of 5 percent per
annum. YGGC would bear the foreign exchange risk on its borrowing and the
Government would assume the foreign exchange risk for the sub-loans to the
bakers and for the technical assistance loan to ACF. ACF's spread of 5 per-
cent would be sufficient to cover its costs, to make provisions for losses
and to earn some profit which would be retained to build up its equity. ACF's
projected financial accounts for operations under the project show an annual
average net earning of US$500,000 during the period 1976 to 1996.
55.       The original lending policies and procedures of ACF would be
amended in order to cover adequately the enlarged operations of ACF. Under
the proposed project, YGGC would update the appraisal for the silo, warehouses
and 10-ton bakeries and submit the sub-loan application to ACF. ACF would
review the appraisal and evaluate particularly the financial viability of the
investment proposals. After its review, it would forward to IDA the sub-loan
applications for the first two warehouses for its approval and also the ap-
plications for the silo and the 10-ton bakeries for its review and comments,
with appropriate recommendations. The sub-loan applications for the remaining
warehouses would be approved by ACF. The small bakers credit operations would
be carried out in close coordination with YGGC which would then submit them to
ACF for evaluation. ACF would forward the first three sub-loan applications
for new bakeries to IDA for approval as well as every fifth bakery improvement
loan exceeding an amount of US$10,000 or YR 45,000. These arrangements would
result in IDA reviewing eight to ten sub-loan applications or 20 percent of
the bakery credit component. All other sub-loan applications would be ap-
proved by ACF. Maturities for the sub-loans would not exceed the life of the
assets financed. The maximum repayment period for these sub-loans would vary
according to the item to be financed and would range between five and fourteen
years, including one to five years' grace (Schedule 5, draft Development Cred-
it Agreement). All loans would be supervised by ACF staff who would also
be responsible for timely collection of loans from YGGC and private bakers.



- 20 -
56.       ACF would maintain separate accounts for the project.   As ACF's
operations would increase substantially under the project, an accounting
expert would be appointed to assist ACF in carrying out its lending operations.
YGGC would also establish separate accounts for project expenditures. All ac-
counts of ACF and YGGC would have regular internal audits as well as annual
audits by independent auditors (Section 4.01(b), draft Development Credit
Agreement). In addition, YGGC would be responsible for evaluating the
benefits resulting from the project and would submit to IDA an annual report
on this evaluation (Section 4.01(c), draft Development Credit Agreement).
Nlutrition
57.       Although there is little statistical data available on the nutri-
tional status of the Yemeni population, the few studies (carried out by ex-
perts under UNDP-FAO and bilateral assistance programs) and nutrition related
indices all point to malnutrition as a major problem, with 14 percent of the
population severly malnourished. Through the introduction of a nutrition
component, the project would make a start in improving the nutritional level
of consumers of commercial bread. The nutrition components would include
bread fortification, nutrition promotion as well as provision for nutrition
research and planning. Bread fortification through Government feeding pro-
grams would reach approximately 30,000 school children, 23,000 members of the
poorest urban families and 14,000 hospitalized persons. In addition, forti-
fication in commercial retail bakeries, proposed as a pilot operation, would
supply fortified bread to another 68,000 consumers. To complement bread
fortification, nutrition promotion will also be directed to specific target
groups and supervised by a Nutrition expert located within the Bakery Division
of YGGC. The expert would develop promotional materials and programs for the
public, emphasizing the effects of mineral and vitamin deficiency and the
advantages of fortified bread. The nutrition planning activities, would be
coordinated with the Central Planning Organization and other Ministries con-
cerned. In line with the Government's stated objective of upgrading the
dietary standards of the population, a total of US$180,000 would be provided
for a nation-wide nutrition status survey that would serve as a basis for the
formulation of a national nutrition plan. It was agreed that should the
consultants recommend and the Government and IDA agree that the fortification
and nutrition promotion program be continued, the Government would then
provide the necessary funds to make possible the continuation of such a
program (Section 4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Construction Schedule
58.       The project facilities would be constructed over a three and a half
year period following a 12-month period for preparation of technical designs.
Apart from the appointment of key project staff and engineering consultants,
site acquisition would be a key milestone for expeditious project implementa-
tion. It was agreed that land for the warehouses and 10-metric ton bakeries
would be selected, with IDA's concurrence, within three months of the signing
of the credit and acquired within three months of the credit's effectiveness
(Section 3.08, draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 21 -
Procurement
59.       Silo and.10-ton Bakeries:   The silo (US$9.6 million) and two 10-
metric ton bakeries (US$2.0 million) would be procured by YGGC, assisted by
the engineering consultants, under international competitive bidding accord-
ing to Saudi Fund procedures. The silo facilities-would be procured under a
turnkey contract since the civil works structures need to be closely inte-
grated with the mechanical-electrical equipment. Small Equipment: Purchases
of equipment items or groups of items under the bakery credit component would
be made in small lots over the four-year period of the project. They are ex-
pected to total about US$900,000. They would be procured by the investors
under ACF's supervision on the basis of local competitive bidding procedures
which are satisfactory to IDA. Minor "off the shelf" items costing less than
US$20,000 would also be procured by the investors through existing commercial
channels under ACF's supervision. The total of such direct procurement would
be about US$600,000. Foreign suppliers of goods and materials are well re-
presented in YAR, necessary service facilities are available, there are no
important quotas or other import restrictions, competition is keen and prices
are competitive. Civil Works: The regional warehouses (US$2.6 million) are
simple structures and consist mainly of civil works. They, as well as civil
works for the bakeries, are dispersed throughout the country. They would be
constructed over a period of three to four years and thus be unsuitable for
grouping. Therefore, contracts would be too small to be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding. YGGC and the bakers, under both IDA's and
ACF's supervision, would procure them under local bidding procedures, which
are satisfactory to IDA. Minor construction related services costing less
than US$20,000 would be contracted directly with qualified firms. Consult-
ants' services would be procured in accordance with IDA Guidelines.
Disbursements
60.       The IDA Credit would be disbursed over 5 years.   Disbursements
would be made against 100 percent of foreign expenditures for engineering
consultants and technical assistance, or 75 percent of local expenditures for
engineering consultants and 90 percent of local expenditures for technical
assistance (representing the foreign exchange component), as well as for 50
percent of small bakery sub-loans and 30 percent of the costs of the ware-
house and nutrition components (see para. 46 and Annex III). Disbursement re-
quests would be supported by full documentation, except for ACF sub-loans to
private bakers for which IDA would disburse against certificates of expendi-
tures. Supporting documents and contracts for the sub-loans would be re-
tained by ACF and would be available for review by IDA during supervision.
To start up the project's implementation expeditiously and to avoid delays,
the Government has already appointed the project manager and is likely to ap-
point engineering consultants and other expatriate experts prior to the date
of the proposed credit. Therefore, retroactive financing for these expendi-
tures from February 1, 1976 is recommended up to an amount of US$160,000. A
projected disbursement schedule is given in Annex III.



- 22 -
Economic Justification
61.       The project would result in substantial reduction in import costs
and grain storage losses. As a result of this, the project would save an
annual average of about US$7 million in foreign exchange over the project's
lifetime. A net total of about 65 fulltime and 70 man-years of part-time
positions would be created. With the establishment of the YGGC and the
strengthening of ACF as well as the training and technical assistance pro-
vided under the project, a major institution-building would be achieved. The
project would also make a significant contribution to better health through
improvements in the food supply and nutrition standards. An estimated 176,000
consumers of which about 67,000 are students, welfare recipients and hospital-
ized persons, would obtain higher quality bread 1/. The economic rate of re-
turn is estimated to be 41 percent for the silo component, the cost of which
is US$7 million 2/, and 17 percent for the warehouse component, the cost of
which is US$2.5 million 2/, and finally 20 percent for the bakery component,
the cost of which is US$4.6 million 2/. These rates of return do not take
into account the following non-quantified benefits: (i) savings due to re-
duced shipping freight rates for general cargo as a result of decreased port
congestion; (ii) the contribution of sanitary grain storage and bread produc-
tion to better health; and (iii) environmental benefits due to decreased de-
forestation. The average economic rate of return on these components, which
account for 93 percent of total project cost, is estimated at 32 percent.
This aggregate rate of return excludes the nutrition component costing US$0.7
million 2/ and the loan for technical assistance to ACF costing US$0.4 million
2/, for which no meaningful rates of return could be estimated because of the
predominance of non-quantifiable effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab Repu-
blic and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the text of the Reso-
lution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
63.       Features of the Development Credit Agreement of special interest
are referred to in paragraphs 47 to 55 and 64 of this Report.
1/   Of these, 135,000 consumers would receive fortified bread, and the rest
higher quality but unfortified bread.
2/   1975 prices.



- 23 -
64.       Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement provides the fol-
lowing additional conditions of effectiveness: (a) the conclusion of a Loan
Agreement between the Government and the Saudi Fund for an amount of US$11
million; (b) the Government's approval of YGGC's Charter satisfactory to IDA;
(c) the appointment of engineering consultants; and (d) the execution and
delivery of a subsidiary loan agreement between the Governmenf and the Central
Bank.
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed development credit would comply
with the Articles of agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
66.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed deve-
lopment credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments






ANNEX I
k'age . of 3
COUNTRY DATA - YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
AREA                                 POPULATION                        DENSITY
About 190,000 sq. km                 6.5 million (1975)                About 34 per sq. km.
Rate of growth : 2.4%
(1965-75)
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS                                  HEALTH
Crude birth rate   :   49 per 1,000 (est.)                  Population per physician (1974)
Infant Mortality   : 160 per 1,000 live births (est.)                      : 26,000
Life expectancy    : About 40-45 years (est.)               Population per hospital bed
(1974)            1,600
NUTRITION                                                   Widespread endemic and epidemic
diseases, particularly water-
Widespread malnutrition and protein deficiency,              borne diseases (bilharzia,
especially among children                                  worm diseases)
EDUCATION
Literacy rate                    About 10 percent
Primary school enrollment     : 228,000 (1974/75)
Secondary school enrollment   :   16,600 (1974/75)
1/
GNP PER CAPITA IN   1974   $120
OUTPUT AND LABOR FORCE (1973 est.) - GDP in US$ Million2/ GDP Percent    % of Labor Force
Agriculture                                  487                66            80-85
Industry                                      23                 3         About 1
Services                                     233                31            14-19
TOTAL              743              100              100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE (YR    Million)                    Actual                   Budget Esti8ate
70/71   71/72    72/73   73/74   74/75   74/7-5    75/76
Current revenues                       98      151     199     277     381      341      486
Current expenditures                  171      228     272     323     472      437      571
Current balance                       -73      -77     -73     =;Z     -9I     -96       -85
Capital expenditures                   83       56      57     139     239      372      425
(Expenditure financed by
external loans)3/               (83)     (56)    (57)   (126)   (170)    (277)    (237)
(Budget capital expenditure)         (        (       C--)    (13)    (69)     (95)    (188)
Overall balance                       156     -133    -130    -185     -330    -468     -3T5
Domestic financing                     37      -38      13     -32     -231     n.a      n.a
External financing                    119      171     117     250      603     n.a      n.a
(Commodity and Project loans)        (83)    (56)     (57)   (126)   (170)    (277)    (237)
(Cash loans)                         (36)     (59)     (1)    (15)    (44)    (n.a)    (n.a)
(Cash grants)                       (n.a)     (56)    (59)   (109)    (389)   (n.a)    (n.a)
Discrepancy                            -        -       -      -32      -42      -        -
1/ World Bank Atlas Methodology
2/ 1972 Constant Prices
3/ For 1970/71-1973/74 disbursements as recorded by the Central Bank. For 1974/75
and 1975/76 Central Planning Organization estimates have been used.



ANNEX I
Page 2 of 3
MONEY AND CREDIT (YR million, end of period)
1971    1972    1973     1974   June 1973  June 1974  June lf75
Money supply                276.9   402.3   531.8   707.9     471.3       612.0      959.5
Quasi money                  35.7    80.6   105.1   151.0     113.6       117.5      180.7
Credit to private sector     70.0   119.8   169.5   260.5     168.6       230.1      376.5
Net claims on Government   110.1    115.9   135.2   -17.6     116.2        84.2     -147.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (US$ Million)
July 1972/  July 1973/   July 1974
1970   1971   1972   1973    1974  June 1973   June 1974    June 1975
Exports                      5.8     6.4    6.8    8.8   11.6       7.4         13.8        12.9
Imports                     88.4    72.3  102.4  155.0  230.9    -118.9       -194.2       258.5
Balance of trade           -82.6   -65.9  -95.6 -146.2 -219.3    -111.5       -180.4      -245.6
Services and workers
remittances (net)         45.0    47.2   81,0  108.5  158.9      97.8        130.8       220.5
Commodity and cash grants    17.7    5.7   18.8   23.2   60.9       14.0        30.9        93.0
Balance in current account -19.9   -13.0    4.2  -14.5    0.5        0.3       -18.7        67.9
Non-monetary capital  1/     29.9   29.6   22.5   31.4    63.5      20.4        45.1         47.2
Increase in reserves         10.0   16.6   26.7   16.9   64.0      20.7         26.4       115.1
Of which with Central
Bank of Yemen              (6.2) (14.1) (20.1) (16.9) (69.4)     (17.4)      (33.9)       (98.8)
TOTAL RESERVES (June 30, 1975)   - US $189.5 Million 2/
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (recorded for 1969-74)   3/
Average US$ Million                Percent
Cotton                               2.6                          41.0
Coffee                               1.4                          22.0
Hides and skins                      0.7                          11.0
Qat                                  0.4                           6.0
Others                               1.3                          20.0
TOTAL                              6.4                         100.0
EXTERNAL DEBT (June 30, 1975)                    US$ Million
External public debt outstanding                    408.7
Of which:  disbursed                              252.0
Debt service payments - 1974/75                        4.6
Ratio of debt service to exports
of goods and non-factor services 1974/75           35.0
Ratio of debt service to exports of goods and
services (including Workers' Remittances)
1974/75                                         2.0
1/ Includes SDR allocations and errors and omissions.
2/ Excluding $53.9 million in blocked accounts with Central Bank of Egypt
3/ Only an estimated 50-60 percent of total export is recorded.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 3
RATE OF EXCHANGE                   IBRD/IDA LENDING
(as of March 31, 1976)
Through February 1973
US$ Million
US$1 - YR 5                                                       IBRD         IDA
YR 1 - US$0.20
Outstanding and disbursed           -        11.2
Undisbursed                                  72.4
Since February 1973                Outstanding including
undisbursed                                83.6
US$1 - YR 4.50
YR 1 - US$0.22
1/ No par value for the Yemen rial has yet been declared to the IMF. All exchange
transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate which has been pegged to the
US dollar since Februarv. 1973.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1976 - US$ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                      (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower       Purpose               IDA      Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways               7.7         4.0
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Tihama Agriculture    21.2/1      16.1
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic   Education             11.0        10.6
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply           6.3         4.5
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Industrial Estate      2.3         2.1
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Rural Development     10.0        10.0
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Highways              9.0          9.0
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic   Water Supply
and Sewerage        8.1          8.1
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic Education                8.0         8.0
Total                                             83.6         72.4
Of which has been repaid
Total now held by IDA                             83.6
Total undisbursed                                              72.4
/1   Including a Supplementary Credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1976)
IFC has made no investments in YAR.
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
A Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent was approved by the Executive
Directors in July 1971, to help finance, jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab
Economic Development, a team of planning and economic advisors. The team of
five advisors has helped establish the Central Planning Organization (CPO) which
is responsible for preparing a development program, devising general economic
policies, identifying and preparing investments projects, and coordinating ex-
ternal aid. The CPO is perhaps the most dynamic and active public sector or-
ganization in Yemen. The Executive Directors approved on September 11, 1973



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
a second Bank grant of US$200,000 equivalent to make possible the continuation
of the services of the planning team. The Kuwait Fund joined with a grant of
about US$300,000. In January 1976, the Bank approved a third grant of
US$120,000 to provide for the continuation of the services of a planning team
including those of a management/public administration expert. The Kuwait Fund
also joined with a grant of US$425,000.
D.   Prolects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 315-YAR - Highway; US$7.7 Million Credit of June 26, 1972; Effectiveness
Date: January 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
After long initial delays in the implementation of the project
arising from the lack of satisfactory response to construction bidding, the
Borrower has arranged for force account execution of the 69 km Taiz-Turba
road construction; the work started in March 1975 and is now progressing satis-
factorily. New consultants for the technical assistance component of the proj-
ect have been appointed. Most of the road and engineering equipment included
in the project has been delivered.
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; US$10.9 Million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and US$10.3 Million Supplementary Credit
of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: July 12, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The Tihama Development Authority, responsible for project execution,
was set up and two advisors (technical and financial) were appointed by end of
1973. Project consultants, appointed since April 1973, have completed designs
of six contracts, which have been awarded to local contractors. Engineering
designs and contract documents for the first of the two main civil works con-
tracts were recently completed, tendered internationally, and awarded; docu-
ments for the second are due for issue by March 1976. The Agricultural Credit
Fund (ACF) was legally established towards the end of 1974. The Credit Manager
and the Field Manager for the ACF have been appointed. Measures to increase
ACF's flexibility and its effectiveness have been recently taken. The overall
progress of the project remains about 18 months behind schedule. The total
cost of the Project is now estimated at $40.8 million compared with $17.5 mil-
lion at the time of initial appraisal. The Government asked the Association
and the Kuwait Fund for additional financing and a reappraisal mission visited
Yemen in September 1975. The Kuwait Fund approved in December, 1975 a supple-
mentary loan of KD 2.8 million and the Association approved on March 30, 1976
a US$10.3 million supplementary credit for the project.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the
understanding that they do not purport to present a balanced evalua-
tion of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; US$11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project encountered some initial delays due to difficulties in
recruiting qualified staff for the Project Unit and the UNDP/UNESCO Task Force.
All the principal posts in the Project Unit have, however, now been filled and
of the 24 positions envisaged for the Task Force, nine have now been filled,
and the arrival on post of a further seven experts, is expected shortly. The
delay of about eight months in project implementation is expected to be reduced
significantly as a result of measures being taken to expedite completion of
designs and educational programs. The design work for all project institu-
tions, with the exception of two upper secondary schools mentioned below and
the preparation of furniture and equipment lists are well advanced. A pro-
posed new structure for the Ministry of Education has been prepared by the
Task Force for consideration by the Government. The new structure would
include a directorate for primary education and a directorate for technical
and vocational training as required under the current Credit Agreement. These
arrangements are expected to be implemented shortly by the Government. The
Task Force is further working on the preparation of programs and curricula to
be adopted for the project institutions. In the further development of the
project, the Government and the Association are placing increased emphasis on
ensuring the availability of a sufficient number of qualified instructors for
all project institutions.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Water Supply Project; US$6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: June 10, 1978.
Contracts for all works under the project except for the drilling of
wells have been awarded and construction work has already begun. Good prog-
ress has been made in recruiting staff for the newly-established NWSA and for
operating the existing Sana'a water facilities. To meet the cost overruns of
about $3.5 million for this project the Government has already deposited the
equivalent amount with NWSA. The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; US$2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Tenders for civil works were received in the last week of October as
scheduled. The lowest bid was for more than double the appraisal estimate
which had been prepared in early 1973. This high cost is due to the unexpected
increase in building costs that has taken place since project appraisal. In
the light of this cost increase the Industrial Estate Development Authority
has agreed to proceed at this stage with the development of the site and the
construction of three factory buildings instead of seven as originally envis-
aged. Construction works started in February, 1976.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; US$10.0 million
Credit of May 3, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
The Development Credit was approved on May 6, 1975 and signed on
May 13, 1975. The Project Unit has been established and the Project Manager
has also been appointed.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; US$9.0 million of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The Development Credit was approved on June 17, 1975 and signed on
June 20, 1975. The contract for the construction of Taiz-Km 64 was signed on
July 1975. Construction works started in October 1975, for completion in
October/November 1976. The project is progressing satisfatorily.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$8.1 million
of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
The Development Credit was approved on June 17, 1975 and signed on
June 20, 1975. Consultants began work on final design on September 15, 1975.
Bids for the supply of materials are expected to be received in May, 1976.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; US$8.0 million of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The Development Credit was approved on February 10, signed on
February 13, 1976 and declared effective on May 10, 1976.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC - GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:            Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:              US$5.2 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Beneficiaries:       Yemen General Grain Corporation (YGGC) and private bakers.
Credit               The Government would be the borrower of both the IDA
Arrangements:       credit and the Saudi Development Fund Loan ($11 million).
The Agriculture Credit Fund (ACF) would be the lending
channel for all credits extended under the project. The
Government loan to ACF would bear an interest rate of 4
percent per annum for 20 years including a six-year grace
period. ACF would be the administrative channel for the
Government's equity contribution to YGGC (US$8.5 million)
and would provide medium and long-term loans to YGGC and to
private bakers (US$11.7 million). ACF would also serve as
administrative channel for the Government grant of US$0.9
million for the nutrition component. ACF's onlending rate
to YGGC and private bakers would be 9 percent per annum.
The repayment period for these sub-loans would vary ac-
cording to the item to be financed and would range between
five and fourteen years, including one to five years'
grace.
Project              The proposed project would form the first phase of a
Description:        long-term program to expand and improve Yemen's grain
handling, storage and processing systems. It aims to:
(a) curb grain storage losses;
(b) reduce handling and import costs;
(c) improve the sanitary conditions of the supply
of bread; and
(d) alleviate malnutrition and upgrade nutrition
standards.
In addition, provision of better bread would reduce in-
efficient home baking and decrease damaging deforestation.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 5
The proposed project would include:
(a) a 20,000 ton modern port silo in Hodeida with ship
unloading and bagging equipment;
(b) six regional warehouses with a total capacity of
18,000 tons;
(c) two Government operated bakeries, including small
whole grain flour mills to serve them with a cap-
acity of about 10 tons per day each;
(d) a bakery credit component to provide loans to
private sector bakers;
(e) a study to provide a nationwide storage investment
program based on a survey of existing grain storage
capacity and quality as well as on future production
and consumption trends by region;
(f) a nutrition component including bread fortification
with vitamins and minerals, nutrition promotion and
planning.
The project would also provide for the employment of en-
gineering consultants to assist in the design and con-
struction supervision of the silo, warehouses and Gov-
ernment bakeries; technical assistance to operate the
YGGC facilities and complement ACF staff; a training
program for key management and operational personnel of
the ACF; and extension services to private bakers.



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 5
Project Cost
Financing Arrangement:                      --------- US$ Thousands ----------
1/
Project Element              Estimated Cost               Source of Finance
Local  Foreign  Total      IDA   Saudi   Govt.  Private
Fund             Bakers
(a) Construction of silo      2,900     6,700   9,600    -      9,600   -        -
(b) Construction of
Warehouse                1,459    1,136   2,595     660    -     1,935      -
(c) Construction of
10-m Bakeries             665     1,360   2,025    -      1,400     625     -
(d) Small Bakery
Investments             1,140     2,240   3,380   1,350    -     1,350     680
(e) Technical Assistance to
( i)  YCGC 2/               110     1,880   1,990   2,300    -        240     -
(ii)  ACF 3/                140       410     550
4/
(f) Nutrition                     90      820     910     330    -        580     -
(g) Engineering and Con-        190       560     750     560    -        190     -
struction Supervision
of items (a), (b) and
(c)
TOTAL                   6,694   15,106  21,800   5,200  11,000   4,920    680
1/ Including physical and price contingencies
2/ Nationwide storage survey, experts for management of YGGC and extension
services to private bakers and training of YGGC staff abroad.
3/ Experts for management of ACF and training of staff abroad.
4/ Bread fortificants and experts and services for nutrition promotion and
planning.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 5
Financing Plan:
US$ Million (rounded)
Local    Foreign     Total
IDA Credit                            -       5.20        5.20
Saudi Fund                          2.90      8.10       11.00
Government of YAR                   3.10       1.80       4.90
Sub-Borrowers' Contribution         0.70       -          0.70
Total                     6.70     15.10      21.80
Estimated Disbursemements                     US$ Million
FY  1977   1978    1979   1980    1981   Total
Annual                     0.46   2.16   1.47    1.02    0.09   5.20
Cumulative                 0.46   2.62   4.09    5.11    5.20   5.20
Procurement          Silo and 10-ton Bakeries:  The silo (US$9.6 million) and
Arrangements:      two 10-metric ton bakeries (US$2.0 million would be pro-
cured by YGGC, assisted by the engineering consultants,
under international competitive bidding according to Saudi
Fund procedures. The silo facilities would be procured
under a turnkey contract since the civil works structures
need to be closely integrated with the mechanical-elec-
trical equipment. Small Equipment: Purchases of equip-
ment items or groups of items under the bakery credit
component would be made in small lots over the four-year
period of the project. They are expected to total about
US$900,000. They would be procured by the investors under
ACF's supervision on the basis of local competitive bid-
ding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. Minor "off
the shelf" items costing less than US$20,000 would also be
procured by the investors through existing commercial
channel under ACF's supervision. The total of such direct
procurement would be about US$600,000. Foreign suppliers
of goods and materials are well represented in YAR, neces-
sary service facilities are available, there are no im-
portant quotas or other import restrictions, competition
is keen and prices are competitive. Civil Works; The
regional warehouses (US$2.6 million) are simple structures
and consist mmainly of civil works. They as well as civil
works for the bakeries are dispersed throughout the country.
They would be constructed over a period of three to four
years and thus be unsuitable for grouping. Therefore, con-
tracts would be too small to be suitable for international



ANNEX III
Page 5 of 5
competitive bidding. YGGC and the bakers, under both IDA's
and ACF's supervision, would procure them under local bid-
ding procedures, which are satisfactory to IDA. Minor
construction related services costing less than US$20,000
would be contracted directly with qualified firms.    Con-
sultants' services would be procured in accordance with
IDA Guidelines.
Consultants:         An engineering consultant firm would be appointed to
prepare functional specifications for the silo struc-
ture and mechanical/electrical equipment layout as
well as detailed designs for the warehouses and 10-ton
bakeries. The firm would also prepare tender documents
and assist in bid evaluation (about 88 man-months).
Economic Rate of     The average economic rate of return on quantified project
Return:            components which account for 93 percent of total project
cost is estimated at 32 percent (for details see para. 61).
Appraisal Report:    "Appraisal of a Grain Storage and Processing Project-
Yemen Arab Republic"
No. 1057a-YAR
Date: May 6, 1976



BRD-11979
j6. ; -  IRAD <,   8  +,+                              Y E  E N  A R A B  R E P U B lEU ICFEBRUARY 1976
- IOTA                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~YEMEN ARAB RP
- '  X ,__  SAUDI    ARABIA   GRAIN STORAGE AND         PROCESSING PROJECT
t5z SA-DAR81A  >           wocn                             LOCATION
A          -t Et.llRATES  ,                                 .- .t  < N e , . :- n '  Waoehouses
AJOAA C  EART                    N                               Government Bakeries
<~~~~~>,ec,c  - 085..  /                 D~~~~~~~~~~~~~F-  S-11l Bakeries
J          N 9   > ~\  \  A - 4  20              Paved Roads
pSs'' iTiF 9-}  ,   '  1  0  u  <   2   --_  Paved Roads Under Construction
A1~~~ET$iiO5A\  - *~~~~~~~~  ({A.*  I ~~~~Otkev     Roads
_ : w -,-  0Eii                                     r /  /   [   /   J > 0  Not.oalt Cddol
D                      0   Citees, Tawns .nd VAI0s
--..~~~~~~~~~~                             -~~~~~~ ~ Cmstasms ~  Metei
'+1  Ined t  ternational  A,oorts
 } }   >I  Provincial Bounoories
<   A  \  l  Jo  o'  -. - - Interoational Boundor es
OC      4 0  I  0  80  10o
A i J A                                     &~~~~~~~~->COMETELRS
o      20    4 0    60
MILES
Liii>  4i>8- At2oA I    lR I B
EEI                                 YOO        0 WT H I O I
/                    /            414                                        4f
Al K-~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
I        PEOPLES LiDEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OFYME
ETHIOPIA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FPE'                                 EF
GUl F    OF   A IEN
F. T.A./
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1~A-
/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
14'                               46~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t  o d,iii~i,ri,,np t



