Report No. 1057a-YAR                                                            FILE  COPY
Appraisal of a Grain Storage and
Processing Project Yemen Arab Republic
May 6, 1976
Agricultural Credit and Agroindustries Division
Project Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY  EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1           = Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.5
YR1 1           = US$ 0.2222 = Bukshas 4o
YRls 1,000     = US$ 222.22
YRls 1,000,000 = US$ 222,222.22
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)           = 2.20 pounds
1 metric ton (m ton)      = 1,000 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)      = 0.98 long ton
1 centimeter (cm)         = 0.39 inch
1 meter (m)               = 1.09 yard
1 kilometer (km)          = 0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)            = 2.47 acres
1 square meter (m2)       = 10.76 square feet
1 square kilometer(km2)  = 0.384 square mile
1 liter (1)               = 0.264 gallon
ABBREVIATIONS
ACF       - Agriculture Credit Fund
CB        - Central Bank
CGC       - Cotton General Company
CPO       - Central Planning Organization
DWT       - Deadweight ton
LWL       - Length on waterline
MCH       - Maternity-Child Health
RCC       - Reinforced Concrete Construction
SURDEP    - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project
SURDU     - Southern Uplands Rural Development Unit
TDA       - Tihama Development Authority
TDP       - Tihama Development Project
WFP       - World Food Programme
WHO       - World Health Organization
YACB      - Yemen Agricultural Credit Bank
YAR       - Yemen Arab Republic
YBRD      - Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
YGGC      - Yemen General Grain Corporation
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



-UK UNFILAL uan VAJn>
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TABLE OF CONTENTS
MAIN TEXT
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .................................   i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION ............................................                 1
II.   GRAIN PRODUCTION, CONSUMPTION, PROCESSING AND MARKETING..                 2
A.   General  ............................................               2
B.   Grain Production, Consumption and Imports ...........               3
C.   Grain Storage   ......................................              6
D.   Grain Processing .......        ......................              7
E.   Grain Marketing             ....................................    7
F.   Transportation .......       ........................               8
III.    FUTURE TRENDS ...........................................                9
A.   Production, Consumption and Imports ....            ............    9
B.   Grain Handling and Storage Requirements ....            ........   10
C.   Bakeries ...........................................               10
IV.   THE PROJECT .............................................                11
A.   Objectives and Summary Descriptions ..............         ..      11
B.   Detailed Features ......          ............................     12
C.   Construction Schedule ......        .....................           6
D.   Cost Estimates .......         ..............................      17
E.   Financing           ..........................................     19
F.   Procurement            ........................................    20
G.   Disbursements .......         ...............................      21
H.   Environmental Impact ........ . . ...             ...........      21
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to yAR in
October/November 1975, consisting of Messrs. Heidhues, Nickel (IDA),
Ackels, Rahman (Consulants) and Gurney (WHO). Messrs. Crowley (USDA)
and Cooke and Peters (Consultants) assisted in the preparation of the
nutrition component.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)                                         Page No.
V.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT .............................      21
A.   YGGC Organization and Operation ....     ................  21
B.  Project Management .................................       22
C.   Credit Arrangements ................................      24
D.   Project Monitoring and YGGC Audit ....     ..............  27
E.   Project  Evaluation  .................................    27
F.   Retroactive Financing ..............................      28
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ..............................      28
A.   Financial  Results   ..................................   28
B.   Economic  Benefits   ..................................   28
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................      31
ANNEXES
1.  Grain Production, Consumption and Importation
2.  Grain Storage, Processing, Marketing and Transportation
3.  Regional Grain Balance
4.   Agricultural and Agroindusrial Credit
5.  Nutrition
6.   Summary Project Cost and Financial Results
7.  YGGC Guideline Organization and Operating Procedures,
YGGC Summary Tables and Organizational Chart
8.   Technical Assistance and Training Program
9.   20,000 m ton Port Silo
10.   Regional Warehouses
11.   Bakeries
12.  Time Schedule of Implementation
13.   Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursement
14.  ACF Project Cash Flow Statement
15.   General Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultants
16.  Terms of Reference for Grain Storage Study
17.   Terms of Reference for Nutrition
18.   Economic Rates of Return of Total Project and Components
Map IBRD 11979



SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project that aims to expand and improve the
grain importing, handling and storage capability of the Yemen Arab Republic
(YAR), reduce grain storage losses and import costs, improve sanitary condi-
tions of bread supply and alleviate malnutrition. The lack of efficient and
adequate facilities in YAR has resulted in port congestion, excessive import
costs and high grain storage losses as well as insanitary bread supply. Under-
nourishment and malnutrition are widespread in YAR. Fortified bread provided
to schools, hospitals and the poor under public feeding programs would reach
some of the most needy segments of the population. The nutrition education
and planning program aims to enhance the awareness of the population concern-
ing malnutrition and to assist the Government to develop a national nutrition
program.
ii.       The project would provide for (a) a 20,000 m ton (metric ton) modern
port silo in YAR's principal port Hodeidah with ship unloading and bagging
equipment of not less than 200 m ton per hour average operating rate; (b)
six regional warehouses with a total capacity of 18,000 m ton; (c) two
Government-operated bakeries, located in Sana'a (10 m ton/day) and Taiz (10 m
ton/day) including small whole grain flour mills to serve them, to provide
bread for schools, hospitals and public feeding programs; (d) a bakery credit
component to provide loans to private sector bakers for a 3-m ton/day bakery
in Hodeidah, and 1-m ton/ day bakeries in the country's major cities, and for
modernizing existing bakeries; (e) a study to provide a nationwide storage
investment program based on a survey of existing grain storage capacity and
quality and a projection of consumption and production trends by region; (f) a
nutrition component including bread fortification with vitamins and minerals,
a nutrition education and a nutrition planning program. The project would
also include the employment of engineering consultants by the Government to
assist in the design and construction supervision of the silos, warehouses and
Government bakeries; technical assistance to operate initially the facilities;
a training program for key management atd operational personnel of YGGC and
the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF); and extension service to private bakeries.
iii.      The YGGC would be set up under the Ministry of Supply as a semi-
autonomous, Government-owned enterprise to implement and operate the silo,
warehouses and two 10-m ton Government bakeries. The bakery credit component
would be implemented by the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) in cooperation
with YGGC.
IV.       The project would cost YRls 98.3 million (US$21.8 million) of which
69% or YRls 68 million (US$15.1 million) would be foreign exchange. The IDA
credit would finance US$5.2 million or 24% of total project cost. The Saudi
Fund would contribute US$11 million or 50% of the project cost. The Govern-
ment would provide about US$4.9 million and the remainder of US$0.7 million
would be financed by subborrowers.



- ii -
v.        The Government would be the borrower.  It would channel both the IDA
credit and the Saudi Fund loan through ACF. ACF would onlend the proceeds to
YGGC for the investments in the silo, warehouses and large bakery facilities,
and to private bakers for the construction of new and rehabilitation and modern-
ization of existing bakeries. The interest rate charged to the subborrowers
would be 9%.
vi.       The silo facilities, costing US$9.6 million, and the 10-m ton
bakeries, costing US$2.0 million, would be financed under parallel financing
arrangements by the Saudi Fund and the Government and would be procured on
the basis of international competitive bidding according to Saudi Fund rules.
The warehouses are simple structures, located in various parts of the country,
and consist mostly of civil works. They, as well as the civil works for small
bakeries, would be most suitable for local contractors and would be procured
under local bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. All other items
would be procured through existing commercial channels in accordance with
local bidding procedures. Consultants would be employed according to IDA
guidelines.
vii.      The project would result in a substantial reduction of import costs
and grain storage losses. Its economic rate of return is estimated at 32%.
It would save over US$200 million in foreign exchange over the project's
lifetime. About 65 full-time and 70 manyears part-time positions would be
created. With the establishment of the YGGC and the strengthening of ACF as
well as the training and technical assistance provided for in the project, a
major institution-building effort would be made. The project would make a
substantial contribution to better health through improvements in the food
supply and nutrition habits; an estimated 176,000 consumers, of which about
67,000 are welfare recipients or persons in schools and hospitals, would
obtain higher quality bread. Finally, the project would lead to a reduced
demand for firewood and thus decrease damaging deforestation of the country.
viii.     Having received adequate assurances on all important matters during
negotiations, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$5.2 million to
the Government of YAR on standard IDA terms.



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic has requested the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) to help finance a grain storage and
processing project to increase the efficiency of grain importing and handling,
expand much needed grain storage space, reduce grain storage losses and im-
prove both the quality of bread and the sanitary conditions of bread supply.
At present, bulk grain imports are handled without modern ship unloading
facilities and, as a consequence, substantial amounts of grain are lost due
to inefficient handling, theft, short weighing and rodent infestation. The
grain is stored under unsanitary conditions which result in additional infes-
tation and quantity losses of grain. With grain imports projected to rise
significantly over the next two decades, improvements in grain handling and
storage facilities have high priority. Bread is the population's main staple.
Investments in the bakery sector will help to improve the sanitary conditions
of bread supply and, together with the proposed bread fortification, contri-
bute to the improved health of YAR's population.
1.02      The total project cost is estimated at US$21.8 million (YRls 98.1
million) of which IDA would finance US$5.2 million (YRls 23.4 million).  The
project would be implemented by the Yemen General Grain Corporation (YGGC)
and the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF). The YGGC would be set up under the
Ministry of Supply as a semi-autonomous Government enterprise.
1.03      The proposed project would represent the third IDA credit for agri-
culture and agroindustries in Yemen. The first was for the Tihama Develop-
ment and the second for the Southern Uplands Rural Development project. ACF,
which was established in connection with both these projects, will be the
lending channel for the proposed IDA credit and Saudi Fund loan.
1.04      The need for additional modern grain storage and handling facilities
and improvements in the bakery sector was identified by an FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Programme mission in March/April 1975 1/. The project was further prepared by
a Bank mission with FAO/IBRD Cooperative Programme assistance in August 1975
and appraised in October/NIovember 1975 by Messrs. Heidhues and Nickel (Bank)
and Ackels and Rahman (Consultants) and Gurney (WHO).  Messrs. Crowley (USDA)
and Cooke and Peters (Consultants) assisted in the preparation of the nutri-
tion component.
1/   An industrial flour mill, originally proposed to be part of tne project,
did not prove to be economically viable, in view of continuing subsidized,
low priced EEC flour exports to YAR and large milling capacities presently
being installed in nearby Mliddle Eastern countries.



-2-
II. GRAIN PRODUCTION, CONSUMPTION, PROCESSING AND MARKETING
A. General 1/
2.01      YAR, with an area of 190,000 km2, has a total population of 6.5 mil-
lion and a resident population of 5.2 million. A substantial number of Yemenis
work in neighboring countries. The population is growing at an estimated an-
nual rate of 2.4% (7% in the urban and 2% in the rural areas) despite high
mortality. Infant mortality is estimated at 160 per 1,000 live births while
life expectancy is set at between 40 and 45 years. Infections, undernourish-
ment and nutrition deficiencies are cited as major causes of mortality, espe-
cially in infancy and early childhood.
2.02      Real GDP grew at an average of about 6' per annum during 1969-74.
GDP growth, depending largely on agricultural production, fluctuates heavily
w[th weather conditions. Agriculture represents the major sector in the YAR
economy, accounting for approximately 70% of the country's GDP and employing
over 80% of the resident population. During the last five years agricultural
production grew at an average 7% annually and cereal production at 13% reflect-
ing high rainfall and good harvests in 1973 and 1974. Although agriculture
remains essentially subsistence-based, it provides over 90% of relatively
small national export earnings from such items as cotton, coffee, hides and
skins. In 1974, cotton and cottonseed accounted for 60% and coffee for 10% of
total merchandise export value. Food imports, nearly half of which were
cereals, accounted for about 50% of the total import value.
2.03      The land area of Yemen totals approximately 20 million ha of which
1.5 million ha are cultivated with an additional 2.0 million ha kept fallow,
to be brought into production given sufficient pre-planting rainfall. Most
of the cropped area is classified as rainfed, with only 230,000 ha (15%)
being under some form of supplementary irrigation from wells, perennial
springs or periodic wadi floods. Climatic conditions vary widely, and micro-
climatic differences are locally import'nt because of variable mountainous
topography. Rainfall is erratic, and annual variations influence crop pro-
duction by affecting not only per hectare yields but also utilization of
rainfed and marginal cropland. Normally the major rains occur in July-
September with minor rains occurring in March-May. On the basis of rainfall,
altitude and crop-livestock pattern, five main agricultural zones can be
distinguished in the country: (a) The Coastal Belt of the Tihama; (b) the
Western Slopes; (c) the Central and Southern Uplands including most of the Taiz
and Ibb Provinces; (d) the Intermontane Plains; and (e) the Eastern Slopes.
Available data on land use, agricultural production, prices and production
value are given in Annex 1, Table 1.
1/   For further discussion of YAR's economy see Current Economic Position
and Prospects of the Yemen Arab Republic, IBRD Report No. 840-YAR.



-3-
2.04      Although to date no long-run development plan has been prepared for
Yemen, the following were cited in the first three-year program (1973/74-1975/
76) as the Government's major objectives for the agricultural sector: (a) an
annual increase in agricultural production of not less than 6%, and the devel-
opment of the necessary agricultural storage, processing and marketing facil-
ities; (b) achievement of self-sufficiency in the long run in the basic food-
stuiffs with particular emphasis given to cereal crops, oils, vegetables and
livestock production; (c) improvement of the trade balance through the increase
of exports, especially cotton, hides and skins, fresh and canned fish, vege-
tables and fresh fruits; (d) improvement of the dietary standard of the popu-
lation; and (e) provision of credit and supporting extension, marketing and
input distributional infrastructure for agricultural producers, especially the
smaller farmers. While progress in establishing an agricultural credit system
and extension services is encouraging, the first three objectives appear to be
too optimistic. Particularly the target growth rate for agricultural production
as well as self-sufficiency in cereals are unrealistic targets for the fore-
seeable future (see also paras. 2.07 and 3.01 to 3.04). The importance of the
agricultural sector is certainly recognized; however, YAR's capacity to imple-
ment successful programs is hampered by (1) inexperience in systematic program-
ming, (2) lack of institutional infrastructure, and (3) a weak resource base
offering limited opportunities for growth. The Government is quite appro-
priately concentrating its efforts on overcoming institutional weaknesses and
improving the supply of all basic agricultural inputs (farm equipment, fertil-
izers, seeds, extension service) in an attempt to modernize the sector and
increase productivity.
B. Grain Production, Consumption and Imports
2.05      Production:  Total annual cereal production ranged between 1.1 and
1.3 million m ton during the 1970/71 to 1973/74 period; it rose to 1.98 million
m ton in the high rainfall year 1974/75. Sorghum and millet, displaying high
drought resistance, represent the principal grain crops, accounting for an
average of 75%-80% of total grain production. Barley, wheat and maize requiring
higher levels of moisture, cover the balance of cereal production. Production
limitations have resulted in wide fluctuations in annual production and low
productivity (Annex 1, paras 2.1-2.5).
2.06      Production Organization and Technology.  Farming systems vary re-
gionally according to climate, soil characteristics and water availability.
Holdings range between 0.25 and 10.0 ha, varying in size with region and de-
gree Qf non-rainfed culture; in areas where cultivation remains rainfed-based
and extensive in nature, holdings generally fall in the upper portion of the
range. The great proportion of total cultivated land area remains under the
control of large individual farmers, or sheikhs, and, to a lesser extent,
State and religious institutions, which generally lease part or all of their



- 4 -
land under sharecropping arrangements. Under these arrangements the tenant is
expected to supply required family and bullock labor input and the landlord
the full cost of hired labor. Procedures for further cost and income division
between landowners and tenants differ widely, depending upon the particular
crop cultivated as well as the availability and method of supplementary irri-
gation. In most cases, material input costs, zakat 1/, and net production are
divided between the tenant and landowner in fixed proportion, with the ten-
ant' s share raniging from 25% on well-irrigated to 50% on rainfed land. These
arrangements, in most cases, appear equitable.   Even though most annual
tenure arrangements are verbally established, tenant evictions appear rare.
Women and children actively participate in farm operations. Family labor
remains the primary source of manpower in farm operations; it is supplemented
by hired workers usually only in peak harvesting periods. The level of tech-
nology is traditional and utilization of modern production inputs at present
negligible. Utilization of chemical fertilizers, improved seed varieties, and
pesticides is in the main circumscribed to those areas having guaranteed water
supplies either through high annual rainfall or supplementary irrigation facil-
ities. Soil nutrient replenishment is essentially limited to the application
of manures. Research and extension services are presently minimal, and those
that have been initiated are in the formative stages.
2.07       Production Constraints.  Water availability at planting time apppears
to be the governing parameter of hectarage planted to cereals, and water avail-
ability during the growing season the principal determinant of per hectare
yields. In the low rainfall years, 1970/71 to 1973/74, the area planted with
cereal crops declined from 1.56 to 1.19 million ha; however, with increased
rainfall in 1974/75, cereal area rose to 2.25 million ha as marginal land was
brought back into production, mainly for sorghum and millet cultivation. Con-
siderable efforts to increase grain productivity are concentrated on the in-
troduction of suitable high-yield varieties, particularly cross breeds of
exotic strains with local varieties more adapted to agroclimatic conditions
in YAR, and increased consurmption of chemical fertilizers and pesticides.
However, serious constra?nts are likely to limit a major expansion of grain
production:  (a) vagaric3 in rainfall affect yields, hectarage planted and
risk levels associated with innovation adoption; (b) the limitations imposed
on chemical fertilizer use to terrace cultures because of possible toxin build-
up in inter-field irrigation drainage flows; (c) limited scope for hectarage
expansion especially in the high rainfall, highly productive Taiz and Ibb Gov-
ernorates; (d) the substitution of cereal hectarages by more profitable cash
crops, .particularly with increasing tube well irrigation; and (e) the lack of
a cc¶mpetent country-wide extension service, adequate seed multiplication facil-
ities and supportive transportation infrastructure (Annex 1, paras. 2.6-2.13).
Consumption.  Total annual cereal consumption 2/ averaged 1.5 mil-
lion n tLjn during 1969/71 to 1973/74 equivalent to a per capita consumption of
292 kg per annum. The -Laple food group in the Yemeni diet is cereals with
W/   Tax .naounting to 10% of production.
2/   'Includ3s direct huraan corls-lmption, agricultural and industrial uses and
Losses.



5-
approximately 75% of average caloric and 72% of protein intake derived from
the consumption of cereal-based food items. Per capita direct human cereal
consumption averages about 400 grams per day or 146 kg per annum. Wholegrain
local flat bread is the principal basis of all meals and often represents
the sole food consumed at a meal. Direct human cereal consumption for most
income groups is expected to increase with rising incomes.
2.09      Nutritional Status.  Although there is little statistical data
available on the nutritional status of people in Yemen, the few studies and
nutrition-related indices all point to malnutrition as a major problem.
Protein-calorie malnutrition (PCM) is extremely widespread amongst preschool
children, 14% are severely malnourished while only about 10-20% exhibit normal
growth. High mortality rates in Yemen also point to serious levels of malnu-
trition. The average mortality rate among children below 15 years of age is
reported to be 46%; about 76% of these children die before they reach two
years of age. Infant mortality is 160 per 1,000 live births and 92 per 1,000
for children 1-4 years. FAG food balance sheets of 1964-66, although now out
of date, provide supporting evidence that food consumption has been hazar-
dously low. According to FAO, food consumption in Yemen has provided an
average daily intake of only 1,900 calories and 58 grams of protein (compared
with 2029 calories and 55 grams of protein on average in Iran; and 2,541
calories and 64 grams of protein in Brazil). In addition to the problem of
inadequate food consumption, surveys indicate that Yemeni people suffer from
widespread deficiencies of certain vitamins and minerals. Vitamin A defi-
ciency has been reported in a number of surveys and night blindness, result-
ing from this deficiency, is common in Yemen. Vitamin C deficiency which
causes scurvy among young children is also widespread. Rickets resulting from
vitamin D deficiency is prevalent throughout the country. In the Taiz region,
rickets was found in 17% of the children 6 months to 4 years of age; in one.
village 59% of the children 1-2 years of age had signs of rickets. Symptoms
of niacin and riboflavin deficiencies were reported among school children and
iron deficiencies resulting in anemia was reported in both pre-school and
school age children. Although it seems evident that the major nutrition
problem in Yemen is lack of food, particularly among infants and young
children, it is also clear that the population is suffering badly from
lack of many important vitamins and minerals.
2.10      Imports.  Commercial imports of all cereals averaged approximately
105,000 m ton annually over the 1969/70-1973/74 period or about 7% of total
cereal supply.   Predominant cereal imports were wheat grain and wheat flour
with annual import quantities varying in response to shortfall in domestic
supply; determined by the domestic crop success. Cereal imports more than
doubled during the 1969/70-1973/74 period while the value of such commodities
increased more than four-fold reflecting major hikes in world grain prices.
Baking' quality and blend palatability, as well as long established trade rela-
tions seem to determine preference for the harder, more expensive white wheats,
especially from Australia, and for low priced, soft winter wheat flour from EEC



-6-
sources. Imports have on the average entered the YAR port of Hodeidah in the
grain-flour ratio of 2:1, paralleling reported mixing preferences of whole
grain and white flour utilized in home baked bread preparation. Data on
cereal grants-in-aid are fragmentary and incomplete. Average quantities
Deceived under aid programs have been estimated at 62,000 m ton per year
during 1969/70-1973/74, representing about 4% of YAR's total cereal supply.
Several multinational and bilateral organizations participate in assistance
to the YAR. The volume of these grants varies directly, but inversely, with
domestic crop success.
2.11      Prices.  Farm prices for grain commodities in Yemen are relatively
high compared with international prices and fluctuate heavily. Contrary to
imported cereals the Government exerts no effective price control over the
domestically produced grain (see also para. 2.17). The spread between actual
farm prices and eventual consumer prices for domestic grain is reportedly
sizable as is the post-harvest price buildup throughout the year. Farm gate
prices for sorghum ranged from a low of US$31/m ton to a high of US$460/m ton
during 1974/75. At the retail level, white sorghum prices were US$345/m ton
before the harvest and were expected to bottom out eventually at US$173/m ton
after the harvest.
C. Grain Storage
2.12      YAR needs both additional adequate grain storage facilities and
significant improvements in grain storage management and sanitary standards.
In rural areas grain is usually stored in large petroleum drums for current
needs and in sealed earthern pits, called "madfans," for long-term storage to
cover future requirements and potential crop failures. Only in a few areas,
where rainfall is low and the drainage system consisting of a layer of sand
and crop stubble functions properly, is the madfan a satisfactory storage
facility; its low internal temperature inihibits insect reproduction and activ-
ity and the anaerobic atmospheric environment discourages aerobic microflora
proliferation. Commercialized domestic grain, zakat collections and imported
cereals are typically handled in bags and stored in flat warehouses or store-
rooms. Zakat commodities often are also placed in madfans, especially at
intermediate distribution points. Although major grain merchants as well as
the Government own some good, relatively new, warehouse space, most of the
grain storage is improperly managed and insanitary. Particularly Government
owned grain, often stored in rented madfans and various small stores, suffers
significant losses due to infestation, moisture and rodents. Based on spot
checks in YAR and experience in other countries losses have been estimated to
average about 3% of grain stored. Data on the total capacity of satisfactory
space are not available. Most of it is owned by private merchants and located
in urban centers; the Government owns two new warehouses of a total capacity
of 5,000 m ton in Sana'a. Outside Sana'a the lack of suitable storage
space has limited the Government's ability to collect zakat in kind an'  s-
tribute it during the year under its institutional and social feeding r -
grams.  Bakeries typically maintain some space for cereal storage but  jsn



-7-
often have improperly managed stocks and unhygienic facilities. As yet no
modern grain silo yet exists in Yemen.
D. Grain Processing
2.13      Milling.  There is no modern flour mill in YAR.  In the more geo-
graphically remote areas, women manually stone grind the grain into whole grain
flour. Many larger villages and most urban centers have commercial, power-
driven, stone buhr mills for custom grinding for commercial bakeries as well
as nearby private consumers. Because grain is rarely cleaned before proces-
sing, flour often contains significant quantities of ground foreign matter.
Total milling capacity presently is adequate and expansion is expected to
parallel demand.
2.14      Baking.  Although most of the bread consumed in Yemen is homemade, a
large quantity, especially in urban areas, is prepared in commercial bakeries.
Total bread consumption in YAR is estimated at about 2,000 m ton per day
(flour basis) of which the existing commercial bakeries produce about 190 -
200 m ton, or roughly 10%. The majority of these commercial units have a
daily capacity of 0.5 - 1.0 m ton (flour basis) and are equipped with brick
hearth ovens fired by diesel oil or wood.  Private bakeries are increasingly
engaging in custom baking of homeprepared dough. The total number of commer-
cial bakeries in the YAR is estimated at between 220 and 230. Army garrisons
in urban centers typically maintain large-scale bakeries to supply in addition
to personnel rations, about 20 m ton bread for government-sponsored school and
hospital feeding programs, as well as charity distribution programs. Prin-
cipal problems encountered in the YAR bakery sector are (a) unsanitary con-
ditions, (b) improperly maintained plants, (c) inadequate storage space for
supplies, and (d) inefficient stock and operational management.  Homebaking,
which has contributed to damaging deforestation, is declining because of the
high cost of wood that is used as fuel, and the inconveniences and health
hazards of homebaking. Also, increasing urbanization supports the trend
towards consumption of bakery produced bread. However, switching to bakery
bread has been held back by the bakeries' failure to supply bread of the
homemade type, which is the local flat or kudam bread based on a whole grain
and white flour mixture.
E. Grain Marketing
2.15      Domestic Grain.  About 85% of the domestic crop remains on the farms
for subsistence, for animal feed and as seed and therefore fails to enter the
commercial market. Approximately 11% of the average crop moves interregionally
(Annex 3). Merchants acquire the grain at the lowest prices they can negotiate
at harvest time, and subsequently store and distribute stocks at constantly in-
creasing prices during the post harvest season. A large quantity of the grain
supply, inclusive of imported volume, is sold in full bag lots directly mostly
to urban households at wholesale prices.



-8-
2.16      Imported Grain.  Five importers dominate the commercial market for
imported cereals with the largest covering 50% to 60% of the market. These
larger importers also serve as agents for smaller buyers who are primarily
wholesalers. The large importers collect small purchase orders, combine items
into economical lots, negotiate prices with foreign suppliers and arrange ship-
ping. The absence of centralized controls over the volume and seasonal distri-
bution of imported cereals as well as the ease by which import licenses and
foreign exchange purchase authorizations are obtained have resulted in large
fluctuations in available supplies and considerable price volatility.
2.17      Government Activities in the Cereal Sector.  The Ministry of Finance
collects the zakat and customs duties on commercial cereal imports, predomi-
nantly in kind, at a rate of 5%, and administers the distribution of grants-
in-aid grain imports. Periodically, the Ministry of Supply issues and monitors
price ceilings for imported wheat and flour, at the wholesale and retail levels.
The price control system for imported wheat and flour is reasonably effective.
The quasi-governmental Yemen Foreign Trade Company imports small volumes of
food commodities duty-free and sells them in accordance with Ministry of Sup-
ply price guidelines; it also handles the importing of grain under grants-in-
aid credits. Cereal stocks accumulated by the Government from zakat and cus-
toms duty collections and grants-in-aid, averaging 75,000-79,000 m ton per
annum, are utilized in public feeding programs for army personnel, school
children, hospital patients, certain public servants and charity recipients,
or sold in the market.
F. Transportation
2.18      Internal Transportation.  There are no railroads in Yemen and all
internal transportation is by motor vehicles where satisfactory roads exist,
otherwise by animals. A triangular, largely hard-surfaced road network
connects liodeidah, Taiz and Sana'a. About 460 long-haul vehicles of 10-15 m
ton capacity are available to transport grain from the port of Hodeidah while
another 50 vehicles of 5-15 m ton capacity are based in Mokha primarily to
service the Taiz area.   Present transportation capacity appears adequate and
supply is responsive to increases in demand. Freight rates are set by the
Ministry of Economy.
2.19      Handling of Imports.   The principal port in the country is Hodeidah
handling about 87% of YAR's total cargo and 86% of its dry bulk imports.
Ilodeidah enjoys several comparative advantages as a port facility over two
other sites, Mokha and Salif: (a) Hodeidah is an established urban area com-
plete with supportive infrastructure; (b) the port is conveniently situated
with relatively satisfactory road links with the majority of other urban
centers, (c) Hodeidah does not encounter major silting problems experienced in
Mokha alid, with the completion of present dredging operations, should be able
to handle vessels of up to 20,000 DWT. Hodeidah presently has three functional
berths one of which is shallow draft. A contract has recently been concluded
'7ith the USSR to construct a fourth berth, 165 m in length, to be completed
in 1976.



-9-
2.20      Present unloading operations are inefficient and time consuming.
Manual unloading of grain within the ships' holds, emptying grain-filled
slings on to the quay apron, and subsequently handbagging to about 50 kg
"catch" weight, aggravate the inadequacy of present berth space and thus
result in further port congestion. Under present conditions, a 10,000 m
ton ship requires about ten days for unloading. In October, 1975, a ship's
waiting time averaged about four days, a situation expected to worsen given
the resumption of normal traffic through the recently reopened Suez Canal
and the corresponding increase in the number of visiting ships, generally
of smaller tonnage for short-medium hauls, from European ports.
III. FUTURE TRENDS
A. Production, Consumption and Imports
3.01      Production.  The present total land area under cereals, ranging
between 1.3 and 1.9 million ha depending upon rainfall, will at best remain
unchanged (see Annex 1, paras 2.7 to 2.13). In view of production constraints
discussed in para 2.07 above grain production is expected to average an annual
growth rate of 1.5% and to reach about 1.5 million m ton by 1980 and 1.7 mil-
lion m ton by 1990 (Annex 1, Table 10).
3.02      Consumption.  The most important factor affecting future demand for
cereals in Yemen will be population growth. The population is at the present
time growing at an estimated average rate of 2.4%, 7% in urban and 2% in
rural areas, despite high mortality. The high mortality rate is likely to
decline substantially over the next decade in response to health-sanitation
related programs, with no corresponding reduction foreseen in the present high
birth rate. As a result the present population growth rate is expected to rise
gradually to 3% per annum by 1990 (Annex 1, paras 3.4 to 3.9).
3.03      Given present low per capita income levels, the income elasticity
of demand for cereals is assumed at approximately 0.5, a coefficient in line
with estimates for economies at similar stages of development and displaying
comparable consumption patterns. Together with an expected real income
growth of 4% per annum up to 1980 and 5% thereafter, total grain consumption
has been projected to increase to 1.8 million m ton by 1980 and 2.7 million
m ton by 1990 (Annex 1, paras 3.10-3.11 and Table 10).
3.04      Imports.  Based on the projections presented above concerning
cereal consumption/production, domestic supply shortfall for cereals in
1976 is-estimated to increase from a total of 199,500 m ton or 12.6% of pro-
jected cereal consumption to 347,300 m ton or 19% of consumption in 1980,
and 1,031,800 m ton or 37% of consumption one decade later. Assuming that
cereals will be acquired from foreign sources in approximate conformity
with the 2:1 grain-flour ratio observed on average in the past, flour im-
ports into Yemen are projected to total 66,500 m ton in 1976 and to rise to
roughly 343,000 m ton by 1990 (Annex 1, Table 10).



- 10 -
B. Grain Handling and Storage Requirements
3. 05     With the projected rise in grain imports, the problems of significant
grain losses due to inefficient handling and short weighing, high import costs
stemming from demurrage charges and high freight rates, and finally in-port
congestion will be aggravated. A port silo and ship unloading facilities are
needed to increase grain handling efficiency.   They are designed to reduce
the ship turn-around time to about two days for the 10,000 m ton cargo ships
that presently call on Hodeidah and to about three days for the 14,000 m ton
ships that are expected to call on HIodeidah once the port's depth has been
dtedged to 14 m in 1976. A silo with a 20,000 m ton capacity would be suf-
ficient for short-term transfer storage of import volumes expected up to
1990.
3.06      The total amount of new inland grain storage required in the future
and its location can only be determined on the basis of a more comprehensive
country-wide grain storage study taking into account existing storage capacity
and quality, and a projection of production and consumption trends by region.
Ilowever, obvious shortages in storage capacity have been determined and re-
quire immediate correction. Private storage space in the urban centers has
proved of insufficient scale to handle large Government-acquired stocks or was
unavailable on a sufficiently long-term basis to accommodate these quantities.
Faced with these storage difficulties, the Government has often in the past
resorted to inefficient maintenance of its stock in scattered facilities and
to frequent shipments of supplies to satisfy short-term needs. To cover the
Government's most urgent present and future needs up to 1980, six warehouses
of a total capacity of 18,000 m ton are necessary: 5,000 m ton in Ibb; 5,000
m ton in Hodeidah; 3,000 m ton in Sana'a; 2,000 m ton in Damar; 1,000 m ton
in Saada; and 2,000 m ton in Hajja. This additional warehouse space is
immediately required to store about 12,000 m ton of Zakat, mostly collected
once a year at harvest time and distributed evenly during the year, and about
43,000 m ton of customs duties and grants-in-aid cereals received relatively
regularly during the year (Annex 2, para 6).
3.07      Grain Stabilization.  For the near term the Government has no
plans to intervene actively in the domestic grain market or to maintain
buffer supplies of cereal foods to help bridge shortfalls. Ilith increasing
grain demand and imports in the future, as well as rising use of modern
farm inputs, the need for Government intervention will become increasingly
necessary to avoid shortfalls, stabilize prices and encourage productivity
of grain production. Should at some time in the future the Government decide
to become more active in the grain market, the YGGC, to be established under
the project, could be readily expanded along with facilities to take over this
responhsibility.
C. Bakeries
3.08      Government Feeding Programs.  The volume of bread for Goverr   t
feeding programs, which is largely produced in army bakeries, is expecced



- 11 -
to increase to about 26 m ton per day by 1980 (Annex 2, Table 2). Since the
bread is currently made under unsanitary conditions, rendering it at times
unsuitable for human consumption, modern bakeries are necessary to supply
bread produced under hygienic conditions. The bread would be enriched
with vitamins and minerals (para. 4.14).
3.09      Commercial Bakeries.  To achieve the Government's objectives in
the bakery sector of reducing homebaking and improving sanitation, invest-
ments are necessary to build new bakeries and to rehabilitate existing ones,
together with technical assistance on maintenance, sanitation and bread baking
according to the public's preferences. New bakeries will be necessary to
supply bread for expected increased demand of more than 7% per annum as a
result of both reduced homebaking and population growth (Annex 2, Table 2).
They would also serve as demonstration units for bakery extension agents in
their efforts to upgrade existing bakeries. At present there exists no
institutional source of investment credit for bakery construction and rehabil-
itation. Although the Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD)
does extend loans and advances of a short-term nature primarily for internal
and foreign trade and for industrial activities of private as well as public
sector enterprises, the institution to date has not provided credit funding
for small-scale bakery modernization as envisaged under the project. Bakers
indicated a need for credit for rehabilitation and expansion investments and
expressed keen interest in borrowing medium- and long-term funds for such
purposes.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
4.01      The project forms the initial phase of a long-term program to expand
and improve YAR's grain handling, storage and processing system. It aims to
(a ) curb grain storage losses; (b) reduce handling and import costs; (c) im-
prove the sanitary conditions of the supply of bread - the population's main
staple food; and (d) alleviate malnutrition and upgrade nutrition standards
through bread fortification and nutrition education. Provision of better bread
would also reduce inefficient home baking and decrease damaging deforestation.
In establishing a Yemen General Grain Corporation (YGGC) the project would
also create the institutional framework for a possibly more active role of the
Government in grain marketing at some time in the future.
4.02      The project would include:
(a) a 20,000 m ton modern port silo in YAR's principal port
Hodeidah with ship unloading and bagging equipment;
(b) six regional warehouses with a total capacity of 18,000 m ton;
(c) two Government operated bakeries, including small whole grain flour
mills to serve them, of a capacity of about 10 m ton/day each;



- 12 -
(d)  a bakery credit component to provide loans to private sector
bakers;
(e)  a study to provide a nationwide storage investment program
based on a survey of existing grain storage capacity and
quality as well as on future production and consumption trends
by region;
(f)  a nutrition component including bread fortification with vitamins
and minerals, nutrition promotion and nutrition planning.
The project would also provide for the employment of engineering consultants by
the Government to assist in the design and construction supervision of the
silo, warehouses and Government bakeries; technical assistance to operate
the facilities initially ; a training program for key management and operational
personnel of YGGG and ACF; and extension service to private bakeries.
4.03      The YGGC would be established under the Ministry of Supply as a semi-
autonomous, Government-owned enterprise to implement and operate the silo,
warehouses and two 10-m ton Government bakeries. The bakery credit component
would be implemented by the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF) in cooperation with
YGGC. ACF would also be the lend,ig channel for all credits to YGGC.
B. Detailed Features
Hodeidah Port Silo
4.04      The silo would be a transfer port silo with a storage capacity of
20,000 m ton. Its capacity would be sufficient to handle the grain imports
expected in 1980 in ten turnovers per year. Because import volumes are
projected to rise rapidly, site selection and construction plans would take
into account the possibility of adding silo bins in the future without expen-
sive alterations of, and additions to, the head house and conveyor system. The
storage bins and head house would be constructed of poured reinforced concrete
by the slip-form method. Silo foundations would be pile-supported. The basic
grain handling systems would have a full rated handling capacity of 400 m ton
per hour and would produce not less than an average operating output of 200 m
ton per hour for rapid discharge of import shipments. Three elevators would
receive the grain, move it internally, and transport it to the packing system.
The elevators would be arranged so that any one of the three could be used for
any one of these transport functions. The silo would have cleaning, weighing
and bagging facilities, the latter with an average capacity of about 200 m ton
per hour. The grain would be discharged in bags for storage and distribution
within the country. A small warehouse would be able to hold 1000 m ton of
bagged grain. A 1000 m2 building would house offices, a maintenance shop,
storerooms for parts and supplies, a grain grading laboratory and employee
facilities.



- 13 -
4.05      The site selected by the Government for the silo facilities is a 200
m x 200 m parcel in the Hodeidah port 1/ located immediately adjacent and per-
pendicular to the site for berth No. 5. The site would allow for expansion of
the silo and construction of grain processing facilities should they be needed
at a later stage. Berth No. 4 would be used for bulk grain unloading. It is
scheduled to be completed by the end of 1976 under a contract signed with the
USSR.  One 5-m ton and one 10-m ton capacity crane already purchased by the
Hodeidah Port Authority, would be used to discharge bulk grain into the receiv-
ing hoppers on the apron. The cranes will be equipped with clam shell grain
buckets which would be procured with the cranes. An underground and a cross
conveyor system would transport the grain to the silo.
4.06      Berth No. 5 is tentatively planned for construction in 1982 and is
expected to become eventually the bulk grain receiving berth. In that case,
only the conveyor system would have to be moved from berth No. 4 to No. 5.
Regional Warehouses
4.07      Six regional Government warehouses of a total capacity of 18,000 m
ton would be built to cover the most urgent storage needs: 5,000 m ton in
Hodeidah, 5,000 m ton in Ibb, 3,000 m ton in Sana'a, 2,000 m ton in Damar,
2,000 m ton in Hajja and 1,000 m ton in Saada. In all places sufficient land
is available; four sites have already been selected and all sites would be
acquired within three months of the proposed credit's effectiveness. Site
acquisition would also be a condition of disbursement for warehouse construc-
tion. Warehouse sites and design would allow for future expansion as well as
sound warehouse management including sanitation and fumigation. Space would
be provided on the basis of 0.6 m2 per m ton. The warehouses would have grade
level concrete floors and the handling of the grain would be labor intensive.
While the detailed design work would be done by the engineering consultants,
the structure is expected to have concrete frame and floor, concrete-block
curtain walls, prefabricated wood roof-support structure and metal roofing.
Bakeries
4.08      Two 10-m ton (flour basis) bakeries (in Sana'a and Taiz) would be
built to produce bread for the Government's feeding programs in schools and
hospitals and for the poor. The bakeries would be owned and operated by
YGGC; they would be modern, semi-autonomous conventional systems with multi-
deck peel ovens allowing the baking of European-style, Kudam, and the local
flat-type breads. They would be housed in new buildings and properly de-
signed to facilitate cleanliness and hygiene. A small whole grain flour
mill-, equipped with grain cleaning machinery would be installed in each
10-m ton bakery.
4.09      One 3-m ton and nine 1-m ton commercial bakeries would be financed
under the bakery credit to produce bread for the Government feeding programs
and for retail sales. Production contracts for about 3 m tons of bread daily
1/   See preliminary silo layout Annex 9, Chart 1.



- 14 -
in Hodeidah and for about 1 m ton in each of the cities of Ibb, Damar and
Saada would be awarded to private bakeries on the basis of competitive bid-
ding procedures according to guidelines and quality, nutrition and sanitary
standards established by YGGC. All project bakeries would be established
under the technical direction of YGGC's bakery extension agents and would
serve as demonstration units for the improvement of existing bakeries. 'They
would have simple equipment and be relatively labor-intensive.
4.10      A bakery rehabilitation fund of US$1 million (1975 prices), also
handled by ACF, would provide loans to an estimated 50 bakers in all parts of
the country for modernization and sanitation improvements of existing facilities.
Eligible for financing would be items such as new ovens, mixers, oven heating
units, fermentation cabinets, sanitary bread cabinets, utility installations
and building improvements.  Upgrading and maintenance of the facilities in
accordance with acceptable sanitary standards would be conditions of the loan.
Bakery extension agents would assist in planning improvements, formulating the
technical aspects of the loan application, training personnel, and supervising
technical compliance with the agreements.
4.11      During negotiations, assurances were obtained on the project features
as described in paras 4.03 through 4.10.
Technical Assistance and Training Program
4.12      YAR has only a limited availability of technical and specialized
management competence to implement and operate the proposed facilities. The
project would provide for a major institution building effort both in estab-
lishing YGGC and in expanding and strengthening ACF, the latter in coordina-
tion with the proposed Livestock Credit and Processing project. It would pro-
vide YGGC and ACF with adequate services of expatriate experts, part-time
consultants and foreign and "in-house" training of local counterpart staff
(see also para 5.07).
Storage Study
4.13      Qualified consultants would be appointed by YGGC to conduct a study
to provide a nationwide grain storage investment program. Assurances to this
effect were obtained during negotiations. General terms of reference for the
consultants appear in Annex 16.
Nutrition Component
4.14      Bread Fortification.  Through the introduction of a nutrition compo-
nent, the project provides the opportunity to improve the nutritional status
of Government and commercial bread recipients. The nutrition components in-
clude bread fortification, nutrition promotion as well as provision for nutri-
tion research and planning studies. Bread fortification through Government
feeding programs would reach approximately 30,000 school children, 23,000
members of the poorest urban families and 14,000 hospitalized persons. In
addition, fortification in commercial retail bakeries, proposed as a pilot
operation, would supply fortified bread to another 68,000 consumers. Brc,-d
fortification for Government feeding programs would initially use a prL,lix



- 15 -
containing fifteen supplementary vitamins and minerals, 1/ costing 0.6 #/kg
flour, at a total of $57,000 per annum for 9,500 m ton production. The com-
position of the premix is based on FAO/World Food Program (X4FP) supplements
designed to meet generalized deficiencies in young children. For fortifica-
tion in commercial retail bakeries a simpler vitamin-mineral premix costing
0.1 l/kg flour at total cost of $5,000 annually would be utilized to meet
deficiencies in the older children and the adult population. These premixes
are safe and effective, as has been demonstrated during almost 10 years of
worldwide use. 2/ Fortified bread provided for schools and charity programs as
well as through the commercial retail bakeries would reach the recipients over
a long period. Although fortified bread for hospitalized persons, on the
other hand, would be received by a transient group and thus not have a long
lasting impact, such recipients would benefit from fortification during their
stay in hospital. Moreover, the doses of certain vitamins and minerals
included in the premix, notably vitamin A and iodine, would, within the body
of the patient, rebuild depleted stocks and build up reserves to be drawn upon
for a longer period 3/.
4.15      Nutrition Promotion.  Nutrition promotion will be directed to speci-
fic target groups and supervised by a Nutrition Expert located within the
Bakery Division of YGGC. Initially trained and supported by internationally
recruited consultants, the Nutrition Expert would have responsibilities for
developing nutrition promotion materials and designing and implementing
promotional programs, particularly for fortified bread to urban population.
A total of US$180,000 has been allocated over four years for nutrition promo-
tion as detailed in Annex 5, Table 2. During the last year of the project
implementation period an evaluation of fortification and nutrition promotion
would be undertaken by a team that would be composed of an expatriate and
local staff, selected by the Government and acceptable to IDA. The team would
(1) consider the continuation or termination of the program; (2) if continua-
tion were advised, suggest modifications; and (3) evaluate the effectiveness
of fortification and nutrition promotion on the specified target groups, and
consider its possible extension to rural areas. A total of US$24,000 has been
allocated for this evaluation.
4.16      National Nutrition Planning.  At present there is no national nutri-
tion program in YAR. In line with the Government's stated objective of upgrad-
ing the dietary standards of the population (see para 2.04), the project
would assist the Government in developing a national nutrition plan. A total
1/   Upon completion of the nutritional status survey, discussed in para 4.16,
adjustments in the premix, if necessary, would be made.
2/   The bakery extension agents would carefully supervise the utilization of
the premix to ensure proper use.
3/   It should also be noted that the fortified bread is produced in a con-
tinuous process which would render it technically difficult to separate
bread for hospitals for specialized handling and, in view of the low
incremental costs for fortificant addition, financially not worthwhile.



- 16 -
of US$180,000 would be provided for a nation-wide nutrition status survey and,
on its basis, the formulation of a national nutrition plan. YGGC would be
responsible for implementing the nutrition survey and for developing the
nutrition plan, in coordination with the Ministry of Health and the Central
Planning Organization. Implementation responsibility for nutrition planning
would rest with the Ministry of Health. General terms of reference for
the nutrition survey and plan development were discussed during negotia-
tions and are shown in Annex 17.
4.17      The total cost of the nutrition component to be borne by the Govern-
ment would amount to US$660,000 (in 1975 prices) (For a detailed cost breakdown
see Annex 5, Table 2). YGGC's bakery division would be responsible for imple-
menting it. Fortificants would be provided to the bakeries at no cost. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the nutrition component would be
implemented as described in paras 4.13 through 4.16 and that the Goverrment
would provide the necessary funds for a continuation of the fortification and
nutrition promotion program, if, on the basis of the evaluation study, the
Government and IDA agree to a continuation.
Engineering Consultants
4.18      A qualified engineering consultant firm would be appointed to prepare
functional specifications for the silo structure and mechanical-electrical equip.
ment layout as well as detailed designs for the warehouses and 10-m ton bakeries
civil structures and mechanical-electrical equipment. The firm would also pre-
pare tender and contract documents and assist in bid evaluation. During the con-
struction period it would provide on-site inspectors to ensure that civil works
construction and mechanical-electrical equipment installations conform to
contract specifications. Although there are Yemeni engineering consultant
firms that are qualified to perform parts of the above task, all would have to
be supplemented with foreign experts or alternatively an association with a
foreign firm would have to be formed. Assurances were obtained during nego-
tiations that the employment of engineering consultants acceptable to IDA and
on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed credit. The Government has already invited proposals on
the basis of the draft general terms of reference for the engineering consul-
tants, presented in Annex 15. The evaluation of proposals is expected to
be completed by end May and the appointment of consultants is expected during
the first half of June.
C. Construction Schedule
4.19      The project facilities would be constructed over a three and a half
year period following a 12-month period for design, engineering and contractor
selection as shown in Annex 12. Apart from the appointment of key project
staff and engineering consultants , site acquisition would be a key milestone
for expeditious project implementation. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that land for the warehouses and 10-m ton bakeries be selected,
with IDA's concurrence, within three months of the signing of the credit and
acquired within three months of the credit's effectiveness.



- 17 -
D. Cost Estimates
4.20      The total project cost is estimated at YRls 98.1 million (US$21.8
million) of which the foreign exchange component is 69%, or YRls 68.0 million
(US$15.1 million). The foreign exchange cost includes the cost of imported
equipment and materials, foreign personnel required for the construction
and installation of project facilities, foreign consultants, training abroad,
imported fortificants, and the foreign exchange component of materials used
in local construction works. Detailed cost estimates are presented in
Annexes 6, 9, 10 and 11, and are summarized as follows:
For.                    For.             For.
Category                       Local  Exch.  Total   Local   Exch.  Total   Exch.
-----YRls'000 -----   ------Us$2ooo-- -          %
YGGC Investments
Silo                         6,066  22,518  28,584  1,348  5,004  6,352    79
Warehouses                   4,977   4,892   9,869  1,106  1,087  2,193    50
10-m ton Bakeries            2,025   4,811   6,836    450  1,069  1,519    70
Subtotal                 13,068  32,221  45,289  2,904  7,160 10,064    71
Bakery Credit
New Bakeries                 2,529   3,326   5,855    562    739  1,301    57
Rehabilitation Fund            612   4,536   5,148    136  1,008  1,144    88
Subtotal                  3,141   7,862  11,003    698  1,747  2,445    71
Nutrition Component              297   2,673   2,970       66    594    660    90
Storage Survey                    -       932     932      -     207    207   100
Technical Assistance             459   3,155   3,614    102    701    803    87
ACF & Bakery Credit
Base Project Cost        16,965  46,843  63,808  3,770 10,409 14,179    73
Contingency Allowances
Physical (7.1%)              1,139   3,384   4,523    253    752  1,005    75
Price (43.8%) /1            12,119  17,816  29,935  2,693  3,959  6,652    60
Total Project Cost       30,223  68,043  98,266  6,716 15,120 21,836    69
/L   For calculating price contingencies on local components an expected
inflation rate of 20% per annum was used. For imported equipment and
civil works, the following annual inflation rates have been employed:
Year           Equipment            Civil Works
1976               9                      13
1977-79            8                      12
1980-81            7                      10



- 18 -
4.21      Cost estimates are based on end 1975 prices.  A physical contingency
of 10% is allowed on the silo investments to cover the cost of unexpected soil
conditions and piling requirements as well as alternative designs for the
mechanical-electrical layouts. A 5% physical contingency allowance is included
for the other project components. An average price contingency of 43.8% of
total project cost including physical contingencies has been allowed for ex-
pected price inflation.



- 19 -
E. Financing
4.22      The financing plan for the project is shown below:
Amount      Amount       % of          % of         % of
Component of                in          in     Component's  Component's  Project's
the Project             YRIs '000  US$ '000    For. Ex.   Total Cost   Total Cost
IDA
Engineering
Consultants              2,520        560        100            75          --
Technical
Assistance              10,350     2,300         100            91           __
Warehouses                2,970        660         58            25           __
Half of Sub-
loans to Bakers         6,075      1,350         60             40          --
Nutrition                 1,485        330         40            36           --
Total IDA             23,400      5,200          34 /1         --           24
Saudi Fund
Silo                    43,200      9,600         100           100          --
10 m ton Bakeries        6,300      1,400         100            69          --
Total Saudi Fund      49,500    11,000                         --           50
Government
Engineering
Consultants                855        190          0            25
Technical Assistance    1,080          240          0             9
Warehouses                8,708      1,935         42            75
Half of Subloans
to Bakers               6,075      1,350         40             40
Nutrition                 2,610        580         60            64
10 m ton Bakeries        2,812         625          0            31
Total Government       22,140     4,920                        --           23
Investors'
Contribution              3 060        680          0            20            3
Grand Total           91,800    21,800           --            _           100
/1 34% of the total foreign exchange component of the project.



20 -
The Il)A credit would be made to the (overnment on standard IDA terms.  The
Saudi Fund loan would be extended to the Government on terms similar to those
of IDA; it would finance the silo and the foreign exchange cost of the 10 m-
ton bakeries under parallel financing arrangements. The IDA credit would
finance the foreign exchange cost of engineering consultants and of technical
assistance as well as part of the cost of the warehouses, bakery credit and
nutrition component, as shown above. The Government would finance the remainder
of the warehouse component as well as the local cost of the 10 m-ton bakeries,
of engineering consultants and technical assistance and 40% of the small
bakery investments. It would also finance any cost overruns that may occur.
Agreement was reached during negotiations on these arrangements. The con-
clusion of a loan agreement between the Government and the Saudi Fund for
US$11 million would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed IDA
credit.
F. Procurement
4.23      Silo and 10-i  ton Bakeries. The silo (US$9.6 million) and two 10-m
ton bakeries (US$2.0 million)would be procured by YGGC, assisted by the
engineering consultants, under international competitive biddiing according to
Saudi Fund rules. The silo facilities would be procured under a turnkey
contract since the civil works structures need to be closely integrated with
the mechanical-electrical equipment.
4.24      Small Equipment.  Purchases of equipment items or groups of items
under the bakery credit component would be made in small lots over the four-
year period of the project. They are expected to total about US$900,000.
They would be procured by the investors under ACF's supervision on the basis
of local competitive bidding procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. A
summary of bids or quotations, an analysis report and a brief justification of
the contract award would be sent to IDA at the time the award is made. Minor
"off the shelf" items costing less than US$20,000 would be procured by the
investors also under ACF's supervision directly through existing commercial
channels. The total of such direct procurement would be about US$600,000.
Foreign suppliers of goods and materials are well represented in YAR, neces-
sary service facilities are available, there are no important quotas or other
import restrictions, competition is keen and prices are competitive.
4.25      Civil Works.  The regional warehouses I/ (US$2.6 million) are simple
structures and consist mainly of civil works. They as well as civil works for
the bakeries are dispersed throughout the country. riey would be constructed
over a period of three to four years and thus be unsuitable for bunching.
Therefore, contracts would be too small to be suitable for international com-
petitive bidding. YGGC and the bakers, under IDA's and ACF's supervision
respectively, would procure them under local bidding procedures, which are
satisfactory to IDA. Minor construction related services costing less than
US$20,000 would be contracted directly with qualified firms.
1/   The average cost of a regional warehouse is US$390,000 (in 1975 prices).



- 21 -
4.26      General.  Procurement of consultant services required for the project
would be made according to IDA guidelines. There are no preferential tariff
agreements between YAR and other member countries that would affect evaluation
of bids, and there are no domestic manufacturers of silo mechanical-electrical
equipment. Additionally, Yemeni civil works contractors have not had experience
in large-scale slipform works. During negotiations, assurances were obtained
that the procurement procedures contained in paras 4.24 to 4.26 would be
followed.
G. Disbursements
4.27      The IDA credit would be disbursed over 5 years.  An estimated dis-
bursement schedule is given in Annex 13. Disbursements would be made against
100% of foreign exchange expenditures for engineering consultants and technical
assistance, or 75% of local expenditures for engineering consultants and 90% of
local expenditures for technical assistance (representing the foreign exchange
component) as well as 50% of small bakery subloans and 30% of the costs of the
warehouse and the nutrition component. Disbursement requests would be sup-
ported by full documentation, except for ACF subloans to private bakers for
which IDA would disburse against certificates of expenditures. Supporting
documents and contracts would be retained by ACF and would be available for
review by IDA during supervision. Retroactive financing from February 1, 1976
up to an amount of US$160,000 is recommended. Assurances to this effect were
obtained during negotiations.
H. Environmental Impact
4.28      The project would have a favorable environmental impact by improving
sanitation, reducing air pollution caused by home baking and decreasing de-
forestation (see also para 6.06).
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. YGGC Organization and Operation
5.01      There exists no institution in YAR with the capability to implement
and subsequently operate the project facilities. Therefore, a general grain
corporation, the YGGC, would be established under the Ministry of Supply for
this purpose. The YGGC would be a semi-autonomous Government-owned enterprise
to be run on a sound commercial basis. YGGC's draft charter was discussed
during negotiations and the Government's approval of YGGC's charter satisfac-
tory to IDA would be a condition of making the proposed credit effective. The
Government has already, on IDA's suggestion, appointed YGGC's Manager and
Co-Manager (see para 5.07).



- 22 -
_02       YGGC's responsibilities under the project would be:
(a)  to implement the silo, warehouse and 10-m ton bakery
components and subsequently to operate and maintain them;
(b)  to organize and manage the technical assistance program for
private bakers and to assist ACF in implementing the bakery
credit component;
(c) to initiate and supervise the grain storage study;
(d) to implement and control the nutrition component.
After the project's implementation period all existing Government-owned grain
storage and processing facilities except those operated by the army would be
transferred to YGGC for operation and management. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations.
5.03      In accordance with YGGC's responsibilities its legal powers would
include:
(a) the acquisition of-land for its facilities;
(b) contractual arrangements with firms or agencies for the
employment of experts and consultants, for executing works,
and for supplying equipment, materials and services; and
(c) the purchase and sale of cereals and cereal products on
behalf of the Government. For these transactions the Gov-
ernment would provide YGGC with the necessary funds and other
resources; it would also reimburse YGGC for any loss that may
result from such sales or purchases.
Assurances on these matters were obtained during negotiations.
B. Project Management
5.04      Organization.  YGGC would have a board consisting of the Minister of
Supply as Chairman, a representative of the Central Planning Office and the
Ministry of Finance, the General Manager of ACF, the Director of the Hodeidah
Port Authority and the Project Manager and Co-manager of YGGC. The board
would decide on all policy issues, major invstments and operational matters
and approve key personnel decisions, as well as approve the annual balance



- 23 -
sheet. 1/ The Project Manager would have the overall operational responsi-
bility for project implementation and management. Three operational divisions,
a silo, warehouse and bakery division, would be in charge of the individual
project components, and an accounts and audit division would handle the ac-
counting and financial control function. YGGC's organization chart is given
ip Annex 7. The Project Manager in cooperation with the Division Managers would
formulate operating, accounting and auditing procedures for approval by YGGC's
board. YGGC's Head Office and the divisional offices would be located in
Sana'a except the silo division, which would be housed in the silo complex
in Hodeidah. Assurances were obtained during negotiations on these mat-
ters and that YGGC's charter and organization would be changed only with IDA's
concurrence.
5.05      Operating Policies.  YGGC would operate on a commercially sound basis.
It would provide bulk grain unloading, storage and baking services for private
merchants and the Government at service fees that would cover its operating
costs, depreciation and financial expenses and allow YGGC a reasonable return
on its equity (Annex 7, Tables 1-3). The silo would handle all bulk grain
imported through the port of Hodeidah; a Government decree to this effect
would be passed by December 1979, the estimated completion date of the silo.
The initial service charge to be paid by the importer of grain would be YRls
36 per m ton (US$8 per m ton) (Annex 9, Table 5). The warehouses would store
for the Government the grain that is collected in kind as tax (zakat) and
customs duties, as well as grants-in-aid. They would also rent out available
space to private merchants, particularly when major import shipments arrive.
The service charge to be paid by the Government or renting private merchants
would be a minimum of YRls 1.1 (U$0.24) per 50 kg bag per month stored (Annex
10, Table 5). The 10-m ton bakeries would bake bread for the Government-
sponsored feeding programs and deliver it to the appropriate institutions.
The Government-owned grain or flour would be delivered by the warehouse
division to the bakeries. The bakeries would receive a service charge to be
paid by the Government of a minimum of YRls 0.10 (US$0.022) per 150 gram loaf
(flour basis), (Annex 11, Table 5). All service charges (of the silo, ware-
house and bakeries) would be adjusted annually in accordance with cost changes
that may occur over the lifetime of the project. Assurances on the government
decree concerning bulk grain import handling and the principle governing
operating policies and service charges as described above were obtained
during negotiations.
5.06      Private bakeries supplying bread for Government-sponsored feeding
programs would operate on a similar basis. The Government-owned grain or flour
would be delivered to the bakeries which would bake the bread and deliver it
to the proper institutions. The bakeries would charge a fee covering operat-
ing costs, depreciation, financial charges and a reasonable return on equity.
The fee for the 3-m ton bakery would be a minimum of YRls 0.104 (US$0.023) and
1/   A more detailed delineation of Board and 14anagement responsibilities
is given in Annex 7.



- 24 -
for the 1-m ton bakeries YRls 0.160 (US$0.035). The charge would be adjusted
annually in accordance with increased costs. Assurances on the principle
determining the service charge were obtained during negotiations.         -
5.07      Technical Assistance and Training.  A major risk for the successful
implementation of the project presents the lack of experienced and competent
staff in YAR. To overcome this constraint comprehensive technical assistance
and training programs have been incorporated in the project. YGGC would be
staffed with five senior expatriate experts, for periods ranging from three to
five years - project manager, silo superintendent, bakery superintendent,
bakery extension agent and accountant/controller. All of the experts
would have local counterparts (see Organization Chart, Annex 7, Chart 1, and
Annex 8, Table 1). These experts would be responsible both for project im-
plementation and for training of their counterparts; the counterparts would
increasingly take over management responsibilities during the implementation
of the project. The experience under the Southern Uplands project indicates
that such experts and local counterparts are available. Moreover, progress in
the recruitment of key project personnel is encouraging. The project manager
and his local counterpart, the project co-manager have already been appointed,
and the selection process for the other expert positions and local staff is
under way. Additional experts would be appointed as part-time consultants for
the grain storage study and nutrition survey. Further details on expatriate
and local staff requirements are given in Annex 7, Figure 1, Annex 8 and Annex
4, Table 3. Local counterpart staff who are expected to take over operational
and managerial responsibilities during the project's implementation period
would be given comprehensive training before they assumed their positions.
The training would include specialized foreign training for key personnel,
equipment suppliers' instruction and "in house" training. Additional details
on the technical assistance and training program are given in Annex 8. Assur-
ances were obtained during negotiations that expatriate experts acceptable to
IDA and on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA, and local staff as
described above would be appointed within fourteen months of the credit's
signature date. Assurances were also obtained that a training program satis-
factory to IDA would be formulated within sixteen months of the credit's
signature and implemented by December 1979.
C.   Credit Arrangements
5.08      ACF Organization.  ACF, which was established under the Tihama De-
velopment Project, would be the lending channel for all credits extended under
the project. ACF would appoint a senior industrial credit and an accountant/
financial control officer, both internationally recruited experts, in its head
office and open two new offices, one branch office in Sana'a and one field
office-in Hodeidah, and expand its Taiz/Ibb offices. The branch office in
Sana'a would be located within the head office facility. Local counterparts
would be assigned to the expatriate experts; the new and expanded offices
would be appropriately staffed with local personnel. The branch manager in
Sana'a would be responsible for organizing the Sana'a branch office while the



- 25 -
Hodeidah field office would fall under the responsibility of the Wadi Zabid
field manager. The head office would handle the financing of YGGC's invest-
ments and the branch and field offices would implement the bakery credit
operations under the project with the head office's guidance and supervision
and under close cooperation with YGGC.
5.09      Credit Arrangements.  ACF would channel the Government's equity
contribution to YGGC and provide medium and long-term loans to YGGC for its
investments and to private bakers for the construction of new bakeries and
rehabilitation of existing bakeries. ACF sub-loans and Government equity
would each finance half of the investment costs of the silo, warehouses and
10-m ton bakeries. The Government would lend to ACF an amount equivalent to
the loan financed portion of the project investments (US$11.7 million) out of
the proceeds of the Saudi Fund loan and proposed IDA credit; the Government
loan to ACF would be for 20 years inclusive of 6 years of grace. ACF would
on-lend these funds and be the administrative channel for the Government con-
tribution to YGGC equity of US$8.5 million (YRls 38.2 million). Technical as-
sistance to ACF would be financed by a Government loan, to be repaid as shown
in Annex 14. ACF would also be the administrative channel for a Government
grant of US$0.9 million (YRls 4.1 million) to YGGC for the nutrition component.
ACF would charge no commission or fees on these equity and grant components.
5.10      Lending Procedures.  For the silo, warehouses and 10-m ton bakeries
YGGC would update the appraisal and submit the sub-loan application to ACF.
ACF would review the appraisal and evaluate particularly the financial vi-
ability of the investment proposals. After its review, it would forward to IDA
the sub-loan application for the first two warehouses for its approval and
also the application for the silo and the 10-m ton bakeries for its review and
comments, with appropriate recommendations. The sub-loan applications for the
remaining warehouses would be approved by ACF. The small bakers credit opera-
tions would be carried out by ACF in close coordination with YGGC. YGGC's
bakery extension agents would assist bakers in preparing the project appraisal
and in completing the loan applications and submit them to the bakery division
of YGGC. After YGGC's technical and financial review, it would forward the
sub-loan applications to the ACF with appropriate recommendations. ACF would
evaluate the creditworthiness of the applicants and financial and economic
viability of their proposals, and the availability of the investors' own con-
tribution, which is at least 20% of the investment cost. ACF would forward
the first three sub-loan applications for new bakeries to IDA for approval as
well as every fifth bakery improvement loan exceeding an amount of US$10,000
or YRls 45,000. These arrangements would result in IDA reviewing eight to ten
sub-loan applications or 20% of the bakery credit component. All other sub-
loan applications would be approved by ACF. When sub-loans are approved,
ACF would inform YGGC and each applicant about the amount granted and the
terms and conditions of the sub-loan. YGGC's extension agents would periodi-
cally visit the loanee bakers to advise them on organizational and technical
aspects of bread baking, sanitary requirements and bread fortification and
extend necessary assistance. These visits would be coordinated with the
visits of ACF's own staff to the project bakeries.



- 26 -
5.11      Terms of ACF's Loans.  For YGGC's investments the equity contribution
would be 50%. The minimum contribution of private bakers would be 20% of invest-
ment cost. Maturities would not exceed the life of the assets financed. Maxi-
mum repayment periods for the various types of sub-loans would be:
Investment Category            Grace      Repayment       Total
-----------years---------------
Silo                             5             9            14
Warehouses                       4            10            14
10-m ton Bakery                  3            10            13
1-m ton Bakery                   3             5             8
Rehabilitation Credit            1             4             5
5.12      Interest Rates.  Commercial interest rates in YAR range from 11% for
medium and long-term investment credits to 13%-14% for short-term credits. A
preferential rate of 9.5% is charged by YBRD to the General Cotton Company,
which onlends to farmers at no interest; the Cotton Company recovers its fi-
nancial costs through marketing arrangements with farmers. Interest rates
currently charged under the Tihama and Southern Uplands Rural Development
project are 8% for medium and long-term loans and 9% for short-term loans.
ACF's onlending interest rate to YGGC and to private bakers would be 9.0% p.a.
The Government's interest rate to ACF would be 4.0% p.a., giving ACF a spread
of 5.07%p.a. Given an estimated inflation rate in YAR of more than 25% in
1974/75, the real interest rate would be negative with prevailing nominal
rates.  However, the YGGC would carry the foreign exchange risk, thus raising
YGGC's real cost of capital. The Government would assume the foreign exchange
risk for sub-loans to small bakers and for the technical assistance loan to ACF.
5.13     ACF's spread of 5.0% would be sufficient to cover its costs including
technical assistance, to make provisions for losses and to earn some profit
which would be retained to build up ACF's equity.  ACF's administrative costs
connected with the project average 2.8% of loans outstanding.  Provisions for
losses assumed at 10% of small bakery loans and 2% of loans to YGGC would be
equivalent to an average of about 0.7% of sub-loans outstanding during the
lifetime of the project. A margin of 1.5% on its sub-loans outstanding has
been allowed to ACF to build up a reasonable equity. Although ACF's spread
appears to be on the high side in view of the size of some of the loans that
it will make, it is reasonable given the weak data base in Yemen, particularly
for losses due to bad debts. 1/ ACF's projected cash flow for operations
under the project shows an annual allocation to equit- averaging US$500,000
(YRls 2.3 million) during 1976 to 1996 (Annex 14).
5.14      Security.  According to ACF's present lending procedures, short-
term loans up to YRls 5,000 are provided against guarantee of two persons.
Short-term loans in excess of the above amount and all medium and long-term
loans require land security. The sub-loans to YGGC as a Government enterprise
1/   A spread of 5% is also in line with that required by agricultural credit
institutions in other less developed countries and, in fact , well below
that required in a number of them.



- 27 -
would be secured by a Government guarantee. Sub-loans to private bakers would
require land and/or other property security. Land would be acceptable as
security up to 80% and other property up to 60% of the current market value.
5.15      Supervision and Recovery of Loans.  Loans would be supervised by ACF
staff who would periodically visit sub-borrowers' installations. Financial
statements would also be obtained from sub-borrowers semi-annually to keep a
watch over their operations. ACF field staff would be responsible for timely
collection of loans from YGGC and private bakers.
5.16      ACF's Accounts and Audit.  ACF would maintain separate accounts
for the project. ACF accounting has been handled by CB's accounting depart-
ment, with accounts kept separately from CB's own accounts. As ACF's opera-
tions would increase substantially under this and the proposed Livestock
Credit and Processing project, it would be necessary for ACF to acquire the
capability to handle its own accounts. An accounting and financial control
expert would be appointed not later than March 1977 for a period of four years
to assist ACF in establishing and operating a modern accounting and financial
control system. Until ACF's accounting system becomes operational CB's
accounting department would continue to handle ACF's accounts. Under the
project, ACF accounts would also be audited by the Government's Central
Organization for Audit and Control, which is acceptable to IDA. Audit reports
and financial statements would be submitted to IDA not later than six months
after the close of each fiscal year.
5.17      The items discussed in paras 5.08 through 5.16 above would be in-
cluded in the Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and ACF, which
would require IDA's concurrence. The conclusion of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment would be a condition of the proposed credit's effectiveness.
D. Project Monitoring and YGGC Audit
5.18      YGGC would prepare quarterly progress reports, to be sent to IDA
within three months of the close of each quarter. Assurances to this effect
were obtained during negotiations. YGGC would also establish and maintain
separate accounts for project expenditures. Its accounts would be audited
annually by the Government's Central Organization for Audit and Control, which
is responsible for auditing public and para-public entities. Assurances were
obtained during negotiations that YGGC's accounts would be satisfactorily
audited and that YGGC's audited annual financial statements would be sent to
IDA within six months of the close of each YAR fiscal year.
E. Project Evaluation
5.19      YGGC would be responsible for evaluating the benefits expected under
the project. In particular, the silo division would collect information on
achieved average operating rates for bulk grain unloading, ship turn around



- 28 -
time, ship charter rates, per m ton unloading costs, and grain losses in silo
operations; the warehouse division would keep records of grain losses during
warehouse storage and monthly farmgate prices of grains; the bakery division
would gather data on bread production and marketing, the use of fortificants
particularly by private bakers, the development of home baking of bread in
project areas. This monthly information would be evaluated and an annual
report on the project benefits, similar in scope to the discussion in Chapter
VI of this report would be prepared and sent to IDA within three months of
the close of the YAR fiscal year. Assurances to this effect were obtained
during negotiations.
F. Retroactive Financing
5.20      To start the project's implementation expeditiously and to avoid
delays, the Government has already appointed the project manager and intends
to appoint engineering consultants and possibly other expatriate experts prior
to the expected effectiveness date of the proposed credit. Therefore, retroac-
tive financing for these expenditures is recommended up to an amount of
US$160,000.
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Financial Results
6.01      The YGGC would operate on a commercially sound basis.  The fees to be
charged for the services would provide YGGC with a financial rate of return
of 23% on its investments. They would be sufficient to cover operating
expenses, taxes, maintenance, depreciation, and debt service. A projected
cash flow for YGGC (Annex 7, Table 1 and 2) shows that YGGC's operations would
produce an average annual net income (after taxes and depreciation) of YRls 10
million (US$2.3 million), sufficient to repay its subloans in 14 years. The
YGGC would have a sound financial structure. The debt equity ratio would
decrease from 1:1 in 1976 to 1:24 in 1987. The debt service coverage would
increase from 1.5 in 1981 to 5.1 in 1989 (Annex 7, Table 2). The financial
rates of return for individual components are: 25% for the silo, 17% for the
warehouses and 18% for the bakeries (Annex 9, Table 2; Annex 10, Table 2;
Annex 11, Table 2). The financial rate of return for private new bakeries
would be about 26% (Annex 11, Table 7).
B. Economic Benefits
6.02      Economic Rates of Return.  The YAR economy is expected to realize at
least a 32% rate of return from total project investments inclusive of physical
contingencies (Annex 18, Table 1). The individual components may be considered



- 29 -
as independent and, thus, would warrant the calculation of separate rates of
return. The silo component costing US$7.0 million 1/ generated the highest
rate of the individual components with 41%; the warehouse and bakery compo-
nents costing US$2.5 and US$4.6 million 1/, respectively, registered rates of
17% and 20% respectively. These rates of return do not take into account
the following non-quantified benefits: (i) savings due to reduced shipping
freight rates for general cargo as a result of decreased port congestion;
(ii) the contribution of sanitary grain storage and bread production to
better health; (iii) environmental benefits due to decreased deforestation.
The rates of return exclude the nutrition component costing US$0.7 million 1/
and the technical assistance to ACF costing US$0.4 million 1/, for which no
meaningful rates of return could be estimated because of the predominance of
non-quantifiable effects. Grain savings were valuated at the end 1975 CIF
Hodeidah wheat price of $228 per m ton. All inputs were assessed at end
1975 prices excluding taxes and subsidies. No special shadow pricing for
labor was conducted because of no apparent unemployment problems within the
Yemen labor pool, a condition attributable to the substantial syphoning of
excess labor into relatively high paying jobs in nearby countries, particu-
larly Saudi Arabia. Sensitivity tests were conducted to assess the stability
of the respective rates of return to variation in project cost and benefit
streams. They appeared relatively insensitive. With an increase in invest-
ment costs by 10%, the total project economic rate of return fell to 30% (silo
38%; warehouses 15%; bakeries 19%). A 10% hike in operating costs resulted in
a total project rate of return decline to 31% (silo 39%; warehouse 14%;
bakeries 16%). A decrease in the value of derived benefits by 10% yielded a
drop in the total project rate of return to 29% (silo 38%; warehouses 14%;
bakeries 16%). When economic benefits were permitted to slip by one year, the
economic rate of return for the total project declined to 27% while those for
the silo, warehouse, and bakery fell to 33%, 14%, and 17% respectively.
6.03      Foreign Exchange Savings.  One of the major benefits of the project
is the reduction of grain volume losses throughout the storage system achieved
by replacement of inefficient grain handling techniques at the port dock, pro-
vision of sound warehouse space, and complementary management. In addition,
faster grain unloading through the port silo facility would lead to faster
ship turn-around time and reduction in associated demurrage charges by about
US$4,000 per day for an 8,000 m ton vessel. Taking into account the foreign
exchange savings from grain loss prevention, lower demurrage bills, as well as
the costs of the direct and indirect import components of project investments
over the 30-year project period, net savings in foreign exchange of about
US$200 million would be realized. In addition secondary foreign exchange
savings would be achieved for all other users of the Hodeidah port as total
denmrrage charges and charter rates begin to reflect more efficient grain
discharge from vessels.
1/   At 1975 prices.



- 30 -
6.04      Cost Reduction in Grain Handling.  Mechanization of ship unloading,
besides relieving port congestion, is expected to yield a reduction of variable
discharge costs from US$3.76 to US$0.25 per m ton.
6.05      Nutrition.  Although the benefits are not quantifiable, the project
would make a substantial contribution to better health through improvements
fn sanitary standards of bread supply and fortification. School attendance
and alertness of students are expected to increase as well as productivity of
other recipients of fortified bread. The nutrition promotion and planning
program would alert the public as well as policy-makers of the importance
of nutrition, provide information about health and nutrition and the avail-
ability of fortified bread, and assist the Government in designing a national
nutrition-health program.
6.06      Employment and Training.  Although the transfer silo would prove
labor-displacing, an estimated net total of 65 full-time and 70 manyears
part-time positions would be created for the life of the project, the major
portion being generated in labor-intensive loading and unloading procedures in
the regional warehouses. The silo system would relieve port congestion,
thereby facilitating increased port handling and rapid absorption of labor re-
leased from manual grain unloading operations. Project-related administrative
posts would be created within YGGC and ACF. Scholarships, expatriate technical
assistance and training would prove important in alleviating present shortages
of technically trained manpower.
6.07      Reduction in Deforestation.  Significant environmental damage has
occurred in Yemen from cutting trees around cities as well as in rural areas
to generate supplies of firewood primarily for home bread-baking activities.
Incremental output from the 6 1-m ton commercial bakeries would permit approxi-
mately 2,885 families to reduce firewood purchases totalling about US$500,000
per annum for bread baking alone. In addition, an estimated 25 bakeries making
facility renovations under the credit fund would invest in oven conversion
from wood to diesel fueling. Such a conversion is estimated to result in an
annual net fuel cost saving of about US$100,000, and thereby further abate
growing demand for firewood.
6.08      Institution Building.  With the establishment of the YGGC, the
Government would not only establish necessary infrastructure to effectively
handle present and future grain storage and processing requirements, but would
also create an institution through which it could eventually assume a more
active role in the grain market. ACF would receive a significant infusion of
capital resources that could eventually be allocated to other development
prog.rams upon repayment of project-related loans and sub-loans. Additionally,
ACF would experience sizable expansion of manpower and field offices under the
project. Lastly, the grain storage study would provide useful information
by which future facility requirements could more reasonably be assessed.



- 31 -
6.09      Distribution of Benefits.  Since the facilities to be installed
under the project would be located in cities and towns, benefits derived would
accrue primarily to urban dwellers. Since grain is the staple food in Yemen,
a major part of society could potentially benefit from reduction of grain
losses, reflected in greater supplies and/or lower product prices. An esti-
mated 67,000 persons in schools, hospitals, and welfare distributions would
consume bread prepared in new Government facilities and commercial bakeries
under government contract; and in addition, approximately 109,000 private
consumers would obtain improved bread from new or renovated retail outlets
funded under the project. Benefits from the nutrition component would accrue
to not only those urban residents having access to retail bakeries producing
fortified bread, but also the rural population receiving useful information
related to health and nutrition.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached on the following prin-
cipal issues:
The Government would:
(a) establish YGGC, staff it appropriately and transfer to it
the responsibilities and legal powers that are necessary
to implement the project as described in paras 4.03 through
4.10;
(b) employ experts, with qualifications and on terms satisfactory
to IDA, who would assist YGGC and ACF in implementing the
project, and design and implement a training program for
local staff satisfactory to IDA;
(c) continue the bread fortification and nutrition promotion
program, if, subsequent to an evaluation study the Government
and IDA agree to do so; and
(d) ensure that the recommendations concerning ACF's expansion,
credit arrangements, lending procedures, lending terms and
interest rates, security, supervision and recovery of sub-loans
and auditing be followed as described in paras 5.08 through 5.16.
7.02      The conclusion of a loan agreement between the Government and the
Saudi Fund for an amount of US$11 million (para 4.22), the conclusion of the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement between the Government and ACF (para 5.17), and the
Government's approval of YGGC's charter satisfactory to IDA (para 5.01) would
be conditions for making the proposed credit effective.
7.03      With the indicated agreements and fulfillment of the above condi-
tions, the project is suitable for a credit of US$5.2 million, equivalent, on
standard IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Government of YAR.






ANNEX I
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Grain Production, Consumption, and Importation
I. Introduction
The Resource Base and Nature of Farming
1.1       Agriculture represents the major sector within the Yemen Arab
Republic economy, accounting for approximately 70 percent of the country's
GDP and employing 80-90 percent of the resident Yemeni population (see Table
1). Although the agricultural sector is predominantly subsistence-based,
it provides over 90 percent of national export earnings from such commodities
as cotton, coffee, cotton seeds, hides and skins.
1.2       The land area in Yemen totals approximately 20 million ha, of which
only about 2 million ha are classified cultivable. At the present time 1.5
million ha are actually cultivated with 2.0 million ha kept fallow to be
brought into production given sufficient rainfall. Most of the cropped area
is rainfed with only 230,000 ha being under some form of supplementary irriga-
tion system. In addition, there are 14 million ha of rocky, desertic, and
rangeland areas, 1.6 million ha of bush cover, and about 2.6 million ha of
wasteland. (See Tables 2 and 3).
1.3       Climatic conditions vary widely, and micro-climatic differences are
locally important because of variable mountainous topography. Patterns of
rainfall and temperature are to a large extent determined by the relief.
Rainfall is erratic, and annual variations profoundly influence crop produc-
tion by affecting not only per hectare yields but also utilization of rainfed
as well as marginal cropland. Normally the major rains occur in July, August,
and September with minor rains in March, April, and May. Reportedly, 1/ a
forty-year climatic cycle is in existence, containing 20 years of high rain-
fall followed by 20 years of relatively sparse precipitation. The 1974-75
season has been pegged as the start of the former. Surface water resources
are not abundant, and the extent of underground supplies remains an unknown
factor. Preliminary results from test borings have pointed to the possibility
of considerable underground water resources in the Tihama plain as well as in
1/   Citations are made of data collected by an Italian aeronautics consult-
ant team which noted annual rainfall in Sana'a of 300 mm in 1973 versus
600 mm in 1953.



ANNEX 1
Page .2
the wadi areas of the Highland Plains. A decline in the water table has been
observed within the last several years with replenishment of aquifers possible
only with significant levels of precipitation. Winds likewise are an important
constraint to agricultural production, particularly in the Tihama and the
Intermontane Plain Regions. Soil characteristics vary widely, from excellent
to poor, with salinity and alkalinity occurring in certain areas.
1.4       The principal cereal crops are sorghum, millet, barley, and wheat
with approximately 80-85 percent of crop acreage allocated to these produc-
tion activities. Wide variations in climate, topography, and soils however
permit the cultivation of a considerable range of crops including coffee,
tobacco, cotton, pulses, grapes, deciduous fruits, citrus, bananas, oilseeds,
potatoes, maize, alfalfa and qat (Cata edulis). (See Table 4). Livestock
assumes an important role in Yemeni agriculture by being the main source of
farm work power, contributing to foreign exchange earnings through exports
of hides and skins, and providing meat and milk for domestic consumption.
Forestry in the accepted sense of the word does not exist; however, moderate-
ly large areas are covered by woody vegetation (shrubs) providing fuel and
minor construction material, and accomplishing some soil and water conserva-
tion. Deforestation over the last several decades has become a serious prob-
lem because of large consumptive demand for home cooking requirements, espe-
cially of family bread, with no compensatory program to replace diminishing
stands.
1.5       Yemeni farmers are considered industrious, and the elaborate terrac-
ing in the Highland and Midland regions remains as substantiation of this ob-
servation. Participation by women and children in agricultural activities is
considerable especially in weeding, harvesting, threshing, and herding activ-
ities, and was even observed in plowing operations. In many cases women are
left to tend to agricultural matters during the lengthy periods of absence
of spouses engaged in non-agricultural employment in YAR urban centers or
in other nearby Middle Eastern States. Family labor remains the main source
of manpower in farm operations to be supplemented by hired workers usually
only in peak harvesting periods.
1.6       Farming systems vary regionally according to climate, soil charac-
teristics, and water availability. The level of technology adopted remains
essentially traditional in nature with utilization of modern production in-
puts such as chemical fertilizers, improved varieties, and pesticides at
present negligible. Utilization of these modern inputs is in the main
circumscribed to those areas having guaranteed water supplies either through
high annual rainfall or supplementary irrigation systems. Soil nutrient re-
plenishment and supplementation remains in most cases limited to manure applica-
tion which in part accounts for the maintenance of relatively high fertility
levels in terraced areas over many centuries of continuous cultivation. Re-
search r?nd extension services are presently minimal except for the limited
efforts financed with foreign assistance.



ANNEX I
Page- 3
Agro-Ecological Zones
1.7       The country can be divided into five major agricultural areas accord-
ing to their resource bases, agricultural outputs, and development potential-
ities:
(a)  The Tihama (total land area--20,000 km2) consists of two arid
and.semi-arid belts, the coastal plain and the foothills, and
extends from the southern border to the Saudi Arabian border
in the north and approximately 30-60 km inland from the Red
Sea. The main towns are Hodeidah (the principal harbor),
Zabid, Beit-el-Fakeeh, Mokha, Al-Marawi'ah and Salif. The
climate is hot and humid with annual rainfall varying be-
tween 50 mm and 300 mm. Rainfed and irrigated farming are
practiced in this zone. Sorghum, millet, sesame, maize, and
dates are produced almost entirely for subsistence, and cotton,
tobacco, vegetables and fruits as cash crops. The total cul-
tivated area, both rainfed an- irrigated, varies from year to
year, depending on rainfall and surface water availability.
Rough estimates have been made that currently up to 600,000
ha could be planted under marginally rainfed conditions,
70,000 ha under spate irrigation, and 25,000 ha under sup-
plemental irrigation from ground and perennial water sources.
Livestock production is important especially for a large por-
tion of the Tihama agricultural population. Eight major wadis
(intermittent streams) cross the Tihama. In these areas there
is deemed a significant potentiality for surface and groundwater
development where soils are favorable. The Tihama thus remains
the major area for further land development in Yemen, with 200,000
ha currently estimated as potentially irrigable with further devel-
opment of underground water resources.
(b) The Western Slopes (total land area--35,000 km2) includes the
the area between the Tihama and the Midlands and Highlands. Al-
though population estimates remain less than reliable, the upper
reaches are known to be densely populated. Climatic conditions,
primarily rainfall and temperature, vary with the altitude. All
the cultivable land on the slopes is terraced, and irrigation
occurs in gorges along the wadi banks. The main crops are
sorghum, millet, coffee, alfalfa, bananas and papayas. The
livestock population is not known, but there is considerable
evidence of over-grazing. There is virtually no scope for
expansion of agricultural land in this region; however pro-
duction might be boosted by utilization of pesticides and improved
crop varieties, as well as increased labor-management input in
land preparation, seeding, weeding, and optional crop rotation
planning.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
(c) The Midlands (total land area -- 20,000 km2) extends prac-
tically from the southern border to the town of Qadah and
covers Taiz Governorate and adjacent areas. It is the second
most populous area of the country (about 900,000 people), and
also the second largest in agricultural output. Altitudes vary
from 800 m. to 2,000 m. above sea level, with annual rainfall
ranging between 450 mm and 500 mm. Climate, soils, and water
resources are suitable for production of cereals, pulses,
potatoes, fruits, vegetables, fodder and coffee, but as in the
Western Slopes zone, there exists minimal potentiality in the
Midlands to stimulate higher agricultural production through
further cultivable land extension. There does exist, however,
some scope for reforestation, a project presently being in-
vestigated by UNDP.
(d) The Highlands (total land area--35,000 km2) can be divided
ecologically into two sub-areas, the Central Highlands and the
Intermontane Plains. The differentiation between these two
areas is primarily with reference to climate and topography,
and therefore agricultural production.
(i)  The Central Highlands comprise most of the Ibb Governo-
rate, with a population of approximately 800,000. Alti-
tudes vary from 1,500 m to 2,000 m. Annual rainfall is
within the 600-800 mm range, and soils are considered
relatively fertile. Supplementary water resources are
at present mostly restricted to limited groundwater and
springs; there are however a few wadis where surface
irrigation is practiced on a small scale. Most of the
cultivable area is terraced. Main crops in the region
are sorghum, wheat and barley, and of lesser coverage,
millet, alfalfa, maize, potatoas, pulses, and some fruits
and vegetables.
(ii)  The Intermontane Plains extend from Yerim to the northern
border and encompass the governorates of Radaa, Sana'a and
Saada.  The urban population is concentrated in Yerim, Damar,
Sana'a and Saada; the rural areas are sparsely populated.
This region is characterized by a series of flat plains sur-
rounded by mountains, or closed watershed basins. Altitudes
vary from 2,000 to 3,000 m and rainfall, averaging 200 mm to
500 mm, is erratic. Temperatures and humidity are usually
low. Groundwater resources are present but costly to tap,
thereby restricting the scope for extensive small-scale ir-
rigation from wells and springs. Most of the soils are con-
sidered marginal or poor, and the area is devoid of much na-
tural vegetation. The major crops grown are sorgum, wheat,
barley, millet, qat, grapes, fruits, and vegetables. Livestock
activities, mainly sheep and goats, are an important source of
income.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
(e) The Eastern Slopes (total land area--80,000 km2) are the largest
zone in size but poorest in agricultural resources. The slopes
cover the areas between the Intermontane Plains and the Saudi
Arabian border to the east. Climatic conditions are not favor-
able for agricultural production since annual temperatures are
high and rainfall is only about 100 mm to 200 mm. Soils generally
are poor; however, there are a few valleys where irrigated agricul-
ture is practiced predominantly on a subsistence basis. Despite
existing remnants of thousand-year-old irrigation schemes, the
possibilities for significant agricultural development in this
region seem extremely limited.
Land Tenure System
1.8       The land tenure system in YAR remains very tradition-based and com-
plex. The great proportion of total cultivated land area remains under the
control of large individual owners who generally lease part of their land out
under sharecropping arrangements. The State and religious institutions direct-
ly own three and 15 percent of the cultivable land respectively which is
usually farmed by tenants. Procedures for cost and income division between
landowners and tenants differ widely and appear a function of the particular
crop cultivated as well as the availability and method of supplementary
irrigation. In general, the tenant receives between 1/4-1/3 of production
from irrigated land, and 1/3-1/2 of that from rainfed hectarage. Although
holdings usually range between 0.25 and 10.0 ha, size seems to vary with
region and degree of non-rainfed culture; in areas where cultivation remains
rainfed-based and extensive in nature such as in the Tihama Highlands and on
the Eastern Slopes, holdings generally fall in the upper portion of the range.
If cultivation of owned hectarage remains beyond the managerial and operational
scope of available family labor, the excessive land is usually leased under
sharecropping arrangements. Even though most annual tenure contracts are
verbally established, officials report few cases of termination of these
pacts.
Taxation of Agricultural Production
1.9       Agricultural production is subject to a 10% tax (zakat) based on
the gross value of output. Livestock activities are generally assessed pro-
portionately to the number of animals owned, and crop production on well-
irrigated land is taxed at a reduced rate of 5.0%. Although the zakat might
be collected in either kind or cash, an increasing quantity has been obtained
in the latter over the last five years reflecting a preference of local de-
velopment boards to obtain financial revenue from central authorities in cash
form. Farmers' attitudes toward cash vs. kind payment appear mixed. Those
with limited personally-owned storage facilities and/or who are unsure about
prices for any marketable surpluses seem to prefer kind payment. Those having
difficult access to Ministry of Finance zakat depository points and/or who
might need personal family stock replenishment, opt for cash payment. The
effectiveness of zakat collection is a function of the dependability and
administrative efficiency of local and regional Ministry of Finance repre-
sentatives charged with its collection and management. At the village level



ANNEX 1
Page 6
the local amin, a government representative and resident of the community
fully familiar with each farmer's productive performance, each year eval-
uates the respective farmer's livestock and/or crop, assesses the amount
of tax, and oversees movement of kind portion to designated depositories
and collection of alternative tax in cash. Concerning the latter, a com-
mittee established by the local governor determines the unit price at
which the commodity is valued for tax purposes. Some officials report that
farmers have been known to circumvent the zakat through payment in kind with
an inferior product, either by buying cheaper quality grain on the local mar-
ket to pay the tax or by substituting old, perhaps contaminated grain from
owned stores for the newly harvested taxed portion.
Taxation of Cereal Imports
1.10      Taxation on international trade, especially that on imported commod-
ities, represents the major source of government revenues for Yemen, composing
approximately 55% of the annual current total. Over the three-year period,
1971/72-1973/74, current revenues increased from 151.3 to 274.0 million YRls
while taxes on international trade and transactions rose from 77.0 to 154.3
million YRls. Of this latter category, import duties and taxes accounted for
almost the total amount in each year.
1.11      All imported food items are subject to a 5% custom duty levied on
CIF value, but unlike other commodities are exempted from two additional taxes,
a 5% defense tax and a 2% statistics tax. The Government has preferred in the
past to collect the customs duty on incoming grain and flour in the form of
kind payment rather than cash in order that it might utilize these cereals
to feed army personnel as well as to support established school, hospital,
and charity feeding programs. At the port, the Ministry of Finance assesses
the import duties and takes possession of payments. The Ministry thereupon
stores the acquired cereals in nearby warehouse facilities, and disperses
them to regional centers in accordance with demand requirements. At the
urban level the same facilities are utilized for storage of customs duty
kind payments as for agricultural zakat commodities.
Agricultural Credit
1.12      A general agricultural credit institution has been started only
recently in Yemen. Early attempts to establish such an institutional network
failed, principally from lack of capital and trained manpower. Agricultural
credit from institutional sources has in previous years been limited to short-
term funding for cotton production by the General Cotton Corporation (GCC).
The GCC, financed by the Yemen bank for Reconstruction and Development, pro-
vides interest-free loans to cotton producers for seed, fertilizer, and
tool acquisition against the security of their cotton crops.
1.13      In connection with the Tihama Development Project, the Government in
1973 authorized the creation of a small credit banking unit, the Agricultural
Credit Fund, under a subsidiary arrangement with the Central Bank. The ACF,
nresenLly maintaining offices in Sana'a, Wadi Mawr and Wadi Zabid, acts as the



ANNEX 1
Page 7
sole dispensing agent for the credit component of the Tihama Development Proj-
ect scheduled to cover investments in machinery and tubewell units, short-term
production loans, as well as credit to agribusiness firms for the installation
of processing and marketing facilities. Similarly, ACF has been chosen the
credit channel for the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project providing
short-term loans for material inputs (mostly fertilizers), and medium- and
long-term loans for investment in on-farm development, and on a limited scale,
for creation of nurseries and orchards, coffee culture expansion, and construc-
tion of packaging and handling facilities. ACF, presently in a formative phase,
has dispersed a few short-term loans mainly for the purchase of oil for irri-
gation pumps and some medium-term loans for on-farm well sinking and tractor
acquisition, all totalling YRls 410,380 as of October, 1975.
1.14      In 1975 the Command Council passed a law establishing a wholly state-
owned Yemen Agricultural Credit Bank (YACB) and has allocated YRls 100 million
and certain resources in kind for the Bank. YACB is expected to start its
lending operations from the second half of 1976. The establishment of the Bank
would not, however, restrict the operation of ACF which, according to a Cabinet
decision, would continue to be the lending agency for IDA projects until a
decision is made, in consultation with IDA, to merge ACF with YACB toward the
long-term goal of maintaining an effective, nationwide agricultural credit
institution.
1.15      The extent to which the inflow of remittances from family members
employed in urban centers or abroad acts as a dampening agent on the demand
for agricultural credit remains an unknown and unexamined factor. However,
at present those farmers requiring credit must generally rely on private
sources for funding. Since most farmers are relatively poor, it is quite
probable that many depend on credit from relatives, neighbors, merchants, or
landowners. Although the terms of loans dispensed by private parties remain
essentially unknown, interest rates are thought to vary considerably according
to the source of the credit and to be mitigated to some extent by religio-
cultural stigma attached to usury.
Development Planning
1.16      To date no long-run development strategy has been formulated for
Yemen. In 1973/74 a first attempt at development planning was made with the
release of a three-year development program that stressed (1) increasing na-
tional income at an annual rate of at least 6%, (2) a substantial rise in the
living standard of the population, and (3) expansion of social services to all
areas of the country. Significant emphasis was given to agricultural develop-
ment reflected by the allocation to the agricultural sector of YRls 138.1 mil-
lion, 15% of the total YRls 935.6 million budgeted for the three-year program.
As originally proposed, 19% was to be financed from Government sources, 6%
from local, private savings, and 75% from foreign aid.
1.17      The following are cited as basic aims in the YAR agricultural devel-
opment strategy:



ANNEX 1
Page 8
(a) A net increase in real agricultural income of not less than
6% in order to achieve a resource surplus, subsequently to
finance development activities in other sectors;
(b) Achievement of self-sufficiency in the basic foodstuffs with,
particular emphasis given to cereal crops, oils, vegetables
and livestock production;
(c) Rectification of the trade balance through the increase and
improvement of products for export, especially cotton, coffee,
hides and skins, fresh and canned fish, vegetables and fresh
fruits;
(d) Improvement of the dietary standard of the population;
(e) Provision of credit and supporting extension, marketing, and
input distributional infrastructure for agricultural producers,
especially the smaller farmers.
1.18      While the Government recognizes the importance of the agricultural
sector in the economy, it has not yet been able to generate a clearly estab-
lished implementational scheme to translate aims into well-defined action
programs and detailed investment projects. Many of these difficulties seem to
stem from: (a) the lack of systematic long-term programming; (b) the lack of
infrastructural instruments through which effective proposals could be trans-
formed into action; (c) newly created governmental institutions to a large
extent dependent upon foreign technical assistance and capital; and perhaps
most importantly, (d) a narrow resource base placing serious constraints upon
growth possibilities (see paras. 2.07-2.14). During this formative period the
Government appears to be emphasizing: (a) development of the Tihama as a long-
term grain and cash crop production center, (b) the Midlands and Highlands de-
velopment as a short-term cereal expansion program, (c) establishment of na-
tional agricultural research, extension and credit institutions to stimulate
crop production for domestic as well as export markets, and (d) increased
focus on livestock production activities such as poultry, dairy, sheep, and
beef feedlot enterprises.
II. Domestic Grain Production
2.1       Water availability at planting time appears to be the governing
parameter of hectarage planted to cereals, and water availability during the
growing season the principal determinant of per hectare yields. Total cereal
production in Yemen (see Table 4) ranged between 1.1 and 1.3 million tons
during the 1970-71 to 1973-74 period; however due to highly favorable climatic
conditions, production during the 1974-75 crop year rose to approximately
1,975 million tons. In the low rainfall years, 1970-71 to 1973-74, the area
planted with cereal crops actually declined from 1.56 to 1.19 million ha; how-
ever with increased rainfall in 1974-75, cereal area rose to 2.245 mill on



ANNEX 1
Page 9
ha as marginal land was brought back into production mainly for sorghum and
millet cultivation. Sorghum and millet, displaying higher drought resistance
than other cereals, represent the principal grain crops in YAR agriculture,
accounting for an average of 75-80% of total grain production.
2.2       However, due to rainfall scarcities, the sorghum-millet area was
reduced over the 1970-71 to 1973-74 period by 28.5% to be increased the fol-
lowing season from 0.88 to 1.95 million ha. Reflecting the boost in marginal
land utilization, production tonnage of millet and sorghum in 1974-75 more than
doubled over that of the preceeding year. Barley, wheat, and maize, requiring
higher levels of moisture, cover the balance of cereal hectarage. Wheat, in-
creasingly in demand, is cultivated mainly in the lbb Governorate where rain-
fall levels remain relatively high. Wheat area rose from 30,000 ha in 1970-71
to 70,000 ha in 1973-74, and production correspondingly increased from 33,000
to 71,000 m tons over the four-year period. Maize likewise experienced in-
creased popularity among farmers, especially with the release of better per-
forming varieties, and boosts in hectarage as well as tonnage during the
drought period reflected this interest. Barley, grown in the Highlands region,
displayed a 36.4% increase in area over the period from 0.14 to 0.19 million
ha.
2.3       Considerable effort is presently being exerted to increase grain
production within YAR toward the long-term goal of achieving self-sufficiency
in cereal commodities. Variety trials have been carried out over the last
several years at research stations throughout the country in an attempt to
introduce suitable high-yielding varieties from foreign sources and to cross
these exotic strains with local varieties more adapted to the agroclimatic
conditions in YAR. Efforts have similarly been made to boost yields through
the importation, demonstration, and distribution of chemical fertilizers as
well as pesticides. Progress to date has not been insignificant. Some
examples.
(1)  On the Federal Republic of Germany Shoub Farm outside of Sana'a,
fourteen varieties of wheat, including MEXIPAK strains, demon-
strated a 73 percent averge increase yield over local varieties
with fertilizer applications remaining uniform.
(2)  In UNDP fertilizer trials in the Ibb area, sorghum grown under
rainfed conditions with 60 kg N applied per ha, displayed
a 29.8 percent increase in yield over the unfertilized control
plots.
(3)  Substitution of high-yielding Tihama maize varieties for the
local strain in Wadi Zabid is proposed to increase production
from one to three tons per ha given the simultaneous adoption
of complementary material inputs and modern crop management
practices.
(4)  The introduction of triticale is being considered because of
(a) its resistance to drought and cold conditions, (b) the
desirable joint production of grain and fodder, (c) the facility
with which it fits into multiple cropping patterns, and (d) its



ANNEX 1
Page .10
potential generation of cash inflows throughout the year for
the grower. Its adaptability to heterogenous agroclimatic condi-
tions appears a potentially significant asset; however, consumer
acceptance of its taste and brownish color remains an unknown
factor at the present time.
(5) The USAID-sponsored Sorghum-Millet Improvement Program is con-
centrating on increasing yields for these important grain crops.
Operating an experimental farm outside of Sana'a, specialists
are in the short-term investigating exotic varieties for suit-
ability in Yemeni agroclimatic conditions, and in the long-term
are stressing (1) cross-breeding selected foreign strains with
the better local cereal varieties, (2) improved seed production,
and (3) farmer training programs. Approximately 6,000 varieties
of sorghum and millet have been tested to date on the Sana'a
station, and by the end of the year, four or five superior
varieties are scheduled for release for cultivation within the
Sana'a Governorate.
2.4       Ministry of Agriculture sources maintain that sizable areas of
marginal land (mostly in the Tihama) can be brought into cereal production in
the future. According to their projections, hectarage of sorghum, millet,
and barley can be increased from its present level of 1.5 million to 2 million
ha, given sufficient rainfall. Similarly, through the installation of supple-
mentary irrigation systems, wells and pumpsets, cereal production could be in-
creased through more intensive crop rotational patterns. The number of new
wells sunk, especially in Wadi areas, with the help of various bilateral assist-
ance teams has increased considerably over the last several years. The number
of imported pumpsets for agricultural use has reflected this trend; according
to CPO statistics, the number of pumpset units imported increased from 1,482
in 1970 to 3,421 during the first nine months of 1974.
2.5       Plant breeders suggest that production on rainfed areas, comprising
the major portion of cultivable land in YAR, might similarly be augmented
through the following measures:
(1) Selection of cereal varieties optimally adapted to local agro-
climatic conditions, and improvement of these strains (a) to
minimize susceptibility to rusts, diseases, and pest attack
and (b) to increase inherent per hectare yield performance as
much as possible.
(2) Boosting the plant population density by reducing the dis-
tances between rows and/or by increasing the population with-
-n rows. With present cultivative patterns, densities can
generally be raised with no necessary varietal adjustment;
however should additional varieties be deemed desirable, geno-
types must be carefully selected to efficiently utilize re-
stricted per plant access to light, water, and nutrients.



ANNEX 1
Page 11
(3) Adjustment of the date of sowing within each production area to
optimally utilize available rain water during the normal growing
season as well as during the post-precipitation period.
(4)  Application of high fertilizer levels to highly responsive,
improved varieties suitable for cultivation in YAR.
(5) Reduction in plant-weed competition through the usage of
herbicides, increased efforts at hand weeding, adequate crop
management, and appropriate crop rotations.
(6) Timely and appropriate application of pesticides and fungicides
to curb infestation.
2.6       Not only do numerous potential stimulants exist for increased
grain productivity within YAR, but serious constraints are also present.
The major constraint to increased production is the availability of water.-
Elaborate production activities involving the utilization of high-yielding
varieties, fertilizer, and rotational pa,terns are dependent upon adequate
water to insure a satisfactory return to high-cost investments and risks.
In this regard, research in Yemen has shown that foreign high-yielding
varieties of wheat are superior to local strains only with supplementary
irrigation; in test trials, local varieties outperformed the exotic strains
under rainfed culture. Of the 50,000 ha of wheat grown during the 1975-76
season, only 5,000 ha were cultivated under rainfed conditions. Farmers
report serious problems of crop burning attributable to chemical fertilizer
applicaton in years of low precipitation. Such adverse results often render
the farmer less receptive to future risk assumption associated with fertilizer
utilization and might in turn influence his receptivity to adoption of other
potentially yield-boosting measures being advocated. Within the highly
terraced regions even in the fertile, relatively high rainfall Ibb-Taiz
Southern Upland areas, fertilizer usage may in fact have a deleterious impact
upon yield as runoff flows from field to field, carrying with it chemical
nutrients that can build to toxic levels.
2.7       Possibilities for future expansion of grain tonnage through util-
ization of new hectarage seem limited at best and strictly a function of
water resource availability. Marginal land, mostly in the Tihama, is pres-
ently brought into production for sorghum and millet cultures only if pre-
planting rainfall proves adequate. The withdrawal of 350,000 ha from
sorghum and millet production over the 1970/71-1973/74 period reflects the
sens.itrvity of area cultivated to rainfall prospects. Even in the relatively
productive, high rainfall areas of Taiz and Ibb, few opportunities of hec-
tarage expansion exist, as witnessed by the intricate system of terracing
covering all usable space.
2.8       In Wadi regions where there seems some potentiality for cultivation
under well irrigation, the high investment cost of well construction as well
as significant operational costs make it necessary for the farmer to switch



ANNEX 1
Page 12
to high cash crops such as vegetables, fruit, oilseeds, and maize from the
traditional sorghums. Wadi areas in the highlands have experienced a drop
in the water table over recent years necessitating further expensive deepening
of wells and higher pumping costs. In the Tihama, a similar water table de-
cline was observed over the past three years, to be reversed only recently with
aquifer replenishment through satisfactory rains. In the Tihama, where
brightest prospects seem to lie for sizable untapped underground water re-
source discoveries, the high cost of well irrigation, as observed in the Wadi
Zabid region, necessitates cultivation of high value crops instead of grain
to obtain a satisfatory rate of return on the costly investment and opera-
tions.
2.9       Grain crops are considered by the Yemeni farmer to be necessary for
subsistence--to supply his family's consumptive needs throughout the year,
to ensure adequate fodder for livestock, and through on-farm storage to pro-
vide some insurance during poor rainfall seasons. The mission estimates that
only about 10 percent of the country's total cereal production finds its way
into the interregional commercial market, with the great bulk utilized by
the farmer for the above functions. It is therefore plausible that if in-
novations in cereal production technology do in fact permit considerable
increases in per hectare yields, the farmer would derive his subsistence
from a smaller hectarage than previously and thereupon substitute cash crops
such as vegetables, fruits, oilseeds and qat (in the highland areas) for
cereal cultures. Incentives to diversify will likewise be strengthened by
high demand for livestock products and by technological improvements and
services availability for these activities. Increasing communication links
through better roads and transportation services could open markets for
perishable commodities which remain presently inaccessible. Ministry of
Agriculture sources note the profitability of such substitution: they esti-
mate that net income per hectare from commercial sales of cereals, fruit, and
qat is 1-2,000; 5,000; and 10,000 YRls respectively. Farmers in several high-
land wadi areas north of Sana'a (Dhar, Al Gara'a, and Dala'a) have already
made the transition to specialization in qat production and rely on market
purchases for domestic cereal needs. In the Ibb-Taiz region, terraced land
with supplementary irrigation was deemed suitable for cash crop alternatives
such as qat, fruit, grapes, onions, potatoes, and other vegetables; non-
irrigated terraced areas could be planted with coffee or qat in lieu of cereals.
Qat, in addition to its profitability, is adaptable to a wide range of highland
climatic environments--coldness, dryness, or wetness--and can be harvested
year-round starting one year after planting. In many cases where farmers have
access to well irrigation facilities, alfalfa is planted not only to provide
fodder for owned animals but also to act as an important year-round cash
generator. Farmers questioned expressed interest in allocating land to crop
alternatives such as vegetables and qat for family requirements and market
sales if at some future date family cereal needs could be met from reduced
plantings with better varieties and improved management.



ANNEX 1
Page 13
2.10      Because of high costs of well irrigation, farmers will probably be
forced to make crop substitutions. An economic analysis of the various crop
activity alternatives for the respective spate, well, and mixed irrigation
areas in Wadi Zabid confirms this assertion. Based on the per hectare net
Income estimates for each crop, a comparison was made of the utilization of
land resources under present cropping patterns and those projected upon the
completion of the Wadi Zabid agricultural development project. This summary
is presented in Table 5. Although total hectarage under the irrigation
scheme would increase by 14.34 percent from 22,800 to 26,070 ha through the
rehabilitation of the diversion structures, further expansion of spate irriga-
tion area, and installation of additional well facilities, the total area devoted
to cereals would decline by 11.12 percent from 17,400 ha under present alloca-
tion to 15,465 ha, even though maize, deemed profitable on well and mixed
(spate and well) irrigated land, would increase from 1,500 to 3,650 ha. Be-
cause of high construction and operating costs of well facilities as well as
increased utilization of certified seed, fertilizers, and insecticides, mil-
lets and sorghum, displaying low potential profitability, would be relegated
to spate irrigated and rainfed land, while maize, vegetables, and oilseeds
(sesame, sunflower, and groundnut) would be recommended for mixed and strictly
well irrigated land. The following is a summary of the budgeted averages for
each crop alternative costs and net returns examined in the Wadi Zabid study:
Cotton Sorghum Millet Maize Oilseed Vegetables
Production Cost and
Taxes/ha (YRls)
Present                831.7   543.1   504.8   725.7    465.9    2,499.4
Future with Project 1,917.4   907.7   839.9 1,671.5  1,360.6    4,705.0
Net Income/ha (YRls)
Present                268.3   556.9   245.2   474.3    534.1    6,500.6
Future with Project   282.6   842.3   460.1 1,328.5  1,039.4   11,295.0
2.11      Although extension officials warn that the budgets for the various
cereal alternatives were based on production costs and yields from older
varieties, the span between net income from vegetable cultivation and those
for other activities would probably remain quite substantial, even with in-
creased yields from grain crops. Caveats should be raised, however, that
(1) wbhile net income per hectare for vegetable cultivation is estimated
to remain high, production cost outlays for material inputs, especially
chemical fertilizers, and production taxes will also be substantial, neces-
sitating expense and risk assumption above traditional agricultural pattern
levels; (2) credit and extension services will be important factors under full
project implementation for farmers not only engaged in vegetable cultures but
for the other mentioned crop alternatives as well; and (3) the envisioned sub-
stitution of vegetable activities for less profitable ones might be constrained
by inaccessibility to large urban markets and/or the lack of rural processing
industries to absorb increased production and to maintain stable prices.



ANNEX 1
Page 14
Although net return estimates for cotton appear low, thereby making it a
relatively poor competitor for land resources, the crop remains the princi-
pal cash crop in the region at the present time. Given its importance in
foreign exchange generation through export earnings, the Government might in
the future deem it advantageous to support the cotton price to stimulate pro-
ducton thereby increasing competition with cereals for available land espe-
cially in spate-irrigated areas.
2.12      Adoption of improved cereal varieties as well as improved agronomic
techniques will be dependent upon the establishment of a broad, competent
extension network as well as adequate seed multiplication facilities--two
important ingredients noticeably absent in YAR at the present time. Rapid
organization of these necessary facilities in the short term will be hindered
by financial and trained manpower limitations as well as the lack of support-
ive road and transportation infrastructure.
2.13      Programs to stimulate the incorporation of innovations such as
fertilizer, high yielding varieties, pesticide use, or mechanical equipment,
into agricultural productive patterns could be hampered in some cases by the
lengthy absence of male authority figures from the farm family. As mentioned
above, women are often left at home to tend to general agricultural chores
while men work in urban areas or neighboring Middle Eastern states. The
women more or less assume a holding pattern around the status quo and, be-
cause of traditional role assignments, cannot make major decisions such as
farm technique adjustments. Since the husband or other male-family member may
visit the family infrequently, perhaps once each year, communication between
extension agent and family decision-maker would be difficult and attitudinal
change concerning decision-making authority even more so. On the other hand,
if such decisions to adopt innovations were made, remittances from family mem-
bers working abroad or in urban centers could act as an important source of
capital to finance input acquisition.
Future Cereal Production Prospects
2.14      While per hectare yields for cereal crops will no doubt increase
due to better varieties, improved management, and modern input utilization
especially in high rainfall and irrigated areas, on the national level it can
optimistically be projected that cereal production growth will probably be
limited to only a per annum rate of 1.5 percent. Cereal production growth
will Ie constrained by rainfall, the limited adoption of the high )ielding
variety p;ackage because of high costs and associated risks especially in
rainfed -,-egions, the geographical strictures placed on future expansion of
cultivated hectarage, the incentives to substitute cash crops for sub-
sisterto-oriented cereal activities given higher yields, and the economic
uecessity to do so on well-irrigated land. Projections for domestic cereal
produi Lon 1976 to 1990, based on these assumptions, atmf presented in Tahle 12.



ANNEX 1
Page 15
III. Cereal Consumption
3.1       The staple food group in the Yemeni diet is cereals with approxi-
mately 75 percent of average caloric and 72 percent of protein intake de-
rived from the consumption of cereal-based food items according to FAO Food
Balance Sheets for Yemen, 1964-66 (see Table 6).  The same source, based on
production and population data, reported per capita cereal consumption aver-
aged 414.1 g per day during the same period. In an independent 1972 village-
level study, Bornstein 1/ discovered daily direct per capita cereal consump-
tion averaging 400 g. The principal form in which cereals are consumed is
wholegrain native flat breads, with cereal-based porridges, gruels, and
puddings also being eaten. Bread however is the principal basis of all meals
and may represent the sole food consumed at a meal.
3.2       As discussed above, because of the subsistence nature of grain pro-
duction within the country, only a small percentage of total production is
believed to move into commercial channels. In rural areas grain is stored by
farmers in large petroleum drums for current needs and in underground "madfans"
for long-term storage to cover future requirements and potential crop failures.
Sorghum and millet represent the major ingredients for cereal-based foods in
rural areas, supplemented by barley, maize, and wheat in areas where these are
grown. Urban residents (numbering approximately 350,530 persons or 6.69 percent
of the YAR population living within the country according to the 1975 Housing
and Population Census Preliminary Results) essentially rely on wheat and white
flour imports as well as small quantities of domestically produced grain flow-
ing into cities for cereal consumption needs.
3.3       Although wholegrain bread made from sorghum, millet, and other avail-
able cereals seem preferred in rural areas, urban consumption patterns seem to
vary from region to region. In Midland and Highland urban centers such as Taiz,
Ibb, Damar, and Sana'a flat breads are made at home in wood-fired tannur-type
ovens from dough based on wholegrain flour often mixed with imported white
flour to improve taste and texture. Commercial bakeries supply European-type,
white flour loaves (roti) for those not having access to home baking facilities
and those having emigrated from Aden where roti breads seem preferred. It was
observed in several cases that wholegrain dough would at times be prepared in
homes and then brought to commercial operations for the final baking process in
an effoQt to reduce time spent in cooking activities, to reduce fuel costs, and
to limit exposure to smoke filled kitchens.
1/   A. Bornstein, Food and Society in Yemen Arab Republic, ESN:MISC/74/14,
FAO, Rome, 1974.



ANNEX 1
Page 16
Population Growth
3.4       The most important factor affecting future demand for cereals in
Temen will be population growth.  According to the 1975 nationwide census,
the resident population totalled 5.2 million of which only 0.35 million, or
6.7 percent, were located in governorate capitals. The most densely populated
areas are in the rainfed highlands, particularly the Ibb/Taiz region where densi-
ties are probably twice the national average of about 30 persons per square km.
An estimated 1.2 million persons were living outside the country most of whom
were males of working age holding employment in nearby Gulf States, particular-
ly Saudi Arabia.
3.5       The population is at the present time growing at an estimated aver-
age rate of 2.4 percent, seven percent in the urban and two percent in rural
areas. Although population details are preliminary and fragmentary at best,
both the birth and death rates are considered relatively high. Infant mor-
tality is estimated at approximately 160 per 1000 live births while that for
children between one and four years of age is probably above 92 per 1000 -
two figures significantly above those recorded in North America and Europe.
Life expectancy is set at between 45 and 50 years. Although birth rate es-
timates are inconclusive, they are no doubt maintained at a high level as a
compensatory factor.
3.6       Infections and energy-protein deficiencies are cited as major causes
of mortality, especially in infancy and early childhood periods. Gastro-
eneritis, marasmus, tuberculosis, and other infectious diseases are major
causes of death among children admitted to hospitals, and it is suspected that
the incidence of death from these diseases, often untreated and unreported,
remains very high.
3.7       From discussions with demographers, public health officials, and
foreign assistance teams working in the health field, it is felt that there
is a high probability that the high mortality rate will experience a sub-
stantial decline over the next decade with no corresponding reduction fore-
seen in the present high birth rate. Much of the movement to curb mortality
will probably come rather quickly from potentially high payoff programs to
(1) vaccinate against infectious diseases, (2) clean up municipal water sup-
plies and install modern sewerage systems, (3) provide safer water supplies
in rural areas, (4) begin educative programs in schools and through radio
broadcasts covering topics of nutrition, hygiene, and disease prevention,
(5) increase medical services in rural areas as well as urban centers, (6)
expand veterinary services to limit pests and diseases in the animal popula-
tion, some of which are potentially transmittable through the eventually con-
sumed product, (7) improve road and transportation systems in order to limit
food commodity spoilage and contamination, and (8) upgrade animal slaughter-
ing facilities as well as the handling, and marketing of meat products. Many
of the above programs are presently in the pipeline for national, bilateral.,



ANNEX 1
Page 17
or international organizational funding. Remittances secured from family mem-
bers employed in neighboring countries as well as internal urban centers could
likewise provide resources for dietary improvements both in quantity and
quality thereby curtailing caloric-protein inadequacies and susceptibility
to infectious diseases.
3.8       During this period little corresponding suppression of the high
birth rate is predicted because of (1) religious-cultural prohibitions
placed on the adoption of birth control measures; (2) the "investment good"
status given to additional children in agriculturally-oriented families;
(3) the time lag generally required for passage from a high mortality, high
risk to low mortality, low risk mentality inducing family size adjustments.
Additionally, although a rather large bloc of married males are separated from
families by employment in cities or outside the country in nearby countries,
studies of migratory patterns have demonstrated that birth rates are gener-
ally unaffected by such absences if annual visiting periods are scheduled--
as is the general case in YAR.
3.9       In conclusion, it is felt that the population growth rate in Yemen,
presently estimated at 2.4 percent per annum, will soon begin to rise given
the establishment of mortality-depressing social amenities. For grain con-
sumption projection purposes, it has been assumed that the population will
continue to grow at 2.4 percent, 1976-1978; thereafter the rate is estimated
to increase to 3.0 percent by 1990 and stabilize at that rate thereafter for
the balance of the 30-year planning horizon. The resident population esti-
mates for 1976-1990 are presented in Table 12.
Income Effect
3.10      There is insufficient dependable data available with which to cal-
culate the income elasticity of demand for cereal products in YAR. However,
given the relatively low per capita income level in Yemen, cereal commodities
are certainly still considered normal goods by most consumers there. Although
estimation from Yemeni data was deemed infeasible, utilization of elasticity
coefficient estimates from similar grain-based developing economies has been
deemed a practical alternative for consumption demand projections for cereals
in YAR. Mellor 1/ (1968) estimated the income elasticity of demand for
cereals in India and Pakistan as 0.5 percent. An earlier series of surveys
disclosed elasticity estimates for cereals of 0.44 percent in rural Pakistan 2/,
0.32 and 0.62 percent for urban and rural India 3/ respectively, and 0.48 per-
1/   John W. Mellor, Developing Rural India:  Plan and Practice, Cornell
University Press, Ithaca, 1968, p. 25.
2/   The Pakistan Development Review, Vol. III, No. 2, 1963.
3/   Deri\.ed from t1,e 4fn-mily budget data collecte(d in the 10th Round of
Natiu!nic1 SampI  'iirvey2i955-56.



ANNEX 1
Page 18
cent for Ceylon. A 1955 food expenditure survey in Egypt placed the income
elasticity of demand for bread and cereals at 0.59 percent. For futuker
cereal consumption estimation for YAR, a 0.5 percent elasticity has been as-
sumed for the 1976-1990 period falling thereafter to 0.2 percent to the end
of the project time frame.
3.11      There are no projections regarding the rate of growth for the agri-
cultural or non-agricultural sectors or resultant GDP of Yemen. In order to
estimate the income effect on grain consumption, the following growth rates
have been assumed: (1) during the period 1976-1980, cereal production would
increase at 1.5 percent per annum, total agriculture at 3 percent, and industry
and trade at 6 percent, resulting in an annual GDP growth rate of 4 percent;
(2) in a second phase of the project period, 1981-2005, cereal production as
well as total agriculture would continue to grow at the same rates as in the
earlier five-year period, but industry and trade would (a) grow at a higher
rate of 8 percent, and (b) represent a greater portion of total GDP, thereby
yielding a 5 percent rate of growth. Future human cereal consumption (base:
146 kg per capita per annum @ 400 g per diem) has been calculated in accordance
with the assumptions presented above and has been included in an estimated
total disappearance quantity (base: 292 kg per annum @ 800 per diem) compris-
ing human consumption, seed, losses, and grain utilized as feedgrains, pre-
sented in Table 10 (see below). Based on these assumptions, the projections
yield a per capita disappearance quantity of 307.2 kg in 1980 and 352.3 kg
(per annum) one decade later, of which the direct human consumption component
would amount to 442 g and 565 g per diem in 1980 and 1990 respectively. These
disappearance projections for Yemen remain significantly below approximate
1975 estimates for more developed countries where large quantities of grain
are first funnelled into livestock production activities, e.g. 415.4 kg in the
U.K., 478.7 kg in France, and 394.2 kg in the Federal Republic of Germany. 1/
IV. Grain Imports
4.1       Commercial imports of all cereals averaged approximately 105,000 m
tons annually over the 1969/70-1973/74 period. Predominant cereal imports were
wheat grain and wheat flour with annual import quantities varying widely in
response to domestic shortfalls. Table 7 displays the recorded commercial
import volume and value of cereals and cereal products in addition to the
value-of total food imports over the 1969/70-1973/74 period. The data demon-
stfate the significant increase in cereal acquisition from abroad during
drought years; cereal imports more than doubled over the five-year period
while the value of such commodities increased more than four-fold reflecting
the major hikes in world grain prices.. Even though total food imports rose
1/   F. Uhlmann, "(.ofteideerzviigung und-verbrauch im Jahre 1%85 in let
erweiterten EWe', Ararwlirtschaft, Vol. 7, July, 1973, p. 2O1.



ANNEX 1
Page 19
in current value terms by more than 400 percent, cereals and cereal products
over the same five years continued to represent between 40 to 50 percent of
the total. Flour and wheat tonnage dominated the total cereal category with
an average of 87 percent of total cereal and cereal product imports.
4.2       Documentation of Yemeni wheat and flour commercial imports by source
is fragmentary and often conflicting. Table 8 presents one record of flour
imports expressed in wheat equivalents. Most of the flour obtained by Yemen
from the world market is at commercial rates. While the EEC countries, es-
pecially France, Belgium, Germany, and the Netherlands, have remained the
dominant suppliers of commercially purchased flour, Canada and the U.S.
have also provided flour as grants-in-aid or on concessional terms. Data
concerning sources of Yemeni wheat grain imports are much less reliable;
Table 9 presents some information concerning 1973 wheat and flour imports
and to a lesser extent, those for 1974. Preference at present seems to
be for the harder, more expensive, white wheats, especially from Australia.
4.3       A common thread running throughout the data is that since 1969 flour
on the average is delivered CIF Hodeidah at lower prices than those for wheat.
The reason imported flour has been less costly than imported wheat has been
due to the quality of the flour purchased, and its sources. As a general rule
wheat flour purchased has been a straight grade, 10.5-11 percent protein (dry
basis), and 12.5-13 percent moisture product made from EEC (predominantly
French) soft winter wheats. Such wheats are usually the lowest priced milling
wheats from any volume source. Although the EEC is expected to remain an
importer of wheat, largely stronger wheats needed to maintain desirable baking
quality, the effect of such imports in most years is to make a large quantity
of domestic soft wheats available for export, mainly in the form of flour.
Secondly, the issuance of restitution payments to flour exporters (when the
world prices of wheat lies below the EEC lowest market price) as well as the
geographical proximity enjoyed by EEC suppliers, especially with the resumption
of trade through the Suez Canal, complement the quality-based price advantage
of EEC flour over wheat of better or similar quality obtained from more distant
sources.
Grants-in-Aid
4.4       Data on grants-in-aid are fragmentary and incomplete.  It is felt
however, that grants-in-aid represent a minor, but importIiln, portion of the
YAR cereal supply. The mission estimates that the average in recent years has
been 62,000 m tons per annum, representing about four percent of the total sup-
ply. Although the estimate appears to be reasonable, it may be somewhat low.
Wheat and wheat flour represent the principal commodities received under
aid pr^ograms. Several multi-national organizations and many bilateral
donors engaged in food relief participate in assistance to YAR, with the
volume of grants provided varying directly with domestic crop success.



ANNEX 1
Page 20
V. Conclusions Concerning Projected Grain Supply and Demand
5.1       Taking into account domestic production, commercial imports, and
grants-in-aid, as discussed above, average total cereal supply amounted to
1,528,516 m tons per year during the 1970-1975 period, equivalent to a per
capita consumption quantity of 292 kg per annum (a figure considered consis-
tent with those recorded in other grain-based developing economies). With
domestic cereal production projected to 1990 at a rate of increase of 1.5
percent and consumption quantities estimates based on the above assumptions
concerning per capita consumption, population growth, GDP growth, and income
elasticity of demand for cereals, an ever-widening gap is expected to develop
between demand for cereal commodities and domestically generated supplies.
(See Table 16). Specifically, while domestic shortfalls for cereals in 1976
are estimated to total 199,500 m tons or 12.6 percent of projected cereal
disappearance, this quantity is expected to swell to 347,300 m tons or 19.1
percent of disappearance in 1980, and 1,031,800 m tons or 37.71 percent of
total demand one decade later.
5.2       The form these shortages will assume, either as grain or as flour,
remains an important factor on which only present import patterns and current
consumption trends might shed some light. Firstly, over the five-year period,
1969/70-1973/74, the flour cereal grain ratio has varied widely and with the
exception of 1969/70, has tended to become larger during drought periods,
perhaps reflecting the relatively lower price of flour over imported wheat
mentioned above; however when grants-in-aid are added to commercial cereal
imports, the data reveal that YAR is presently importing an average annual
amount of grain in the magnitude of 100,000 m tons and average annual flour
quantities of approximately 53,000 m tons, yielding an average flour/grain
ratio of roughly 1:2. Secondly, during the period January-May 1975, a total
of 62,034 m tons of wheat and flour were imported through commercial channels,
21,634 m tons or 34.9 percent of which were of flour. Thirdly, the principal
importer of cereals into YAR, handling over 50 percent of total tonnage,
reported receiving flour and wheat tonnage in approximately the same ratio,
1:2. Fourthly, many urban consumers prefer homebaked bread prepared from
a mixture of one part importerd white flour and two parts whole wheat flour;
such blends apparently result in textural as well as taste improvements
in the final products. Thus, for projection purposes, it has been assumed
that cereals will be acquired from foreign sources in approximate conformity
with the 1:2 flour-grain ratio encountered in the above stated cases. On
this basis, flour imports into Yemen are projected to total 66,500 m tons in
1976-, a quantity to rise to roughly 343,900 m tons by 1990.
VI. Implications of Projected Cereal Imports on the YAR
Balance of Payments Situation
6.1       The YAR balance of trade has displayed ever increasing deficits
over the 1,-t several years, totalling US$146 million in 1973 versus only



ANNEX 1
Page 21
$66 million two years earlier (see Table 11). The trade deficit for 1974
(July/June) continued the upward trend to $219 million, an increase of 50
percent over the previus year. Food and manufactured consumer items repre-
sented the major imports, with the former comprising an average of 50 percent
of the total. (As shown in Table 7, cereals and cereal products amounted to
an average of 45 percent of the food import component).  Value of total ex-
ports remained dominated by cotton, coffee, and hides and skins, yielding a
total rather meager in comparison with that for imports. Between 1970 and
1974, exports stagnated between US$6 and 12 million thereby covering only an
average of 7 percent of total commodity imports.
6.2       Workers' remittances, the major single source of foreign exchange
earnings for Yemen, and to a lesser extent cash and commodity grants from
foreign sources, have reasonably limited current account balance deficits to
tolerable levels amounting to only $15 million in 1973 and $1 million the fol-
lowing year. Workers' remittances more than doubled over the 1970-1973 period
from $45 to 108 million (current prices) and rose to $159 million in FY1974.
Official project and commodity loans in addition to private capital inflows
increased substantially over the period and in each year proved sufficiently
large to generate an overall surplus in the balance of payments.
6.3       Cereal import requirements are projected to rise significantly over
the next thirty years from 199,500 m tons in 1976 to 1,924,200 m tons in
2000, a factor that has serious potential implications for the YAR trade
balance and resulting balance of payments situation.  Although the total cost
for these estimated cereal imports could be somewhat assuaged by foreign
aid donations and concessionary sales arrangements, the total expense of com-
mercially obtained tonnages of such magnitudes would no doubt be staggering
and probably be well beyond the ability of YAR to cover through foreign ex-
change generated from export commodities. Employing the currently (1975)
quoted CIF Hodeidah price of US$228/m tons for hard Australian white wheat for
valuaLion of future import requirements, 1/ the cost of 1980 cereal imports
is projected to total US$79 million, an amount rising to $235 million by 1990
and expected to hit $439 million by 2000.
6.4       Present earnings from exports, principally cotton, coffee, hides
and skins appear minuscule in comparison with these future import amounts (see
Table 12), and prospects for future growth of the present three major export
items are not encouraging. Although cottonseed and raw cotton exports, re-
presIitLing Yemen's most important export items, more than quadrupled in value
terms from 1971 to 1974, possibilities for future expansion are limited be-
cause: (1) termite-infestation is a major threat, and (2) cotton cannot com-
pete with high value crops on well-irrigated land given current input and farm
1/   The US$228 wheat price employed here aligns well with the IBRD/IDA 1980
price forecast of US$220 for Canadian hard red spring wheats, FOB
Thunder Bay quoted in Commodities and Export Projections Division,
IBRD Development Policy Staff, Price Forecasts for Major Primar
Commodities, Report No. 814, July, 1975, Annex 1, p. 8.



ANNEX I
Page-22
commodity prices and per ha yields. Coffee, hides and skins likewise, fail to
offer significant prospects of large scale export based on past export per-
formance. Tonnage of hides and skins exported stabilized at approximately
1,800 m tons per year and coffee export volumes have declined markedly, reflect-
ing the agronomic substitutability of highly profitable qat for coffee. Pos-
sibilities for increased production and exportation of light manufactured
items such as cotton cloth to nearby markets seem favorable, but earnings from
such exports could probably only minimally cover required cereal imports.
6.5       As mentioned above, remittances from workers employed in Saudi
Arabia and other nearby states represent the major source of foreign exchange
earnings for Yemen. According to the recent housing and population census
(February, 1975), an estimated 1,234,000 Yemeni were living outside the
country at the time of the enumeration, the great bulk of whom were working
age males. The prospects for continued emigration for work purposes and
derived remittances remain unclear. Yemeni workers doubtless provide cri-
tically needed manpower in sparsely populated countries experiencing rapid
economic expansion attributable to petroleum revenues, and such countries
will doubtless continue to supply ready markets for this labor pool, at least
in the short-term. However job creation is chiefly a function of high growth
within nearby states and could therefore be seriously affected by an economic
slowdown and/or expansion of the domestic labor supply over the long-term,
creating competition for available jobs. The possibility of xenophobic back-
lashes to large inflows of foreigners into these neighboring countries, espe-
cially if their labor becomes competitive rather than complementary, should not
be ruled out.
6.6       It would appear therefore that Yemen could become increasingly de-
pendent upon external assistance, probably from neighboring Middle Eastern
countries, to finance required cereal purchases. Yemen is presently highly
dependent upon foreign aid for development as well as for current budgetary
obligations. External financing represented 54 percent of 1973/74 government
spending compared with an average of 46 percent over the 1969/70-197Z/73
period. The grant component, primarily the result of Saudi Arabian aid sup-
port, rose from 24.3 percent of current government expenditures in 1971/72 to
33.7 percent in 1973/74; in current values such grants increased from YRls 55.4
million (US$12.3 million) in 1971/72 to YRls 109.2 million (US$24.3 million)
two years later, a jump of 97 percent. Portions of needed cereal requirements
could be filled by acquisition of flour, possibly on grant or concessional
bases.derivable from huge flour milling units pj-esently being installed in
nearby Gulf States (Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Abu DIlabi) with capacities deemed
considerably in excess of present or future domestic requirements. However the
limit tQ which such donors would be willing to go to cover future cereal import
demand for YAR remains unknown and as such underscores the criticality of the
projected food shortages, and likewise their so([at, economic, and political
ramifications.
s4ay, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Economic Activity by Sector
Year
1969      1970       1971       1972       1973
------YRls millions-----------------
Agriculture                  1,592.0   1,710.0   2,054.0   2,245.2   2,276.0
Industry                        51.1       67.0       85.6     100.5      129.0
Construction                    65.6       74.2       86.4     112.5      145.0
Trade                          286.5      307.3      349.2     505.9      589.0
Government                      54.7       67.4       90.9      171.6     256.0
Transport & Communication       51.0       54.4       69.7      81.1       87.0
Finance                          8.1       18.4       20.0       29.9      49.0
Housing                         81.2       86.7       98.3     102.5      112.0
Services                        24.4       31.1       40.9      51.6       62.0
TOTAL                        2,214.6   2,416.5   2,895.0   3,400.8   3,705.0
Source: The National Accounts of YAR, 1969-1973



ANNEX 1
APPRAISAL OF                            Table 2
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Agricultural Land Use by Governorate, 1974-75
(ha'000Q
Governorate    Total   Cultivated   Marginal   Forest and   Other
Area      Area        Area 1/      Shrubs
Sana'a         8,000        400          600          100      6,900
Hodeidah        3,500       235          500          450      2,315
Taiz           1,200        250          100          500        350
Ibb            1,300        300           50          400        550
Hajja          1,700        130          250           50      1,270
Saada          1,800         60          200           -       1,540
Damar          1,000        100          200          100        600
Beida          1,500         40          100           -       1,360
Total    20,000      1,515        2,000       1,600      14,885
1/ Land cultivated in high rainfall years.
Source: YAR Central Planning Organization Statistics Department,
Statistical Yearbook, 1974-75, Sana'a 1975, p.55



ANNEX 1
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Cultivated Land by Source of IrrigatiQn, 1974-75
(ha'OOO)
Source of Irr-i-gation.
Governorate      Cultivated land   Rainfed   Flood   Perennial   Wells
Sana'a                 400            375        -          20          5
Hodeidah                235            105      100          5         25
Taiz                    250            221       10         18          1
Tbb                    300            279        -          20          1
Hajja                  130             115       10          5         -
S-ada                   60              60       -          -
Damar                  100              92       -           5          3
3pida                   40              38       -          -           2
Total           1,515          1,285       120         73         37
Source: YAR Central Planning Organization Statistics Department
Statistics Yearbook, 1974-75, Sana'a, 1975, p.54



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Major Crops 1/ by Area V/ and Tonnage 3/
1969-70 /4      1970-71         1971-72         1972-73          1973-74        1974-75
Area  Tonnage  Area  Tonnage  Area  Tonnage  Area  Tonnage  Area  Tonnage  Area  Tonnage
Barley              145    160      140    154       143    178      143    164      191    230       170    220
Sorghum & Millet 1,200    680   1,230    984   1,100  1,020   1,100    900           880    720   1,950  1,570
Wheat                35      NA       30     33       50     54       50      50      70      71       65      78
Maize                 4       9      16      32       50     80       50      80      52      84       60    107
Total Cereals 1,384    849/5 1,416  1,203   1,343  1,332   1,343  1,194   1,193  1,105   2,245  12975
Fruits               NA      NA      NA      NA       NA     NA       10      60      10      60       12      60
Potatoes              4      20       6      55        5     58        6      64       6      64        6      78
Vegetables            8      50      10    100        15    137       16    150       16    150        18    168
Pulses               50      50      50      60       60     60       60      56      65      64       71      84
Coffee                5       4       6       4        6      5        8       5       8       5        8       5
Dates                NA      NA      NA      NA       NA     NA        1       5       1      NA        1       5
Grapes                4      NA      NA      NA       NA     NA        8      35       8      31        8      40
Cotton                5       2      10      10       15     15       20      18      20      20       28      26
Tobacco               4       2       4       3        4      5        4       5       4       5        4       5
Sesame               NA      NA      NA      NA      NA      WA        8       4       8       4        9       5
Source: YAR Central Planning Organization Statistics Department, Statistical Yearbook, 1974-75, Sana'a, 57-6G
/1  No data on qat production available
/2  In thousand hectares                                                                                              X D
/3  In thousand m tons                                                                                                  M
/4  Based on July/June crop year                                                                                     (DX
-  _   *          f ;  ;- r  r, L r .                                                                        4



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimated Cropping Pattern in Wadi Zabid at Present and After Full Project Implementation
(ha'000)
Cotton    Sorghum   Millet      Maize    Oilseed  Vegetables   Total
Present:
Spate                     2,000      8,600      3,900     1,200        700        100      16,500
Well and Spate               -         600        600       -          -          100       1,300
Well                      2,200      1,200      1,000        300       100        200       5,000
Total                4,200    10,400      5,500      1,500        800        400     22,800
Percent               18.4       45.6      24.1        6.6        3.5        1.8     100.0
After Full Development:
Spate                     4,000      9,450      2,365     1,500        705        -        18,020
Well and Spate              500        -          -         650        400        -         1,550
Well                      2,500        -          -       1,500      1,000      1,500       6,500
Total                7,000      9,450     2,365      3,650      2,105     1,500      26,070
Percent               26.8       36.2       9.1       14.0        8.1        5.8     100.0
Source:  A. H. Shehata and A. K. El-Rafie, Economic Analysis of the Existing and Potential Cropping
Patterns in Wadi Zabid, Tihaita Development Authority, Wadi Zabid, March 1975.
b >



ANNEX 1
Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Supplies of Certain Foods Available for Consumption, their Calorie
and Protein Content, and percentage Contribution to Total Calories
and Proteins
Year 1964-66 average per capita consumption (FAO Food Balance Sheets 1964-66)
Grams per   Calories   Percent of   Proteins   Percent of
Food Group                 day        per day    calories      per day    proteins
Cereals                   414.1        1,419        75%         41.2         72%
Vegetables & fruits        78.8          103         5%          1.2          2%
Roots, pulses &
seeds                    49.0           87        5%           5.0          9%
Sugar Products             15.3           60         3%           -           -
Animal Products           170.7          155         7%         10.1         17%
Fats & Oils                11.3           85         5%           -
Total                739.2       1,909       100%          57.5        100%
Source: A. Bornstein, Food and Society in Yemen Arab Republic, ESN: MISC/74/4,
FAO, Rome, 1974. p.22.



APPRAISAL OF
GA. `Ai STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJEj&
YEMEN AirAB REPUBLIC
Commercial Grain Imports /1
Year
1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74  1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74
-----------m tons-------------------  -----------------YRls'000 /2 --------------
Cereal and cereal
products:
Wheat         (C1)   22,997   40,677   53,036   74,241   67,302   14,368   18,984   28,976   41,996   64,050
Rice          (C2)    4,606    5,767    5,199    6,017    2,723    3,171    2,604    4,027    6,316    6,112
Other Cereals(C3)       589        31       671    6,837   36,184        179        25       400    2,871   23,131
Flour         (F)    38,486   14,828   21,133   37,090   75,145   15,460   16,658   10,002   20,251   56,232
Cereal preparations    980        751    1,367    3,269    21954    1,247    2,784    1,608    2,879    4,825
Total             67,658   62,054   81,406  127,454  184,308   34,425   41,055   45,013   74,313  154,350
Total Food Imports                                                        84,814   83,169   90,722  176,331  364,328
Cereal and Cereal
Products as
percent of total                                                          40.59    49.36    49.62    42.14    42.37
Wheat and Flour as a
percent of cereal
total                     90.87    89.45    91.11    87.35    77.29    86.65    86.82    86.59    83.76    77.93
Flour-Cereal Grain
ratio  /3                136.51    31.91    35.88    42.59    70.75
Source:  Central Bank of Yemen, Annual Report, 1973-74, p.122
/l   Partially estimated
/2   In current YRls, CIF Hodeidah
/3   Where ratio in year t = Ft 4, it



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Commercial Sales to and Special Transactions with Yemen Arab Republic
Flour in Wheat Equivalent - July/June year (m tons)
Year
1967/68  1968/69 1969/70  1970/71  1971/72  1972/73  1973/74
From:
E.E.C.       Commercial   16,301   4,695   69,444   44,910   83,835   87,792   88,973
Special          -       -       1,085   10,000        -        -         -
Total         16,301   4,695   70,529   54,910   83,835   87,792   88,973
U.S.A.        Commercial       -       - 0       -         -         -        -         -
Special                            194    1,123         91      -          34
Total            -       -         194    1,123         91      -          34
Canada       Commercial        -       -         -         -        -         -         -
Special        4,246     -      11,075    4,254    4,989    4,497    6,765
Total          4,246     -      11,075    4,254    4,989    4,497    6,765
Australia    Commercial        -     3,535       -         -         -        -         819
Special          -       -         -         -        -         -         -
Total            -     3,535       -         -         -        -819
Other         Commercial       -          8      _          13       -        -         _
Special          -       267       -      15,377      -         -         -
Total           _        275       -      15,390       -        -         -
All           Commercial   16,301   8,238   69,444   44,923   83,835   87,792   89,792
Special        4,246     267   12,354   30,754    5,080    4,497    6,799                                   a M
Total         20,547   8,505   81,798   75,677   88,915   92,289   96,591                                   (D X
Source: International Wheat Council, Record of Operations under the I.W.A.



ANNEX 1
Table 9
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Wheat and Flour Commercial Imports
Year
1973                1974
cost/m ton         cost/m ton
CIF                CIF
Volume  Hodeidah  Volume  Hodeidah
(m tons)  (YRls)  (m tons)  (YRls)
Total Wheat                         71,216      650        NA        NA
Total Flour                         75,859      650        NA        NA
Selected Volume Sources
Iraq         - Wheat                15,231      500        NA       NA
Argentina    - Wheat                26,912      700        NA        NA
Australia    - Wheat                12,214      660        NA        NA
Belgium       - Wheat                1,085      700        NA        NA
Canada       - Wheat                 5,627      640        NA        NA
USA           - Wheat                4,500      900        NA        NA
W. Germany   - Flour                 8,125      640      3,159      970
France        - Flour               18,020      660    12,.260      81L.
Belgium       - Flour               21,791      690    12,392   1,150
Netherlands  - Flour                15,400      660      7,594   1,000
Base Data Source: Central Bank of Yemen, Foreign Trade Statistics



ANNEX 1
Table 10
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Projected Grain Supply and Demand
Domestic Grain                                      Shortfall in
Production 1/                           -        Domestic
1.5% Rate of                    Cereat Con-       Cereal          Grain
Increase      Resident        sumption 3,4/    Production       Imports
(1,000 m tons)  Population 2/   (1,000 m tons)  (1,000 m tons) (1,000 m tons)
(1)          (2)              (3)            (4)=(3)-(l)        (5)
1976       1,382.2         5,363,602       1,581.7           199.5            132.9
1977       1,403.0         5,492,329       1,636.2           233.2            155.3
1978       1,424.0         5,624,145       1,692.3           268.3            178.7
1979       1,445.4         5,761,936       1,751.6           306.2            203.9
1980       1,467.0         5,905,985       1,814.3           347.3            231.3
1981       1,489.0         6,056,587       1,884.8           395.8            263.9
1982       1,511.4         6,214,059       1,959.9           448.5            298.7
1983       1,534.0         6,378,731       2,038.6           504.6            336.1
1984       1,557.1         6,550,957       2,121.8           564.7            376.1
1985       1,580.4         6,731,108       2,210.5           630.1            419.6
1986       1,604.1         6,919,579       2,303.5           699.4            465.8
1987       1,628.2         7,113,327       2,401.4           773.2            515.0
1988       1,652.6         7,319,614       2,506.2           853.6            568.5
1989       1,677.4         7,535,542       2,617.1           939.7            625.8
1990       1,702.6         7,761,609       2,734.4         1,031.8            687.2
l/  Base of Production Estimates:  1970/71-74/75 Cereal Production Mean:  1,361.8.
Source: YAR Statistical Yearbook 1974/75, CPO
'|  February 1975, Resident Population:  5,237,893.  Source:  YAR Housing Population
Census, February 1975. Assumptions: 1976-78 Population growth rate 2.4%
thereafterrate increases linearly to 3.0% in 1990.
:3/ 1970-75 average per capita consumption: 800g/day based on 1,528,516 m tons
estimated average consumption (1970-75) inclusive of seeds, animal feeding,
losses and direct human consumption. Source: YAR Statistical Yearbook,
1974/75; Central Bank Annual Report 1973/74; mission estimates.
Estimated direct human consumption: 400 g/day/capita.
Source:  A. Bornstein, Food and Society in Yemen Arab Republic, ESN:MISC/74/4,
FAO, Rome 1974.
Income Elasticity of demand utilized: 0.5 (1976-1990); thereafter 0.2.
Mission estimate, based on data from: John Mellor,. Developing Rural India:
Plan and Practice, Cornell University Press, Ithaca, 1968, p.25.
4/ Assumption: 1976-1980, cereal production growth 1.5%, total agricultural
growth 3.0%, industry and trade 6%; 1981-2005, cereal production growth:
1.5%, total agricultural growth 3.0%, industry and trade 8%.   Result:
real GDP growth: 1976-80, 4.6%, 1981-2005, 5%.



ANNEX 1
Table 1'
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Summary Balance of Payments
(US$ millions)
Year
1970   1971   1972   1973   1974
Exports                          6       6       7      9      12
Imports                        -89    -72   -103   -155   -231
Trade deficit                  -83    -66    -96   -146   -219
Services and workers
remittances (net)             45      47     81    108    159
Grants                          18       6     19      23      61
Current balance                -20    -13       4    -15       -1
Official Project and
Commodity Loans
Private Capital Inflows       30      30     23      32      64
Increase in reserves            10      17     27      17      63
Source: LBRD, Current Economic Position and Prospects of the Yemen Arab
Republic, January 9, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 12
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Composition of Recorded Exports
(In millions of current YRls)
Year
1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974
Coffee            7.8      8.1     4.6      5.3      6.0      5.9
Qat               2.1      4.3      2.8     1.0      0.7       -
Cotton            0.4       -      8.0      7.2    17.8    36.8
Hides and skins  4.0       1.2      2.0     3.3      5.5      3.9
Rock salt         1.4      1.5      2.4     0.6       -        -
Others            2.3      0.7      1.8     2.7      6.0    14.2
Total         18.0    15.8    21.6    20.1    36.0    60.8
Source:      Central Bank Of Yemen
March 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Grain Storage, Processing, Marketing and Transportation
A. Grain Storage
1.        The principal storage space in rural areas, where most of the
domestic crop is consumed, is an earthen pit dug under the home, called a
"madfan". If good drainage keeps water from collecting in the pit, it can
be a satisfactory storage system. Low underground temperatures inhibit in-
sect reproduction and activity. The gas products of grain respiration may
result in an anaerobic atmosphere, in a properly sealed dry underground pit,
in which aerobic microflora does not proliferate.
2.        Commercialized domestic grain, domestic producers' tax known as
'zakat", all imported grain, and all of the imported grain products (princi-
pally wheat flour) are typically handled in bags and stored in flat ware-
houses and store rooms. The zakat is often stored also in madfans. There
are no modern silo facilities.
3.        Major merchants and the Government own some excellent, relatively
new warehouse space. If well managed such space is adequate to house food-
stuffs properly. Reliable data on the total capacity of such good space are
not available. Most of the space belongs to private merchants and is located
in the cities. The Government owns two good warehouses of a total capacity
of 5,000 m tons in Sana'a, including a recently completed warehouse. However,
private rented storage space in the major urban centers has in the past proved
of insufficient scale to handle large Government-acquired stocks or was un-
available on a sufficiently long-term basis to accommodate zakat and customs
duty volumes. As a consequence, the Government has often resorted to in-
efficient holding of stocks in scattered, rural-based facilities and to fre-
quent shipments of supplies to satisfy short-term needs in urban institution
programs.
4.        Almost all of the wholesale, retail, and bakery storage areas
visited were improperly managed and insanitary. Among the worst, and pro-
bably not amenable to significant improvement, is the large Government bakery
compound in Sana'a, reported to be capable of storing 25,000 m tons of grain.
Its mud buildings are reported to be relics from the Ottoman Empire invasion
and may be as much as, or more than, 200 years old. Most of the Government
storage observed, primarily old mud (adobe block) buildings, could not be
renovated economically to provide satisfactory storage.



ANNEX 2
Page 2
5.        Better data on YAR's existing grain storage space and grain flows
are urgently needed. There is no inventory of grain and grain product stor-
age space in the YAR and no dependable data on its kind, its physical condi-
tion, available rental space, and the flow of grain to and from it.  A com-
plete analysis of warehouse needs in the YAR cannot be made without such in-
formation. The project would include a comprehensive .nation-wide survey of
grain storage capacity, quality of existing space and future needs based upon
flow rate analysis. The study would require about 27 man months and cost
ab6ut US$200,000. Based upon the results of such a study a comprehansive
warehousing system can be formulated for a later project.
6.        There are, however, obvious inadequacies in storage space which
would be corrected through this project. The six warehouses proposed would
cover the most urgent present and future needs up to 1980 and would need to
be complemented by additional storage space, the location and capacity of
which would be determined after completion of the storage survey. The -pro-
posed five warehouses include:
(a)  Ibb.  There is no Government storage space in the city.. -At
present the Government stores its grain in rented madfans and
small stores in various parts of the city, with significant
quantity and quality loss. The Government collects about
4,000 m tons of zakat and 11,000 m tons of customs duty and
grants-in-aid cereal commodities. It is proposed to construct
5,000 m tons storage space.
(b)  Hodeidah.  There is an existing 5,000 m tons of space in two ware-
houses.  They are old and in poor condition, and losses due to
infestation and rodents are substantial. They would be amen-
able to repair at an estimated cost of US$100,000. However,
these houses are located in a prime commercial area. A zoning
plan under implementation for the city of Hodeidah will remove
them from consideration for continued use. The Government does
not want to violate its zoning plan and renew warehouses in such
a prime area. A new 5,000 m tons capacity warehouse would replace
these two houses. The present annual tonnage estimated to be
handled through that house for the Hodeidah area is 16,500 m tons.
(c)  Sana'a.  The Government owns about 5,000 m ton new warehouse
space in the city. Grain is presently stored in the new ware-
houses as well as the old Government bakery compound, in the
latter under significant losses due to infestation. To replace
the inadequate storage an additional 3,000 m ton new warehouse
space is proposed to accommodate part of the Zakat (about 5,000
m ton p.a.) and customs duties and grants-in-aid (about 18,000
m ton p.a.) entering the city.



ANNEX 2
Page 3
(d) Damar. The Government has no warehouse in Damar. The annual
volume of zakat, customs duty, and grants-in-aid cereal com-
modities in Damar city is estimated at about 9,500 m tons. The
amount of zakat collected per year amounts to about 2,000 m t9ns.
As in Ibb the grain is presently stored in rented madfans and
small storage places with considerable loss to the Government.
A warehouse of 2,000 m tons capacity would be needed in Damar.
(e) Saada. The Government owns no warehouse in Saada. It is esti-
mated that 3,200 m tons of zakat, customs duty and grants-in-aid
enter the city annually for the Government accounts. The grain
is stored in rented small stalls and stores, urgently needed for
commercial purposes. It is proposed to build space for 1,000 m
tons.
(f) Hajja. There is no Government warehouse in Hajja. It is esti-
mated that 8,000 m tons of Government-owned cereal commodities,
mostly customs duties and grants-in-aid, enter the city annually
and that space for 2,000 m tons would be needed.
All warehouses would be multipurpose storage space, suitable also for storing
other food commodities and fertilizer.
7.        As the zakat comes in at harvest time and, for practical purposes,
represents one annual turn-over, the annual ton-month occupancy rate is 58%
for the proposed houses. The warehouses proposed will also provide space for
increased amounts of customs duty, grants-in-aid, and possibly direct Govern-
ment grain imports. In times of general storage space shortage, and with the
expected growth of storage needs, idle space in the Government facilities
could be rented to merchants at a fair rate of return.
B. Grain Processing
Flour Mills
8.        There are no modern flour mills in the YAR 1/.  In the more remote
areas women still grind the grain into whole grain flour by hand, typically in
a stone quern. Many large villages, most large towns, and all of the cities
have commercial, power-driven, stone buhr mills for custom grinding. Bakeries
and people located in reasonable distance of such mills take grain to them for
1/   A white flour mill originally proposed for inclusion in the project did
not prove to be economically viable in view of continuing subsidized
EEC flour exports to YAR and large expansions of flour milling capacity
under way in nearby Middle Eastern countries.



ANNEX 2
Page 4
grinding.  In 1973, the city of Sana'a had 12 such mills, Taiz 10, Hodeidah 6,
Ibb 4, Damar 3. The grain is not cleaned and all foreign matter is ground
into the whole grain flour. The miller, however, examines the grist for stone
and metal that would damage his buhr stones, and rejects lots containing such
matter. The custom charge for grinding averages about YRls 60 (US$13.67) per
m ton. An exact total count of such mills in YAR is not available, but total
milling capacity appears to be adequate, with new mills being installed each
year.
Bakeries
9.        About 90% of the bread consumed in Yemen is prepared in the home.
This percentage is even higher in rural areas. Bread is baked in cone shaped
mud ovens called "tannurs" or "mawfans"; they are usually wood fired. This
bread is the flat, only slightly leavened, native type. In the towns and
cities, much bread is baked in commercial bakeries. Most of these bakeries
have a capacity of 0.5 to 1 m ton per shift, and operate one thousand shift,
with time out between meal hours. They also do increasingly custom baking of
doughs made in the home. Typically the commercial bakeries have brick hearth
ovens fired by wood or diesel oil. Although a few have motorized dough
mixers, most mixing is done by hand in troughs.
10.       The total number of bakeries in YAR is estimated to be between 220
and 230. In the major cities 56 bakeries were counted: in Sana'a 11, Taiz
18, Hodeidah 22 and Ibb 5. In Sana'a the army operates a large bakery making
about 30 MT of bread daily; the bakery supplies bread for the army, hospitals,
schools and public feeding programs. Similarly, in Taiz, Hodeidah, Damar, Ibb
and Saada, army bakeries produce bread for the same purposes.
11.       The Ministry of Supply theoretically controls bread prices through
the imposition of a price ceiling. The Ministry publishes the price lists and
enforces them through regular visits of inspectors, who check the bakeries in
the cities about once a week. Due to its severe penalty system, the price
control system is reasonably effective despite widespread illiteracy and com-
plete lack of scales. In the third quarter of 1975 bread prices in Sana'a
showed some variation between bakeries. White bread and native bread using
white flour appeared to be closely priced at the ceiling of about YRls 2.08
per kg (US$0.46 per kg). At the same time native bread using whole grain
sorghum flour was being offered at YRls 2.08 to 2.38 per kg (US$0.46 to 0.53
per kg).
12.       The major problems in the bakery sector are insanitary conditions
due to poor facilities and improper management. All of the bakeries visited
were quite insanitary, including a modern, mechanical bakery only two months
old. The large Government bakery in Sana'a is particularly notorious for its
poor facilities and insanitary conditions. Lack of adequate storage space
leads to easy infestation of flour; flies cover ingredients and bread and,
often, lack of hot water supply prevents cleaning of troughs and equipment.
Food supplied under such insanitary conditions is recognized as a source of



ANNEX 2
Page 5
endemic diseases widespread in YAR. The project would make a substantial
contribution to better health through significant improvements in bakery
facilities and technical assistance.
C. Grain Marketing
Domestic Crops
13.       The major portion of the domestic crop does not enter the commer-
cial markets. Although no exact data are available concerning commercial-
ization of the domestic cereal crops, Table 1 of Annex 3 indicates that about
11 percent of the average crop of about 1.4 million m tons is probably com-
mercialised interregionally. Certainly a large part of the non-farm popula-
tion buys its supplies from local domestic production. Also farmers special-
izing in cash crops buy cereals from the domestic supply. Grain is moved
exclusively in bags from production to consumption areas.
14.       The scheme below indicates the usual routes to the market for
domestic cereals:
MARKET CHANNEL FOR DOMESTIC CEREALS
SMALL MERCHANT, OR      WHOLESALER GATHERS IN
FARMER          GATHERER, BUYS AT        TOWNS AND VILLAGES       RETAILER       CONSuMER
THE FARM                AND TRANSPORTS
RETAILS LOCALLY                                   BAKERl1W CaLk-SMER
TO THE CONSUMER lll                                           ll
World Bank-15525



ANNEX 2
Page 6
15.       Farm prices of cereals are high relative to international prices.
S:zrghtim and wheat are reported to have been sold for over US$300 per m tons
equivalent in the four major producing areas. This is almost double the
market price for foreign grains CIF Hodeidah. The Government exerts no ef
fective price control and refrains from purchasing intervention. Selling
prices for domestic grain are restrained to a certain extent only by the
market prices for imported grain. Merchants buy the grain at the lowest
prices they can negotiate at harvest time, and store and distribute it over
the year at constantly increasing prices. The spread between actual farm
prices and consumer prices for domestic grain is often unreasonable, according
to undocumented reports. Monthly retail prices from March through December
t974 in Sana'a city averaged YRls 1.75 per kg 1/ which is equal to US$389 per
rn tons. According to undocumented reports farmgate prices for sorghum ranged
from a low of US$31 per m ton to a high of $460 per MT during 1974/75; retail
prices for Australian wheat in 1975 in Ibb were equal to US$356 per m ton be-
fore harvest and dropped to US$249 after harvest; white sorghum retail prices
were at US$345 per m ton before harvest, were dropping rapidly and were ex-
pected to bottom out when harvest was completed at about US$173 per m ton.
Commercially Imported Cereals
16.       Some five large importers dominate the market for imported cereals,
with the largest accounting for perhaps 50 to 60% of the market. These large
importers also serve as agents for the small importers, who are primarily
wholesale merchants. The large importers collect small purchase orders, com-
bine them into economical lots, negotiate prices, and arrange shipping. The
smaller importers thus are required only to open a letter of credit for pay-
ment, and take delivery at the port.
17.       Commercial importation of cereal commodities averaged 105,000 MT an-
nually during 1971-74. The volume varies markedly from year to year in re-
sponse to the size of the domestic crop. In practice, the commercial import
volume of grain is not controlled. A license to import and an authorization
to buy the foreign exchange necessary to do so is required but both are freely
given by the Central Bank. The lack of any import regulation for cereals has
led repeatedly to large fluctuations in available domestic supplies and er-
ratic price changes. With increasing cereal imports expected in the future
the Government will need to become more active in the grain import sector.
1/   Central Planning Office, Statistical Yearbook of YAR, 1974-75.



ANNEX 2
Page 7
18.        The usual routes for imported cereals to the consumer are as follows:
MARKET CHANNEL FOR IMPORTED CEREAL
IMPORTERS'            IMPORTERS'
HODEIDAH              REGIONAL                 BAKER
WAREHOUSE             WAREHOUSE
HODEIDAH                                                                                 COSUE
PO RT                                                                                      1    CO NSU ME R
"O.-   WHOLESALER  -40.W RETAILER
World Bank-1 5526



ANNEX 2
Page 8
Government Activities in the Cereal Sector
19.       Legislation provides broad authorization for the Ministry of Supply
to engage in food supply and food price stabilization activities. However,
it does not at present engage in such activities-with a formal, integrated
plan. Government intervention up to this time has taken two forms:
(a)  Maximum price lists for each Governorate are issued by the
Ministry of Supply periodically for imported staple food com-
modities, including wheat and flour. These lists show maximum
prices for specific controlled commodities, available in each
Governorate, at wholesale and retail levels. The basis for
calculating the wholesale price.is the CIF price plus im-
porters' costs plus typically 10% importers' margin. Whole-
sale maximum prices are derived by adding the wholesaler's
costs to his purchase price and profit margin of 5%. Re-
tailer's maximum prices are derived less specifically and tend
to be based more on average costs and higher margin allowances.
For the imports of wheat and flour the Ministry of Supply esti-
mated that 75% of the wholesale volume is sold in full bag lots
directly to the households and bakers at the wholesale price,
which would leave only 25% of the volume to be sold at the higher
retail prices.  Margin allowances may be altered by the Ministry
of Supply to provide incentives to either increase or depress
supplies of imported goods. Annex 2, Table 1 illustrates a
typical cost and price build-up in the domestic market for im-
ported Australian wheat at imported CIF prices prevailing in the
third quarter of 1975.
(b)  The Yemen Foreign Trade Company (YFTC) is a quasi-government
corporation and owned 40% by the Government of YAR, 35% by the
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD), and 25%
by the private sector. It has operated under the supervision of
the Ministry of Economy and the YBRD. Its principal activity
has been the importation of food commodities. It operates in
the three major cities - Hodeidah, Sana'a and Taiz. The Ministry
of Supply instructs this company when to import and sell cereals.
It imports food commodities duty-free and sells at the Ministry
of Supply's maximum wholesale prices. It also receives some
cereals from the Government grants-in-aid credits, which it sells
for the account of the Government, retaining a commission. Over
the past seven years YFTC's cereal volume has averaged 13,000 m
tons per year, or about 8% of the average annual imports of
167,000 m tons.
20.       YFTC has experienced difficulties in recent years.  It has not been
profitable and has not successfully attained its intended stabilization goals.
Based upon interviews, its problems appear to stem largely from charter defici-
encies, organizational problems and inadequate capital.



ANNEX 2
Page 9
21.       Government acquires cereal commodities for its own account primarily
from three sources:
(a) Zakat - originally a religious tithe, is levied at 10% of the
produce. Total zakat collection would theoretically amount to
about 140,000 m tons of grain per year. Actual collection is
less as part of the zakat is paid in cash. Also the collection
system is rather inefficient, particularly in inaccessible areas.
There is no available record of what the Government actually re-
ceives "in kind". The tax authorities estimated that as much as
75% is actually paid in kind, but that large portions of the
grain received is immediately sold to merchants to meet the cash
needs of local Government bodies. WJhile no record of the volume
of grain retained in kind by the Government is available, the tax
authorities estimated that the amount would approximate 26,000 to
30,000 m tons per year. Such a retention seems to agree reason-
ably well with data rationalized from other fragmentary sources.
The distribution of zakat taxes collected is: (i) 45% to the
Ministry of Finance; (ii) 45% to the Local Development Associa-
tions; 10% to the local sheikhs and amins.
(b) Customs Duties levied on commercial imports at a rate of 5%.
These duties may be paid either in cash or in kind, although
the Government prefers to take these duties in kind, and gen-
erally does so. No record of the exact quantities of cereal
commodities so acquired is available; however, it is reason-
able to estimate that the average annual quantity approximates
5,200 m tons.
(c) Grants-in-aid from multi-national and bilateral donor organiza-
tions. The total of such grants is estimated to average 62,000
m tons annually, with wide differences between years due to vary-
ing needs, brought about by wide differences in annual domestic
crop production. It is estimated that about 18,000 m tons of
this quantity are ear-marked for specific food-for-work programs
and 44,000 m tons are direct grants to the Government.
The Government thus may have for its account 75,000 to 79,000 m tons of cereal
commodities in an average year. Its disposition of these quantities is not
known in detail. However, the principal uses are: (a) public feeding programs
- armiy, schools, hospitals, certain public servants and charity to the poor;
(b) sales for cash.
D. Transportation and Import Handling of Grain
22.       All internal transportation-in YAR is carried out on roads by motor
truck or animal. There are no rail roads. A triangular, largely hard surfaced



ANNEX 2
Page 10
road network connects Hodeidah, Taiz and Sana'a, the major urban areas. Ship-
pers and their agents report an adequate supply of trucking vehicles available
at all times. The General Office of Domestic Land Transportation states that
there are somewhat more than 400 10-15 m tons capacity long-haul trucks.operta-
irg out of their office in Hodeidah, plus 60 more operating out of another
office serving Hajja. There would be no problem in supplying additional
vehicles as the demand for service rises.
23.       Freight rates are set by the Ministry of Economy.  Present rates
quoted to the principal cities from Hodeidah are:
YRls per m ton
Hodeidah - Sana'a                         71
Hodeidah - Taiz                           71
Hodeidah - Ibb                            93
Hodeidah - Saada                         149
The Transport Association of Mokha has 40 members operating fifty 5-15 m tons
capacity vehicles.  Present rates to their principal services areas are:
YRls per m ton
Mokha - Taiz                               40
Mokha - Ibb                                70
Mokha - Sana'a                            110
Mokha - Hodeidah                           70
24.       The principal port of YAR is Hodeidah.  It handles about 87% of
total cargo and about 86% of dry bulk imports. Of YAR's three ports handl-
ing significant amounts of commercial cargo the Hodeidah port is, at present,
best suited for future development: the site was chosen carefully in allow-
ing for expansion; the geotechnical conditions are satisfactory; it is a suit-
able distance from the city; and all infrastructure facilities are available.
The main constraint to the port's future development may be its depth of 9.6
m L.W.L.
25.       Hodeidah port is operated by a semi-autonomous port authority corpo-
ration, responsible directly to the Ministry of Public Works. All functions
at the port, except the collection of customs duties, are the responsibility.
of the corporation.
26.       The ship channel, port basin and berth drafts available at present
permit ships with about 10,000 DWT to navigate and berth. Dredging, expected
to be completed in 1975, will increase the possible cargo weight of ships to
about 14,000 m tons. Longer term plans are to dredge further to depths that
will permit 20,000 DWT vessels to berth. Greater depths may be practical, but
additional studies are necessary before a prediction of greater depths can
be made.



ANNEX 2
Page 11
27.       The port presently has berthing space for one 90m and two 160 m
ships along 410 m of wharf. The No. 1 berth of 90 m is shallow draft. The
No. 2 and No. 3 berths handle most of the port's present cargo. A contract
has been signed with the USSR to construct a fourth berth, 165 m in length,
to be completed in 1976.  Three 5-m ton capacity rail cranes on the quay apron
load and unload ships by sling and hook methods. Bulk grain is unloaded by
labor crews 4ithin the ship's holds, filling canvas or jute lined rope slings.
These sling jads are dumped in piles on the quay apron. Labor crews fill new
bags by the use of volume measure cans, usually to about 50 kg "catch" weight.
The bagged grain is immediately trucked to the importer's warehouse. There is
no grain warehouse space in the port area. Usually about 700 m tons per day
will be unloaded.  Annex 9, Table 8 shows approximate average variable port
costs of US$3.76 m tons to the importer at present to handle bulk grain, ex-
cluding any ship's demurrage or hidden charges he may be paying in charter
costs due to port turn around time.
28.       While on the quay apron, the grain is subjected to losses due to
rain, rodent contamination and spillage. It is estimated that 0.5% of the
grain may be saved by eliminating these operations. The grain is not weighed
at the port. Prior studies by consultants have shown that deliveries of bulk
grain to ports without receiving scales may be short weighted by up to 5%.
Without weighing, the consignee does not know of his loss and cannot file ac-
ceptable claims.
29.       YAR has two other ports that handle commercial cargo in significant
volumes: Mokha and Salif. The port of Mokha receives a small quantity of
cereals.  It is a lighter port and is subject to heavy silting.  There is, at
present, no assurance that Mokha port can be successfully developed in view of
its siltation problem. At best, its development would be a costly undertaking
for the small volume of cargo it would handle advantageously. Its only ap-
parent advantage is its proximity to the Taiz/Ibb area for inland transporta-
tion. The estimated difference in truck transportation costs in favor of
Mokha over Hodeidah port to Taiz is YRls 53.6 (US$11.9)/m ton. 1/ It is about
163 km further from Hodeidah to Taiz than from Mocha to Taiz - 269 km versus
106. However, only about 7% of the present national shortfall of cereal pro-
duction occurs in the Taiz/lbb Governorates. 2/
30.       Salif is reported to be an excellent natural deepwater harbor--the
best of the three. It has been used in the past as a port for shipping salt.
However, there is no infrastructure--no city, no utilities, no improved roads.
1/   Based on data presented in YAR Port Development Study, Preliminary Draft
of Consultant Study, August 1975.
2/   According to the appraisal mission's estimates, 93% of the grain imports
would be consumed in the areas other than the Taiz-Ibb Governorates.
rhe mission considers the port study's estimate that 70% of agricultural
imports would be handled more efficiently through Hodeidah as too low for
grain imports.



ANNEX 2
Page- 12
The costs of developing infrastructure at Salif will prevent development of
the harbor as a major port in the foreseeable future. 1/
31.       There is no doubt, and the analysis of the preliminary port study
confirms this, that a port silo for YAR should be built at Hodeidah to handle
the 93% of the imported grain volume, for which Hodeidah has a cost advantage.
Duplication of the receiving facilities for bulk grain at Mokha would result
in an investment cost in the magnitude of US$3.1 million without considering
the cost of port development, dredging and storage bin space. At the present
volume of about 7,000 m tons of grain advantageously handled through Mokha,
the freight savings would amount to about US$55,000 p.a. 2/ This is not suf-
ficient to justify the high investment costs. The only logical location for
construction of silo capacity at the present time is tiodeidah Port. Consider-
ation of Mokha port can be safely deferred until such a time as the Mokha port
future is decided as a result of the port study, and the total demand for im-
ported cereals has grown to the point where expansion in storage space, beyond
the 20,000 m tons proposed in the project, is needed. (Annex 9, Table 8 des-
cribes the present cost differentials for bulk grain handling and transport to
Taiz from Hodeidah vs. Mokha. At present the differential is YRls 14.22
(US$3.16) per m ton in favor of Mokha. This differential would be even lower
if the more efficient port facilities proposed in llodeidah were taken into
account).
32.       Hodeidah port's main problem is congestion.  In October 1975 a ship's
waiting time averaged about four days. Bulk grain unloading with present fa-
cilities is a major reason for the congestion. A 8,000 m ton ship requires
about ten days for unloading bulk grain and, during this time, occupies one of
the two available berths for large ships. For this reason, the Government is
considering the restriction of the import of bulk grain and requiring all
grain to be imported in bags. This may add about US$30 - US$50 per m tons to
the CIF cost of imported wheat. Moreover, such regulation would severely re-
strict the sources of grain supply as many export ports are not equipped for
handling bagged grain. The Hodeidah port congestion is expected to increase,
once the international shipping traffic has adjusted to the reopening of the
Suez Canal. 3/ The proposed silo and modern ship unloading facilities would
reduce the turn-around time for bulk grain ships of 8,000 m tons from the
present ten days to two days and thus help substantially in relieving port
congestion in Hodeidah.
1/   YAR Port Development Study, Preliminary Draft of Consultant Study,
August 1975.
2/   Based on data presented in YAR Port Development Study, loc. cit.
3/   The increased number of ship arrivals in the third quarter of 1975
seems already to indicate increased traffic for Hodeidah.
May, 1976



ANNEX 2
APPRAISAL OF                            Table 1
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEE1,I kAAB REPUBLIC
Typical Cost and Price Build-up - Imported Wheat
Sector   Cost to
Costs    Market    Margins
IXRls/m ton --
Inporters
Australian FAQ Wheat CIF Tiodeidah              1,026.0   1,026.0       -
Landing Charge - Port Authority                     5.5        5.5      -
Customs Duty at 5%                                 51.3       51.3      -
Fill Bags and Sew                                   6.o        6.o      -
Load Trucks                                         3.0        3.0      -
Truck to Hodeidah Warehouse                         7.0        7.0      -
Labor Expense in Warehouse                          6.0        6.0      -
Warehouse Overhead Expense                          2.0        2.0
Office Overhead Expense                             4.0        4.0      -
Imorter's margin for Taxes and Profit 1/         111.0        -      111,0
Wholesaler
Wholesaler's Cost Inside Importer's
Hodeidah Warehouse                            1,222.0        -        -
Loading Trucks                                      5.0        5.0      -
Transport to Sana'a or Taiz                        71.0       71.0      -
Unload Truck                                        2.5        2.5      -
Rent                                                4.0        4.0      -
Wholesaler's Margin for Taxes and Profit 1/        65.0        -       65.o
Retailer
Retailer's Cost Inside Wholesaler's             1,369.5        -        -
Warehouse    2/
Loading Truck                                       5.0        5.0      -
Truck to Retailer's Stall                          10.0       10.0      -
Unload Truck                                        2.5        2.5      -
Rent                                                4.0        4.0      -
Margin for Taxes and Profit                       359.0        -      359.0
Price to Consumer at 1.75 YRls/kg.              1,750.0        _        _
Costs in Consumer Price                                    1,215.0      -
Margi`ns in Consumer Plice                                            535.0
Percent of Consumer Price                         100.0       69.4     30.6
1/ Calculated at the allowable rates, as furnished by the Ministry of Supply
2/ Consumers buy bag (50kg) lots at this price - YRls 63/50 kg
Typically wholesalers sell all customers - retailers, bakers and consumers
at the same full bag price..
Source: 1ission calculations based upon interviews with merchants, and
GYAR officials.



49EX 
"able &
APPi{AISAit
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESbiNG PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Bread Demand and Production, 1975 and 1980
Government Welfare Programs
Daily Bread Requirements       Projected Requirements /2
1975                            1980
------m tons (flour basis)-----------------
Sana'a                      8.o /1                          10.0
Hodeidah                    2.3 /1                           3.0
Taiz                        6.9 /1                           9.7
Ibb                          .8                              1.0
Damar                        .8                              1.0
Saada                        .7                              3.9
Total                    19.5                             25.6
Private Bakeries Production and Demand
Production            Demand /3
1975             1980      19i5
-------m ton (flour basis)------
Sana a                  17.8             25.0       35.0
Hodeidah                13.2             18.5       26.0
Taiz                    11.8             16.6       23.2
Ibb                      4.5              6.3        8.9
Damar                    3.8              5.3        7.5
Saada                     -               1.0        1.5
HajJa                    1.5              2.1        3.0
Total                 52.6             YIV8     105.1
Source: Ministry of Supply Estimates
l Breakdown of Government Welfare Program Requirements
Sana'a     Taiz      Hodeidah
---------- m ton------------
Distribution to Poor      1.7        1.7          .5
Hospitals                 1.4        1.3          .7
Schools                   4.9        3.9        1.1
Subtotal                 8.0        ___        2.3
/2 Increase  is mostly for expected expansion of school and hospital feeding
programs and, for Taiz and Hodeidah, for enlarged distribution to poor.
/3 Demand has been conservatively estimated to increase at 7% per annum. This
is in line with the projected urban population growth rate.
May . 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Regional Grain Balance
1.        Although data do not exist concerning governorate-specific rates of
population growth and of grain production increase, rough estimates concerning
future regional balances could be generated with the utilization of: (1) pre-
sent population and production information for each governorate as well as (2)
the national growth projections discussed in Annex 1.
2.        According to current disapearance and cereal production estimates,
cereal shortages total approximately 313,800 m tons of which 145,000 m tons,
or 46.2 percent, are alleviated through inter-governorate shipment of surplus
quantities, leaving the remaining excess demand to be satisfied through im-
ports. The Sana'a, Hodeidah, and Ibb Governorates represent the current sur-
plus producers, with the composite category encompassing the Damar, Al Mahweet,
Saada, Marib and Al Beida Governorates accounting for the largest deficit.
Only approximately 10 percent of current domestic cereal production moved into
this intergovernorate stream with the major portion remaining at the local
level to satisfy current consumption and storage needs at the farm level as
well as to meet intra-regional market demand.
3.        Because of the rise in the population growth rate and relatively
limited expansion of cereal production foreseen in the future, gross shortages
are expected to increase to 425,000 m tons in 1980, 662,800 m tons in 1985 and
1,033,000 m tons in 1990. Correspondingly, for the same reasons, the Sana'a
Governorate is expected to slip to net importer status by 1980, Ibb by 1985,
and Hodeidah by 1990. In sum, regional surpluses area projected to satisfy a
diminishing portion of excess demand, an amount falling from 46.2 percent in
1975 to 18.4 percent in 1980, and to 4.9 percent in 1985. By 1990, all gov-
ernorates will probably rely on foreign obtained supplies to satisfy cereal
requirements, an expected trend accounting for the marked rise in projected
cereal import demand.
May 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YE;EN ARAB REPUBLIC
Approximate Cereal Grain Production and Cereal Utilisation bz Region
1975              1975              1975              1975               1980               1                 1990
Population j       Domestic            Total          Shortage (-)      Shortage (-)       Shortage (_)      Shortage (-)
Governorate                        Production                    14 Consumption  /  or         or                 or                 or
Suplu(us  (+j/     Surplus (*)        Surplus (+)        Surplus (+)
- - ---------- -- ---        -- ------------ -------  m tons    ---- - ---------- -------- -------------------
Sanata               883,553           282,900            257,997.5   (+)   24,902.5      (-)   1,284.4      (-)  44,560.1      (-) 107,788.0
Nodeidah             740,263           297,390            216,156.8    (+)   81,233.1     (+) 63,958.8    (+)  32,727.4         (-)  14,831.9
Taiz                 954,391           227,010            278,682.2    (-)  51,672.2    (_)  86,030.9        (-) 139,317.8      (-) 214,662.0
Ibb                  861,564           290,490            251,576.7    (+)   38,913.3    (+)  14,508.9       (-)  26,471.8      (_)  86,813.9
Hajja                428,494           109,020            125,120.2    (-)   16,100.2    (_)  30,977.7       (-)  54,310.9      (_)  87,501.5
Other              1.369.628           153,870            399,931.4   (-)  246,061.4    I-) 308,654-5        (-) 399,438.1 (.   520,096.1
Total        5,237.893         1,360,680         1,529,464.8    (-) 168,784.9         ) 48,479.8       (-)631,371.3       (-_ _o3l,693.4
/ February 1975, Resident Population; 5,237,893;  Source:  YAR Housing Population Census, February 1975;
Assumptions:  1976-1978 population growth rate 2.4%, thereafter rate increases linearly to 3.0% in 1990.
Since reglon-specific rates are unknown, estimated national rate of growth employed for each governorate.
/ Base of Production Estimates:  1970/71-1974/75 Cereal Production Means 1,361.8;  Source: YAR-Statistical Ycarbook 1974/75, CPO
3/  1970-75 average per capita consumption:  292/kg/year based on 1,528,516 m tons estimated average consumption (1970-75) inclusive
of seedsx, animal feeding, losses, direct human consumption. Approximate average annual tonnage of Cereals available: (m tons)
Domestic Production - l,'36,800   (Basis Aver. 70/71 to 74/75 - Source; "Statistical Year Book" 1974-75 (CPO))
Commercial Imports  -   104,716   (Basis Aver. 69/70 to 73/74 - Source: "Central Bsck - Annual Report" 1973/74)
Grants in Aid       _   62.000   (Estima'e Based on Rationalization of Fragmentary Data)
Total        1,528,516
1,58,56 mtomns29
personns =292 kg/capita for all uses (Consistent with other, similar grain food economies)
Income Elasticity of demand utilized:  0.5 (1976-1990); thereafter 0.2.  Mission estimate, based on data from: John Mellor, Developing Rural
India: Plan and Practice, Cornell University Press, Ithaca, 1968, p.25.
j/  Assumption: 1976-1980, cereal production growth 1.5%, total agricultural growth 3.0%, industry and trade 6%;  1981-2000, cereal production growth;
1 __1 tal agricultur-al growth 3.01 1ndustur  and trade 8% result:  GDP growth:  1976-80, 4-.qo   _ 281-2000, 5.0-
Since region-specific rates unknown, estimated national rates of growth abployed for each Governorate.
i/  Columns will not add to the totals shown due to rounding.   Deviations  are  less than one percent.
May , 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Agricultural and Agroindustrial Credit
A.   Banking System
Background
1.        The practice of modern banking in YAR dates back te i962 Wht,:- the
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development (YBRD) was established by the
Government with a majority state shareholding. Besides performing tmmercial
banking functions, it implemented Government monetary and developmellv policies
until the formation of the Central Bank of Yemen (CB) in 1971. Five commer-
cial banks, four foreign and YBRD, now operate in Yemen. The foreign banks
are the Habib Bank, the British Bank of the Middle East, the United Bank and
the Arab Bank. There are no specialized institutions for financing of agri-
cultural and industrial sectors.
2.        The Banking Law of 1972, administered by CB, regulates all banking
operations in YAR. It provides for licensing and supervision of banks, stip-
ulates capital, reserve and liquidity requirements, and prescribes acolunting
and auditing procedures.
The Central Bank of Yemen
3.        The CB was established in September 1971 with an authorized capital
of YRls 10 million. IMF experts assisted the Government in its establishment
and helped in organizing its various departments. CB's main functions include
regulation of banking and credit in the country and acting as banker to the
Government. Credit supply by banks is regulated through two major instruments,
statutory reserve requirements and rediscounting of credit papers. The re-
serve requirement is seasonally adjusted in line with demand for credit and
is generally reduced during the cotton financing season to allow larger flow
of credit. The CB also rediscounts commercial papers with a maturity not ax-
ceeding six months from the date of discount and is also authorized to reojis-
count agricultural and industrial credit instruments with a mat0rity of not
more tham.9 months.
4.        CB's management is vested in a Board of Directors c,u, li t ing ot a
Governor who acts as Chairman, a Deputy-Governor, a representative  act. from



ANNEX 4
Page 2
the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, and three other di-
rectors nominated by the Minister of Finance. Both the Governor and the
Deputy-Governor are appointed by the President of the Republic for an initial
period of four years and are eligible for reappointment. The Governor is the
Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for implementation of the policies
determined by the Board. The CB has six departments including a Banking Con-
trol Department recently established to regulate and supervise the operation
of banks. Its Head Office is in Sana'a and it has two branch offices, at
Hodeidah and Taiz.
5.        CB periodically fixes interest rates on deposits and loans for
guidance of banks. The current minimum rates fixed are 5% on savings and
6%-9% on fixed deposits for 3 to 12 months. The minimum lending rates are
11% on commercial loans and 14% on personal loans.
Yemen Bank for Reconstruction and Development
6.        YBRD is the largest commercial bank in YAR.  Its share capital is
YRls 10 million of which 51% is held by the Government and the rest by the
public. Nearly half of its resources are derived from deposits which amounted
to YRls 156 million at the end of 1974. YBRD extends short-term loans and ad-
vances mainly for internal and foreign trade and for industrial activities to
private and public sector enterprises. It grants substantial credit facil-
ities to the Cotton General Company every year for procurement and export of
cotton and also provides assistance for import of farm machinery, fertilizers
and other agricultural inputs. A few loans are also granted to farmers for
purchase of farming equipment and for development of groundwater. Its loans
and advances increased from YRls 52 million in 1969 to YRls 212 million in
1974. In fulfillment of its developmental role, YBRD has contributed YRls 16
million to the share capital of eleven public sector companies and is also
involved in their management.
7.        The Bank is managed by a board of eleven directors, six of whom,
including the Chairman, are Government representatives. The remaining di-
rectors are elected by the private shareholders. The Bank's Head Office and
principal business office are in Sana'a and it has eleven branches and
agencies throughout the country.
8.        YBRD was selected in 1973 as the credit channel for the Industrial
Estate Project (Credit 465-YAR).
Foreign Banks
9.        The four foreign banks handle about 30% of YAR's banking business.
They finance the commercial sector, mainly foreign trade, and are permitted
to accept deposits from the public. They have six branches in three major
towns - Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz.



ANNEX 4
Page 3
B. Agricultural Credit
Background
10.       At present institutional credit to agriculture in YAR is in gen-
eral limited to cotton production. Farmers primarily depend on their own
resources, remittances from relatives from abroad (mainly Saudi Arabia) and
other non-institutional sources such as friends and traders, for investment
in agriculture.
11.       Prior to the establishment of the Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF),
two attempts were made to establish a national institutional credit source
for the agricultural sector. A proposal was made in 1969 to set up an agri-
cultural credit department within YBRD to provide production loans to farmers,
but it failed to materialize due to lack of resources and trained manpower.
In 1971 the National Parliament enacted a law creating an Agricultural Bank.
This bank could not be established due, more or less, to similar reasons. In
1975 the Command Council passed another law establishing a wholly state-owned
Yemen Agricultural Credit Bank (YACB). The Government has earmarked a sum of
YRls 100 million, of which YRls 20 million are to be paid in during 1976, and
certain resources in kind for this bank. YACB is expected to start its lend-
ing operations from the second half of 1976. The establishment of YACB how-
ever would not restrict the operation of ACF which, according to a Cabinet
decision, would continue to be the lending agency for IDA projects until a
decision is taken in consultation with IDA to merge ACF with YACB.
The Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF)
12.       ACF was established in connection with the Tihama Development Proj-
ect (TDP) to set up an Agricultural Credit Fund within the CB to finance the
project beneficiaries. The ACF has since been selected also as the financing
channel for the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDP) 1/. Under
both the projects, short-, medium- and long-term loans would be provided to
farmers for purchase of agricultural inputs and for capital investment.
13.       Under the Tihama Development Project, ACF will be headed by a Manager
(expatriate) who will recommend to the CB's Board of Directors policies to be
followed by the ACF and, upon their approval, would be responsible for their
implementation. He would also formulate detailed procedures for ACF's opera-
tions and would undertake training and supervision of local staff, both at
headquarters and at the field offices. The Manager was appointed February
1975. The TDP area would be served by two offices, one at Wadi Zabid and
1/   Credit 545-YAR.



ANNEX 4
Page 4
the other at Wadi Mawr. For the SURDP area, there would be two more offices
at Taiz and Ibb. The offices in each project area would be under the charge
of an expatriate Field Manager who would be responsible to the Manager.
14.       The first field office at Wadi Zabid was opened in April 1975 and
lending operations have since started. Table 1 of this Annex shows ACF's
financial position as of October 31, 1975. Due to weak extension services,
the size and scope of 1975 credit activities (through October) were still
modest, but the growth trend is encouraging (see Table 2). Short-term loans
mainly for purchase of oil for irrigation pumps and fertilizers, and medium-
term loans for on-farm development and farm machinery aggregating to YRls
410,000 have been disbursed so far. Satisfactory progress has been made in
establishing the operational procedures and systems. The expatriate Credit
Officer assigned to the lWadi Zabid Field Office has trained two Yemeni loan
officers in loan appraisal and other operational duties. However, ACF still
faces problems of recruiting Yemeni counterparts and receiving inadequate
support from the CB. The expatriate Manager in Sana'a is still without a
qualified counterpart, and the CB's lack of interest is reflected in the as-
signment of inadequately qualified and poorly motivated counterparts to head
office positions. ACF also needs additional transport facilities (e.g. motor
cycles) for loan enquiries as well as for periodic supervision and collection
of loans. Under the project ACF's resources would increase substantially
which would decrease ACF's dependence on the CB. Likewise it would also be
staffed and would receive additional technical assistance for properly carry-
ing out its responsibilities under the project (See para 24 below).
Credit Arrangements under the Project
15.       The ACF would be the lending channel for the proposed project.  It
would provide medium- and long-term sub-loans to the Yemen General Grain Cor-
poration (YGGC) and to private bakeries.
16.       Half of the investment costs of the silo, warehouses and 10-m ton
bakeries would be financed by Government equity contribution and half by ACF's
subloans to the YGGC. The Government would on-lend an amount equivalent to
the loan-financed portion of the project investments (US$11.7 million) out of
the proceeds of the IDA credit and Saudi Fund loan to ACF at an interest rate
of 4.0% per annum. ACF would receive a spread of 5.0% which would be suffi-
cient to cover its costs, to make provisions for.losses and to allow ACF to
build up a reasonable equity. ACF's administrative costs connected with the
project' average 2.8% of loans outstanding. Provisions for losses assumed at
10% of small bakery loans and 2% of loans to YGGC would be equivalent to an
average of about 0.7% of subloans outstanding during the lifetime of the proj-
ect. To'allow ACF to build up a reasonable amount of equity would require
about 1.5% of its sub-loans outstanding. In addition to its lending activi-
ties, ACF would be the administrative channel for a Government contribution to
YGGC equity of US$8.5 million (YRls 38.2 million), of which US$1.3 million
(YRIs 5.9 million) would be provided under the proposed IDA credit. ACF would
likewise act as the administrative channel for a Government grant of US$0.9
million (YRls 4.1 million) to YGGC for the nutritional component.



ANNEX 4
Page 5
Lending Procedures
17.       For the silo, warehouses and 10-m ton bakeries YGGC would update
the appraisal and submit the sub-loan application to ACF. ACF would review
the appraisal and evaluate particularly the financial viability of the proj-
ect proposal. After its review, it would forward to IDA the sub-loan appli-
cation for the silo, 10-m ton bakeries and the first two warehouses for its
approval, with appropriate recommendations. The subloan applications for the
remaining warehouses would be approved by ACF. The small bakers credit opera-
tions would be carried out in close coordination with YGGC which would advise
bakers and encourage them to participate in the project and provide the neces-
sary technical and administrative assistance to applying bakers. YGGC's
bakery extension agents would assist bakers in preparing an investment program
and in completing the sub-loan applications and submit them to the bakery
division of YGGC. After YGGC's technical and economic review, it would for-
ward the sub-loan applications to the ACF with appropriate recommendations.
ACF would evaluate the creditworthiness of the applicants, the financial and
economic viability of their proposals, and the availability of the investors'
own contributions, covering at least 20% of the investment cost. ACF would
forward to IDA the first three sub-loan applications for new bakeries for
prior approval as well as every fifth bakery improvement loan request exceed-
ing an amount of US$10,000 or YRIs 45,000. All other sub-loan applications
would be assessed directly by ACF. When sub-loans are approved, ACF would
inform YGGC and each applicant about the amount granted as well as the terms
and conditions of the sub-loan. YGGC's extension agents would periodically
visit the loanee bakers to advise them on organizational and technical as-
pects of bread baking, sanitary requirements and bread fortification and
would extend necessary assistance. These visits would be coordinated with
the visits of ACF's own staff to the project bakeries.
Investment Categories
18.       ACF would make sub-loans to YGGC for the construction of the silo,
regional warehouses and two Government bakeries.  ACF sub-loans to private
bakers would be for the construction of nine 1-m ton bakeries and one 3-m ton
bakery and for bakery rehabilitation to an estimated 50 bakers. The loans for
new private bakeries would finance building construction, utilities, engineer-
ing and bakery equipment, grain and flour cleaning facilities, as well as
sales shop facilities. The bakery improvement credits would finance building
rehabilitation, installation of utilities, parts of bakery equipment and grain
and flour cleaning facilities.
Terms of Sub-loans
19.       Half of YGGC's investments wol.d be equity contribution.  The mini-
mum contribution of private bakers would be 20% of investment cost. Maturi-
ties would not exceed the life of the assets financed. Maximum repayment
periods for the various types of sub-loans would be:



ANNEX 4
Page 6
Investment Category              Grace    Repayment    Total
-----------years-----------
Silo                               5           9           14
Warehouses                         4          10           14
10 m ton Bakery                    3          10           13
1 m ton Bakery                     3           5            8
Rehabilitation Credit              1           4            5
Interest Rates
20.       Commercial interest rates in YAR range from 11% for medium- and
long-term investment credits to 13%-14% for short-term credits. A preferen-
tial rate of 9.5% is charged to the General Cotton Company. Interest rates
charged under the Tihama and Southern Uplands Rural Development project are
8% for medium- and long-term loans and 9% for short-term loans. Interest
rates charged under this project would be 9%, i.e. one percentage point higher
than in the Tihama and Southern Uplands projects. As discussed above (para
16) the Government's interest rate to ACF would be 4.0% p.a., resulting in a
spread of 5.0% p.a. to cover its costs, to make provisions for losses and to
allow a reasonable increase of its equity capital. If ACF's onlending rate
were to change the Government's rate charged to ACF would be adjusted accord-
ingly in order to maintain a 5.0% spread for ACF. Given an estimated infla-
tion rate in YAR of more than 25% in 1974/75, the real interest rate would be
negative with prevailing nominal rates. However, the YGGC would carry the
foreign exchange risk, thus raising YGGC's real cost of capital. The Govern-
ment would assume the foreign exchange risk for sub-loans to small bakers and
for the technical assistance loan to ACF.
Security
21.       According to ACF's present lending procedures, short-term loans up
to YRls 5,000 are provided against guarantee of two persons. Short-term loans
in excess of the above amount and all medium- and long-term loans require land
security. The sub-loans to YGGC as a Government enterprise would be secured
by a Government guarantee. Sub-loans to private bakers would require land
and/or other property security. Land would be acceptable as security up to
80% and other property up to 60% of the current market value.
Supervision and Recovery of Loans
22.       Loans would be supervised by ACF staff who would periodically visit
sub-borrowers' installations. Financial statements would also be obtained
from sub-borrowers semi-annually to keep a watch on their operations. ACF
field staff would be responsible for timely collection of loans from YGGC
and private bakers.



ANNEX 4
Page 7
ACF Organization and Staffing
23.       The organizational expansion and additional staffing of ACF here
discussed, are based on the projected requirements of this project as well as
the proposed Livestock Credit and Processing Project. The two projects' would
o6perate predominantly in the Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz areas. ACF's field of-
fice at Taiz, proposed under the Southern Uplands Project, would become op-
erational by the time this project matures for implementation. An expansion
of the Taiz field office and addition of two new field offices, one at Sana'a
and the other at Hodeidah, would be necessary to service the two projects.
ACF's organization chart showing the required additions is attached as Chart
1.
ACF Staffing
24.       ACF is not at present equipped to undertake financing of agroindus-
trial and livestock activities. A major institution building effort is re-
quired to prepare ACF's Head Office, as well as the field offices, for the
increased volume and variety of lending operations. Table 3 of this Annex
shows in detail the staffing and additional offices and equipment that would
be required under these two projects. In summary, the projects would provide
for:
(a) Head Office, Sana'a. The extension of ACF's General Manager
for three additional years after the termination of his term
under the Tihama Development project. One industrial credit
officer and one livestock credit officer would establish lend-
ing procedures for, and would supervise, agroindustrial and
livestock loans. One accountant/financial controller would
set up ACF's accounting and financial control system. A farm
management extension officer would supervise the farm credit
extension operations. All four additional staff would be in-
ternationally recruited and work under the overall supervision
and guidance of ACF's Manager. Apart from their operational
responsibilities, their main function would be the selection
and training of local counterparts. Each expatriate would
have a Yemeni counterpart. In addition, the ACF head office
would be staffed with a legal advisor. The Yemeni staff would
increasingly undertake operational and management responsibil-
ities during the projects' implementation.
(b) Branch Office, Sana'a. To handle the increased lending opera-
tions in the Sana'a area, a local branch office would be es-
tablished. It would be staffed by a branch manager, an agri-
cultural credit officer and an industrial credit officer as
well as five extension officers. All staff would be recruited
locally and would work under the guidance and supervision of
ACF's head office manager and staff.



ANNEX 4
Page 8
(c)  Field Office, Hodeidah.  A field office would be established-
in Hodeidah. It would be staffed with a senior credit officer
and an extension officer, both locally recruited, and it would
operate under the supervision of the Wadi Zabid Field Manager
(already appointed).
(d)  Expansion Taiz/Ibb Office.  ACF's Taiz/Ibb field office would
receive one additional credit officer and three extension
officers, all Yemeni staff.
ACF's additional staff requirements would thus be four expatriate experts,
and eight Yemeni credit officers, one Yemeni legal advisor and ten live-
stock extension officers. The head office, branch and field offices would be
provided with the necessary general supporting staff, equipment, vehicles and
other facilities. (For details see Table 3 of this Annex).
Training
25.       Apart from on-the-job training to be conducted largely by the ex-
patriate experts, the projects would provide for six two-year graduate courses
in banking and finance, with emphasis on agricultural and agroindustrial fi-
nancing. They would also provide for five six-month courses with practical
training at agricultural credit institutions, preferably in Arabic speaking
countries. The Government has been asked to initiate the candidate recruit-
ment process to expedite training and ACF staffing.
Resources of ACF
26.       Funding of ACF for medium- and long-term credits under the Tihama
Development Project was originally to consist of: (a) US$0.665 million lent
to ACF by the Government; and (b) US$2 million from the proceeds of the IDA
credit. The funds for short-term production credit were to be obtained by
ACF from the Government by special agreement, from loans, rediscount facili-
ties, and other sources. The Government loan under (a) was to be made at an
interest rate of 4T per annum for 15 years, including five years of grace;
the same conditions were to be applied for the on-lent proceeds of the IDA
credit. tio wever, it was agreed that if ACF should become an independent
agricultural credit institution, the Government loan would be transformed
into equity.
27.       The initial resources as described in para. 26 above were comple-
mented under the Southern Uplands Rural Development Project (SURDP) by (a)
US$1,5c0,000 (YRls 6,750,000) from the proceeds of the credit for financing
of meditum- and long-term loans.  The former amount will be a governmental
grant in case ACF becomes an independent institution. The latter amount will
be passed on by Government to ACF as a loan at an interest of 1% per annum for
a term of 15 years including five years of grace. A 3% interest rate differen-
tial will be credited by ACF to a special reserve fund account to cover excep-
tional losses of ACF due to catastrophic drought conditions in the Southern
tiplands region.



AN1iEX 4
age 9
2..         The resourusc. naqpiined farr fItmneihg, AUW`s. I'aans; jnmposed; under the
GtPain S{Arnage ancli Prmeassihg- pnoA,iaat waulkd  asount tio U-S-O&.55  rxiil,lhiom (YRls
3* .21 mialion)' for- tihe YLG  imv estrt,, USM_77 mi lliUanr. (,    S   H.21 nilion) f or
priAtit  bak&riy. i!nestments and: USRIW53 miilaliubni (YR1Iis5 Z.25" Aii11iPon)).. The Gov-
ernmfrnt: wauld make. thesa fiindid avaidiAaldlb, as- al lioan-a ttim AP' att anm intrarest rate
ofi 4:.DY p.a.. The loan, would be for 2OMyear  i-clkidihg 6 yaar.s. of, grace.  ACF
would receiv.e a spread! of 5.flY, on the funds onklQntt tm) suiTrmoer.  ACF's
notA in t.enrstt canned afittor. dedbet inn of. Qns-sts and! pnovAisi-bnas_ fEor- losses would
be' aIihsattci ta- iittEeqSiry capit`al:.. The praijaetted' cash. fillom, fir- A'IF opera-
taDrns  und- r.he hGaihn Starag- andl Ptrs-sih&g EBtje£t: (Ana. 14')) sihaws an aver-
a,g  aniatl' allbe-attibn- tx) equiity of  about USOOL5) rmildlicn! during- 11U9    through
19f(i. 
Anountn auth Nwldtt
Z9&.        ACP anoountThgl has boen. hand-ledi by' GB`s; accountitig- daartnent, with
AGE: ac-anuntn- kaltL sepanatnaW  ffroa GR"sQ aw.  Ab, AN"s- awo at               would in-
crease sub-attantlidlly. undbr- tthuis-, aa- w-11i. as- ttte[ pTaedi  Gliti.   edit and
Ptreesaitlg- prrjiactt3, iitt woul&i hel, necessary, fintr A{h ttho huial up. and- h-andle its
oWvri aoccaunttsci.  MA accauntdin&. and' fTHnaneii  antil mUexqntt walAk  h  appointed
note lDhtLan than- m1197,' ffton a- pe:rttd: of' fhrun- yaansrs tW) assiia  ACE. ih establish-
iiig, and' oRerrattihW al modtarn aecounttihg- andl fi-anciiaill contrncill satwairr. Until
AMUas accountihg; syaicsm . beonmes; operatdianaL GBI a. atmounttih-  dkpantrciant would
cuatribue tvm handib: AUE's- aao_ount:si.  Utidbn- ttoh  pc4dptr,, PG'R aanntis-z would also
Uia audjitrtai by- tbhe Gtbver-nme -nti'4 Ginttnal Obgarniiiztattib  flm.- AVdAftt andi G(ntrol which
4i9; acetabie' tor  IA. AMP  Midit nat ntis andi farnniEaii atatmaets- wouLd! be submit
tuadi tim  IDN\ nntt llatar, tliani sib. mvnthsm afEbanr tit}  ciloss off -aff ffUisca-I year.
I-lay 197ff



ANNEX li
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Agricultural Credit Fund
Financial Position as of October 31, 1975
Amount                                  Amount
IRis '000                               YRis '000
Liabilities                             Assets
Government Loan             1,041       Cash in banks               1,65o
Kuwait Fund Loan              872       Loans to farmers              410
Government Contribution                 Administrative and Capital
(budget)                   250          Expenses                    119
Interest and Service
Charges                      16
Total:                2,179             Total:
Source: Agricultural Credit Fund



ANNEX 4
APPRAISAL OF                          Table 2
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Agricultural Credit Fund
Loan Approvals and Disbursements /
May - October 1975
Loan Approvals
Month         Number of  Total                 Purpose
Borrowers  Amount  Machinery  On-Farm Dev.  Seasonal
---- YR--------------------
May, 1975         6      120,050    72,000      32,000        16,O50
June, 1975       34      151,650       -        21,000       130,650
July, 1975       16       76,640       -        15,600        61,,040
August, 1975      2        8,000       -           -           8,000
September, 1975   4       20,000       -         5,000        15,000
October, 1975    36                                          136,095
Total        8      512,43      200                     366835
Ioan Disbursements
Month              Total                       Purpose
Disbursed        Machinery   On-Farm Dev.  Seasonal
--------------- --------  M s --____- ___-_______
May, 1975         16,550               -         8,000         8,550
June, 1975       126,105            48,000      13,250        64,855
July, 1975        53,495               -        24,850        28,645
August, 1975      86,565               -        18,500        68,065
September, 1975   31,240               -         4,250        26,990
October, 1975     96.425               -         3,5oo        92,925
Total       410,380            48,000      72,350       290.030
/1 All under the Tihama Development Project.
May , 1976






APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Agricultural Credit Fund
Frnject Related C ett
YEAR
I11  2                                               1                         1                        a                        6
Unit      F-rnign                   Foreign                   Foreign                   Frign                    Foreign                  F-reign                          Foreign              Foreign
Stondino      Unit      Cost       Exchange      T tat       Exchange      Total      Exchange      T,tal       Exchange      Total       Exchange    Tote         Exehetge    Total   L cal       E=cheege   Ttgtat    ExchAng%e
A.  InvestceI
Head Office - ot
Vehiles- 4  hee  drire             Project       onit        44           40          44          4o           44            --           --         -_            --           --           _-          --          --       8           80         88        90
-lervice Car              Project       sait        23           4i           46          __          __            --           --         --            --           --           --          --          --       5           41         46        90
Furniture and lOffice Equipment    Project        aet         30           27           30         --           --            --           --         --            --           --           --          --          -        3           27         30        90
Bracoh Offior - Smnaa
Vehicles - 4 vheel drive            Project       unit        44           40          44          -_           --            --           --         -_            --           --           _-          --          --       4           40         44        90
- Mot-rcyles              Pro.ect       unit         3           --           --          16          18             --          --         -_            __           __           __          __          __       2           16         18        90
Furniture and Office Equipment    Project         Bet         24           22          24          -_           __            --           __         __            __           __           __          __         __        2           22         24       90.
Field Office - Noleidsh
Vehicle                             Project        -itt       23           21          23          -2 __                      __           -_         __            __           __           __          __          _                    21         23        90
Motorcycle                          Project        nit         '            2                                                                                                                                                  1                       3        90
Furniture ond .ffice Equipment    Project         art         iS          14           15          __           __            --           __         __            __           __           __          __         __        1           14         15       90
Branch Office Toiz/Ibb
Vehicles - Mot.orcycle-             Project       unit         3           __                      11           12            --           --         --            --           --           --          --          --       1           11         12        90
Furniture and 'ffice EqoipeBnt    Project         net          5            4            5                                                                                                                                                  4--  --  =  _    5  90
Subtotal                                                                   811         23           Ci           77             -                                                                                              30          27
B.  Recurrent FErPenses
Staff - Fanutriate
lead I fiTs
leveral Ma-uger                     Project       M. Year  270             --          --           -           --           203          270       203           270          203           270         203        270      268          812      10BO        75
Liceatock Credit nfficer            Project       M. Year   250          188          250         i88          250           188          250       188            250           --           --          --          --     248          752       1000       75
Industrial Credit Officer           Pro ject      M. Year   250          188          250         188          250           188          250       188            250           __           __          __         __      248          752       1000       75
Far M ..aageent
Extension Officer                  Project       M. Yeor   250           --           --         188          250           188          250       188           250          188          250           __          _      248          752      1000        75  -
Accountant - Fi-nacciI
comtr-11er                         Proj-ct       M. Year   290          188          290         188          250           188          250        188           250          188          250          --         --      310          910      1250        75
Staffing - Local
Htead Office
ivoent-ok Credit 0fficer            ACF           M. Year    21           __           24 -o 24 --                                         24         --           2h            --                       __         24      144           --       144        --
Industrial Credit Officr            ACF           M. Yeor    24            __          24          __           24            __           24 2_                    24           __           24          --         24      1f            __       144        -_
Far M-tgre.ent E.t-csi-r Officer   ArF              M. Year    oh            _-          _-          __           24            __           24         __            24           __           24          -_          24     1b2           --        120       __
A-coont-a1 Fin,,-iag C                AtF Mller  iC F M . Year    24 - _     24           2     4                 24                         24         -2                                      24           _     _    24                 144         144
Legal  ffioer                         ACF           M. Year    24            _      _    24            _          2                          2          -             24                        24          _     _    24      i4_4                    144 _  . __
Reourda 'alck                         ACF          IM. Year    10            _      _    10            _     _    10     _ _                 10 _ _         10   _         _                    10                              6o           --         6o   _
Jeneral Clerk                         ACF           M. Year    10                        10            1     0    10            0            10           0           10            0           10          0           10      60           --         60   __
e-recac T-piat                        ACF           M. Year      6           __           6                       I 12         --           12         --            12           --           12          __          12      66           --         66       --
Driver                                ACF           M. Year      6            _          18          -h                                                               24 __                     24          __          24     138           __        138       __
Mes-eng-r                             ACF           M. Year      4           --            4         --            8            __            8         -_             8           __            8          __           8      44           --         44        -_
P-er ie     I -al                     ACF           p. dsy      40  YRs.  1--            16          --           16            --           16                       i6           --           16          --         16       96           --         96       -_
- F-ei an                Project       p. duv      70  YRla.   25            25          25           25           32           32         32            32           32           32          32          32      --          178        178       100
bit at al                                                                 5            935          777        1225            877        1502        987         1502          U3T         1002          235        502      48I
/ 111-nv 100 dava/tctOn credit and ecteneton officers and couternQrts, 50 tayn/axcun soc uciact and cotunterpart aed legal .fficer
Tablte sh-ws  Usts for bllth the LTVEST0 Ct CREDIT AND PROCESSINB sAd IRAIs Slt)RAYE ANP PFRCESSICi  PPJgE1'TS
lurch, 1976



LGA 115 - TORAGE lIA YROCRII8  PROJECT
A  1: yy::,     18,                                                        90 9C  2                                             9.                            95w                                        5
ACSg-k                                   ACT            M ROes         20              1. --          C,              -           CA-                          Ci,           -1.                           I-2.                        --          C           6h.          --111.                -
Cndn yTIoe                        ACY              Ynes          Cl              -               6             -             6                            6            - 6  6                        --3                          -6                    26            -26                   -
OTTCATS/3                    ~~~~               ~~ACT yz Isp isY..           3--                                        6              --            36           --3                            -            36             --           6         181.         -           181       -
rihid OPTIC. - OoOsCFidSYi                                    lB                                                                                                                                                                                                               1.
IgnensinnlTtnner  ICC          ACenT          08              --            GA             --            16             --~~~~~~1    18            -18                           --            i              --          i          108          --          18         -
Cen                                      AC                YR           O              -              10             I-           C                -           50            -              o-                          10                         10           60          -            60
3eTYeisesii36ien              OCT~             6tYsp          6              -                                           6                           6 -6         --6-                                         6                 6                   36           --36                  -
lusod                         ICY              ITem           C              --~~A M.Y                                   C              --                        4-i                             -             .                                    21.          -            21.      -
neYAEELI                      I~~      ~      ~~~~CY  Pos    4oOR.                                        --                           --             C                           6-C---                                                  6          31.          3-96                  -
660C-  enCM                           A                                                                                                                                                  5
FdsnerseIiTiTTRnCY            ~ACF            nOes           10              -                             -                            -            ii           -              5.-                           ,      -       -          5.         20            -20                  -
C=      I0fnrIY                                          lien          1                -             1              -             8-                           3            -              0- 10                                      -- nI                   108          6-10  
ClerA   AC?             OCear         10              --             ii             --           1~             ~            ~~~           ~~      ~     ~~~~~                             ~~~~~~~~~0 10240 -1  --  1         6v           --60                  -
~~iTj1I1Ies  ~~~~~ACF                            --          -                -            1               -            n               -            1      15                    5               -           15              -          1           90           --90 
OTlnelitpneeIC                                              -           -              --             1              -             i-                          03           --50-                                       10             --          10          60           --            0 
16f0-n1s      -                          ICY               -                            -             Cl             --           3                            130           -              0- 30                                                  3n         On       -71              001 
MsIh eilnn#1.IC                                            --          -                -                      1C                                 -             I                          1.1             --1.-                                   11          63           --63                  -
Replaneseni flhonoceS         ICYF                -           -              3              33            1.3           18             1.           4.            43             48A             43           4.8            1.3         18          28         A1.5          0        90
teE                                      ACY             Iooo-         30              -              3              -            3--                          3            --3--0--                                                                0         jO-                       sn        -
nohlliseeICY                                     --                          --                            --           12              -            1P           -12                            --12                                                68R2IA-                   68       -
nAnls.ne                                 IYAll--                                                                                   6              -             6            --6                           --6                         -6                       35          --35                  -
5tPhOR0IC=-                                                            -               -ll            S7            --            o              -3                         --23                           --23                        -           2          132           -132                  -
Yield- Ilodeidal  ICC     Cootnes                       --             16             --          ~~       ~      ~~     ~     ~~~          ~       ~     ~~    ~~~~~16  -- 16  --16  -C6               -            56          96          --96
F iRid   ee fh                            C              4-             i-16                                          -            3-                                        -                              -5-                                                 29          -            29       -
i        ~.0                                   -             -             -               C             -                             -            3           -                               -3                         --3                     17           --17  
Ofi-ftlo .R9B .e                         AO                ---                                                       --            8               -                                                       8 --0-                                              1.8                       4860     -
AenR-tsI/1                                IY               Oa,           -               -              C                          12              --           12            --12                          --12                        -1I                       2                        2       -
P.R0     /                             ICY'               --                                         66                                         -             8            m-             0              --A--3                                               16          4-16                  -
li-IY                                                     --.                                                       -                                                       -5                            --            S              -26                                 -             .       -
051111e La                               ACY                            -              -               -             -                             -            3           -                               -7-                                                  5-                        S      -
C.TYssn  Ceesne.
M..   Offi..                       oit'           q p         o'       O -                                  9             3              60           CO             o             0               3o           90                                                560
Dlp   g                                                                                                                                           1-  ---                                                                   ----030                                                  1 5
6-RAnh Tispe? -iP                                          ns,          t3                                                        In1                           5            -
B-      ffiO-     LI80e'                                   os'           3               -             --             0             0              0            60           6o             60              30                           --                                 A            1        IR
010  998         __             33~~~~~j8     1.50                        455 .5          38            510                         -          3     16 009
IISP ET-ling L8                             5noA 013                                                                                50                                                                                                                                                  Do.5  -  
sosiCot                                                                           3788 52159                   TSS          588f 83                                   Z__            I23             115            33                        12-73       O5E          88          190 5
D.    rjetCTS-                                                    -                         1195           152                          7. 05          153          1981         0t7            1966            I,,(.        1978            247~         937        P"8         682889
ACV  Cos                                                                                  '            623             1.5          906             15          956            Is           955              1.5          955             1.         906        I1.N,6                    5.0.       -
Dires  -Poen-                                                                         553            735           857          1108           11os          1281         I107           11.00           1o6o         178               IoOt                  060          .5           26        -
Yst,pornloi - PYojeit                --           --            ~~~~          ~~~~           ~~223  267  133  a67          116          219           11.           160 8                         --              --           --        I5          011.         %,
F. 30551 -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2                                                                                                                                                         5
F.     et-POR'                                                 -           -               8              6 197                      266            183           26 197        263                           --97                         --6-                   2fl.         -20'        105  
DsiOnll-   Psj ni-                                                      -              23            23             13           i7              15            1P          is             18-                           -- --                                  la.P        612          Nec       -
ToA                                                                                                   r            21              _            _-t"33-                                                                 ----                        -           00          18 81-
p   Esrept is yesr 1 seenese 150 dsysfspsue TOY Rn-As,sO Rsosger snd KOleAe5tT Rosers ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~        ~       ~       ~       ~      ~       ~      ~ ~ ~ ~ 166k ~ I                                   M
AeT1           wlsefes9,0   2(somTo   oCos,Te   Y   eie      .'el  Tn    .   e2ne  O'3:'eCPTIe0160478 .e, i,eTncol
plo  im         -~~~~~~.q
Aeier1lleelndPSttYOe    TYltr   T   q,1etotrin,
OpeedOPlOITeoOeI555                                                Y.iieeoonO    5dn-sIR0rd     0Y16Y,soYT     -ICnne-n  -neS    - -lnI0  sod, 3 RYoo I5RT2On.1  nil,OsTTn 1,AOl    se.Iiig                             oIn
-hsP, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Organization of Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF)
GOVERNOR
CENTRAL BANK
GEN ERAL
MANAGER
ACF
FIELD MANAGER                        .FIELD MANAGER
TIHAMA                                                           SOUTHERN UPLANDS
FILFEDOFC                              IL   FIEFIELD OFFICE  FIELD OFFICE  FIELD OFFICE
WADI ZABID         WADI MAWR          HODEIDAH            TAIZ                 BSAAA                         /
/ New offices to be established under the project.                                              World Bank-15544
S m






ANNEX 5
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Nutrition
A. Introduction
Nutritional Status
1.        Although there are little statistical data about the nutritional
status of the people of Yemen, the few available studies and nutrition-related
indices all point to malnutrition as a major public health problem. 1/ In-
adequate or improperly balanced food consumption is a major contributor to
poor nutrition, and it, together with poor hygiene, has led to severe re-
tardation of growth and to high levels of morbidity and mortality throughout
Yemen.
2.        According to a recent review by Bornstein 2/, protein-calorie mal-
nutrition (PCM) is extremely widespread among preschool children. Surveys
indicate that up to 14% of the preschool children are severely malnourished
while only about 10-20% exhibit normal growth. A 1972 study of Yemeni school
children indicates that most are malnourished or underweight. About 65% of
the boys and 50% of the girls were found to be only 70-89% of the Cairo mean
weight, and 17% were below 70% of the Cairo standard. High mortality rates in
Yemen also point to serious levels of malnutrition. The average mortality
rate among children below 15 years of age is reported to be 46%; about 76% of
these children die before two years of age. 3/ Infant mortality is 160 per
1,000 live births and about 92 per 1,000 for children 1-4 years.
1/   This was confirmed in the appraisal mission's discussions with health
officials and hospital staff members interviewed in YAR.
2/   Bornstein, A., Food and Society in Yemen Arab Republic, ESN:'IIS/74/4
FAO, Rome, 1974.
3/   Bornstein, A., p. 43.



AN4NEX 5
Page 2
3.        FAO food balance sheets 1/, although now out of date, provide sup-
porting evidence that food consumption has been hazardously low. According
to the FAO study, food consumption in Yemen has provided an average daily in-
take of only 1,900 calories and 58 grams of protein (compared with 2,029
calories and 55 grams in Iran; and 2,541 calories and 64 grams of protein in
Brazil). The food balance sheets also show that the vast majority of food
intake is made up of cereals; 75% of the calories and 72% of the protein
consumed by Yemenis are derived from sorghun, barley, wheat and other cereal
grains. Other cereal-dependent countries with similarly low food consump-
tion rates are known to have widespread malnutrition among low income seg-
ments. Accordingly, low income segments of the population in Yemen might
also be expected to lack adequate food and be affected seriously by mal-
nutrition.
4.        In addition to the problem of inadequate food consumption, sur-
veys indicate that Yemeni people suffer from widespread deficiencies of
certain vitamins and minerals. Bornstein notes that vitamin A deficiency
has been reported in a number of surveys and that night blindness result-
ing from the deficiency is common in Yemen. Vitamin C deficiency which
causes scurvy among children is also reported as widespread. Rickets, re-
sulting from vitamin D deficiency, is prevalent throughout the country. In
the Taiz region, rickets was found in 17% of the children 6 months to 4 years
of age; in one village 59% of the children 1-2 years of age displayed signs of
rickets. Symptoms of niacin and riboflavin deficiencies were reported among
school children, and iron deficiencies resulting in anemia was reported in
both pre-school and school age children.
5.        Although it seems evident that the major problem in Yemen is caloric
inadequacy and protein deficiency, the latter particularly among infants and
children, in part stemming from inequitable distribution of basic family
food supplies attributable to conventional taboos attached to child feeding
patterns, it also appears clear that the population is suffering badly from
lack of many important vitamins and minerals.
B. Bread Fortification
General
6.        The Grain Storage and Processing Project provides financial and
technical assistance for the erection of twelve new bread bakeries to pro-
duce and-distribute up to a total of 32 m tons of bread per day or 11,700
m tons per year (flour basis) to needy recipients in six to eight urban cen-
ters. The new bakeries include:  (i) two 10-m ton per day bakeries (Sana'a
Taiz), one 3-rm ton bakery (Hodeidah) and three 1-m ton bakeries (Damar,
Ibb, Sana'a) to provide bread for Government-sponsored feeding programs in
1/   FAO Food Balance Sheets, 1964-66, Rome.



ANNEX 5
Page 3
schools, hospitals, and charity distribution; and (ii) six 1-m ton commer-
cial bakeries for private purchases. Apart from commercial bakeries' pres-
ent production of European-type breads, bread made in these bakeries will also
include traditional Yemeni flat bread made from cereal flours, salt, water and
yeast.  The cereal flour will consist mostly of whole grain meals from sorghum,
millet, and other local grains ground in mills at the bakeries and mixed with
a small portion of imported wheat flour. The bread from these new bakeries is
consumed by all income groups and is expected to reach a total of over 80,000
recipients. Those units.supplying bread for Government purposes will feed
approximately 30,000 school children 1/, 23,000 members of the poorest urban
families 1/, and 14,000 hospitalized persons and other beneficiaries of the
program 1/. In addition, the project would provide a loan fund to help
modernize about fifty existing commercial bakeries of 0.5-1.0 m ton per day
capacity 2/. Thus, the project encompasses bakeries providing nearly 10,000 m
ton per year (flour basis) to needy persons through Government programs and up
to 10,000 m ton per annum destined for commercial sales to the general public.
Fortification of bread produced in both government and private bakeries with
vitamins and minerals could contribute to the reduction of these nutritional
deficiencies among all consumers of bread produced by bakeries benefitting
from the project, or about 135,000 persons.
Bread for Government Feeding Programs
7.        Since bread made in Government bakeries is to be produced largely
from local grains milled at the bakeries and since the other bread ingredients
(salt and yeast) are probably not suitable carriers for fortificants 3/, the
preferred method of fortification is expected to be addition of a vitamin-
mineral premix directly to the bread dough at the bakeries. This is a stand-
ard method of fortifying bread in the West where premixed and pre-weight
vitamin mineral wafers or packets are dissolved in water and added to bread
1/   Number of beneficiaries quoted is low because these are based solely on
partially estimated data obtained from Government bakery facilities in
Sana'a, Hodeidah and Taiz, and therefore do not take into account quanti-
ties for feeding programs obtained under contract arrangements with
commercial bakeries. Information concerning the volume of bread pre-
pared under the latter was not available, and therefore its sector-
specific distribution could not be ascertained.
2/   Presently, commercial bakeries largely produce European-style loaves made
mostly from imported wheat flour. Commercial bakeries benefitting from
the credit would also produce traditional-type breads.
3/   Although salt is sometimes used as a carrier of vitamins and minerals,
fortification of local salt in Yemen would probably not be feasible
throughi a small project element of this type.



ANNEX 5
Page 4
dough during the normal mixing procedure. A similar procedure could be easily
adapted to use in the new Yemeni bakeries. (The costs of vitamin-mineral
mixes used in the following sections are based on premixed and pre-weighed
units, packaged in water-soluble films, so that all fortificants can be'added
in a single element to the water used to make up bread doughs with no need for
special weighings by the baker.)
8.        The studies reported above indicate that there are widespread defi-
ciencies of many vitamins and minerals in Yemen. Since no rigorous nutritional
status survey has been conducted in YAR that would yield detailed information
concerning the nature, severity and geographical distribution of specific nutri-
tional deficiencies, it would be appropriate initially to fortify the bread
used to feed the poor, school children and other needy segments of the popula-
tion with a standard combination of vitamins and minerals. In other cases of
food fortification strategies, it is common practice when comprehensive data
are non-existent, to employ a standard premix of minerals and vitamins to cover
a broad range of potential and probable deficiencies. Such generalized dosages
at levels herein suggested pose no health hazard to the ultimate consumer, as
widespread utilization in the past can attest.
9.       Certain nutritionally designed food supplements furnished by the FAO/
World Food Program (WFP), such as corn-soy-milk and wheat-soy-blend, contain
15 added vitamins and minerals. These foods are intended primarily for use by
cereal consuming populations and have been demonstrated to be safe and effec-
tive during almost 10 years of worldwide distribution. Such premixes have
demonstrated satisfactory storage capabilities for up to one year as well as
resistance to serious quality deterioration during final product preparation,
and in fact are required to do so by the U.S. Government for usage in all
foods distributed under Title II of PL 480.  Thus, it seems reasonable to
initially base the vitamin-mineral mix for Yemeni bread on the proportions
of nutrients added to WFP foods and to add the vitamins and minerals to Yemeni
bread in amounts such that persons receiving their total food supply through
the bread would receive essentially 100% of their daily vitamin-mineral
requirements. Upon completion of the nutritional status survey discussed
below in para. 29, necessary adjustments in the utilized mix would be made.
Table 1 lists the vitamins and minerals proposed for use in Yemeni bread based
on WFP supplements.
10.       The cost to fortify Yemeni bread with this mixture would be about
0.6 f per kg of flour 1/. On an annual basis, costs for fortification would
be $57,000 to add the 15 supplementary vitamins and minerals to the 9,500 m
ton of flour used in all the bakeries producing bread for Government purposes.
1/   For purposes of estimating fortification costs this commonly used
premix has been employed. If as a result of the nutrition status
survey (paras 26-29 of this Annex) the premix were changed the
costs of fortification could change accordingly.



ANNEX 5
Page 5
Bread for Retail Sales
11.       The bakeries participating in the project would produce both European
and traditional type breads from whole grain and imported wheat flour. There-
fore two alternative methods of fortification can be considered. One possibil-
ity is fortification of the wheat flour at the mill where it is produced. The
second alternative is fortification of the bread at the bakery using the same
method proposed above for fortification in Government bakeries.
12.       Fortification at the mill presents the fewest technical and control
problems in that any modern flour mill can be inexpensively-equipped to add
vitamins and minerals to its products. 1/ Also, fortification in mills can
be effectively administered and controlled to assure that the fortificants are
always present in the correct amounts. However, there is no industrial flour
mill in Yemen.  Arranging for imports of specially fortified wheat flour in the
international market may lead to excessive "special order" costs and be prohi-
bitively expensive. Further inquiry by the Government into the feasibility and
relative costs of this method of fortification would be required. It is, how-
ever, proposed in the project that fortification be attempted as a pilot scheme
in the six new 1-m commercial retail bakeries and 50% of the units rehabilitated
from the loan fund in addition to the Government facilities. Although it is
recognized that problems could arise in developing and enforcing reliable con-
trol procedures for the estimated 31 geographically dispersed credit recipients,
extension agents proposed under the project to assist these small commercial
operations in technical as well as hygienic details would also provide instruc-
tion concerning the proper utilization of the fortificant premixes and would
participate in the execution of control measures adopted.
13.       The costs of fortification of commercial bread can be reduced if only
the most noteworthy nutritional deficiencies are dealt with by fortifying with
vitamins A and D, niacin, thiamine, riboflavin and iron. The amounts of these
vitamins and minerals required per kg of flour specifically to furnish 100%
of the adult requirements 2/ are: 5,000 IU vitamin A, 150 IU vitamin D, 1.5
mg thiamine, 25 mg niacin, 2.5 mg riboflavin and 30 mg iron.  The cost of
fortifying commercial Yemen bread with this mixture would be 0.1 1 per kg of
flour. Fortification of up to 5,000 m ton per year might be carried out to
demonstrate feasibility at a vitamin-mineral premix cost of $5,000.
Effectiveness, Control and Costs
14.       The clear evidence of vitamin and mineral deficiencies in Yemen indi-
cates that fortification of foods for needy groups is an appropriate public
health measure, as has been demonstrated in other countries under clinical con-
ditions. Enriched bread provided for schools and charity programs as well as
1/   The capital cost to equip a modern mill for fortification should be no
more than about US$5,000.
2/   Recommended intakes of nutrients are based on those listed in 11andbook on
Human Nutritional Requirements, FAO, Rome, 1974, when listed therein.
When not listed, recommended intakes were based on those suggested in
Recommended Dietary Allowances, TIAS, Washington, 1974.



ANNEX 5
Page 6
through the coimmercial retail outlets would reach target groups which are
relatively stable for a long term. Although the hospital patients receiving
the fortified bread would comprise a transient group, such recepients would
benefit from enrichment during their stay in the hospital. Similarly, the
doses of certain vitamins and minerals in the premix, notably vitamin A and
Iodine would facilitate replenishment of depleted stocks and establishment of
reserves to be drawn upon for a longer period. At the same time however it
would be difficult, if not impossible, to show the beneficial effects of bread
fortification through field studies of nutritional change because: (a) the
food recipients, particularly the hospitalized recipients, are likely to
change with time so that prolonged longitudinal studies would be impossible;
(b) many uncontrolled factors contribute to nutritional status thus making it
difficult to separate, without elaborate and costly multivariate analysis, the
effect of fortification from the effect of uncontrolled factors; and (c)
fortification with vitamins and minerals, although helpful, is not a totally
sufficient nutrition intervention, independent of progress in complementary
programs to improve general health conditions, e.g. vaccination against com-
municable diseases; purification of water supplies, installation of modern
sewage systems; educational health-oriented programs in schools and through
mass media; measures to limit food spoilage and contamination in transport and
sales; improvement in veterinary services, slaughtering facilities, meat hand-
ling activities; and general upgrading of health care services. Therefore, if
fortification were considered independently, the modest investment in the
proposed program for Yemen probably would not justify the high costs of carry-
ing out a nutritional effectiveness study.
15.       In order to establish procedures to ensure that the correct amounts
and kinds of fortifications are used and that bakers consistently follow the
procedures, the bakery extension agents would develop the necessary procedures
for procurement of vitamin-mineral mixes, for adding the mixes to the bread
dough, and also for monitoring their use by the bakers. As a part of the
monitoring system, frequent chemical tests of the bread would be made to ensure
that proper addition of vitamins and minerals has taken place.
16.       The vitamin-mineral premixes proposed for the project would be im-
ported by the Yemen General Grain Corporation and all costs of fortification
and technical assistance related to fortification of Yemeni bread would be
borne by the project and financed out of the Government grant contribution.
The project would provide funding for the fortification of all bread in
Government feeding programs with a comprehensive vitamin-mineral premix (as
cited in paras. 10 and 11) at an estimated cost of 0.09 0 per loaf (150 g
flour). In addition, the alternative premix would be supplied under the
project,"at no cost to the private baker, for fortification of bread in the
six new 1-m ton commercial bakeries and 50% (approximately 25) of the commer-
cial units securing credit for facility modernizaton under the credit component



A1NEX 5
Page 7
of the project. The total cost of the fortificants would amount to about
US$186,000 (Table 2 of this Annex), or about US$2.63 (YRls 12) per recipient
of fortified btead from Government bakeries and US$0.24 (YRls 1.1) per recipi-
ent of commercial fortified bread over the implementation period of the
project.
17.       At the end of the project an evaluation of the technical and adminis-
trative effectiveness of fortification in YAR would be undertaken by a team
selected by the Government and acceptable to IDA. Based on the assessment of
the operational efficiency of the program, the team would: (1) recommend the
continuation or termination of the program; and (2) if continuation were ad-
vised, suggest possible adjustments in program, and recommend, upon analysis of
viable options, the most desirable procedure whereby the fortification program
could thereafter be continued.
C. Nutritional Promotion
18.       Bread fortification will be most effective when accompanied by a nu-
trition promotion program with the following objectives: (i) to emphasize the
higher nutritive value of traditional bread from bakeries participating in the
technical assistance program; (ii) to educate people that commercially-baked,
fortified traditional breads are of higher nutritional quality than home-baked
bread; (iii) to provide a focus for nutrition promotion within schools and
hospitals and to the poorest urban families; (iv) to stress that reduced home-
baking will decrease damaging deforestation.
19.       The target groups can be categorized (i) 30,000 school children who
are direct beneficiaries of the program and through them, their families; (ii)
23,000 members of the poorest urban families together with 14,000 hospitalized
persons; (iii) a wider urban population in towns where the bakeries are situated.
It has been estimated that 67,000 people are potential customers within these
urban areas.
20.       Nutrition promotion in schools is of great importance in introducing
sound health and nutrition principles to children. Hone economics and nutri-
tion components are being introduced in the Yemeni school curricula beginning
in the fourth primary grade. However, only a small minority of school-age child-
ren go beyond the fourth grade. To introduce the school population to princi-
ples of nutrition, the promotion component would include discussion seminars,
printed material and displays at an earlier stage in the educative program.
Some addlitional curricula development would be necessary to reinforce the
principles at different stages in the educational process.
21.       For the poorest groups and those hospitalized due to the effects of
malnutrition a more basic strategy is needed. Nutrition promotion through
printed material, displays and discussions will be designed to emphasize the
positive aspects of Yemini food habits and modify those food habits which are



AINEX 5
Page 8
nutritionally negative. A positive aspect of Yemeni dietary patterns is their
reliance on cereals as the basic staple food. Compared to root and tuber-
eating populations, the Yemenis are favored in having a higher intake of pro-
te.ins and minerals from whole grain cereal foods which partly compensate for
their low consumption of animal products. The recent tendency, especially
in urban areas, to replace whole grain bread with modern bread made of highly
milled wheat flour, and cereal porridge by polished rice, represents a nutri-
tional loss. It is of great importance to encourage traditional ways of using
cereals in their unrefined form.
22.       Promotion is necessary for the larger urban target group.  Communi-
cation channels already exist in the towns, such as the Maternity Child Health
(MCH) clinics, literacy classes for men and women, Women's Associations
(Sana'a and Taiz), and other Government and privately organized activities.
Programs on consumer education and family budgeting would include a component
on the advantages of fortified bread and the effects of mineral and vitamin
deficiency. Traditional marketing methods appropriate to the culture such as
radio, posters, placards for stores, logos that communicate to the non-literate
population, promotional and educative packaging would be used. These tech-
niques, used less extensively than in western society, have been used already
to introduce new food habits to large sectors of the Yemeni population.
Attention would also be given to educating the bakers participating in the
program and in providing them with educational materials. Participation in
the promotion program would be a condition of receipt of projectsupplied
nutrients.
23.       Supervision of nutrition promotion would be the responsibility of
the Nutrition Expert who would be located within the bakery division of YGGC.
He would be responsible for all target groups and for developing promotional
material for packaging and advertising. A budget of $20,000 per year has been
allocated to cover salaries, auxiliary staff, transport costs and general
expenses. An amount of $5,000 p.a. has been allocated to schools and institu-
tions for the development and production of educational materials. More
extensive communication channels are necessary to reach the commercial market;
$10,000 has been allocated to coincide with the initial marketing of fortified
bread and $5,000 p.a. for continued promotion (Table 2 of this Annex). Adver-
tising whould emphasize nutritional advantages and create public awareness of
the importance of adequate nutrition. Ten person weeks, estimated to cost
$20,000 have been allocated in the first year for promotional purposes and for
the development of operational objectives. Five person weeks per year, at an
estimated cost of $10,000 p.a. have been allocated for continuing promotion
and evaluation.



ANNEX 5
Page 9
D. Nutrition Planning
24.       At present there is no national nutrition program in YAR.  It is the
Government's objective, as stated in the three-year development program 1973/74-
1975/76, to upgrade the dietary standards of the population. The project pro-
vides a suitable opportunity to assist the Government in developing a national
nutrition plan toward the achievement of this goal.
25.       Under optimal conditions, nutrition interventions such as those pro-
posed by this project should be determined within the context of an understand-
ing of national nutrition needs and, if possible, a national nutrition plan.
At this stage, due to lack of information and analysis, tne nature of the
broader nutrition problem is not entirely clear. Nor has a systematic examina-
tion been made of alternative ways of alleviating it. Accordingly, provision
is made in this project for the funding of a nutrition study to cost about
$180,000. The study would include: (a) a survey of nutrition status; (b) an
analysis of the causes of malnutrition in YAR; (c) identification and compari-
son of alternative interventions; and (d) preparation of a nutrition plan,
including suggested options for the Government to consider in dealing with the
problem.
26.       The nutrition status survey will include a detailed study of the
nutrient deficiencies of a representative sample of the YAR population. The
sample would include members of the target group to be reached by the bread
produced in facilities financed by the project. In this way, the fortificant
mix could later be tailored to meet the specific deficiencies of the bread re-
cipients. The survey will also examine food consumption patterns, family budg-
et expenditures and available information on agricultural, economic, health and
other policies and practices which affect the nutritional status.
27.       Analysis will be made of the determinants of malnutrition in YAR.
Although attention will be given to the most proximate causes of malnutrition
from a medical point of view (e.g. insufficient nutrient intake, poor utiliza-
tion of nutrients from the food ingested, and the heightened nutritional needs
caused by nutrition-related illnesses), primary attention will be directed to
those socioeconomic factors directly influencing diet and food utilization
that can possibly be changed to improve nutritional status. Here analysis
would be made of distribution shortcomings, price relationships, food waste,
and errors of consumer behavior (the study will not examine inadequacy of na-
tional resources and the entire constellation of macro-economic causes that
constitute underdevelopment).
28.       Possible intervention programs would be formulated and analyzed and
preliminary cost effectiveness studies conducted. From this, a proposed na-
tional nutrition plan would be developed, suggesting to the Governnent alter-
native ways of addressing nutritonal needs of the society.



ANNEX 5
Page 10
29.       The nutrition status survey would be undertaken by a Government medi-
cal team supported by 12 man-months of foreign consultants during the first
year of the project. Costs in the survey will include: travel, training of
local counterparts to conduct interviews, equipment etc. The remainder of
the planning work will be completed during the second year of the project
through 3 man-months of technical assistance provided by foreign experts,
working with YGGC and officials from the Ministry of Public Health.  The
Ministry of Public Health would make arrangements satisfactory to IDA for
establishing the national nutrition plan, including agreement on terms of
reference for the consultants and an agreed-upon methodology for the nutri-
tion status survey. The Government would provide IDA with copies of the final
report of the study, and thereafter review the recommendations with IDA.
May, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
ANNEXE    5
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT                    Table
YEWENT RkB REOUPLIC
Amour;tS of Vitam;ins and Minerals Droposed for Use in Yemeni Flour
Amrrant Added per Kg-/Flour
Nutrient                     Governmeent Bakeries       Commercial Bak;eries
Vitamin A                           500 IU                    5,000 IU
Vitamin C                            130 rrp
Vitamin D                            670 IU /1                  150 I  /2
Vitamin E                             25 IU
Thiamine (B1)                        0.9 mg                    1.3 lag
Niacin                                17 mg                      25 r.ng
Riboflhvin (B2)                      r.1 mg                     2.5 mg
Folacin                              0.7 mg
Pyridoxine   (B6)                    0.6 rmg
Cyanocobalarnine (B12)               0.013 mg
Pantothenic Acid                       9 mg
Calciumn                             800 mg
Zinc                                   3 mg
Iron                                  ,O mg                      O mg
Iodine                             0.15 mg
/1  Amount provides 63% of recomnended daily intake for a 1-3 year old child, if
flour provides total food energy.
/2 Equivalent to 125% of recommended daily intake of adult male, if flour provides
total food energy.



APPRAISAL OF                           ANNEX 5
Table ?
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT-
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimated Costs of Nutrition Component
Project Activity                1          2       Y a                  Total
Bread Fortification
Bakeries supplying Govt.
Feeding Programs
Control                       -       5,000      5,000       5,000    15,000
Technical Assistance       10,000      5,000     5,000     10,000    30,000
Fortificants                  -       57,000    57,000      57,000   171,000
Commercial Bakeries
Adm,inistration & Control     -        5,000     5,000       5,000    15,000
Technical Assistance       10,000     5,000      5)000     10,000   3(,000
Fortificants                  -        5,000     5,000       5,'00    15,000
Sub-Total             20,000    82,000    82,000      92,000   27G?7QO
Nutrition Promotion
Personnel & Ooerating Costs 20,000    20,000    20,000        20,000    80,000
Educational & Promotional
Materials
Schools                       -        5,000     5,000       5,000    15,000
Hospitals, etc.               -        5,000-    5,000       5,000    15,000
Urban Population              -      10,000      5,000       5,000    20,000
Technical Assistance
& Training                 20,000    10,000    10,000       10,000    50,000
Sub-Total             40,000    500ooo   45,000       46,000   180,0OC
Project Evaluation                                           24,000    24,000
National Nutrition Survey
and Nutrition
Planning                   45 000    45,000    45,000      45,000   180,000
Total Cost                                                      (,6o,00
Physical Contingency                                             12,000
Grand Total                                                    672,000
May 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Summary Project Cost and Financial Results
1.        The projected investment, income and cash flow statements for the
silo, warehouses, 10-m ton bakeries and 1-m ton bakeries are shown in detail
in Annexes 7, 9, 10 and 11. The financial rates of return including those for
sensitivity tests are summarized below:
Investment      Operating    Revenues
Base      Costs + 10%   Costs + 10%    - 10%
YGGC                         23.8          22.3            22.7         20.8
Silo                       27.1          25.6            26.4         24.7
Warehouses                 16.8          15.2            15.8         14.1
10-m ton Bakeries          18.3          16.6            14.9         12.8
1-m ton Bakeries         26.1           23.9            17.1         14.3
All prices and technical coefficients used are based on information received
at the time of appraisal (November 1975). A physical contingency of 10% for
the silo and 5% for the other components has been included. All rate of
return calculations are based on projections in real terms. Particular assump-
tions made for each component are listed in the footnotes of the respective
tables.
2.        All income statements have been projected at constant 1975 prices.
No changes in relative prices are foreseen. To reflect adequately the entities'
future cash position, all cash flow projections should theoretically be made in
nominal terms. In the projected cash flow statements in Annexes 7,9, 10 and 11
the investment costs have been inflated using the following inflation rates
(in % per annum):
Imported Component         Local
Civil Works  Equipment    Component
1976                            13            9           20
1977                            12            8           20
1978                            12            8           20
1979                            12            8           20
1980-81                         10            7           20
Accordingly the projected financing requirements and debt service would reflect
expected actual amounts.  The revenues and operating expenses, however, have
been projected in constant prices. This is justified as YGGC's activities are



ANNEX 6
Page 2
service operations that generate revenues out of service charges. IWhenever
operating costs increase, YGGC would also raise the service charge by the same
amount, leaving the margin unchanged. For private bakeries producing bread
under contract for the Government, the same principle applies. Private bakeries
producing for the market sell the bread at Government controlled prices. The
Government fixes and adjusts the prices according to operating costs. There-
fore, the same principle applies.
May, 1976



ANNEX 6
APPRAISAL OF                                 Table 1
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Total Project Cost in Constant and Current Prices
Local  For.Ex  Total      Local  For.Ex  Total
YRls' 000Us$ 000 -------
20,000 m ton silo
Cost at 1975 prices /1              6,057  21,038  27,095    1,346   4,675   6,021
Price Contingency                   7,083   9,180  16,263    1,574   2,040   3,614
Subtotal                        13,140  30,218  43,358    2,920   6,715   9,635
Six Warehouses, 18,000 m ton
Cost at 1975 prices /1              5,103   4,144   9,247    1,134        921   2,055
Price Contingency                   1,463      968   2,431       325      215     540
Subtotal                         6,566   5,112  11,678    1,459   1,136   2,595
Two 10-m ton Bakeries (incl.mills)
Cost at 1975 prices /1              1,813   4,707   6,520        403   1,046   1,449
Price Contingency                   1,197   1,413   2,610        266      314     580
Subtotal                         3,010   6,120   9,130        669   1,360   2,029
Bakery Credit
Cost at 1975 prices i1              3,325   7,952  11,277        739   1,767   2,506
Price Contingency                   1,814   2,110   3,924        403      469     872
Subtotal                         5,139  10,062  15,201    1,142   2,236   3,378
Technical Assistance to YGGC /2
Cost at 1975 prices                   324   6,098   6,422         72   1,355   1,427
Price Contingency                     162   2,362   2,524         36      525     561
Subtotal                           486   8,460   8,946        108   1,880   1,988
Technical Assistance to ACF
Cost at 1975 prices                   450   1,404   1,854        100      312     412
Price Contingency                     167      454     621        37      101     138
Subtotal                           617   1,858   2,475        137     413      550
Engineering Consultants
Cost at 1975 Prices                   729   2,160   2,889        162      480     642
Price Contingency                     126      360     486        28       80     108
Subtotal                           855   2,520   3,375        190     560      750
Nutrition Component
Cost at 1975 prices                   301   2,723   3,024         67      605     672
Price Contingency                     108      967   1,075        24      215     239
Subtotal                           409   3,690   4,099         91     820      911
Total Project Cost
At 1975 prices                     18,102  50,226  68,328    4,023  11,161  15,184
Price Contingency                  12,120  17,814  29,934    2,693   3,959   6,652
Grand Total                     30,222  68,040  98,262    6,716  15,120  21,836
/lExcludes costs of engineering consultants and technical assistance
/2Includes cost of warehouse study of US$217,000 at 1975 prices and US$250,000
in current prices.
May , 1976



ANNEX 7
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Yemen General Grain Corporation (YGGC)
Guideline Organization and Operating Procedures
A. Organization and Operating Procedures
1.        There is no institution in YAR with the capability to implement and
subsequently operate the project facilities. A general grain corporation, the
YGGC, would be established under the Ministry of Supply for this purpose. The
YGGC would be a semi-autonomous Government-owned enterprise to be run on a
sound commercial basis.  The Government's equity in YGGC would amount to 50%
of YGGC's investment costs. YGGC would be established in 1976.
2.        YGGC's responsibilities would be:
(a)  to implement the silo, warehouse and 10-m ton bakery components
and subsequently to operate and maintain them;
(b)  to assist ACF in implementing the bakery credit component and
to organize and manage the technical assistance program for
private bakers;
(c)  to initiate and supervise the grain storage survey;
(d)  to implement and control the bread fortification and nutri-
tion promotion program, and to initiate and supervise the
nutrition survey as well as the study to develop a national
nutrition program.
After the project's implementation period all existing Government-owned grain
storage and processing facilities except those operated by the army would be
transferred to YGGC for operation and management.
3.        In accordance with YGGC's responsibilities its legal powers would
include:
(a)  the acquisition of land for its facilities;
(b)  contractual arrangements with firms or agencies for execut-
ing works and supplying equipment, materials and services,
and for employing experts and consultants;



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(c) the purchase and sale of cereals and cereal products on be-
half of the Government. For these transactions the Govern-
ment would provide YGGC with the necessary funds and other
resources; it would also reimburse YGGC for any loss that
may result from such sales or purchases.
B. YGGC Management
4.        YGGC would have a board consisting of the Minister of Supply as Chair-
man, representatives of the Central Planning Office and the Ministry of Finance,
the General Manager of ACF, the Director of the Hodeidah Port Authority and
the Project Manager and Co-manager of YGGC. The Board would decide on all
policy issues, major investments and operational matters, and approve key
personnel decisions as well as the annual balance sheet. The Project Manager
would have the overall operational responsibility for project implementation
and management. Three operational divisions--a silo, warehouse and bakery
division--would be in charge of the individual project components, and an
accounts and audit division would handle the accounting and financial control
functions. YGGC's organization chart is given in Chart 1 of this Annex. The
Project Manager in cooperation with the Division Managers would formulate
operating, accounting and auditing procedures for approval by YGGC's board.
YGGC's Head Office and the divisional offices would be located in Sana'a ex-
cept the silo division, which would be housed in the silo complex in Hodeidah.
5.        In view of the lack of experienced staff in YAR, YGGC would, for
periods ranging from three to five years, be staffed with five senior inter-
nationally recruited experts, project manager, silo superintendent, bakery-
superintendent, bakery extension agent and accountant/controller. All of the
experts would have local counterparts (see Organization Chart). These experts
would be responsible both for project implementation and for training of
their counterparts, who would take over management responsibilities during
the experts' assignments. The project manager has already been appointed
and the selection process for the other expert positions and local staff is
under way. Additional experts would be appointed as part-time consultants
for the grain storage and nutrition surveys. Further details on expatriate
and local staff requirements are given in Chart 1 of this Annex, and Annex
8, Table 1.
C. Procedures
6.        YGGC would operate on a commercially sound basis.  It would provide
bulk grain unloading, storage and baking services against service charges that
would cover its operating costs, depreciation and financial expenses and allow
YGGC a reasonable return on its equity (this Annex, Tables 1-3). The silo
would handle all bulk grain imported throagh the port of Hodeidah. The service
charge to be paid by the importer of grain would be a minimum of YRls 36 per



ANNEX 7
Page 3
m ton (US$8 per m ton) (Annex 9, Table 5).  The warehouses would store-for the
Government the grain that is collected in kind as zakat and customs duties, as
well as grants-in-aid. They would also rent out available space to private
merchants. The service charge to be paid by the Government or renting private
merchants would be a minimum of YRls 1.1 (US$0.24) per 50 kg bag per month
stored (Annex 10, Table 5). The 10-m ton bakeries would bake bread for the
Government-sponsored feeding programs and deliver it to the appropriate
institutions. The Government-owned grain would be delivered by the warehouse
division to the bakeries. The bakeries would receive a service charge to be
paid by the Government of a minimum of YRls 0.10 (US$0.022) per 150 g loaf
(flour basis), (Annex 11, Table 5). All service charges (of the silo, ware-
houses and bakeries) would be adjusted annually in accordance with cost
increases that may occur over the lifetime of the project.
7.        Detailed Board procedures would be drafted and approved by YGGC's
Board. The procedures would include the following:
(a) the Project Manager would act as the convenor of the Board
and he would initiate the meetings in consultation and with
the approval of the Chairman;
(b) a decision of the Board could be obtained by circulating work-
ing papers. Decisions taken in a Board meeting or by circula-
tion could be acted upon before the minutes are confirmed for-
mally in the next meeting;,
(c) the Board would delegate adequate financial and administrative
authority to the Project Manager and the divisional heads so
that meetings of the Board would be necessary only for
major policy and essential operational issues;
(d) the Board would approve all key appointments such as con-
sultants, all expatriate personnel, and all senior Yemeni
personnel. Authority for appointments to junior posts would
be delegated to the Project Manager and the divisional heads
as appropriate;
(e) all major tenders for construction, supplies and services
would be subject to the approval of the Board. However, rela-
tively minor supplies and services would be the responsibility
of the Project Manager and the division heads.



ANNEX 7
Page 4
D.  Responsibilities and Operating Procedures
Silo Division
8.        The silo division would have the following responsibilities:
(a) During the construction phase it would create the operating
organization by setting up the office, recruiting personnel
and training it;
(b) it would be responsible for the complete management and opera-
tion of the silo including all its financial and grain accounts;
(c) it would coordinate and cooperate with private importers, Port
Authority and other agencies to discharge bulk grain ships ex-
peditiously and deliver the grain to its owners in bagged or
-bulk form and be responsible for its safety and accountability
in its passage through the silo.
9.   Operating Procedures
(a) During the initial years of operation, the silo is expected
to handle mostly private imports of bulk grain. Irrespective
of the ownership of the grain, however, the Port Authority
would place all bulk grain vessels along berth No. 4 for dis-
charge through the silo. The owner of the cargo having com-
pleted port formalities would get authorization from the port
authority in writing to commence discharge of the vessel and
simultaneously the Port Authority would assign two cranes with
clam shell buckets for the discharge of the bulk grain. The
owner of the cargo would also arrange stevedoring in the holds
which are being worked;
(b) The owner of the cargo would be encouraged to have a representa-
tive present at the weighing scale in the silo head house to
witness the weighing operation throughout the period of dis-
charge. After the ship is fully discharged, the owner would
be given the weighed-in figures for his record;
(c) The owner, having paid the unloading and bagging charges plus
any storage charges which may be levied, would receive a de-
livery order from the silo's office. On presentation of the
delivery order at the bagging center the bagged grain would
be received by the owner or his authorized representative.
Transportation from the silo would be arranged by the owner of
the grain;



ANNEX 7
Page 5
(d) The Customs Authority at present retains 5% of the grain
imported by the private importers. The silo authorities
would retain the quantity of grain specified by the cus-
toms out of the privately-owned grain received from the
vessel and would deliver it according to the instructions
of the Ministry of Finance, which controls Customs;
(e)  The weigh-in scale would print the weighing-in, and the
weigh master would arrange the printed figures of each
draft to show into which bin the grain had been discharged.
Similar procedures would be followed for weighing-out of a
bin. Bin cards would be filled out to show the incoming
and outgoing weights of grain for each storage bin;
(f) For the bagging operation, grain would be transferred to
bagging bins in lots from the main storage bins through
the weigh-out scale and the quantities delivered in bagged
form would be checked with the weights of the grain sup-
plied to the bagging bin. All bagging systems would have
counters to record the number of bags packed, and in the
central panel there would be a duplicate counter to record
the same figures as at the bagging operation center;
(g) The owner of the grain may be allowed free storage of grain in
the silo during the first 48 hours from the commencement of dis-
charge of the ship. After this period he must arrange to take
delivery at the rate of 1,500 m ton per day. The number of days
required in excess of this rate would be charged on an ascend-
ing scale on the whole shipment. This system of storage charge
is designed to free storage space in the silo for subsequent
grain arrival. Appropriate rates of charge may be worked out on
the basis of conditions prevailing in 1979 when the silo is ex-
pected to go into operation, but for an indication of the order
of magnitude, it might be 10 Bukshas per m ton for the first two
days default and 15 Bukshas per day for the next two days and 20
Bukshas for the next two days, and so on with the charge per m ton
increasing by 5 Bukshas for each additional two days of storage;
(h) Invoices for all grain deliveries, whether the owner be a pri-
vate trader or any Government agency, should be sent with full
details within three days of such dispatches. These invoices
should be prepared in four copies, and might be made out in dif-
ferent colors for convenience. Two copies of the invoice would
go to the consignee, of which he would return one copy after
certifying receipt of the goods, the third copy would be sent
to the controllers office, the fourth copy would be retained
by the consignor. In addition to these formal invoices there



ANNEX 7
Page 6
would be transport invoices which would be issued at the time
of loading any transport with grain. These invoices would be
in triplicate, one copy would be handed out at the Guard post,
the second would be retained by the dispatcher of the silo
who is loading the truck, and the third copy is to be carried
by the truck driver.
Warehouse Division
10.       Responsibilities.  The Warehouse Division will have to coordinate
closely and cooperate with the Ministry of Finance, the Bakeries Division and
the Silo Division for its operation. The warehouses operated under this divi- -
sion during the initial years of the project would store and handle grain such
as zakat, customs duties and grants-in-aid grain on behalf of the Government. 1/
They may also store other goods such as flour, and rent available space to
private merchants.
11.       The division would supervise the operation of each of its warehouses,
i.e. those built by YGGC itself and the existing Government warehouses which
will be transferred to YGGC. The division would ensure that modern management
practices are followed in the operation of the warehouses including maintenance
of proper sanitary standards. It would also take adequate measures for regular
maintenance of the structures and other ancillary facilities. During the con-
struction phase of the project, this division would recruit personnel for the
warehouses operation and train them. It would also be responsible for expedit-
ing the construction work in general and in setting up office procedures and
accounting systems in collaboration with the Controller's Office.
12.       Operating Procedures.  The warehouse in principle would provide a
storage service for the owners of the commodities in stores. All receipts
into the warehouses and deliveries from them would therefore be on the instruc-
tions of the owners. The warehouse man would be required to keep complete and
detailed accounts of the commodities received and delivered with full informa-
tion of quantities, type, dates, containers, consignors, consignees and any
other information which might be relevant.
13.       All commodities received should be stored separately in stacks keep-
ing three feet aisles between the stacks. All stacks of grain or flour
should have cards showing the number of bags, quantity, date of receipt and
the name of the consignor. This is required to identify the arrivals in
chronological order, so that deliveries can be made on first in - first out
basis.
1/   Should YGGC at a later stage take over responsibility for procurement
and marketing of grain, a much more comprehensive inventory control system
would become necessary for storage and movement of grain in the entire
silo-warehouse system.



ANNEX 7
Page 7
14.       During receipt of any consignment, weighment must be made for the
consignment usually on a sample basis, unless full weighment is specifically
required for a particular lot. The weigh-in figures should be recorded in
a register or tally book for record. Sinilar procedures should be followed
for deliveries made out of the warehouse. In case of short receipts of any
consignment in comparison to the stated quantities in the invoice, the case
should be reported immediately to the consignor as well as to the warehouse
manager. In cases of serious shortages it would be advisable to have a
reliable witness to observe the weigh-in operation.
15.       If consignments of grain or flour received show evidence of infesta-
tion or evidence of deterioration in quality, this would be reported immediately
to the consignor as well as to the warehouse manager.
Bakeries Division
16.       The Bakery Division would:
(a)  implement the construction of the two 10-m ton bakeries as well
as manage and operate them;
(b) implement in cooperation with ACF the bakery credit component
and organize and manage the technical assistance program for
private bakers;
(c) implement and control the bread fortification and nutrition pro-
motion program, initiate and supervise the nutrition status
survey as well as the study to develop a national nutrition pro-
gram;
(d) be responsible for recruitment of bakery staff and its training;
(e)  in operating the 10-m ton bakeries, the division would coordi-
nate with the Government agencies concerned as well as the
Warehouse and Silo Divisions of YGGC the provision of grain
and flour and the delivery of bread to schools, hospitals and
other feeding programs.
17.       It would set up detailed accounting procedures for the bakeries in
collaboration with the Accounts Division of YGGC and would exercise all ad-
mini-strative and financial authorities delegated to it.
18.       Operating Procedures.  Each of the two bakeries would be equipped
with simall whole-grain flour mills. The bakery in Sana'a is expected to be
constructed adjacent to the new Government warehouse now under construction.
The bakery in Taiz will have storage facilities for about ten days' consump-
tion requirements. At both the bakeries records would be kept for all receipt



ANNEX 7
Page 8
of grain and flour and other supplies made to the bakeries. The records of
the bakeries would show quantities of grain and flour received and of the
products made. Similarly records would be kept of all deliveries made to
Government agencies or for other purposes.
Accounts/Financial Control Division
19.       The Accounts/Financial Control Division would be responsible for
keeping all accounts of YGGC and its divisions. It would handle all payments
and collect all service and other charges. Each division would have a small
imprest account for minor daily expenditures. This account would be adjusted
and replenished monthly.
May, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Yemen General Grain Corporation
Conso1ida't9d I,come Statement Projections
Year
1976  1977       1978     1        9       9  1981    1982    1983   -      19 r     1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991  1992-2005
---------------- ---------------------_     _------- _------------------U  000__------ _ _------ __------- ___-- - - -- ---__ _ _ _ _ _-- _________________--
Revenues
Silo                              -        -             1,850   2,111   2,390   2,689   3,009   3,357   3,726   4,120   4,548   5,006   5,498   5,887   9,592
Warehouses               -        -        318     636     636      636      636     636      636     636      636     636      636      636     636      636      636
Government Bakeries      -        _       537   1,074   1,074   1,074   1,074   1,074   1,074   1,074   1 074   1 074   1 074   1 074   1 074   1 074   1 074
Subtotal             -         -       855   1,710   3,560   3,821   4          4,399   4,71    5,067   5,436                      6
operating Expenses
Sio                               -        - E  _           395     412      430     450      471     493      517     543      570      600     632      658      898
Warehouses               -        -         99     198      198     198      198     198      198     198      198      198     198      198      198     198      198
Government Bakeries      -                 298                6              596     596      596     596      596      596     5                                  59659  5
Subtdtal              -    _           397      794              26    12    1,244 1   1,265   1,287   1,311   1,337                                 1,364   ,34 1  2
Depreciation
Silo                     _        _       _        _        594     594      594     594      594     594      594      594     594      594      594      594     594
Warehouses               -        -         24      48       48      48       48      48       48      48       48       48      48       48       48       48      48
Government Bakeries       -       -         65     130      130     130      130     130      130     130      130              130      130      130     130      130
Subtotal              -       _772                               77      772      772      772     772      772     772      772      772     772      772      772
Net Income before Taxes   _         _        369     738   1        1,843   2,104   2,383   2,682   3,008   3,353   3,721   4,122   4,550   5,010   5,373   8,838
Taxes
Silo                     _-                        -        215     276      342     411      486      568     654      746      846     953   1,068   1,159   2,045
Warehouses                -       -         48      96       96      96       96      96       96       96      96       96       96      96       96       96      96
Government Bakeries      -        _         44      23       88      88       88      88       88       88      88       88      88       88       88       88      88
Subtotal              -        -        92  l4           3T9     7 v           5          77)    752          8      936   1,030 1,I7   1,252   1,343   2,229
Net Income after Taxes   _       _           277     554   1,200   1,383    178 1,88   2,012   2,256   2,515   2113,09 2    3   3,758   4,030   6,609
Net Income after Taxes             _3,5
plus Ospreclation  -   -       ~~~~~366  732   1,972   2,155   2,350   2,560   2,784   3,2    3,287   3,563   3,864  14,185   1,3              ,0       ,8



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAL REPUBLIC
Yemen General Grain Corporation
Consolidated Cash Flow Projections
Year
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981    1982    1                 1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992-2005
--- --- --- -- --- --- -- --- --- --- -- --- --- -- --- --- --UST O    --0                    -    ------- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - ----- ---- -
Cash Inflow
Revenue                  -       -       855   1,710   3,560   3,821   4,100   4,399   4,719   5,067   5,436   5,830   6,258   6,716   7,208   7,597          11,302
Long-term Loan           399   1,583   4,336   1,765      415     -        -       -           -            -
Government Equity
Contribution           400   1,583   4,336   1,765       414     -        -       -       -
Interest during
Construction            18      107     374     646      746     -        -       - _
Subtotal              -               -37               5   3,821   4100   4,39    4,719   5,o07   5,13                  25    6,716   7,208               11,302
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses       -       -       397      794   1,189   1,206   1,224   1,244   1,265   1,287   1,311   1,337   1,364   1,394   1,426   1,452           1,692
Investments /1           799   3,166   8,672   3,530      829      87      -       -        87      -       -        87      -       -      3,155      29          29
Taxes                    -       -        92     184      399     460      526     595     670     752      838     930   1,030   1,137   1,252   1,343        2,229
Debt Service
Interest               18     107      374     646      746     765     696      620     539     452      356     261      148      25      -       -           -
Principal              -       _       -       _        _       770     840      895     976   1,063   1 059   1,254   1,367   1 274        -_      -          -
Subtotal                          817 3,273   92535   5,154   3,13   3,28  5    3,354   3,5373  3,5           3909 2 35083 3 2,824                          3,950
Cash Flow           _              -     ~       _ 732   1,972    _          815 1,045   1,182   1,513   1.872   1,961   2,349   3,886   1375   4,773             7,352
Cash Flow for Financial
Rate of Return          (710) (2,498) (5,537) (1,265)  1,669   2,263   2,560   2,784   2,941   3,287   3,563   3,777   4,185   4,530   1,647   5,056            7,777
Depreciation (Annual)  -        -        89     178      772     533      772     772     685      772     772     685    -772      772      -       743         743
Legal Reserve(Annual)  -        -        42      83      180     -         58     268     302      338     377     419      464     512      714     405         991
Retained Earnings
(Annual)             -        -       235     471   1,020      -       -          5     195     403      723     857   1,113   2,602      661   3,425       5,618
Depreciation Fund
(Cumulative)         -        -        89     267   1,039   1,572   2,344   3,116   3,801   4,573   5,345   6,030   6,802   7,574   5,191   5,934              -
Legal Res.(Cumulative) -        -        42     125      305     305      363     631     933   1,271   1,648   2,067   2,531   3,043   3,757   4,362            _
Retained Earnings (Cum)-        -       235     706   1,726   1,726   1,726   1,731   1,926   2,329   3,052   3,909   5,022   7,624   8,285  11,710              -
Debt/Equity  L2          49:51   48:52   47:53   44:56   38:62   35:65   33:67   29:71   24:76   19:81   12:88   5:95          -        -       -        -          -
Debt Service CoverageL3   -        -       -        -       -       2.0     2.1     2.2     2.3      2.4     2.5    2.6       2.7      2.8      -        -          -
Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return          :  23.4%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Cost            +10% : 21.8%
Operating Expenses         +10% : 22.2%
Revenues                   -10% : 20.5%
1   Includes technical assistance for bakery credit
/    Long-term debt outstanding, excluding short-term portion of long-term debt, over equity
/3   Net income after taxes plus depreciation plus interest over debt service.                                                                                          D



ANNEX 7
Table 3
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Yemen General Grain Corporation
Investments by Year
Year                     Grand Total
197 6    977    17        99             Total   For.Ex
________-____-----USyi '0-00- --         - ---------        )
20,000 m ton Silo
Cost at 1975 Prices 11   275       320   4,785   1,403      204   6,987   5,505 (79)
Price Contingency          50      113   2.345   1,231      234   3,973   2.73 (§2)
Subtotal       E;       W~~~~~ 7.130   2,634    3M   10.960-  7087  (72:)
Sub total              32JJ                   2.6
6 Warehouses, 18,000 m tons
Total Capacity
Cost at 1975 Prices /1   373   2,037        47       38      25   2,520   1,359 (54)
Price Contingency                  528      25       20              62       293
Subtotal               40      5         72       z              .6
2 Govt. Bakeries,
1O m tons per day each
Cost at 1975 prices /j    62       141   1,071      310      11   1,595   1,122 (70)
Price Contingency           6       2      399        8        7     637      332 (52)
Subtotal                              1.40      P _     2,232
Total including Price
Contingency                 >    3,166   8.672   3,200        >   16.335  10,984 ( D
/1 Includes Technical Assistance, Incremental Working Capital and Physical
Contingencies



ANNEX 7
Table 4
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSDIG PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Yemen General Grain Corporation - Corporate Office
Annual Expense Estimate
Unit Cost                Amount
-US$-
1 General Manager              at YRIs 3,000/month          8,000
1 Secretary-Typist              "        800  '1            2,133
1 Controller                           2l 2,000  it         5,333
1 Accountant - Accounts Payable "  "   1,000   "            2,667
1 Accountant - Receivables      "  "  1,000   "             2,667
1 Accountant - Inventory        n  n   1,000   "            2,667
1 Accountant - Financial        " "   1,000  't             2,667
4 Accounting Clerks             "  "    800   ' each         8,533
1 Secretary - Typist            "  "    500   "              1,333
1 Telephone Operator            "        500                 1,3v33
1 Guard                            n    400   '             1, 067
1 Office Boy                    t' "     300  't              800
1 Janitor                        ' "     300   "              800
Rent - 260 m2 at YRls 9o/m2                                  5,200
Operating Supplies and Misc. Expense                        35,000
Total                                                 80,200
Allocation to Project Components
Silo at 50%                                 40,100
Warehouses at 21.5%                         17,243
Bakeries at 28.5%                           22,857
May ., 1976






APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Organizational Chart of
Yemen General Grain Corporation
Minister of Supply - Chairman
Representative of Ministry of Finance
Representative of Central Planning Organization
Representative of the Port Authority
General Manager of ACF
Project Manager
Project Co-Manager
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Project Manager - 1 (Exp)
Project CoManager 1 (Local)
Bakery Division                                          l                  l
Silo Division                                                Warehouse Division                                                           Manager - 1 (Exp)                              Accounts & Audit Division
Silo Superintendent - 1 (Exp)                                Manager - 1 (Local)                                                          Co-Manager-1 (Locali                          Controller-  1 (Lop    l
Silo Co-Superintendent -1 (Local)                                                                                                         Nutrition Expert                              Co-Controller   1 (Local)
Sana'a                                               Ti
Govt. Bakery                                          Govt. Bakery
Bakery Superintendent -1(Lcl
Bakey Speritenent- I (Local)                    Extension Agent - 1 )Exp)
Bakery Superintendent-  (oaiBkrSuentdn-1 (Local)
Extension Ag. - 1 (Local)                            Extension Agent - 1 (Local)
Warehouses
Saada         j    j         Hia                          lbb                        Damnar             F       Hosia1SnaaExisting
World Bank-154 m
World Bank-15524






ANNEX 8
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Technical Assistance and Training Program
Technical Assistance
1.        There is an acute shortage of qualified and experienced personnel
in YAR to implement and manage the project. During the implementation and
early operating stage of the project adequate technical assistance would be
provided. A total of six expatriates would be hired, five of them for three
to five years and the infestation control expert for about six months. In
addition, part-time consultants would be hired for engineering and construc-
tion supervision as well as for implementing the nutrition component and the
storage survey. The main tasks of the expatriate experts would be to imple-
ment and manage the project and to train Yemeni national counterparts so that
they can take over managerial and operational responsibilities once the ex-
patriate experts leave. The estimates of salaries and other costs are based
on market prices of persons who possess outstanding capabilities in their re-
spective fields. Table 1 of this Annex shows the time period over which the
experts would be required, as well as the costs associated with technical
assistance.
2.        ACF would appoint under this project a senior industrial credit
expert and an accounting/financial control expert and would conduct a train-
ing program for local staff described in detail in Annex 4.
Terms of Reference for the Expatriate Staff
3.        The following are the major responsibilities of the expatriate staff
and their required qualifications:
4.   The Project Manager
Responsibilities: He is the executive manager of YGGC. He will
carry the overall responsibility for project implementation and operation.
He will also act as the convenor of meetings for decision of the Board, with
the consent of the Chairman. His main responsibilities in the project imple-
mentation stage will be:
(a) to initiate and follow through all actions necessary to em-
ploy consultants and other expatriate personnel required for
project implementation and operation;



ANNEX 8
Page 2
(b) to initiate and follow through all actions to select and
appoint key Yemeni personnel and arrange their training;
(c)  to coordinate and supervise the work of consultants, advise
and assist YGGC on bidding documents, tender evaluations
and contract awards, and administration of contracts;
(d) to assist the Government in its negotiation with IDA and
also be responsible for all communications with IDA with
regard to project implementation, within the framework of
YGGC's policy;
(e) to assist and advise the Government in case of disputes
with contractors and suppliers;
(f) to train his counterpart in all.aspects of his work;
(g) to assist the Government in establishing the organization
procedures for the project components; -
(h) to supervise the operation of all the project components,
the evaluation, and system monitoring, as well as to design
a reporting system for management; and
(i) to send the required reports on the project's progress,
performance evaluation and financial situation tc IDA.
Qualification: University degree in engineering; 15 years or more
professional experience, a substantial part of which should have been acquired
in the field of grain storage and processing projects in developing countries;
experience as Project Manager of a fairly large grain storage or processing.
project.
5.   The Bakery Division Manager
Responsibilities:
(a)  As the manager of the Bakery Division of the Corporation
he has the overall supervision responsibility of the two
10 m ton bakeries in Sana'a and Taiz;
(b) He would train his counterpart bakery manager and the local
extension agent located in Sana'a, as well as the local
bakery superintendent in Sana'a, and, in addition, would
supervise their foreign training;
(c) He would generally assist the Project Manager and YGGC
during the construction phase of the bakeries;



ANNEX 8
Page 3
(d) He would carry out experimentation and trials in baking
of local varieties of bread and establishment of baking
systems compatible with the consumer preferences;
(e) He would set up accounting procedures and books of accounts
for the bakers in collaboration with the Controller;
(f) He would assist the Bakery Extension Agent in Taiz in the
organization and operation of the bakery extension service
in Sana'a;
(g) He would assist and advise the ACF in the operation of the
bakery loan fund;
(h) He would initiate and supervise the implementation of the
nutrition component.
Qualifications:
A university degree in cereal science, bakery science or engineering;
professional experience of at least five years, part of which must have been
acquired in bakery projects. He should possess management and training ex-
perience in bakery operations as well as in bread fortification and nutrition
promotion.
6.   Silo Superintendent
Responsibilities:
(a) The Silo Superintendent would be in charge of the Silo Division
and would supervise all work relating to its operation. During
construction his main responsihLLities would be to set up the
office, and, in coordination with the Project Manager, appoint
and train operatives and supervisors. He would also train his
counterpart;
(b) Organize a detailed grain accounting system as it relates to
the receipt, storage and delivery of grain and would enforce
its implementation in full assistance to the Controller;
(c)  Introduce a system of continuous inspection and preventative
maintenance as well as a lubrication schedule;
(d) Organize fire drills and accident emergency training, and en-
force fire safety rules;
(e)  Organize a spare-parts inventory and ordering system;



ANNEX 8
Page 4
(f) exercise financial authority in purchasing supplies and
services to the extent it is delegated to him by the Cor-
poration.
Qualifications:
A university degree in mechanical or agricultural engineering with
at least five years professional experience, a substantial part of which
should have h)een acquired in the operation and management of a silo in a less
developed -  Xon ry.  lie must have experience in training others.  In the absence
a degr,-, a technical high school diploma would be required with at least
ion years experience in the operation and management of a grain silo as a super-
~itendent or manager.
7.   The l;arehouse Manager
Responsibilities:
(a) The Warehouses Manager would supervise and coordinate the
operation of the warehouses of YGGC, to be located at
Sana'a, Hodeidah, Ibb, Damar, Hajja and Saada, and exist-
ing Government-owned warehouses which may be taken over
by YGGC:
(b) he would assist YGGC in all matters in connection with,
and during the construction of, the warehouses;
(c) he would help in establishing the warehouse division office
and in recruiting and training local staff in operation and
management of the warehouse system;
(d) he would collaborate with the infestation control expert as
well as set up a preventative infestation control system in
the warehouses;
(e) he would establish accounting procedures and books of ac-
counts for the warehouse operatives in collaboration with
the Controller of Accounts.
8.   Controller, Accounts and Audit Division
Responsibilities:
(a) As the Chief Financial Controller of YGGC he would advise
and assist in all matters of financial transactions and
accounting procedures;
(b) He would be responsible for setting up detailed accounting,
auditing and budgeting procedures for the YGGC's Head Office
operations as well as its divisions;



ANNEX 8
Page 5
(c) He would train his counterpart in all aspects of accounts,
audit and budget of YGGC:
(d) He would operate commercial bank accounts on behalf of
YGGC and approve all requests for payments;
(e) He would prepare annual detailed manufacturing accounts,
loss and profit accounts as applicable and the balance
sheets for all the project components and for the cor-
poration for approval of the board;
(f) He would prepare project accounts and disbursement schedules
for timely submission to IDA during project implementation
phase.
Qualifications
University degree in accountancy or qualification as chartered ac-
countant with accounting and administrative experience of at least five years
in a big organization. Experience in establishing accounting systems and set-
ting up procedures would be desirable.
9.   Bakery Extension Agent
Responsibilities:
To organize and operate a bakery extension system in YAR which would
assist private bakers in applying for loans from the bakery loan fund of ACF
as well as to provide training and advice in bakery operation, sanitation and
bread fortification. 1/ The bakery extension agent would also supervise and
train local staff of YGGC's 10-m ton bakery to be established at Taiz and the
local extension agent for Taiz, Ibb and Damar areas located at Taiz.
Qualifications:
Senior trade school certificate in Bakery Science with at least five
years experience in operation and management of modern bakeries.
10. Infestation Control Expert (Sanitarian)
Responsibility:
This would be an assignment for six months. The main responsibili-
ties would be to carry out a survey of the degree and nature of infestation
that takes place in grain and flour in storage in Yemen both in Government
facilities as well as in the major privately-owned warehouses and to recom-
mend and establish a system of preventative infestation control for YGGC's
1/   A more detailed description of the functions of the bakery extension
program is given in Annex 4, para 17.



ANNEX 8
Page 6
warehouses and silo.  He would also train warehousemen and the silo staff
on control measures and techniques.
Qualifications:
A degree in entomology and wide experience in the field of infesta-
tion of stored grain and its control. A possible source for obtaining this
service would be through the Ministry of Overseas Development and the Tropical
Products Institute, United Kingdom.
Training Program of YGGC 1/
11.       A total of eight Yemeni nationals would receive training abroad.
The project would provide four scholarships in cereal, bakery, milling and
grain storage science. The costs of overseas training and the period over
which they would be incurred is shown in Table 1 of this Annex. In addition,
there would be on-the-job training of counterparts and other staff in silo,
warehouse, and bakery operation and management by expatriates. The costs of
their training are included in the project.
12.       The qualifications of the Yemeni counterparts, the duration and lo-
cation of training would be as follows: qualifications are shown under part
(a) and duration, location and training responsibility under (b).
13. Project Co-Manager - I
(a) Bachelor's or preferably master's degree in engineering or
economics with at least five years administrative experience.
(b) Training abroad would be for 6 months with the grain boards
of, preferably, Arabic speaking countries. Training should
commence in the middle of 1976 so that by early 1977 he can
participate in the implementation of the project from its
inception.
14. Silo Superintendent - I
(a) University degree in mechanical or agricultural engineering.
Some professional experience preferable.
(b) Training abroad would be for six months with the grain boards
of, preferably, Arabic speaking countries, commencing from
early 1977.
1/   The training program for ACF staff is discussed in Annex 4.



ANNEX 8
Page 7
15. Bakery Manager - l
(a) University degree in science or engineering, preferably with
some professional experience.
(b) Training abroad would be for six months at a technical school.
Management training would be provided locally by the expatriate
manager. Training should commence in early 1977.
16. Bakery Superintendents - 2
(a) High school diploma in science or graduate of technical high
school.
(b) Theoretical and practical training abroad for six months at
a technical school and :n bakeries.
17. Bakery Extension Agents - 2
(a) High School Diploma.
(b) Training should commence by mid 1976 for a period of six
months in bakeries in the Middle East. The extension agents
should be available in YAR after training in early 1977 to
help in the operation of the bakery loan fund. Training
may be arranged through the Grain Boards of the Middle East.
18.  Warehouse Manager - 1
(a) University degree in general economics, agricultural economics
or science with some managerial experience.
(b) Training abroad for one year out of which six months should
be spent with Grain Boards in, preferably, Arabic speak-
ina countries; in the temaining period courses in business
administration should be taken. Training should commence
in early 1977.
19. Scholarships - 4
(a) Four scholarships are provided for in the field of cereal
chemistry (two) and in bakery science (two). These are four
year courses leading to a degree. The graduates would be
needed in YAk is experts in their respective fields.  The
Mlinistry of Supply and the YGGC would need qualified nationals
in their expanded operations in the years ahead. The basic
qualifications would be a high school diploma and good academic
record. Knowledge of English would be an advantage.



ANNEX 8
Page 8
(b) At least one university is known to provide those courses of
study with a full degree program, Kansas State University.
Four students would be selected in 1976 and arrangements made
with such a university for admission.
May, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PxOJECT
YEWN ARAB IKPUBLIC
Technical A1aistano. and Training Costs
Year
1                 2                  3                  4                  5             Or_t _otal
Total   For. .   To a   Per.sx   TNtal   For. c.   Total   For. Ex.   Total   For.Ex.   Total   For.Ex.
- --  ---  ---------------                       1JS3$ OO -------                                    ----
Grain Corporation - Expatriates
1 Project Manager - General Manager    30         30       60       60        60       60        60       60        60       60       270      270
1 Silo Superintendent                   -         -        -         -        50       50        50       50        50       50       150      150
1 Bakery Manager                        -         -        50        50       50       50        50       50        -        -        150      150
1 Bakery Extension Agent                -         -        40       40        40       40        40       40        -        -        120       120
1 Controller                            -         -        50       50        50       50        50       50        50       50       200      200
1 Sanitarian (6 months)                 -         -        -         -        -        -         25       25        -         -        25        25
Grain Corporation - Foreign Training
I General Manager (6montis)             14        10       -         -        -        -         -        -         -         -        14        10
1 Silo Superintendent (6 months)        -         -        13        10       -        -         -        -         -         -        13        10
1 Bakery Manager (6 months)             -         -        15        12       -        -         _ -                -         -        15        12
2 Bakery Superintendents (6months)    -           -        28        24       -         -        -         _-                 -        28        24
2 Bakery Extension Agents (6months)   28          94       -         -        -         -        -                  -         -        28        24
1 Warehouse Manager                     -         -        26        20       -         -        -         -        -         -        26        20
4 Scholarships - Kansas State Univ.    22         22       22        22       22        22       22        22       _         -        88        88
Subtotal 1L                        94        C6      304       288      272      272       297      297       160       160    1.127    1,103
Agricultural Credit Fud /2
1 LIdustrial Oredit Offer               -         -        55        41       55        41       55        40       55        44      220       166
1 Accountant/inancial ControUera    -             -        28        21       28        21       28        20       28        23       112       85
Foreign Trdniag ACF Staff                -        -          8        8        13       12        14        9         7        7        42       36
Equipent and Material                   _         _         27        23      -         _0                            1        1        38       _5
Subtotal                            -         -       118        93       96        74      107        69       91        75      412       312
Natrition                                                     1 _  52  1         221      199       132      119       167                672       615
Engineering Consultants                    295       254      127       84        84       52        84       52        -         _       590       442
Total                                 389      340       701      602       673      597       620      537       418       385    2.801    2.462
A   Allocation of Orain Corporation
Mapatriates and Foreign Trainig
to Coponents
Silo                               28        26        74       71      111       111       116      116       105       105      434       429
Warehouses                          11       10       52        46       26        26        36       36        24       24       149       i42 ~3
Bakeries                           55        50       179      172       136      136       146      146        31        31      547       535   '
2  For details see Annxa  4 , Table 3.
a   Cost  shared with proposed Livestock Credit and Processing Project
Two-year diploaa courses overseas for 2 Credit Officer. and 3 Branch Managers, and 6 ronth coarees overseas
for General Manager and Accountant/nnancial Controller (Oost shard with proposed Ivestock Credit and Processing Project).
May, 1976



ANNEX 9
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
20,000-m ton Port Silo
A.   Projected Income Statement
B.   Projected Cash Flow Statement
C.   Projected Financial Rate of Return
D.   Investment Costs and Disbursements by Years
E.   Annual Operating Expense Estimate
F.   Service Charge Calculation
G.   Charges to Expense - Construction Years
H.   Savings in Hodeidah Variable Port Costs Due to Silo Construction
I.   Comparative Present Bulk Grain Ship Discharge Costs and
Freight to Taiz - Hodeidah vs. Mokha Ports
May, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PRDCESSING PROJECT
NEN ARAB RZPUBLIC
20,000 m ton Poit Silo
A.  Projected Income Statement
Year
1-4    5       6       7       8 _    9       10      11      12 9            14      17
-          -----------    -- - --- ------0---------------    -       ---- 
Revenue
Service Charge  i-   1.850   2.111   2.9 ....                    3-o02.3_3.Z 3. 2 .      . 1;9   4 548   5.006   5,498   5.887    9.592
Subtotal                 -    1,850   2,111   2,390   2,689   3,009   3,357   3,726   4,120   4,548   5,006   5,498   5,887   c1,592
Operating Epenses
Variable Expenses /t        -      120    137    155    175        196    218    242       268    295      325     357     383      623
Fixed Etpenses             ,       275    275       7       7              27      27      275      7      27              275W     275
Subtotal                 -      395    412    430    450    471    493    517          543    570      600     632     658      898
Depreciation   13_                 594    594    594    594    54           94      9      594    594      594   5-9-4    54        59
Total                    -      989   1,006   1,024   1,044   1,065   1,087   1,111   1,137   1,164   1,194   1,226   1,252    1,492
Net Income before Taxes       -      861  1,105   1,366   1,645   1,944   2,270   2,615   2,983   3,384   3,812   4,272   4,635    8,100
Taxes                       - _           _ 276    342    411    486       568    654      746    846      953   1.068   1.159    2.045
Not Income after Taxes   -      646    829   1,024   1,234   1,458   1,702   1,961   2,237   2,538   2,859   3,204   3,476    6,055
YAno Items Net Income after
Taxes, inol. Depreciation    -   1,240   1,423   1,618   1,828   2,052   2,296   2,555   2,831   3,132   3,453   3,798   4,070    6,649
/I  Service charge of US$8 per m ton or YRls 36 per m ton. For details see Annex 9, Table 5.
For details see Annex 9, Table 4
For details see Amnex 9 , Table 5
Income tax rate for annual net inecme of YMl8 37,5oo anm more is 25%
iig
9 \



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YENEN ARAB REPUBLIC
20 000 m ton Port Silo
B.   ProJ7ctd Cash Flow Statement  /
Year
1       2        3       4        5       6        7        8       9       10      11       12      13       14       15       16     17-30
---------~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 00-----------------------_----- ,U$_00--------_____ _______________
Cash Inflow
Revenue                               -       -       -        -     1,850   2,111   2,390  2,689   3,009   3,357   3,726   4,120   4,548   5,006             5,498   5,887   9,592
Long-Term Loan        /2             162      216   3,565   1,317      219      -        -       -        -       -        -        -       - _             5
Equity Contribution  r               163      217   3,565   1,317      219      -        -       -        -       -        -        -       -        -
Interest During Construction /3        7       24     194      414     -        _          _        _ -                -           -        - _  _   _
Subtotal                         332     457   -_       3,O4H                                        7 2  ?  X                       I,00 ,   S   4 1                       2
Cash Outflow                                      7 73         30      Z          E    ZE        268    309 3  q             72       10 454          .6 jka9s
Operating Expenses                    -       -       -        -        395     412    430       450      471     493      517      543     570      600      632     658      898
Investments                          325      433   7,130   2,634      438       15      -       -         15     -        -         15              -     2,503      -         15
Taxes                                 -       -       -        -       215   _276    342         411      486     568      654      746     846      953   1,d68   1,159   2,045
Debt Service
Interest  4                          7       24     194      414     483      493    457       417      373     326      274      218     156.      89     -        -        -
Principal                           -       -       -        -       -        407    443       483      527     574      626      682     744      993      -       -        -
Subtotal              m                    457   7,324   3,048   1,531   1,763   1,72    1,6    172   1   I   2,071   2,20             2,316   2635          3     1,817 
Cash Flow                               -       -                -        757 8           718       928   1 1,376          1.655   1.916   2.232                297   4,070   6  +
Cash Flow for Financial Rate of
Return /                            (275)   (320) (4,785) (1,403)  1,036   1,408  1,618    1,828   2,037   2,296   2,555   2,816   3,132   3,453   1,295   4,070   6,644
Depreciation Fund (Annual)            -       -       -        -       594      408    594       594      579     594      594      579     594      594      -        594     5,9 -
Contribution to Legal
Reserves /6  (Annual)               -       -       -        -        55      100    124       185      219     255      294      336     411      429      481     521      g20
Retained Earnings                     -       -       -        -        66    -          -       149      339     547      767   1,001   1,227   1,348        814   2,955   5,135
Depreciation Fund (Cumulative)        -       -       -        -        594   1,002  1;596    2,190   2,769   3,363   3,957   4,536   5,130   5,724   5,724   6,318
Legal Reserves (Cumulative)           -       -       -        _         55     155    179       364      583     838   1,132   1,468   1,879   2,308   2,789   3,310    -
Retained Earnings (Cumulative)        -       -       -        -        66    -          -       215      554   1,101   1,868   2,869   4,o96   5,444   6,258   9,213    -
C.   Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return               : 25,2%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs            +10%     23.8%
Operating Expenses          +10%  :-4.5%
Revenues                    -10%     22.8%
1  Investment costs and financing in current prices.   Revenues and operating expenses in constant 1975 prices.   For a discussion see Annex  6 , page  1
2 50% of investment costs.
Interest rate at 11% p.a.
5 In constant 1975 prices
15% of net income after taxes and depreciation, if available                                                                                                                          -



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORA3E AND PROCESSING PROJECT
Yhwii ARLAB REPUBLIC
20.000 on ton Port Silo
D.  IAvestment Costs and Diabursmnts by Years
Year
2                   3                  4 o                                  Grand      Total
'lotaL  Fcr.7c.   Lotal   -o.nc        -ol     -or.Exc.   Totalotal   For.E__xc.                        Total   For.Exc.
Detail &gineerin  & Superision   22   193Pc.   oaLV '             oa 714o114  71  141    7ota4    )jL-or1444                                 32
------------------------------------- US$1ooO              -  -----_------__--------- -- _________________-
Detail Engineering & Supervision   222         193       74        44        74        44        74        44        --444                            325
Job Mobilization & Site Devel.       -          -       ill        100       -          -        -          -        -          -            111      100
Rec.Hoppers,Conveyor & Elev.         -          -        -          -       339        339      168        51        -          -           507       390
Storage Structure                    -                   _                1,231       940             -         -               -         1,231       940
Head Eouse, Equipped                 -          -        -          -     1,011       903       325        107       -          -          1,336   -I,010
Bin Top Gallery, EQuipped            -          -        -          -       164        -147      70          8       -          -            2 34     155
Auto Scale Packing Equip.            -          -        -          -       158       158        -          -        -          -            158      158
Power Sub-station an, Disbtris.      -          -        -          -       930       930       464        385       -          -          1,394    1,315
Water and Sewage                     -          -        -          -        33         25       -          -        -          -             33       25
60(m2 warehouse                      -          -        -          -        93        46        -          -        -          -             93       46
Office, Laboratory & Shop -
1000m2                            -         -         -         -        176        o6        -         _-                   -           176        96
1 Utility Truck, 1 Passenger Auto   -          -         15        15        -         _         _         _         _          _            15        15
Technical AssistarLce & Training     23         26       74         71      111        111      116        116      105        105          434       429
Working Capital - 45 days
receivable                         -          -        -          -        -          -        -          -        80         -             80       -
Expeases during Construction         -         -         17        -         30       _          59        -         -          -           106       -
Total - 1975 Prices                 250        215      291        230    4,350      3,73Y    1,276        711      185        105        6,352    5,004
Physical Contingency at 10>6         25         22       29         23      435        374      127         71       19         11           635      501
Total Incl. Physical Contingency   275         24-1     320        253    4,785     4,1-13    i,403        732      204        116        6,987    5,505
Price Contingency  /3                50         42                  74    2,345      1 740    131         4                             _234_S I_39_
Total Intl. Price Contingency                                      327  E  7                   .634     10.960    Z 6
(D x
LI  For the foreign exchange component international inflation rates according to
the Bank's guidelines have been employed.   An inflation rate of 20% p.a. has
been applied to the local component.



ANNEX9
Table4
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
20,000 m ton Port Silo
E.   Annua" . Oeratijn  Emens   isate
Basist  1975 Voiwime 100,900 m ton
Unit      No.of   Rate    Amount
Variable Expense                                         Units   YRls      TJf
Port Crane Charge (For ship's Account) Crane hrs.   1,009   59.37   13,312
Berth Fees (For Ship's Account)          Meter hrs.  83,664    0.16    2,975
Stevedoring (For Shipts Account)        Man hours    3,072    1.73    3,103
Sub-T(etal for Shipts Aecount                                       19,390
Expense per m ton
Packing and Sewing (For Silo Account)  Man hours   11,211    2.31    5,755
Longshore Labor (For Silo AccounIt)     Man hours   33,633    1.73   12,930
Electric Power (For Silo Account)       kWh         252,250    o.6    31 613
Sub-Total for Silo Account
Expense per m ton            U3$0.52
Grand Total Variable Expense                                  71,708
Variable Expense per m ton US$0.71
Fixed Expense - Administrative & Financial
1/2 Corporate Of-fice Expense (see Annex 7, Table 4)                  )ho, Ioo
1 Silo Superintendent        at YRls 2,000/month                        5,333
- Shift Supervisors          "   "   1,500/month                       12,000
1 Laboratory Technician      "   U   1,000/ ,nnth                       2,667
I Office Manager-Accountant        i ,500/7ontlt                        4,000
rAccu Onting Cerks          8" O0/month                                 4,267
1 Secretary-Typist           "   U    500/monch                         1,333
1 Stores Clerk               "   I     500/mTont                        1,3'3?
6 Guards                     "   "      400/month encn                 v,h00
0ffice Supplies & Miso.Office Expense                                   8,222
Insurance on Plant - 1A x U ,S$ ,305,000                               63,050
Omsurance on 20,000 m ton Inventory - 1% x US$4,560,000                45,600
Fixed Expense - Operating
? Dock Conveyor Operators   at YTls 500,'month ea h                     4,300
3 Scale Men                      "   600/,month  "                      4,2300
3 Cleaner Men                "   "   600/month  "                       4,300
73 Gallery Men                "       6 600/month  "                     4, uOO
3 Bin Discharge Men          "   i   600/month  "                       4i,300
1 Bag Man                        "   600o/month  "                      1,600
Maintenance
1 Electrician                at 'Mis 1,500/month                        4,u0C
I Millwright-Machinist          i'   1 ,500/Aonth I                     4 000
1 Sheetmetal Welder          "   U   1,500/month                       L6,00-
? 3 'dft Maintenance Ae4n     8" 00/month C,ach                         6,400
Materials, Supplies and Outside Services                               37,071
Total Fixed ExDense                                           275,376



kAJINEX 9.
taEle 5
hi&iAiSAL OF
A Gtkl N  TO.itGE AJj PiOCESSIiN"G PROJECT
YEi .LiA iA-  &1PUBLIC
20,000 m ton Port Silo
F. Service Charge Calculation L
USs
Silo Variable i-xYpense  ,;,,UO  m ton at US$ 0.52         137,22
Silo Fixed Exoense                                         275,376
I4iiipment Depreciation - US$ '5,919,000 at 3 1/3 6 p.a.  493,O0O
Civil Works Depreciation - j3$P 5,041,000 at 2A p.a.       101,000
Interest on lnvT rstment
(Opportunity Cost) - US$6,977,000 at 11%                767,470
Debt RP-Tpayment - 50% E-uity - 50% Loan, 11i yr.term      317.1 36
Total                                             2,091,210
Service Charge Per m ton = US$ 2,091,210 = uS$ 7.92 or US $ 8.oo   YRls 3.6.0
263,900 m ton
L Based on Volume Year 6 - 2nd Full Operating Year - 263,900  m toD-



ANNITX 9
Cable 6
APPRA SAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE ANJ PROCESSING PROJECT
YE1MEN ARAB REPUBLIC
20,000 m ton Port Silo
G.   Charges to ExPense - Construction Years
Year
2        3        4
Corporate Office
1/2 General Manager at us$8,000                4,000    4,000    4,000
1/2 Secretary Typist at US$2,133                1,067    1,067    1,067
1/2 Controller at US$5,333                      2,667    2,667    2,667
1/2 Accountant-Construction                     1,3324   1,334    1,334
Accounts Payable at US$2,667
1/2 Accounting Clerk at US$2,133                  -      1,067    1,067
1/2 Guard at us$1,067                             534      534      534
1/2 Operating Supplies and Misc.Expense        44,000    5,000    5,0oo
Hodeidah Silo Expense
1  Silo Superintendent at US$5,333                -      5,333    5,333
3  Shift Supervisors at US$4,000 each             -        -     12,000
1  Office Manager-Accountant at US$4,000          -      4,000    4,000
1  Secretary-Typist at US$1,333                   -      1,333    1,333
1  Guard at US$1,067                              -      1,067    1,067
22 Employees (In Plant Training) at
US$44,000 (3 months)                       -        -     11,000
Operating Supplies and Misc. Expense            3,000    3,000    9,000
Total                                     16 602   Li 402  59,402



ANNEX 9
Table 7
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
200O0o m ton Port Silo
H. Savins in Hodeidah Variable Port Costs
Dae to Silo Construction
YRls/m ton
Ship Discharge Labor Cost - Bulk Grain            6.Op
Filling and Sewing Bags - Bulk Grain              6.00
Anchorage Dues - 2 days at -Rls 0.05/m ton        0.10
Present Average Crane Charge -
yitl 59-37/Crane hrs x 2 cranes   24 hrs          4.22
67 m tons
Berth Fee - 166M x 216h x YRIsO.16                0.71
3000 m ton
Total                                       17.03
3 US$ 3.78
Rate Source:  "Hodeidah Port Tariff", 21 June 1975, The Hodeidah
Port General Corporation (The Port Authority)
Labor Costs Source: Interviews: (a) Importers, (b) Stevedoring
agents, (c) Port Labor Office.



ANNEX 9
APPRAISAL OF                           Table8
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEME  ARAB REPUBLIC
20,000 i tons Port Silo
I . ComDarative Presenz Bulk Grain Ship
Discharge Cost and Freight to Taiz -
Hodeidah vs. Mokha Ports
YRl,I'm tons---
Hodeidah   Mokha
Loading Slings - On ship                    6.00    6.oo
Bagging and Sewing                          6.00    7.50
Loading Barge                                -       4.oo
Unload Barge and/or Load Trucks             3.00    3.00
Barge and Tow Lighter Charge                 -      20.00
Anchorage Charge                            0.10    0.50
Crane Charge                                4.22      -
Berth Fee                                   0.71      -
MerchantsI Landing Fee                      .o    2.00
Pilotage                                    0.24      -
Mooring and Unmooring                       0.03      -
Canal Dues                                  0.05      -
Tug Fees (Mooring and Unmooring)            0.09      0
Navigation Dues                             0.05      -
Net Registered Ton Dues                     0.23      -
Total Port Costs - Loaded on Trucks        26.22   43.00
Truck Freight Rate to Taiz                 71.00   40.00
.=
Com.parative Port and Inland Freight       97.22   83.00
Costs
Premium Ccst for Shipments to Taiz via Xodeidah = LRls 1L.22 = US$3.16/rm ton
Sources:  (a) "Houeidah Port Tariff", 21 J,une, 1975, The Hodeidah
Fort General Corporation;
(b) Mission calculations are based upon intarviews with
importers, stevedoririg abents,V the port authorities,
the port labor officers, and the domestic land
transportation officials.
May , 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMAN ARAB REPUBLIC
20,000 MT Port Silo in Hodeidah
Proposed Preliminary Layout
BERTH IV                                                                           BERTH V
165 m                                                                                 t16m
*  IEEm~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
APRON                                                                               APRON
CRANE         APlN         CRANE                                                                  APO
UNDERGROUND
CONVEYORF
-V  CROSS CONVEYOR
\ \ ~~~~~~HOPPERS''_ 
HEADHOUSE
OPEN STORAGE                                                                       UPPER CONVEYOR
GALLERY
_                                                                 2   t v  t           l o      OFFICE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ FLOUR MILL
E~~~~~~~CL STOAG                                                                                         44m      tE
I         m
SPACE FOfl ~ ~ ~  ~    ~ ~ SPCEFO
FUUR EXPAUSUOE
OF             0                                   LOUIMLL
COD S EROAD TO HODEIA
AREA






ANNEX 10
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Regional Warehouse (3,000 m ton Capacity)
A.   Projected Income Statement
B.   Projected Cash Flow Statement
C.   Projected Financial Rate of Return
D.   Investment Costs
E.   Annual Operating Expense
All Regional Warehouses
F.   Service Charge Calculation
G.   Incremental Working Capital
H.   Investment Costs and Disbursements by Year
I.   Annual Operating Expenses
May, 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Regional Warehouse (3,000 m ton Capacity)
A.   Projected Income Statement
Year
1-2     _-30
---US$ 0ooo--
Revenue
Service Charge /1                           1 06
Subtotal                       -
Operating Expenses
Variable Expenses /2                         12
Fixed Expenses / 2                           22
Sabtotal                        -        2
Depreciation g                     -          8
Total                           -         4
Net Income before Taxes              -         64
Taxes  A                           -         16
Net Income after Taxes               _
Memo Item: Net Income after
Taxge incl. Depreciation           -         56
L  Service charge of US$4.89 (YRls 22.0) per 'm ton or US$ 0.24
(YRls 1.10) per 50 kg bag per month of storage.   For
details see Annex lO. Table 5
For details see Annex 10, Table 4
75  For details see Annex 10, Table 5
Income tax rate for annual net income of This 37,500 and more is 25%



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND P5CSSI   PR=CT
IXENI ARAB RIPUBjC
Model: Regional Warehouis e}3,99 u ton capacity)
B. ProJected Gash Flow Slat.eAtt(
Year
1     2     3      4     5     6      7     13    9    10    11    12    13    14L   15   1-6-30
Cash Inflow                                                                           10-       -
Realueniie                            -     -    106   106   106   iO6   iO6   i06   iO6   ¶06   106   iO6   io6   106    o6   io6
Long TerA Ioan~                       32   238      5     8    -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -
Equity Contribution                   32   23       6      8    -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -
rnter'eat Duzring Construction A       1    14    -
Subtotal                                                   1
Cash Outflow
Operati.ng E2enses                    -      -     34   34 34   34   34 34   34 34   34                      34     4     34    3. 3
Investments,                          64   476    11    16    -       -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -      -
Taicea                                -      -      5     5      5     5      5     5     5      5     5      5     5      5     5      5
Debt Service
Interesat                            1    14    25    26    26    24    22    20    18    15    13    10          7      3    -      -
Princlpa.l                          -    -    -        J        f25    27                     2 32         +            34    -      -
Subtotal                        95                                                                                   4 -4  7r  t
Cash Flow                                            42    41    22    22    22    22    22    2?    22    22    22    30          6?     ?
Depreciation (annual)                 -     -       8     a      8     8      8     8     8      a      8     8      8     8      8     8
Legal Reserve (annua)                 -      -      7      7     7     7      7     7      7     7      7     7      7     7      7     7
Retained arninga (aznu-l)                          27    26      7     7      7     7      7     7      7     7      7    15    52    52
Cash Flow for Pinamial Rate of
Return                               (49) (325)   49    45    67    6?    67    67    67    67    6?    67    67    67    6?    67&
C.  Projected Financial R.te of Return
Financial Rat, of Return        :   16.8%
S"aaitivity Teat
Investment Costa       + 10% i   15.2%
Cterating Costs          lo1%      15.8%
Dvees                  10: D141%
ZI   Investment costs and fin-aning in current prioea.   Revenues and opramting expenaea in constant 197  prioca.
Ifor a disausdon see Annex 6 , page 1..1
/2   Service charge of US$J..9 (Ms. 22.0) per  -A ton or US3$ 0.24 (YR2Ls 1.10) per 50 kg 'bag per month.
3-50% of investment coats
To be financed by Governmet contribution                                                                                                              0
Plua residual value of US$156,000 in year .30.



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
ZEMEN ARAB ;REPUBLIC
Model;  Regional Wr     se (0,000 m ton Capacity)
D.  Investmnt Costs
Year        ......
2              3Grand Th-ta2l
Totl    1r                     'o                              Total lcFZ
2----  ----          ---------us$         -- -------- - ------------------
Land (65a x 1lOrn, at YRls24/m2)              38     --                      -      -        -      -        38     -
Eagineering                                    7      6       7       6      -      -        -      -        14      12
Building (1800m2 at Rlas 700m2)               -      -      280    141       -       -       -       -      280    ia1
Electzic Power, Service & Distr.              -      -        2       1      -      -        -      -         2       1
Water & Sewage                                -      _        4       3      -      -        -      -         4       3
Offieo                                        -      -        2       2      -      -        -      -         2       2
' abtotal                                                5    1                        -      ;7
Techn} a Assistance and Training                              g 9   5                        10o    10      10       7
Increruental Working Capital L               -       _        4      -        3        _     _                7
Total                                   7T    ___       8      163       7      T       10     10      372    ,3
Physical Contingency (5%)                      2      1       1      8       _     -          1       1      18      10
Total Incl.Physical Contingency         7      -         3       9     7      -7               11             1
Price Contingency  2                          15      2      51      60       4       2               5     1        69
Total Inc. Price Contingency                    11            __9       11 _6          4       1        2      22
1   Icr details see Annex 10, Table 6.
__  based on Bank projected inflation rates for the foreign exchange component and a 20% p.a. inflation rate
for the domestic component.
>un
(DX
H I
o



ANNEX 10
APPR. ISAL OF                            Table 4
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Regional Warehouse (3,000 m ton Capacity)
E. Annual Operating Expense
*                              -                                      Amount
Variable Expense              Unit   Volume   Cost per unit (YRis)         US$
Truck Unloading              mton  9,000             3                 6,000
Truck Loading                m ton  9,000            3                 6,000
Total
(Variable Expense per 4m ton US$1.33)
Fixed Expense
Share Corporate Office    (3.6% of total cost)                         2,874
Share Warehouse Manager (at YRls 2000 p.m., Corporate Office)            889
Share 1 Accountant      (at YRls 1000 p.m., Corporate Office)            445
Share 1 Secretary/Typist (at YRls 500 p.m., Corporate Office)            222
Share Corporate Office Rent (75m2 at YRls 90/rm<)                        250
Share Miscellaneous Operating Supplies and Expenses                     1,603
Warehouse Manager         (at YRls 880 p.u. L )                        2, 347
Warehouse Accounting Clerk(at YRis 680 p.m.)                            1,813
Warehouse Shipping Clerk  (at MRls 680 p.m.)                            1,813
Amua2L yuuigat0on Cost    (35 days at !Ril  10 per day)                   78
Operating Supplies and Miscelaneous Expenses                           2,000
Insurance Plant (us$392,400 at 1%)                                     3,924
Insurance Average Inventory (US$399,500 at 1%)                         3 995
Total
/j   Monthly salary would range between YR1s 800-1000/month depending upon
warehouse sise



APPRAISAL OF                               ANNEX 10
Table 5
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Rezional Warehouses
F.  Service Charge Calculation L
US$1000
Variable Expense (54,000 m tons at US$1.33)                    72.0
Fixed Expense                                                 125.0
Depreciation:
Civil Works- US$2,343,OOO at 2% (Current Prices)             47.0
Equipment - US$11,113 at 8 1/3 % (Current Prices)             1.0
Interest on Investment (Opportunity Cost)
US$2,520,000 at 11%                                         277.0
Debt Repayment /3                                             114.0
Total Annual Service Charge (All Warehouses)             636.0
Total Annual Service Charge (3000 m ton Wareiouse)       106.0
Service Charge per m ton per month /2  h4.89 (YRI  P?.P.
/1   Based on total volume handled in Year 3 by all regional warehouses,
estimated at 54,000 m ton
2   In -and out handlixrg costs per m ton US$1.33 (YRis 6.0) Fixod storage
storage cost per month US $3.56 (YR1s 16,0), based on Zakat,
collection once a year and grants-in-aid and import duties being
collected uniformly   during the year.
/3   Based on 50% of investment cost being loan financed at 11% p.a.
interest and for all year term.



ANNEX 1O
Table 6
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
All Regional Warehouses
G. Incremental Working Capital
Year 2
US$
2 1/2 % Corporate Office Allocation                   5,849
1 Accountant - Construction PPyables                  2,667
Rent in Corporate Office,                             i,500
Misc. Supplies and Operating Expense
(Corporate Office)                                  3,000
' Regional Managers - 6 months                        5,867
Misc. Supplies and Operating Expense(Warehouse)       2,000
Total                                         20,883



APPRAISLU OF
A GRUIN STORGE AID PROCESSING PROJECT
H. All Regial Warhouses Invost,nt Costs
and Diibureemnta by Year
1              2                                              5          Grand Total
Total Fo rjx  Total         x  Total For.Es  total- For.l  Total  For.Ex  Totl For.Ex
198    -  ~~-  ---  ---- -                -- -                           -198      --
Land 37,O5Om2 at IELs 24/K2  L,                             198    -                                                                      198      6
Engineering                                                  43     37      43      32                                                     86      69
Buildings, 10,800.2 at yELs 700/32    2                     -      -     1,680    846                                                   1 _  _  _  1,680    846
Electric Power Service & D2istribution                      -      -        11       7     -                                               11       7
Water and Sewerage                                          -      -        20      14     -      -        -      _        _      _        20      14
Office Equipment                                            -      -         9       9     _      _        _      _        _      _         9       9
Technical Assistance and Training                            11     10      52      46.    26      26       36     36       24     24     149    142
WorkIng Capital                                             -      -         21    -        19    -        -      -        -      -        40    -
Warehousing Study - 27 mamonths                              0     10      1       14      -                                              20      2
Total at 1975 Prices                    120
5% Physical Contingency                                      18      8      97      53       2      1        2      2               1      20      6
Total including Physical Contingency                              1.                          z      :z       z
Price Contingency                                                   11                      25              20     20       17     17     623    293
Total including Price Contingency                     _402 6                                                                   2            . ;  2
1   Ibb - 65m x 2llOC; Hodeidah - 65T x llOm;  Sana'a -265m x lOmn;  Da'r - 65m x llO;  Sada 65m x l20m;  Haija 65m x llOm
j2   Ibb - 3000m2; Hodeidah - 3000m; Sana'a - 1800 m;  Damar - 1200m; Sada - 600m; Hajja - 1200m
- 0 H



APPRAISAL OF                           ANNEX 10
Table 8
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
All Regional Warehouses
I. Annual Operating Expenses
Amount
Variable Expense      Units    Volume    Cost per unit (YRls)            x
Truck Unloading    Ei ton   54,000             3                    3 '°°°
Truck Loading       m ton    54,0oo             3                    6 ooo
Total
(Variable Expense per m ton = US$1.33)
Fixed Expense
21 1/2 % Corporate Office Allocation                                17,243
1 Warehouse Manager             at YEls 2,000/m (Corporate Office)  5,333
1 Accountant-Operations Control    YRls 1,000/m (Corporate Office)  2,667
1 Secretary-Typist                 YRls   500/m (Corporate Office)  1,333
Warehouse Manager's Area - Corporate Office Rent 72mi at YRls 90/m2 1,500
Warehouse Manager's Misc. Operating Supplies and Expenses             7,688
3 Regional Warehouse Managers   at YRls 1.,000/m                     8,000
3 Regional Warehouse Managers   at YRls  800/m                       6,00
3 Regional Warehouse Accounting Clerks  at YRIls 800/m               6,400
3 Regional Warehouse Accpunting Clerks  at IRls 600/m                4,800
3 Warehousemen-Shipping dlerks          at IRls 800/x                6,400
3 Warehousemen-Shipping Clerks           at YRls 600/m               4,800
Annual Day Labor for Fumigation, etc.,  warehouses
389
Operating Supplies and Misc. Expense - Warehouses                     5,000
Insurance - Plant - US$2,354,113 at 1%                              23,,541
Insurance - Average Inventory - US$2,397,000 at 1%                  23,970
Total                                                          1"25,464
May , 1976



ANNEX 11
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: Ten-m ton Bakery
A.   Projected Income Statement
B.   Projected Cash Flow Statement
C.' Projected Financial Rate of Return
D.   Investment Costs
E.   Estimated Operating Expense
Model: One-m ton Bakery
A.   Projected Income Statement
B.   Projected Cash Flow Statement
C.   Projected Financial Rate of Return
D.   Investment Costs
E.   Annual Prouduction Cost
Bakery Division
Investment Costs and Disbursements by Year
Corporate Office Annual Operating Expense Estimate
Incremental Working Capital
One-m ton Bakery Serving Government Feeding Program
Annual Operating Expense
Service Charge Calculation
Three-m ton Bakery Serving Government Feeding Program
Annual Operating Expense
Service Charge Calculation
May , 1976



ANNEX 11
APPRAISAL OF                            Table 1
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: 10 m ton  BakerY
A.  Projected Income Statement
Year
---US$ tooo--
Revenue
Service Charge  /                      -        537
Subtotal                          -        37
Operating Expenses
Variable Expenses  2                   -        248
Fixed Expenses    /2                   -         50
Subtotal                          -       29_
Depreciation i3                        _         65
Total                             -
Net Income before Taxes                  -        174
Taxes        A                         -         44
Net Income after Taxes                   -         _30
Memo Item:  Net Income after
Taxes including Depreciation           -        195
L1 Service charge of US$0.0221 (YRls 0.0995) per loaf of bread. For
details see Annex 11 Table 5.
-^/2 For details see Annexli Table 4.
75 For details see Annex M1 Table 5.
T Income tax rate for annual net income of YRls 37,500 and more is 25%.



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
TEMEN AR* REPUBLIC
Model; 10 m ton Bakery
B.  Prore`t.d Ch Fow Statement L
Year
1  2                1  i                       6L 8  I    II-                a .12t
___________-- -- - USs$000
Coah Inlow
Revenue                 -     -    537   537   537   537   537   537   537   537   537   537   537   537   537   537
Long Term Loan /        95   525    10    -      -      -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -
Equity Contribution,&  95   525    10    -        -     -     -      -     -     -      -     -      -     -      -     -
Interest during
construction A         4                                                                                              -
Subtotal            194 1___ 2       7  3      7   ±             = 3    3            m                  =
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses      -     -    298   298   298   298   298   298   298   298   698   298   298   298   298   298
Investments            190 1,050    20    -      -      36    -      -     36    -      -     36    -      -    326    12
Taxes                   -     -      44    44    44    44    44    44    44    44    44    44    44    44    44    44
Debt Service
Interest               4&   32&  56    57    53    49    44    39    34    28    21    14           6    -      -     -
Principal                          -     43    47    5      56    61    66    72    79    86    67    -         -     -
Subtotal             _  1.082   418   442   442   478   442   442    W    3 w       44   47      t      0     M    3
Cash Flow                 _    _                    95    59    95         5        95    95  *n       m     E(   )   v
Depreciation Fund(Annual)-       -     65    65    65    29    65    65    29    65    65    29    65    65  (131)   53
Contrib. to Reserves( ") -      -      61    30    30    30    30    30    30    30    30    30    57   130    -    130
Cash Flow for Financial
Rate of Return /5    (161) (811)  181   195   195   159   195   195   159   195   195   159   195   195  (131)  183
C. Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate of Return        : 18.3%
Sensitivity Tests
Investment Costs + 10%       : 16.6%
Operating Costs  + 10%         14-9%
Revenues          - 10%        12.8%
/I Investment Costs in current prices, operating expenses ancilavenues in constant 1975 prices.For a discussion see
Annex 6 page 1 .
/2  Long-term loan equal to 50% of Investment Cost
/.  Equity contribution equal to 50% of Investment Cost                                                                        3
To be financed  by    Government Contribution
Expressed in constant 1975 prices                                                                                        (D
rM P -



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN lRAB REPUBLIC
Model: 10 m ton Bakery
D.   Investment Costs
Year                         Grand Total
1               23
Total 1 For.Ex  Total   For.Ex  Total   For.Ex  Total  For.Ex
--    -         - - ----------                  - ---------
 -~________US$t 000-
Land - 2000m2 at YRls 25                    11      -       -       -        _       -         11     _
Eigineering                                 20       16      10        8     -       -         30      24
Mobilization & Site Development              30      27     -        -       -        -        30       27
Building (Q5OOm2 at YRls 700)              -        -       233      114     -        -       233      114
Equipment installed                        -        -       240      187     -        -       240      187
Power Distribution System                  -        -        60       56     -        -        60      56
Water and Sewerage                         -        -        10        8              -        10        8
Office, shop, Employee Room, etc.          -        -        20       20     -       -         20      20
3 Delivery Trucks, 1 Auto                    6        6       0       3                         6       6
Subtotal                               67      79      63    e23        -670                     472
Technical Assistance & Training  1          81       77     124      124      13       13     218     214
Incremental Working Capital                         __45-_   4      -        -       -         50     -
Total                                 13       12      772               13       13     93       M
Physical Contingency (5%)          8       6       39      27        1       1       48     _4
Total inc. Physical Contingency       171      32      611      z       - 9E
Price Contingency                 34      25       07      6         6       6   _347       200
Total inc. Price Contingency          19       _               1.1,1 743  20     20   __
/1 For details see Annex 8 Table 1
T2  For details see Annex n Table 12
:   Based on Bank projected inflation rates for the foreign exchange component and 20% p.a. inflation
for dc=estic component.                                                                                     3



AINNEX' 11
APPRlAISAL OF                      Table 4
A GHAIT STORAGE A.D PROCESSING PIOJECT
ZMNA-RAB REPUBLIC
10 m ton Bakery
E. Estimated Operating Expense
US$
Variable E:xpense
3 Warehouse men - 365 days x 8 hrs x Yias 1.73/hr              3,368
1 Miller           "   it  " "  "  "   " 2.31/hr               1,499
3 Mixer men            it  it It it Vt  It 2.31/hr             4,4/07
3 Bakers           " It  i Vt "     It     5.78/hr            11,251
3 Rack men           It  it  i f, it  t 2.31/hr                4,497
1 Janitor         it  It  I     it it n  IV 1.73//nr           1,123
- Truck Drivers   it  if   , , i I? t   3.47/hr                6,755
Truck Expenses at US$ 16.60/day each (3)                       13,200
Fuel - Diesel Oil - 190,092 liters at Ylas 0.56/liter         23,656
3lectric power - 262,300 ZWhs at YRls o.6/krn                  35,040
Salt and Yeast at YRls 170 x 3650 m tons flour               137,889
Total Variable Expense                                 2L7,775
(!V ariable &xpense per m ton flour equivalent at
US$ 67.88
Fixed Elxoense - Administrative and Financial
1 Bakery Superintendent at Y.Rls 2000/month                    5,333
1 Office Ilanager-Accountant at YRls 1500/month                4,000
1 Accounting, Clerk at ''LRls 800/month                        2,133
1 Secretary-Typist at Y.Rls 500/month                          1,333
Insurance - Plant US$622,125 at 1%                             6,22l
- Inventory US$136,300 at 1%                         1, 368
Operating Supplies and iMiscellaneous                          3,000
Corporate Office Allocation &                                 11,9141
Fixed Ex-Dense - I.aintenance
1 Maintenance man at YPls 1000/month                           2,667
Materials aLnd Outside Services                               -12 000
Total g15ixed ;bxense
A See Annex 11, Table 12



AEX 11
APPRAISAL OF                           Table 5
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB RbP1JBLIC
10 m-ton- Bakery
F.   Service Charge Calculation
Projected Volume - 66,667 - 186 gram (150 gram flour base) loaves "Kudam"
bread daily; serving schools, hospitals, the poor, and
specific GYAR employees.
Assumption -        Government will supply whole grain ant/or wheat flour to
the bakery door at no charge to the bakery.   Storage and
handling charges by the Warehouse Division will be billed
directly to the Government.
US$
Variable Expense  1/
3,650 m tons of flour equivalent at US$ 67.88                       247,775
Fixed Expense      1/
A   InIstrative, Financial and Maintenance                           49,969
Depreciationt Civil Works - US$4h5,oo0  at 2%                          8,900
Equipment - Us$674,000 at 8 1/3 %                     56,167
Interest on Investment (Opportunity Cost)
US$1,119,000 at 11%                                               123,090
Principal Repayment - 50% Equity - 50% Loan - 11 year term           50,864
Total Fixed Expense                                           288 990
Service Charge per loaf = US$536,765        US$0.0221 = YRls 0.10
66,667 x 365
Service Charge per m ton of flour equivalent = US$ 147.34
1/  Detailed in Annex 11, Table 4



ANNEX 11
Table 6
APPRISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: One m ton Bakery
A. Projected Income Statement
Year
1-2   3Z5
--US$'O k
Revenue /                                    _    233.2
Subtotal                                _    233.2
Operating Expenses
Variable Expenses                               157.3
Fixed Expenses    /2                              9.7
Subtotal                                -    167.0
Depreciation /3                            -      6.2
Total                                   -    173.2
Net Income before Taxes                      -     60.0
Taxes          &-                                  15.0
Net Income After Taxes                       -     45.0
Net Income After Taxes, including
Depreciation                                     51.2
/ 1 503.7 m ton bread at YRis 1 per 480 grams (YRls 2.08 per kg)
2 For details see Annex 1n Table 9
E  Civil Works (US$67, 000 at current prices) with 50 years lifetime;
equipment (US$58,000 at current prices) with 12 years lifetime
/4 Income tax rate of 25%



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND P1OCESSING PFOJECT
9MEN ARAB RlV LIC
Modell  Ons m ton Bakery
B.  Projected Cash tLow Statement Li
Year
1      2        3      4       5       6       7       a       9      10      11      12      13      14      15
Cash Inflow                                             -                      ----------  --- - ----- - --------- -----U- ---s$  - --_----_ -__________
Revenue                      -          -  233.z  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2  233.2
Iog-Trer  Loan /2           67.6   74.1      -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       -       X       -       -       -
Equity Contributon n        16.9   18.5      -       -       .       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _       _
Interest during
ConstrLiction A             3.0     9.4    -                -                           -               --- - --    ----
Subtotal                        102.0  2.2              2       233.2            33    233       332                       .2           233.2
Cash Outflow
Operating Expenses           _       -    167.0  167.0  167.0  167.0  167.0  167.0  167.0  167.0   167.0  167.0  167.0   167.0  167.0
Investments                 84.5   92.6      -       -       -       8.0     -       -       8.0     -       -       8.0     -       -       -
Taxes                        -       -      15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0   15.0
Debt Service
Interest                   3.0     9.4    ,2.8   12.8    10.4    7.9    5.2        2.2         -       -       -           -       -       -
Principal                  _       -       _      25.6   28,0   30.5   33.2   24.4         -       _       _       _       _
Subtotal                        i 7 102.0       220.            220.4           220..  190.0 182.0              190.0   16.    12
Cash Flow                      -       -      3.    12        12.8      42-1 82.8 _.2    51.2    51.2                    2    51.2   51.2   51.2
Depreciation Fund (Annual)     _       _       6.2    6.2    6.2    4.8        6.2     6.2    6.2      6.2     6.2    6.2      6.2     6.2     6.2
Contribution to Reserves(Anmual)-      -      32.2    6.6      6.6     -       6.6     6.6   37.0   45.0   45.0   37.0   45.0   45.0   45.0
Cash Flow for Financial Rate
of Return                   (71.9)  (71.6)  151.2  151.2  151.2  143.2  151.2  151.2  143.8  151.2   151.2  143.2   151.2   151.2  151.2
C.  Projected Financial Rate of Return
Financial Rate 'of Return    :  26.1%
Sensitivity Test
Investment Costs  + 10%   :  23.9%
Operating Costs   + 10%       17.1%
Revenues         - 10%        14.3%
/I Investment costs in current prices, operating expenses and revenues in constant 1975 prices.  For a discussion of details see
Annex 6 page 1.                                                                                                                                 s
Long Term loan equal to 80% of Investment Cost                                                                                                  q H
7   Equity contribution equal to 20% of Investment Cost
To be financed out of investor's own funds



ANNEX 11
Table 8
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PRDCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: One m ton Bakery
D.  Investment Costs
Year
1               2          Grand Total
Total   For.Ex  Total   For.Ex  TRW    For.Ex
-                  - - - - - ----
Clvil Works
Land (250m2 at YRls 80m2)   20.0      -        -       -      20.0     -
Engineering        y4.1               3.0                      4 _  4.1  3.0
Building (250m2 at YR1s
800m2)                      44.4    21.8     -        -      44.4    21.8
Equipment                       -       -       29.8    23.2    29.8    23.2
Power                           -       -        2.0     1.9     2.0      1.9
.Water & Sewerage                -       -       2.0      1.6     2.0     1.6
Office, Retail Shop, etc.       -       -        3.4     3.4     3.4      3.4
1 Utility Truck                 -       -       8.0      8.0     8.0     8.0
Subtotal                                                            62793  1
Incremental Working Capital    _        -       230      -      23.0     -
Total                      68.5    24.8    68.2    38.1   136.7    62.9
Physical Contingency 5%         3.4     1.2      3.4     1.9     6.8      3.1
Total including
Physical Contingency    71.9    26.0               O.             66.o
=      =     -~~L=    =6 o



ANNEX 11
Table 9
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Model: One-m ton Bakery
E. Annual Production Cost
Us$
Variable Ingredient Costs
365 m tons of Grain and Flour at YRls 68/50 kg bag          110,311
12.17 m tons yeast at YRls 5/kg                              13,522
12.17 m tons Sugar at YRls 3.6/kg                             9,736
6.08 m tons Salt at YRls 0.14/kg                               189
8.52 m tons Shortening at YRls 2.25/kg                       4,26o
Sub-Total                                                138,018
Variable Expense
Custom Milling Whole Grain (2/3 x 365 m tons = 243 1/3 m
tons at YRls 60/m tons                                      3,244
2 Bakers at YRls 14/day each - 365 days                       2,271
2 Mixers at YRls 14/day each - 365 days                       2,271
2 Laborers at YRls 10/day each - 365 days                     1,622
1 Truck Driver at YRls 13/day - 312 days                        970
Fuel - DieseiOil - 26,070 liters at YRls 0.56/liter           3,244
Electricity - 32,850 kWh at YRls o.6/kWh                      4,380
Truck Expense - 10,000 km at YRls 0.56/km                     1,244
Sub-Total                                                 19,246
Total Variable Expense                                   157,264
Fixed Expense
1 Owner-Manager at YRls 1,000/month                           2,667
2 Retail Clerks at YRls 500/month each                        2,667
Insurance - Plant (Inflated) US$164,000 at 1%                 1,640
Inventory (Inflated) us$46,ooo at 1%                460
Operating Supplies, Maintenance and Misc.                     2,000
Property and Truck Tax                                          278
Total Fixed Expense                                        9,712



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGZ AND PROCaSSING PROJECT
ThIUI ARB RIIPUBLI,C
Investment Cot             r t   by Year
Year
- 1   ~     -  2                                  4                               Grand Tot
Total For.Ex.  To                                                  T_. .or-E o77jt ji, f-.
Two 10. m ton Bakeries
2 Parcels Land - 4000m2 at  Rla 25             22     -                                          -                        -            22
Engineering                                     30      24       10       8       10       8       10                      -            60      48
Mobilization and Site Development              -       _         60      54      _-                   -                    -            60      54
Buildings - 3000 m2 at YPs 700                 -       -        -       -        466     228                                           4 _  _  _  466  228
Equipment, installed                           _       _        _       -        320     320      160      54      -       -           480     374
Power Distribution Systems                     -       -        -       -        120     112      -       _        -       -           120     112
Water and Sewerage                             -       -        -       -         20      16      _ -              -       -            20       16
Office, Shop, Employee Roan Equipment          -       -        -4                        40      -       -        -       -            40      40
6 Delivery Trucks, 2 Antos                                        2      12      -       _         60      60      -     -               2
Subtotal                                 M2                                                          122 82  7  23    -_  _    * 340      la
Bakery Loan Fund
One 3 m ton Bakery                              11        3     165     134       22       8     -        -        _       _           198     145
Nine  1 m ton Bakeries                          -      -        341     189      341     189      341     189      _       _         1,023     567
Modernization Investment Credit                 -      =-        f      3        334                                                 1.000   1.000
Subtotal                                   11       3       f      j       696              r        2                        -    2,221   1.712
Technical Assistance & Training                 55      50      179      172     136     136      146     146       31      .31        547     535
Incremental Working Capital - Expense during
Implementation                               -       -         35     -         66     -        84          -            - _85
Incremental Working Capital - 60 Days supply
of flour                                                       27_      9       27       9   _P 21
Total                    116      77   Ti~~~~~~~~~   911i  1, 901i  1,399   1,1               31     731
Contingency                                                               -.f-                         -                3.360~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WT~T1,73
5% Physical Contingency                          6               56              5        70        8       0        2       2         21      162
Total including Physical Contingency   -Z         4                      1.220  1.        1220             30
Price Contingency                               10                              7               1                         79ll
Total including Price Contingency          _2 66                         2 i 1   l          * 892 1 9



ANNEX 11
Table 11
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Corporate Office - Bakery Division
Aimugl 229r!ti Expense Estimate
Allocation of Corporate Expense from Table 4, Annex 7                   22,857
1 Bakery Division Manager at YRls 2,000/month                           5,333
2 Bakery Extension Agents at YRls 1,000/month each                       5,333
1 Bakery Div. Secretary- T  ist at YRls 500/month                        1,333
Bakery Division Rent - 80m' at YRls 90/r2                                1,600
Bakery Division Operating Supplies & Misc. Expense                      182600
Total                                                        55.o56
Allocations to Activities:
2 Corporate     Loan
Bakeries       Fund
US$          US$
Corporate Expense                                         15,727       7,130
Division Manager                                           2,667       2,666
Extension Agents                                             -         5,333
Secretary                                                    333        1,000
Rent                                                         400        1,200
Operating Supplies and Miscellaneous Expense               4,700       13,900
Total                                           23,827      31229



ANNEX 11
Table 12
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGJ AID PROCESSING PROJELCT
YEMEN AAB REPUBLIC
Bakery Division
Incremental Workinig Capital
Ye ar
2                            U3   .  1
Corp.   Loan  Corp.   Loan  Corp.   Loan
Bak.    Fund  Bak.    Fund  Bak.    Fund
Corporate Office
23.5% General Manager at US$8,000         1,569    711  1,569    711  1,569    711
28.5% Secretary-Typist at US$2,133          418    190    418    190    418    190
28.5g Controller at US$5,333              1,046    474  1,046    474  1,046    474
28.5% Accountant at US$2,667               523    237    523    237    523    237
283.5% Accounting Clerk at US$2,133         -      -      418    190    418    190
28.5% Guard at uS$1,067                     209     95    209      95    209      95
28.5% Operating aupplies & lisc. Exp.  2,588  1,174  2,930  1,352  2,980  1,352
1 Bakery Div. Manager at US$5,333          -       -    2,667  2,667  2,667  2,667
2 Bakery Extension Agents at
US$2,667 each                           -    5,333    -    5,333    -    5,333
1 Bakery Div. Secretary at US$1,333        -       -      333  1,000    333  1,000
3 Drivers for expatriates at
US.1,333 each                           928  2,113    923  2,118    928  2,118
Div. Oper. Supplies & Misc. Expense    2,400 15,100  2,400 15,100  2,400 15,100
Co:porate Bakeries (2)
2 Bakery Supts. at US$5,333                -       -   10,666    -   lo,666    -
2 Office Mgr.-Accountants at US$4000       -       -    8,000    -    8,000    -
2 Secretary-Typists at US$1,333            -       -    2,660    -    2,666    -
34 Employees (In Plant Training) 3 nths  -         -      -       -   17,267    -
Ope-. Supplies & Misc. Expense             _       -    2,000    -    2,000    -
Total                      9,681 25,432 36,817 29,467 54,090 29,1467



AiNNE I 1
Table 193
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
1-idtonBakery Serving Government Feeding Program
Annual Operating Expense
US$
Variable Expense L
Salt and Yeast at YRls 170 x 365m toa Flour               13,789
Custom Milling Whole Grain (2/3 x 365 MT - 243 1/3 MT)
at YRls 60tm ton                                         3,244
2 Bakers at YRMs 14/day each - 365 days                    2,271
2 Mixers at YRls 14/day each - 365 days                    2,271
2 Laborers at YEls 10/day each - 365 days                  1,622
1 Truck Driver at YRls 14/day - 365 days                   1,136
Fuel - Diesel oil - 26,070 liters at YRls 0.56/liter       3,244
Electricity - 32,850 kWh at YRls 0.6/kWh                   4,380
Truck Eppense - 10,000 km at YRis 0.56/km                  1,244
Total Variable Expense                                 33,201
Fixed Expense
1 Owner-Manager at YRls 1,000/month                        2,667
1 Accounting Clerk at YRls 500/month                       1,333
Insurance - Plant (at Current Prices) US$164,000 at 1%    1,640
Insurance - Inventory(at Current Prices)US$10,053 at 1%      100
Operating Supplies, Maintenance and Misc.                  2,000
Property and Truck Tax                                       278
Total Fixed Expense                                     8.oi8
Total Operating Expense                                     41.219
/1 Assumptions: Grain and flour will be furnished to the bakery from
YGGC's stocks at no charge for the commodities.   Production will be
the present kudam loaf, basis 150 grams flour per loaf.



ANNEX 11
Table 14
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
One m ton Bakery Serving Government Feeding Program
Service Charge Calculation
Projected Volume: 6,667 - 186 gram (150 gram flour base) loaves kudam bread
daily; serving schools, hospitals, the poor and specific
civil servants.
Assumptions:       The Government will supply whole grain and/or flour to the
bakery from YGGC's local inventory at no charge to the bakery.
Storage and handling charges by YGGC Warehouse Division will
be billed directly to Government.
-US$
Variable Exvense
365 m tonsflour equivalent                                          33,201
Fixed Expense
Fixed Operating Expense                                              8,018
Depreciation:  Civil Works, US$67,000 at 2%                          1,340
Equipment, US$58,000 at 8 1/3%                       4,833
Interest on Investment (Opportunity Cost), US$213,608 at 11%        23,497
Principal Repaymet - Eligible Capital US$178,870 at 80% - 10yrs. 14 310
Total Fixed eapese
Service Charge Per Loaf       85.192    US$0.035 -YEs 0.16
Service Charge per m ton  US$85199      US$233.42 - YRls 1,050
of flour equivalent        >365



ANNEX ll1
Table 15
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
3-.m ton Bakery Serving Government Feeding Program
Annual Operating Expense
US$
Variable Expense /1
Salt and Yeast at YRls 170 x 109 m tons                          41,367
Custom Milling Whole Grain (2/3 x 1095 - 730 m t gn) gt YRIs      9,733
2 Bakers at YRls 14/day each - 365 days               0/m tons    2,271
2 Mixers at YRls 14/day each - 365 days                            2,271
2 Laborers at YRls 10/day each - 365 days                          1,622
1 Truck Driver at YRls 14/day - 365 days                           1,136
Fuel - Diesel Oil - 78,210 liters at YRls 0.56/liter               9,732
Electricity - 78,840 kWh at YRls 0.6/kWh                          10,512
Truck Expense - 10,000 km at YRls 0.9/km                           2 000
Total Variable Expense                                        ______
Fixed Expense
1 Owner-Manager at YRls 1,500/month                               4,000
1 Accounting Clerk at YRls 500/month                              1,333
Insurance - Plant (At current Prices) US$255,000 at 1%            2,550
Insurance - Inventory (At current Prices)US$30,159 at 1%             302
Operating Supplies, Maintenance and Miscellaneous                 5,000
Property and Vehicle Tax                                             885
Total Fixed Expense                                           14,070
Total Operating Expense                                             94,714
/1   Assumptions:  Grain and flour will be furnished to the bakery from YGGC's
stocks at no charge for the commodities.   Production will be the
present kudam loaf, basis 150 grams flour per loaf.



ANNEX 1 1
Table 16
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
3 m ton Bakery Serving Government Feeding Program
Service Charge Calculation
Projected Volume:   20,000 - i86 gram (150 gram flour base) loaves kudam
bread daily; serving schools, hospitals, the poor and
specific civil servants.
Assumptions:        The Government will supply whole-grain and/or flour to the
bakery from YGGCts local inventory at no charge to the
bakery. Storage and handling charges by the YGGC
Warehouse Division will be billed directly to the Government.
Variable Operating Expense
Fixed Expense
Fixed Operating Expense                                    14,070
Depreciation: Civil Works (Current Prices)
US$114,000 at 2%                         2,280
Equipment (Current Prices)
US$132,000 at 8 1/3 %                   11,s000
Interest on Investment (Opportunity Cost)
US$333,522 at 11%                                        36,687
Principal Repayment - Eligible Capital US$292,175 at
80% - 10 years                                           23.374
Total Fixed Expense                                   87,411
Service Charge per loaf - 168,055
20,OOO x 365 = US$3.023 - YRls 0.1036
Service Charge per m ton of flour          -          - - US$153.47 - IRls 691
equivalent                                 1,095
May, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Time Schedule of Implementation
4------1976 -------------1977_-----------44 ------------1978-----______> C  -----------=-71979------------------------1980-------------
II  .III  . IV  .I   .   II  . III . IV  .   I   .   II  . III  .  IV   .   I   .   II  .  III  . IV  .   I   .=                              .II.I
Consulting                     Appoin- Prepare        Receive
Services                      tment   document-   tenders,         --------------------------  Supervision  ------------------------                   Completion Certificates
33mos   ation of      evaluation
bidding &       5 MiOE
Advertise-
ment-5mos n.
Award   Detailed Engineering   Construction
Silo                                                                of      Mobilization                                         Guarantee Period  12 mos
Construction                                                       Cont-                    18  sns
Contract                                                           ract
2ans
Award 
Silo                                                                 of    Manufacture and Shipping - 16 mosn                Installation -       Start      Guarantee Period - 12 .mosn
Equipment                                                          Cont-|                                                             9 moB         Up
Contract                                                           ract                                                                           2  nos
10-MT                                                       Award
Bakery                                                        of        Mobilisation and Construction _         Guarantee Period - 12 msO
Construction                                                 Cont-                 15 mos s
Contract                                                     ract
2mos
10-MT                                                             Award
Bakery                                                               of    Manufacture and Shipping             Installation  Trials   Guarantee Period - 12 mos
Equ4pment                                                         Cont-            13 mos                        6 mos         2 Mos,
Contract                                                          ract
2 msan
Awardj
Warehouses                                                    of        Mobilisation and Construction - 17 mos          Guarantee Period - 12 mos
Contract                                                     Cont-
ract
2 mos
Bakery Credit                                      Loans to private bakers for kuilding,   haabil.itating existing bakeries (3 years)
Field Work (12 msO)                Report
Warehouse Survey                                                  I                                      Writing
I                                     (6mos)
Nutrition Component                                  Bread Fortification, Nutrition Education and Studies (4 years)
Maay, 1976



ANNEX 13
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Estimated Schedule of IDA Disbursement
US$ million
Bank Fiscal Year    Disbursements    Cumulative Disbursement  Outstanding Balance
and Quarter        during Quarter   at end of Quarter             at end of Quarter
1977
I                         .06                .06                        5.14
II                        .10                .16                        5.04
III                       .10                .26                        4.94
IV                        .20                .46                        4.74
1978
I                         .40                .86                        4.34
II                        .60              1.46                         3.74
III                       .76               2.22                        2.98
IV                        .40               2.62                        2.58
1979
I                         .40              3.02                         2.18
II                        .40               3.42                        1.78
III                       .37               3.79                        1.41
IV                        .30              4.09                         1.11
1980
I                         .29              4.38                           .82
II                        .35              4.73                           .47
III                       .35              5.08                           .12
IV                        .03               5.11                          .09
1981
I                         .03              5.14                           .06
II                        .03               5.17                          .03
III                       .03               5.20
May, 1976



APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN APAB REPUBLIC
ACF Project Cash Flow Statement
Year
]7 16 21 1980 197          1 2    192    3 1962    a§                                 j 1 987 1988                2 19 19            90 1991  2 199 1994 2 -11992
-------------------------------------------------_    -    --------------  -  US O  00 ---- -------                                            ---- ----------------------
Sources of Funds
Loan from Government /1         409   2,459   5,156   2,690       486      -       -        -        -        -       -
Contribution from Government
to YGGC Equity                  400   1,583   4,336   1,765       414      -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -        -       -      _       _       _
ACF Technical Assistance Loan   -          157     129      143     121      -        -       -        -        -        -
Grant from Government for
Nutrition Component             -       179      286     188      258      -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
Tnterest Tncomne 12
ntfrom YGGC                      18     107      373     640      723      735     679      620      548     471      387      292      187      71
- from Private Bakers                    40      117     194      234      222     200      164      124      79       38       11     -        -  _   _          _            - _ _
Repayment of Loans /3
- by YoGG                       -        -       -        -       _        622     690      766      850     944   1,047   1,163   1,291        794    -       _       -       _      -       _       _
-by Private Bakers              -       -        -       -        122      251     400      445       4      465      292      127                         -       -
Total Sources              827      5   10.397               3              I        1,995            1959   T2674   1,59        ,
Use of Furdos
Loan Disbursement A
_ to YGGC (Silo, Warehouses
Gov't Bakeries)              399   1,Bj3  4,336   1,800        486
- to Private takers (80% of
Investment Cost)              10     876      820     890      -
Equity to YGGC                  400   1,583   4,336   1,7r65      414      -        -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -       _       -      -       _       -      -       _
ACF Technical Assistance        -        157     129      143     121
Grant for Nutrition Comp,       -        179     286      188     258
Interest Payment to Gov't L4    8        66      218      371     425      431     448      448      424      398     372      344      315     286    255    222    189    154    u8          80      41
Interest Payment to Gov't
for Technical Assistance4   -             3       9       15      19       22      -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -       -       -      -       -       -      -       -
Loan Repayment to Gov't                  - -        -       -              -        -       612      636      663     688      716      745     774    806    838    871    907    942    980  1,022
Teahniesl Assistance Loan,
aelayment to Gov't            -550                                                -       -        -        -       -        -        -       -
Administrative EFpensesa/         8       62     106      106      io6     106      106      1o6      85       85       64      64       42       42     21    -        -      -       -
Write Off for bad debts         -        -       -        -         12      37       54       60      66       66       49      36       26     _ 16
Total Uses        E       92    4509  10,240   5,2=7    1,841   1a i6        2       1,22    1,211   1 212   17    1:1Z6    79399                1 082  1       1    ,OtI   o 100             1   2
Annual Surplus (Deficit)               2      16     157      342      517     684   1,361       769     805      747      591      433     350    (253)(1,082)(1,060)(1,o6o)(1,06l)(l,060)(1,060)(1,062)
Income on Cumulative
Surplus (9)                       -        -         2       i4      48          9     69     306      404      513     612      720      824        0        9 1   ) 98         i)    919    950    940
Net Cash Flow                          2     -1v      159      5       565     783153          1075   1,209   1,260   120        1,5          4                                5 8p        (11   (1)(122)
Cumu,lative Net Cash Flow             2       13      177     533   1,098, 1                    , 3   9  5,695   6.955    ,      9311  10,  511,12 11,071 10.93 10,98 10,816                    10, 10 io$3
Amounts to 50% investment costs of YGGC investments and 80% of private bakers' investments
2 ,% per annum on amount oatstandi.g
7,  Baied on YG3C cash flow and private bakery model
IT  4% per annum on amoImt outstanding.   ACF's spread of 5% covers:  2.8% administrative costs, 0.6% risk allowance and 1.6% equity build up
Ir. ]4 equal annuities after uiy jesrs' grass
t  i:'r detailo see Annex 4, Table 4
May, 1976



ANNEX 15
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
General Terms of Reference for Engineering Consultants
A. General Scope of Work
The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic will invite proposals for
gervices from qualified consulting firms for preparation of tender documents
involving: (a) preliminary design and functional specifications for the con-
*truction of a silo on turn key basis, and (b) tender documents involving
detailed design and technical specifications for the construction of six
warehouses and two 10-m ton bakeries. Supervision requirements during con-
struction would, be to monitor the turn key construction of the silo and to
provide full supervision for the construction of the warehouses and the bak-
eries. Details of the services required are provided in Section B, entitled
General Duties of the Consultants.
Services for the Silo Construction on Turn Key Basis
2.        The project, to be administered under a Government-owned, semi-
autonomous enterprise, called the Yemen General Grain Corporation, consists
of a 20,000 m ton modern port silo in YAR's principal port, Hodeidah, with a
ship unloading facility of 400 m tons/hour rated capacity and not less than
200 m tons/hour average operating capacity and an operational bagging capa-
city of not less than 200 m tons per hour.
3.        The silo would be sited behind the apron of the future berth No. 5
of the port. It is expected that the construction of berth No. 4 would be
completed by the end of 1976 or early 1977 and the proposed silo would have
its ship unloading conveyor located on berth No. 4. Bulk grain will be dis-
charged with clam shell buckets attached to two general type portal cranes,
one of I^Q m ton and the other of 5 m ton lifting capacities. Cranes with
clam shell buckets will be provided on completion of berth No. 4. Hoppers
would receive the grain and feed it to the collecting conveyor which would
run underground along the apron of berth No. 4. A cross conveyor would
deliver the grain into the head house of the silo. The silo would serve
primarily as a terminal transfer facility. The bins and headhouse would be
constructed of RCC in slipform. The number of bins vis-a-vis the diameter of
individual bins should be decided on the basis of economy in construction as
well as handling and storage requirements. Each ship usually arrives with a
single grade of wheat. The silo would have an office, laboratory, perimeter
fencing, guard posts, water supply,. sewerage and electricity.



ANNEX 15
Page 2
Detailed Engineering Services for Warehouses and Bakeries
4.        Warehouses:  Six regional flat warehouses with a total bagged grain
storage capacity of 18,000 m tons would be constructed in Hodeidah (5,000 m.
tons), Ibb (5,000 m tons), Damar (2,000 m tons), Saada (1,000 m tons), Sana'a
(3,000 m tons) and Hajja (2,000 m tons). These would be general-purpose type
flat floor warehouses expected to have concrete frame and floor, concrete
block curtain walls and either prefabricated wood or steel roof structure.
The general design should allow fumigation to be carried out. The use of
local materials should be encouraged. Warehouses at each location would have
water supply, electricity and a small office with toilet facilities.
5.        Bakeries:  The Government bakeries would have a total capacity of
about 20 m ton flour per day, and be located in Sana'a and Taiz. The two 10
m ton per day bakeries, one at Sana'a and one at Taiz, will have small whole-
grain grinding mills attached to them in addition to storage space for at
least three days' requirement of grain and flour.
6.        The bakeries would essentially have batch type operations and would
be equipped with mechanical dough mixers, proving cabinets, batch-type ovens
and other necessary equipment for easy handling and movement of stock in
process. It is intended to bake both European-type loaves as well as local
varieties requiring different mixes, fermentation and baking procedures.
7.        Each bakery would have a small office.  Utilities such as sewerage,
water supply and electricity would be provided.
8.        The foregoing descriptions of the project components are indicative
of the general requirements. Fuller details for design are to be agreed upon
in consultation with the Government of the YAR.
B. General Duties of the Consultants
Tender Documentation and Evaluation Phase
9.        Services required for the Silo
(a)  Obtain field information on topography of the site, sub-soil
conditions, availability and location of utilities and com-
munication facilities, and determine their requirements for
the silo.
(b)  Prepare site plan showing location and orientation of silo in
relation to its surroundings, indicating location of conveyors
for ship unloading, the head house, bagging center, truck move-
ment yard, perimeter fencing, guard posts, office, cafeteria,
electrical substations and motor control centers for approval
by YGGC.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(c) Prepare a grain flow diagram and describe functional requirements
for civil, mechanical, electrical and other works.
(d) Prepare functional specifications for civil, mechanical and
electrical materials, equipment and works (detailed design by
contractor would be subject to approval of consultants).
(e) Prepare general specifications for civil, mechanical and
electrical materials, equipment and work.
(f) Prepare list of workshop machinery, laboratory equipment,
spare parts, to be supplied under the contract, and their
general specifications.
(g) Prepare tender documents, including forms for tender, bid
bond, performance bond and other guarantees.
(h) Prepare contractors qualifications questionnaire.
(i) Prepare all of the above documents in draft form, and
submit them to the Government of YAR for review and, on
approval, print sufficient copies for issue to the intend-
ing bidders.
(j) Advertise the invitation to international tender, in accord-
ance with IDA guidelines.
(k) On receipt of the tenders, analyze, evaluate and make recom-
mendation to YGGC for award in accordance with IDA guidelines.
(1) Advise and assist YGGC in all legal and technical issues in con-
nection with the tenders.
10.       Warehouses and Bakery Construction
(a) Obtain field information concerning topography of site, sub-
soil conditions, availability and locations of utilities and
communication facilities and determine the requirements of
these for the warehouse and bakery units.
(b) Prepare site plans showing location and orientation of these
units on their respective sites indicating the location of ancil-
liary facilities, approach roads, electricity and sewerage systems.
(c) Prepare plan, elevation, and sectional drawings and details of
structural design, electrical and sewerage systems.
(d) Prepare technical specifications for all civil, electrical and
sanitary works for the units.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
(e) Prepare line drawings of machinery layout for bakeries including
those for the whole-wheat flour mills.
(f) Prepare technical specifications and a list of all bakery equip-
ment, including requirements for the whole-wheat flour mills.
(g) Prepare list of spare parts for all equipment.
(h)  Prepare questionnaire for contractors' qualifications.
(i) Prepare tender documents, including forms for tender, bid
bond, performance bond, and other guarantees.
(j) Prepare general conditions and special conditions of contract.
(k) Prepare draft copy of the foregoing documents and submit them
to the Government of YAR for approval and, upon approval, print
them for issue to the intending bidders.
(1)  Advertise invitation to tender for the civil works for the
warehouses and the bakeries in the Yemen and for the supply
and installation of the bakery equipment according to IDA
guidelines.
(m)  Upon receipt of the tenders analyze, evaluate and recommend award
for the Government of YAR in accordance with IDA guidelines.
(n)  Advise and assist the Government of YAP, on all legal and tech-
nical issueg in connection with the tenders.
Construction Supervision Phase
11.       Silo
(a) Check and approve contractor's design of civil work structures
and mechanical equipment layout and installation drawings.
(b) Provide engineering inspectors to check construction standards
and adherence to agreed design and specifications.
(c) Check and approve contractor's periodical progress payment
claims.
(d) Check trial runs and prepare itemized list of deficiencies
for rectification of any deficiencies, and issue completion
certificate upon completion of the works.
(e)  Check operation and performance during guarantee period.



ANNEX 15
Page 5
(f) Advise and assist the Government in adjusting any extra
claim from the contractor should any variation to the works
become necessary.
12.       Warehouse and Bakeries
(a) Provide expatriate and local inspectors for supervision of
the construction, quality of materials, supplies and construc-
tion standards.
(b) Guide and assist the Yemeni contractors in following through
the construction schedule.
(c) Check and approve contractors progress and final payments (the
contracts would be on lump sum basis and not on unit price basis).
(d) Deal with any extra claim from the contractor and issue variation
order when necessary in consultation with the Government.
(e) Issue completion certificate.
(f) Provide 'as built' drawings.
13.       Bakery Equipment
(a) Provide inspection from time to time for quality and quantity
of equipment supplied and installed.
(b) Inspect trial runs.
(c) Check and approve payment of contractors bills. (It is ex-
pected that the bulk of the payment would be through letter
of credit against shipment and the remaining payment to be
made after installation.)
(d) Advise and assist the Government in any matter of claims or
variation to the contract.
May 1976'



ANNEX 16
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Draft Terms of Reference - Warehouse Study
I. Objectives and Existing Conditions
1.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic, represented by its
Minister of Supply, invites qualified contractors to bid for a contract to
supply services and materials required to produce a grain storage study,
covering the investment needs for a cereal grain and cereal product storage
system in YAR as specified below.
Objectives
1.02      The study should present an investment program for the necessary
physical grain storage facilities, including transportation, to be located
and designed on the basis of an integrated transport and storage program.
Taking into account comparative production advantages and projected produc-
tion and demand by region, the capacity and quality of existing facilities,
costs and benefits of alternative storage systems, foreign exchange scarcity
and management and administrative constraints in YAR, the proposed facilities
should be capable of being integrated with the present storage and processing
facilities, to provide a complete storage system that would minimize trans-
port, handling, storage, and marketing costs as well as storage losses due
to insects, rodents and climate conditions.
1.03      The study will:
(a)  analyze comparative advantage of grain production by region
in YAR and project production of and demand for grain by
region up to 1990;
(b)  carry out an economic and financial analysis of alternative
storage systems and determine the optimal system, including
in particular, location, number and size of transport and
storage facilities;
(c)  prepare feasibility studies for the proposed physical invest-
ments. The feasibility studies would include cost estimates
and technical, economic and financial analysis in sufficient
detail to enable the appraisal of the proposed project for
financing by IDA.



ANNEX 16
Page 2
1.04      The draft final report is to be completed within five months of
inception and the final report within two months of receipt of written com-
ments from the Government and IDA.
7.
Existing Conditions
1.05      Few reliable data are available with respect to cereal production,
cereal imports and grants, commercial movements, end uses, and the Government
volume participation. Much of the data needed does not exist in any collected
form. The study will have to collect data from original sources, located
throughout the country, in order to verify published data and produce data not
presently collected.
1.06      There are no collected data available with respect to grain storage
space nationally; its capacity, its condition, its ownership, its multiple
uses, or its adequacy. Such data have to be collected at the source through-
out the nation.
1.07      Most original source data and most of the interrogation of persons
who may contribute to source data, will be in the Arabic language. Interpre-
tation and translation of Arabic into English will be a requisite to satis-
factory completion of the contract.
II. Specific Tasks
The tasks for the consultants are as follows:
2.01      To outline and recommend the adoption of a complete storage and dis-
tribution system, including organizational structure, accounting systems and
personnel requirements, to assure the efficient operation of the proposed
facilities. This includes recommending the type, kind and location of stor-
age, handling and transport facilities required for the foreseeable future (up
to 1990). The capacity and location of additional storage facilities of all
types (terminal silos, subterminal silos, gathering/distribution silos or flat
storage units) should be determined through the application of appropriate
system analysis techniques (linear programming, inventory models, etc.) to in-
sure that the new facilities, integrated with the existing facilities, will
provide a complete system with minimized capital, operating and transport
costs. The analysis should contain the feasibility of installing bulk handl-
ing capability at all levels of storage and a program for conversion to bulk
transport of foodgrains.
2.02      When proposing the construction of storage and handling facilities,
to perform the following in order to enable a consulting engineering firm to
prepare detailed construction plans and specifications for awarding construc-
tion contracts on a competitive basis:



ANNEX 16
Page 3
(a)  determine the types of storage and handling facilities to
be developed;
(b)  prepare definitive plans for each facility prototype, covering
equipment, flow diagrams, layout and preliminary design plans
(these should be sufficiently comprehensive to establish de-
tailed design and construction criteria); and
(c)  select the types of materials for structures (e.g., concrete,
steel) and the kind and capacity of equipment needed.
2.03      To make realistic estimates (divided into foreign exchange and local
currency) of total capital costs, based on current labor, building and equip-
ment costs; and to determine the operation and maintenance cost of each facil-
ity, based on personnel required for efficient operation and furnish a de-
tailed time schedule (quarterly basis) for executing the recommended program.
2.04      To describe and evaluate existing storage facilities including those
under construction or in the planning stage, with the view to recommending me-
chanical, structural and operational changes, and their relevant cost esti-
mates. The evaluation should include an assessment of average grain losses
under present conditions and their causes.
2.05      To review all available reports and provide the necessary additional
data and analysis in tabular form where appropriate on the following:
(a)  historical production of each grain by region;
(b)  production projections for each grain by region (up to 1990),
and factors responsible for production increases, with an
evaluation of their direct influence;
(c)  time of the year and amount of grain harvested;
(d)  present and projected uses (by human consumption and other
uses) made of cereal crops grown, by type of cereal, cereal
commodities and by area, separately for urban and rural areas.
Consumption projections should spell out basic assumptions,
such as population growth, migration pattern and income and
price elasticities;
(e)  the commercialization of the domestic cereals crops by commodity
and by area. These data shall include types of merchants in-
volved, where the commodities reach the consumers, and typical
price data from the farm gate to the consumer;
(f) present and projected future zakat tax collection by the Gov-
ernment from cereal grains (up to 1990), including:



ANNEX 16
Page 4
(i)  how much is collected in cash,
(ii)  how much is collected in kind,
(iii)  how are the receipts used,
(iv)  where are the receipts stored,
(v)  where are the receipts used;
(g)  present and projected volume of cereal grains and grain inter-
mediates commercially imported into the YAR (up to 1990), in-
cluding:
(i)  the volume imported, by kind,
(ii)  the source of imports and prices,
(iii)  the importer,
(iv)  the phasing of imports over the year,
(v)  where it is stored and used,
(vi)  who uses it,
(vii)  how it is used.
(h) present and projected quantities of cereal grains and intermediate
grain products acquired by the Government resulting from the col-
lection of customs duties (up to 1990), including:
(i) volume of commodities acquired, by kind,
(ii) where the receipts are used,
(iii) how the commodities are used.
(i) present and projected quantities of cereal grains and intermediate
grain products acquired by the Government as Grants-in-Aid (up
to 1990), including:
(i) volume of commodities, by kind.
(ii) where the receipts are stored.
(iii) how the commodities are used.
(j) existing storage space available for cereal grains and cereal
intermediates, throughout the YAR, including:
(i)  Breakdown by ownership, i.e.:
a.   Government
b.   Merchants
c.   Processors
d.   Investor Rentals
(ii)  Breakdown by storage capacity, by location, condition for
sound storage of foodstuffs, and by type of structure,
(iii)  Assessment of rental space availabilty by area, and its
rental price,



ANNEX 16
Page 5
(iv) Assessment of storage space quality:
a.   suitable for the storage of foodstuffs,
b.   amenable to improvement to suitable,
c.   unsuitable, should be replaced.
(k)  existing and planned transport capacities, transport costs
between major production and consumption areas and improve-
ments needed; and
(1)  projected net food balance for each production zone and the
nation as a whole, for 1980, 1985 and 1990.
2.06      To present a summary chart oL the flow pattern of the Government's
cereal commodities.
2.07      To present a summary chart of and detailed data on recommended ad-
ditions to the Government's storage capacity resulting from the study. This
will include (a) determining the size, type, kind and location of individual
grain storage and handling facilities recommended; and (b) describing the
analysis model used to define the food grain storage system which would mini-
mize capital, operating and transport costs.
2.08      To review existing legislation or decrees governing the power and
responsibilities of the responsible Government agencies as well as the private
sector in grain storage.
2.09      To review the following areas and prepare recommendations to be im-
plemented under the project:
(a)  infestation control at all levels of storage;
(b)  grain grading systems and standards to allow the commingling
of grains;
(c)  optimal inventory control, including import scheduling and
domestic movement scheduling.
2.10      To propose organization and operating procedures of the recommended
system;'
(a)  A review and analysis of the present organization and operation;
(b)  Recommendations for the proper overall organizational structure
focusing on assigning major areas of responsibilities including
an automated inventory control system to the Yemen General Grain
Corporation to carry out the assigned functions. Degrees of
policy definition and decision-making to be prescribed for each
level of the organization;



ANNEX 16
Page 6
(c) The feasibility of an automated information system for the new
organization including:
(i) the required report (output) outlines, indicating fre-
quency and purpose;
(ii) the inventory control personnel requirements in number
and qualifications;
(iii) the basic flow charts of the proposed information processing;
(iv) the capability of present and future communication facili-
ties in YAR to provide a centralized system in Sana'a link-
ing together all silos, major warehouses and provincial
capitals;
(v) the general hardware system, indicating the type and location
of equipment;
(vi)  a schedule in months for the development and implementativn
of the program; and
(vii)  the total systems costs - for installation and operation;
(d)  The recommended systems':
(i) personnel requirements and classification;
(ii) training program and cost of training program;
(iii) operating costs of recommended system, including working
capital requirements and individual cost items (electricity,
labor, insurance, etc.);
(e)  Breakdown analysis for each prototype installation, with all
relevant costs and revenues; and
(f)  Estimates of expected average savings in costs of handling and
storing each ton of grain as a result of the recommended con-
struction program.
2.11      To assess the benefits to the Nation:
(a)  Internal (economic) rates of return on investments
(i) for each stage;
(ii) for each prototype installation;
(b) Types of primary economic benefits and their quantification



ANNEX 16
Page 7
(i) decreased losses from insects and rodents; moisture and
other climatic conditions; inadequate handling, trans-
port and losses from inadequate storage;
(ii) other primary benefits;
(c) Improved diets as a result of developing a long-range plan for
inventory management of grains;
(d) Contribution to gross domestic product (GDP);
(e) Contribution to employment;
(f) Contribution to balance of payments;
(g) Number of farmers benefitting from the system, by farm size grouping;
(h) Number of consumer families benefitting from the system, by income
class.
2.12      To prepare a detailed report encompassing the above required data and
any other relevant information acquired as a result of the work.
(a) 10 copies of a preliminary report shall be presented to the
Government in the English language;
(b) Within thirty (30) days after receipt of written comments from
the Government and IDA the contractor shall present 40 copies
of a final correctd report to the Government in the English
language.
2.13      To prepare throughout the course of the study for the Government a
monthly progress report in sufficient detail to assess the study's progress.
2.14      At all times in pursuance of the defined work, the contractor shall
be required to relate the work, and the results of the work, to the attainment
of the stated objectives. It shall be his general duty to provide definitive
data, from which the Government can confidently proceed with construction and
operating plans to manage its cereal inventories, and at a later date, expand
its intervention in cereals marketing to include an effective price and sup-
ply stabilization program. If, at any time in the course of the work, it be-
comes apparent to the contractor that additional work is required to attain
the goals intended, or that the scope of work required cannot be reasonably
completed it shall be his duty to immediately convey such information to the
Government.



ANNEX 16
Page 8
III.  Consultant Staff Required for Preparation of Study
3.01      It is estimated that approximately 20 man-months would be required
to complete the study outlined above. The draft study is desired within five
months of the beginning of the task and the complete final report two months
after receipt of written comments from the Government and IDA.
3.02      Preparation of the study will require the following expertise:
(a) Agricultural Economist, trained and experience in:
(i) analysis and organization of a grain storage awld distri-
bution system in a country of small, private farmers;
(ii) analysis and projection of grain production and consumption;
(iii) economic evaluation of benefits of improved food grain
storage and distribution systems.
(b)  Distribution Systems Analyst, trained and experienced in designing
inventory control systems and applying operations research tech-
niques such as linear programming to large systems storing and
distributing grain or similar commodities, for the purpose of
optimally determining the size and location of additional facil-
ities.
(c)  Grain Storage Engineer and Operations Manager, an individual with
experience in engineering, including design, drafting and cost
estimating, and in managing grain storage and handling facilities.
Experienced also in training programs and maintenance systems as
well as in estimating grain storage losses due to insects, rodents
and climatic conditions.
(d)  Transportation Economist/Engineer, technical and economic
expertise in transportation to perform the analysis of the
economic distribution of food grains by road transport.
3.03      The entire group of experts would not be employed full time through-
out the course of the study, but only engaged for the time required to fulfill
the specific tasks relating to their specialty. However, it is envisaged that
the agricultural economist would be engaged full time, as he would serve as
the director of the study. -
May 1976



ANNEX 17
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Draft Terms of Reference - Nutrition Study
I. Objectives
1.01      The Government of the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) invites qualified
consultants to bid for a contract to supply services and materials required to
produce a nutrition study that will include (a) a survey of nutrition status;
(b) an analysis of the causes of malnutrition in the YAR; (c) ideutification
and comparison of alternative interventions; and (d) preparation of a national
nutrition plan, including suggested options for the Government to consider in
dealing with the problem.
1.02      The nutrition status survey will include a detailed study of the
nutrient deficiencies of a representative sample of the YAR population. The
sample would include members of the target group to be reached by the bread
produced and fortified in facilities financed by the project, to determine the
optimal fortificant mix tailored to meet the specific deficiencies of the
bread recipients. The survey will also examine food consumption patterns,
family budget expenditures and available information on agricultural, econo-
mic, health and other policies and practices which affect the nutritional
status. Based on the data collected by the survey an analysis will be made of
the determinants of malnutrition in YAR, focussing on those socio-economic
factors that can be changed to improve the nutritional status. Alternative
intervention programs will be analysed and a national nutrition plan will be
proposed to the Government of YAR.
II. Specific Tasks
2.01      Survey of Project's Target Group.  The target groups for bread
distribution will be about 30,000 school children, 14,000 hospital patients
and 23,000 persons from very poor families. The survey will be divided into
three parts:
(a) School Children
(i) The sample selected will be of random clusters, stratified
to include all ages attending school, all differing-socio-
economic levels and covering the main ecological areas of



ANNEX 17
Page 2
Yemen. About 1,500 children should provide a representative
sample, but numbers should be adjusted so as to provide 95%
confidence in the statistical results.
(2) If there is seasonal variation in food intake, which is like-
ly in the highlands where there is only one rain-fed crop per
year, a repeat survey to determine the effect of seasonal
variation should be carried out.
(3) The anthropometric data to be gathered would include: age,
weight, height and arm circumference.
(4) If it should be feasible to take blood samples, biochemical
determinations of hemoglobin, serum albumin and a sub-
sample of serum Vitamin A should be taken.
(5) Data on clinical signs of Vitamin A, C and D deficiencies
would be noted, together with any concurrent diseases, in-
cluding parasites, if possible.
(6) Sociological data on father and mother, address, siblings
and parents occupation and education.
(b) Hospital Patients
Data collection will be confined to study of the records, kept at
the hospitals. Details required would include:
(1) Specific mortality rates from malnutrition, diarrhoea and
infectious diseases by age and sex.
(2) Infant mortality rate.
(3) Mortality rate for children 12-60 months of age.
(4) Mortality rate of cases admitted suffering from protein/
calorie malnutrition.
(5) Morbidity rates for cases diagnosed primarily as mal-
nutrition and its nature, and if possible, cases in which
malnutrition was a contributing factor.
(6) Details of the diets of hospitals would be analyzed and
dietary education, if any.
(c) Members of the poorest families
The Government has not yet determined how the families would be se-
lected, nor how long each would continue to be provided with fortified bread.



ANNEX 17
Page 3
Depending on selection and duration, a sampling frame should be devised to
cover the beneficiaries. The survey data should be confined to the vulnerable
groups - children under three years, pregnant and lactating women. The data
collected should include:
(1) Number, ages and sex of family group; occupation of head of
family and others wotking; whether urban, peri-urban or
rural; foods grown; foods purchased; cooking facilities;
source of water; domestic animals and milk supply.
(2) Details of breast feeding; when started; duration and rea-
sons for any variation; age at which supplements introduced;
types of supplement and methods of preparation; methods of
feeding supplement; prohibition during lactation; manner in
which breast feeding is stopped; types of food provided
after weaning; any prohibition regarding foods provided.
(3) Anthropometric data should include: age, weight, height or
length, arm, chest and head circumferences. If possible,
a blood sample should be taken for haemoglobin and serum
albumin. Clinical examination for deficiency of Vitamin
A, C and D.  tor preghant and lactating women data should
be obtained if possible, on weight gain during pregnancy;
the weight for hight ratio, the history of previous preg-
nancies and of previous babies; haemoglobin and serum
albumen; and clinical signs of any other relevant problems.
2.02      National Food and Nutrition Survey.  Prior to data collection a
review of all available studies and other information (from primary and
secondary sources) will be made; in particular the activities of WHO, UNDP,
FAO and other multilateral as well as bilateral agencies in the nutrition/
health sector will be reviewed. All information will be classified by geo-
graphical regions and urban and rural communities. DTata to be collected will
include:
(1) Data relating to food production inputs: total area of
land, arable and irrigative areas, area currently under
production, area for grazing, land ownership and govern-
ment policies relating to land and its use. Prices and
quantities of purchased inputs (fertilizer, chemicals,
etc.), labour utilised, labour productivity and wages,
capital investment; agricultural machinery, water sup-
plies; credit availability, interet rates and maturities;
government policies regarding agriculture, food programs
and budgetary expenditure.
(.2)  Data relating to food output:  yield per ha, total quan-
tities produced, nutrient c'ontent of each crop and total



ANNEX 17
Page 4
quantity of nutrients. Numbers and types of animals, pro-
duction of livestock including eggs and milk, total quantity
of nutrients supplied, input of feed. Total fishing catch
by species, quantity of nutrients. Losses due to vermin,
pilferage, infestation and spoilage. Exports and imports
by product; wholesale prices and costs, price fluctuations
and return to farmers.
(3) Data relating to food processing and distribution: the
numer, size and type of food processing plants, the quan-
tity of processed food produced, the nutrient value per unit
and the potential capacity of the plants; cost of produc-
tion, number of items produced, distance from markets and
means of distribution. Communication facilities, roads,
camel trails and donkey tracks; estimated transport costs;
number, location and capacity of storage facilities and
their utiliztion costs. Numbers of retailers and whole-
salers, prices of food products, profit margins if avail-
able, variety of foods and marketing methods. Details of
any food distribution programs by government, international
or voluntary agencies, the population reached, the food
delivered and, if possible, evaluated results of the program.
(4) Demographic information: details of population by age and
sex; the population distribution, urban, rural, nomadic and
migratory; vital statistics of births, deaths, growth rate,
infant mortality, 1-4 mortality, fertility rate and life
expectation. .
(5) Data on consumption and expenditures: stratified by region,
income, age, occupation and family size. Degree of monetized
income. Expenditure other than on food. Food habits, pat-
terns and beliefs; food preferences within categories and
between categories; variety and quantity of food consumed;
seasonal variations annually and over a period of years;
proneness to natural disasters.
(6) Data on health: type, extent and, if known, effectiveness
of services available through government or private programs;
traditional medicine as well as modern practice; nutritional
status and nutrition problems, their incidence, severity, and
locality, who affected and how to be reached; immunization
program; causes of morbidity and mortality; housing, sanita-
tion, clean water, personal and environmental hygiene; taboos
affecting nutrition, such as protection of children from sun
(rickets).
(7) Information on related current activities: likely community
reaction, governmental machinery for coordination and imple-
mentation, available trained manpower and training require-
ments, scientific and institutional support and an assessment



ANNEX 17
Page 5
of the Government's priorities in the nutrition sector and
availability of resources for a national food and nutrition
program.
2.03      Nutrition Plan Development.  Based on the data collected, analysis
will be made of the determinants of malnutrition in YAR. Although attention
will be given to the most proximate causes of malnutrition from a medical
point of view (e.g. insufficient nutrient intake, poor utilization of nutri-
ents from the food ingested, and the heightened nutritional needs caused by
nutrition-related illnesses), primary attention will be directd to those
socioeconomic factors directly influencing diet and food utiliztion that can
possibly be changed to improve nutritional status. Here analysis will be made
of distribution shortcomings, price relationships, food waste, and errors of
consumer behaviour (the study will not examine inadequacy of national re-
sources and the entire constellation of macro-economic causes that constitute
underdevelopment).
2.04      Possible intervention programs will be formulated and analyzed and
preliminary cost effectiveness studies conducted. From this, a proposed
national nutrition plan would be developed, suggesting to the Government
alternative ways of addressing nutritional needs of the society, including
cost estimatvs for the proposed alternatives.
III. Manpower Required
3.01      Time.  An estimated 15 man-months of expert consultant services will
be required to complete the study outliied above.  The design of the survey
should be accomplished in one man-month to be followed by the survey. While
the survey itself should cover one full year to take into account seasonal
variability, the total consultant services needed (including design of the
survey), wil'l be six man-months, of which a nutrition survey expert should be
available for four man-months and a socio-economic analyst for two man-months.
The experts will be made available during the course of the survey for ade-
quate periods of time. The Government of YAR will provide adequate counter-
part support from YAR. The analysis of the survey data and development of the
national nutrition plan will require an estimated nine man-months of a team
of two, one of whom would be a nutrition planner (6 man-months) and the other
a food'inarketing expert (3 man-months).
3.02      Qualifications and Experience of Experts.  The nutritional survey
expert whould have experience-in designing and conducting nutritional status
surveys in developing countries. He should have a basic degree in nutrition
and/or clinical medicine or statistics. He shoud be familiar with the use of
statistical survey techniques in relation to nutritional status studies.
The socio-economic analyst should have experience in food habit and
nutritional surveys. A preferred choice would be a person who has had a strong
statistical background and participated in the conduct of surveys in other
similarly situated developing countries.



ANNEX 17
Page 6
The nutrition planner would: (a) be an economist/agricultural econ-
omist, or general planner with experience in food and nutrition management and
planning; (b) be familiar with theory and practice of planning, and (c) should
have the perception to relate to nutrition in the broader context of develop-
ment and vice-versa.
The food technologist/marketing expert will have wide experience in
techniques of marketing and processing and be familiar with food processing and
food habits of the Middle East area. He should be acquainted with techniques
of economic analysis of food and nutrition problems.



ANNEX 18
Page 1
APPRAISAL OF
A GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
Economic Rates of Return of the Total Project and Components
1.        The economic rates of return for the total project as well as for
each respective component were calculated on the basis of quantifiable econ-
omic costs and benefits generated. Results derived from this analysis are
considered conservative since many of the benefits attributable to the proj-
ect involving uniform bag weighing during grain discharge from the silo,im-
proved sanitary conditions in bakery facilities, a more nutritious bread
product available to government feeding program beneficiaries as well as
private consumers, and improvement in nutritional status given bread-baking
quality control, fortification and nutrition promotion were deemed non-
quantifiable and therefore were excluded from the calculations. Because of
the nonmeasurable nature of nutritional benefits, these, as well as the as-
sociated costs of the fortification and nutrition promotion component, have
been omitted from the economic rates of return determination.
2.        The economic rates of return are based on the following assumptions:
(a) Grain price
Grain has been valuated at the end 1975 CIF Hodeidah wheat price of
US$228/m tons 1/ with adjustments for handling and transportation where ap-
plicable. Grain losses averted because of provision of suitable storage
facilities were assessed at this opportunity cost.
(b) Input prices
(i) Imported investment items have been valuated at CIF Hodeidah pri-
ces. Other inputs have been priced in conformity with prices prevailing at
the end of 1975. The price of diesel fuel was adjusted for taxes.
1/   The US $228 wheat price employed here is in line with the IBRD/IDA 1980
price forecast for Canadian hard red spring wheats, FOB Thunder Bay
quoted in Commodities and Export Projections Division, IBRD Development
Policy Staff, Price Forecasts for Major Primary Commodities, Report
No. 814, July 1975, Annex 1, p. 8.



ANNEX 18
Page 2
(ii) Labor was not specifically shadow priced for the calculations since
unemployment is not a serious problem in Yemen. Although available data are
not wholly dependable, information from the YAR preliminary census results
and from WHO provides a rough indicator of the limited size of the domestic
labor pool, WHO has estimated that 53.1% of the resident population comprises
those within the 15-65 age group, or the "working age" sector. Since men
account for the major portion of the work force especially in urban centers,
a group supplemented by female participation only in rural areas in agri-
cultural activities, extrapolation from census data reveals a domestic
working age male population of only about 500,000:
Total estimated population                 6,471,893
Male population (50%)                      3,235,946
Male population in "working age"
group (53.1%)                            1,718,187
Yemenis outside the country 1/             1,234,000
Resident "working age" males                 484,287
Although boys often hold employment before entry into the formal
"working age" category, the figure above appears strikingly low and indicative
of lack of domestic manpower surpluses. Availability of higher paying employ-
ment in nearby countries, especially Saudi Arabia, has induced a male manpower
drainage from Yemen currently estimated at 1.2 million. Additionally, urban
populations reflect significant sex ratio imbalances as males have migrated
internally seeking better jobs off the farm.
(c) Exchange rate
The prevailing exchange rate of YRls 1.00 = US$0.22 has been em-
ployed in the economic analysis. It is the rate at which commodities are
exchanged. Currencies are easily convertible within Yemen in conformity with
this rate.
3.        The following benefits are attributable to the components of the
project:
(a)  The 20,000 m ton Port Silo
(1) Analysis of ship demurrage rates and available charter,data
seem te indicate an average charge of US$0.50 per m ton per day for port time
at lodeidah. With the installation of the transfer silo facility an estimated
1/   Census officials reported that only a very small percentage of those
outside the country were women and that most represented men employed
in nearby Middle Eastern states, especially Saudi Arabia.



ANNEX 18
Page 3
savings of eight days of US$4,000 per day for an 8,000 m ton vessel in-ship
turn-around time, would be achieved. Secondary benefits to grain importers
and all other users of the Hodeidah port could also be realized as total
demurrage bills and charter rates begin to reflect generally quicker turn
around time attributable to the elimination of system bottlenecks through
faster, more efficient grain discharge from vessels, but these were not
included.
(2) An estimated 2.5% of grain imports could be saved with elimina-
tion of rodent damage, rain, unrecovered spillage, and short weighing occurr-
ing in present unloading procedures.
(3) Mechanization of the ship discharge in order to save ship turn
around time, and thereby relieve port congestion, is expected to also reduce
variable ship discharge costs from US$3.76 to US$0.25 per m ton.
(4) Bagging operations are presently performed manually on the
quay by volume measure with no total per bag weight assessment made. Nominally
the bags weigh 50 kg when filled, but deviation does occur to as low as 45 kg.
Automatic scale bagging in the silo facility would ensure a higher degree of
uniformity to the consumer who purchases the bag on a 50 kg basis.
(b) Regional Warehouses (18,000 m ton Capacity)
(1) The primary purpose of improved warehouse space is to avoid
losses in both grain quantity and quality. However, at the same time, deter-
mination of a uniform loss percentage savings attributable to this provision
is not possible. Storage and handling losses are functions of a variable
set of factors which can result in losses of from zero to 100%. With provi-
sion of dry facilities secure from exposure and theft, losses due to pest
depredation and microflora are functions of time, grain condition, initial
pest population, climatic conditions, efficiency of management, and other
factors. Time tends to be the principal determinant of losses; in any stor-
age facility, under conditions conducive to predator multiplication, losses
will increase at high geometric rates with the passage of time.
In two somewhat similar grain-based economies in which data and
infrastructure were somewhat superior for storage to those in Yemen, studies
have shown that the maximum losses that could be demonstrated from each annual
supply"were 3.5% from all causes; time of exposure remained the principal con-
trol factor in these analyses. However, at the same time, detailed studies in
the USSR and the US have estimated average, seemingly irreducible losses
(mostly dust and moisture) of -0.5% when wheat was stored with optimal manage
ment.



ANNEX 18
Page 4
Therefore on the basis of these two parameters it appears technical-
ly feasible to save about 3% of tonnage stored in the regional warehouse fa-
cilities, given significantly improved managerial input proposed in the proj-
ect.
(2) Although no detailed data were available concerning rental
costs incurred by the Government for customs duty tax, zakat, and grants-in-
aid storage, quotations from private merchants revealed that rental rates
varied signiticantly with demand for space, location, and structure quality.
Employing a load factor of 73%, as projected for the new government facili-
ties, an estimated rental cost savings of US$228,000 per annum (US$1.63/m ton/
month) would be achieved through the substitution of government facilities
for rented space.
(c) New Government Bakeries and Bakery Loan Fund
(1) The bakeries in YAR are generally quite insanitary and are
therefore believed to be a source of contaminated food not only for commer-
cial sales, but also for government distribution to hospitals, schools, and
the poor.  Bread from bakeries constructed under the project would be prepared
in conformity with strict quality controls and hygenic guidelines established
by the YGGC  nranagement to ensure a contamination-free product.  Facilities
built or modernized undet the loan fund would receive technical assistance
from YGGC bakery extension agents who would instruct credit recipients about
hygenic proceiures and vould inspect these operations to ensure compliance.
It is intended that the project should make a substantial contribution to better
health through improvements in the food supply.
(2) An incremental quantity of 3,022.2 m ton of bread per annum
would be generated with the construction of the six new 1-m ton commercial bake-
ries. Although the bread has been valuated for economic rate of return deter-
mination at end 1975 market price of $0.46/kg, it would in fact represent a
product superior to that presently available in commercial bakeries. The
bread from the six new facilities will be prepared under hygienic conditions,
would be fortified with a comprehensive vitamin-mineral premix to mitigate
nutritional deficiencies of consumers, and would contain a moisture content
more in conformity with more ideal levels than the 50% content presently
observed. Consumers would therefore receive more-grain for their money and
would in addition purchase a cleaner, nutritionally improved product.
(3) The Government is increasingly interested in curbing the
serious deforestation problem in YAR. Areas around urban centers once sup-
porting significant stands of trees and secondary vegetation have over time,
become denuded by increased cuttings to satisfy demand for wood-fuel, pri-
marily utilized in home food preparations. Regions distant from cities have
similarly in recent years experienced the same trend as trees and scrub are
cut for use in rural areas and also for transport to urban centers for market-
ing. Serious ecological damage has resulted from depletion of ground covers
and subseque-nt water and wind erosion.



ANNEX 18
Page 5
An estimated 80% of wood utilized in cooking activities in the Yemeni
home is funneled into bread-baking activities. Significant quantities of wood
are required to achieve high temperatures in tannur-type ovens for rapid baking
of Jocal breads. Since an estimated 90% of all households prepare this dietary
staple, there exists considerable incentive to induce substitution of commer-
cially baked bread in diesel-fueled ovens for home preparation with woodfired
tannurs. Many households, attempting in part to circumvent rapidly rising
prices of firewood (an estimated YRls 8.00 or US$1.78 is required to pre-
pare an average family's food supply for three days) have increasingly re-
sorted to dough manufacture at home and subsequent baking in commercial enter-
prises.
Provision of additional baking capacity of 6 m ton per day (flour
basis) would permit approximately 2,885 urban families to substitute com-
mercially baked bread for home-baked products. Such an adjustment would
thereupon result in an estimated annual savings of US$499,000 in firewood
costs and correspondingly yield reduced demand pressure on limited wood sup-
plies.
(4) Within the bakery credit component, a rehabilitation fund
would be established to renovate and modernize existing bakery units. One of
the major items covered under this fund would be the conversion of existing
wood-fired ovens to cheaper, more efficient, diesel-fueled ovens. An owner of
a 0.75-m ton bakery making this system alteration would thereby derive an esti-
mated US$35.00 saving per day in net fuel cost. If half of the estimated 50
bakeries expected to benefit from rehabilitation funding under the project
were to make this oven conversion a net fuel savings would be so derived
amounting to US$107,000 per year (taxes excluded from diesel costs). Demand
for firewood would in the process be abated.
(d) Nutrition - Health Promotion
The fortification component of the project is a direct attempt to
conveniently and inexpensively upgrade the nutritional status of beneficiaries
of Government-sponsored feeding programs as well as private consumers pur-
chasing bread from newly constructed or renovated bakery facilities. A
vitamin-mineral premix, specially formulated to counterbalance present
dietary nutrient deficiencies would be added to the bread dough before the
baking process. When complemented by other programs to improve health and
'sanitfry'conditi6ns'in Yemen,- fortification would be an important vehicle to-
combat present high levels of malnutrition and resulting high mortality rates,
particularly among children. All new facilities, as well as half of existing
bakeries rehabilitated under the project, would be supplied with the pres-
cribed premix. An estimated 135,000 persons would benefit from consumption
of the fortified bread: 67,000 through Government programs and the remainder
through commercial channels.



ANNEX 18
Page 6
Benefits derived from the nutrition promotion component of the proj-
ect would be heightened awareness among the public and policy-makers concerning
topics of health and nutrition, provision of information to consumers through
publicity channels about the advantages of the fortified bread and the location
at which it would be available for retail purchase, and assistance to the Gov-
ernment in preliminary design of a national nutrition program.
(e)  Storage Study
The national survey of the quantity and quality of existing grain
storage space in YAR included in the project would provide useful information
by which future needs could more reasonably be assessed.
(f) Yemen General Grain Corporation (YGGC)
With the establishment of the YGGC, the Government would not only
create necessary infrastructure to effectively handle present and future grain
storage and processing needs, but would also set up an institution through
which it could eventually assume a more active role in the grain market, e.g.
price controls on locally produced grain, regulation of import volume and
scheduling, direct purchases on the domestic and/ or international markets to
stabilize prices, regulation of interregional grain flows.
(g) Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF)
With the selection of ACF as the lending channel for all credits
extended under the project, the institution would receive a significant in-
crease in capital resources, an amount that could eventually be allocated
in other development programs upon repayment of project-related loans and sub-
loans. In addition, ACF would experience sizable expansion of manpower and
field offices under the project.
(h) Training of Administrative and Technical Expertise
Expatriate technical and administrative personnel would be secured
during the project implementation period to not only ensure the effective
functioning of the YGGC and its respective divisions, but also to train local
counterparts in such activities as project management, silo and modern bakery
operations, accounting and auditing procedures, and effective extension pro-
grammhng:  Such on-site instruction in addition to project scholarships,
could prove important in alleviating existing shortages of technically trained
manpower in Yemen.
(i) Foreign Exchange Earnings
One of the major benefits of the project would be the elimination
of volume losses throughout the storage system through the elimination of
inefficient grain handling techniques on the quay apron, construction of



ANNEX 18
Page 7
sound warehouse space, and provision of adequate stock management in the
structures erected under the project. Taking into account the foreign ex-
change savings from grain loss prevention, reduced demurrage charges from
faster ship turn-around time, and the costs of the direct and indirect import
comporieuts of project investments and operating costs over the 30-year time
frame of the project, net savings in foreign exchange are estimated to amount
to about US$200 million.
(j) Impact of the Project on Employment
An estimated total of 65 full-time jobs and 70 manyears in part-
time positions would be created for the life of the project. The major por-
tion of this demand for labor would be generated for loading and unloading
operations within the warehouse component. Bakery facilities built and re-
modeled would similarly employ labor-intensive technology. The silo system,
however, would be relatively capital-intensive, and therefore its installation
would result in displacement of a large labor pool employed in present manual
grain unloading and bagging operations. The elimination of these jobs was
not included as an economic cost in the rate of return calculation because it
was felt that those displaced workers could readily be absorbed at zero cost
in increased port activity stemming from the elimination of bottlenecks and
slow ship turn-around times made possible by the more efficient silo facility.
Lastly, project related administrative posts would have to be filled within
YGGC and ACF.
Distribution of Project Benefits
4.        Since the structures to be built under the project would be lo-
cated in urban areas, benefits derived from the project would predominant-
ly accrue to urban residents. Since grain is the staple food in Yemen, all
segments of society could potentially benefit from elimination of losses
through more efficient handling of grain in the silo complex potentially
reflected in increased supplies and/or lower product prices. Curbing of
losses in warehouse storage would directly benefit the poorer segment of
society since a major portion of commodities stored in such facilities are
funneled into government feeding programs for school children, hospital
patients, and charity recipients. Bread from the new Government bakeries
and private bakeries on contract for Government programs would be more hygi-
enic, nutritious, and better prepared. An estimated 67,000 persons would
beneft ftrom consumption of this superior product in such programs and in turn
represent a target group most in need of nutritional status upgrading. In
addition , an estimated 60 m tons of bread per day reaching approximately
109,000 private consumers would- be prepared in retail commercial operations
built or renovated under the project credit fund and therefore subject to
quality control assistance and inspection by YGGC extension agents. Addition-
al baking capacity will permit approximately 2,885 urban families to cut ex-
pensive firewood purchases. Benefits from the nutrition promotion component
could reach not only a large numbers of urban residents having direct access to



ANNEX 18
Page 8
improved bread supplies, but also to rural dwellers, through mass communica-
tion information dissemination (e.g., radio broadcasts) concerning nutrition
and general health-related topics. Lastly, society in toto would benefit from
miigation of demand for firewood and of related ecological damage.
Impact of Additional Bakery Capacity on Bread Prices
5.        It is unlikely that a pecuniary external diseconomy in the form of
lower bread prices received by existing bakeries will result from the instal-
lation of incremental 6 m ton bakety capacity under the project. The addi-
tional tonnage is small relative to total existing capacity. Secondly, the
new facilities will be constructed in various urban centers so that the
specific intra-city impact of each unit would be minimal.  Thirdly, the bread
prepared in the six new 1-m tons commercial bakeries is expected to facilitate
substitution of commercial bread purchase for home-baking and would thereby
leave existing markets of present facilities undisturbed. Fourthly, Yemen is
expected to undergo increased urbanization (present urban growth rate: 7%);
it is therefore likely that demand for bread in cities will expand at approxi-
mately 9% reflecting both population growth as well as an income effect. This
rate of increase in demand could actually prove higher given future boosts in
wood prices.
Economic Rates of Return
6.        Based on the assumptions enumerated above, the economic rates of
return were calculated for the total project as well as for the respective
components (see Table 1). Benefits deemed quantifiable were included in the
determination of rates; those considered nonquantifiable, either because of
a lack of information or because of their nonmeasurable nature, were excluded.
The rates generated In the analysis are therefore considered conservative
estimates.
7.        Economic Rates of Return.  The YAR economy is expected to realize
at least a 32% rate of return from total project investments inclusive of
physical contingencies (Annex 18, Table 1). The individual components may be
considered independent and thus would warrant the calculation of separate
rates of return. The silo component costing US$7.0 million 1/ generated the
highest rate of the individual components with 41%; the warehouse and bakery
components costing US$2.5 and US$4.6 million, respectively, registered rates
of 17% and 20% respectively. These rates of return do not take into account
the following non-quantified benefits: (i) savings due to reduced shipping
freight rates for general cargo as a result of decreased port congestion;
(ii) the contribution of sanitary grain storage and bread production to
better health; (iii) environmental benefits due to decreased deforestation.
The rates of return exclude the nutrition component costing US$0.7 million
and the technical assistance to ACF costing US$0.4 million, for which no
1/   At 1975 prices.



ANNEX 18
Page 9
meaningful rates of return could be estimated because of the predominance of
non-quantifiable effects. Grain savings were valuated at the end 1975 CIF
Hodeidah wheat price of $228 per m ton. All inputs were assessed at end
1975 prices excluding taxes and subsidies. No special shadow pricing for
labor was conducted because of no apparent unemployment problems within the
Yemen labor pool, a condition attributable to the substantial syphoning of
excess labor into relatively high paying jobs in nearby countries, particu-
larly Saudi Arabia. Sensitivity tests were conducted to assess the stability
of the respective rates of return to variation in project cost and benefit
streams. They appeared relatively insensitive. With an increase in invest-
ment costs by 10%, the total project economic rate of return fell to 30% (silo
38%; warehouses 15%; bakeries 19%). A 10% hike in operating costs resulted in
a total project rate of return decline to 31% (silo 39%; warehouse 14%;
bakeries 16%). A decrease in the value of derived benefits by 10% yielded a
drop in the total project rate of return to 29% (silo 38%; warehouses 14%;
bakeries 16%). When economic benefits were permitted to slip by one year, the
economic rate of return for the total project declined to 27% while those for
the silo, warehouse, and bakery fell to 33%, 14%, and 17% respectively.
8.        In conclusion, the total project and each component appear economi-
cally viable, and their viabilities rather insensitive to limited declines in
benefits, increases in costs, and slippages in benefits.
May, 1976



40011181  OF
A GRUAIN STORAGE AND MROCESSING f6REC1
OttN AR" tREPUNLIC
toO-oil Rat  of ReItor
1I                   3         4         5       6       7        0       9      00        Il   612        13       14     i5       26        17       18        19       20        21       22        23       26        25        26        27        28      70        30O-
Proje-t B.aft.It
OlIn Clatan
-Nb19liw Sa-iOs LI                   -        -                                925  1,056   1,195  1,344   1,504   1,678  1,843  2,060  2,274  2,503  2,749   2,944    3,145    5,360   3,5N0   3,810   4.052   4,304    4,566    4,839    5,126    5,42 5                         5, 736    6,058    6,395  6.748
Loss Navigs to Grain dur to                                   
_or  effiolert l-aNOtt  /2    -                                            ,329   1,502 1.702  1,915  2,144   2,392  2.665  2,935  3,240  3.5o7  3.917   4,195    4,4032   4,701    5,102    5.430    5,775   6,123    6,496    6,884    7,590    7,716                           ,1539   8,618   9,296  9,99
Variabl Part Ret.dllR
Ra_t5 g00U$ 3.75a tot             -                                         70    99J1  1.123  13264   1.414  1.57N   1_751  1 336  2.138  2.353  2.594   2 .767   2.957    3.158    3.366    3,5R2   3.809   4.046   4.2933                          4.54 4818    5.093       5391.   5695  .j,011  6 343
Rita Sub.totl1                                                          31148  3.547  4.822   4.223  5.847   5.648   6.269  6_931  1.652  R.42s  9.250  93226  10,  ±11..330 12.040   12.822 13.636  14.473   15.354   16.272   17,236  18-240    193286  208.371 72102 22 690
Warh-as  CasaasttR
Loe -aiega  Vt Grin (3%(3~-                             205       460     460      410     410    410       410    410    410    410    462          410    410        410      410       410      410       410      410       4t  410       410  41     0       410       410       410   I       410    410
Rant Rasttga          -       -            ~~~~       ~~~~ ~~~129  250  258  250  258   2S  58      258      258     258     25825        258     258      258       258      258       25R      258       558      lN 25       0 258       258       258       258       258       258      25825
Residual Vale.-I----                                                                                                                       ---..--                                                                                -         .        -                                                         936
Worahus  Sultutal.1                                    334        668     668    668       668     668     668      668   _668   6-68    668         668     668      66R       668      bIN       66R       666      668       668      668       668      668   _RN    68          668  668       68  1,684
6 Nw- 1-r tO       tt73          -       -             463        927  1,390  1,390  1,390   1,390   1,390   1,390  1,390  1,390   1,390  1,390   1,390    1,390    1,390    1.390    1,390    1,390    1,390    1,390                 6,9      430       030       150       158       130      130 130
Road Rated frt. Subsitltti-n
ftou  Ito   RokiuR  /4          -        -             166        333     499    499      499    489       499     499      499    499    499    499    499           499      4~99      499      499       499       499      499       499      499       499      499        499      499       499    499
Net Fual S-cta It Ot.u
Cot--tia  /5                                            36         71     107     10L   07     107     107      10    2 1027OR? 107              107     107    107        107       107           10 7     107       107      107       107       107      107       107       107       107      602      107
Bakery Saboo-l                   -       -             605      1.331  1.996   1.996   1,996  1 996   1, 896  1 996  0.996  1 996  6.996   0.996   1.996  .1.996    1.996    1.996    1.996    1.996    1,996   1.996    1.996    1,996    1,996    1,996                     1,996    1,996    1,886  1,996
PuJr-t B a..tft Total                    -       -             999      1.999  5,0708  6.211  4,684  7.3187  7 726  8.312  8.933  9,595 10.316 11,087 1 _.314  13.378  13,24B  13.969  14.212  15,486   16.300  17,137   18,018   18.936   19.900  207904   21950 2  3,035  24 166 26 2_90
Pro3e-  Cuat
Stlo                                244      259        4,663      1,3276      98      15                       15              -        15                   2,503      -        -           15     -         -           15               .           15     -        -            15     --
Rorobaues                           361  1,982              20      -                                                                                                                                -        -         -        -         -        -         .-                           --
Balkrti.s                            66  1,032           1,153     1,0627             152                      1  52   .        -       152     -                 740 -           -          15                           12      -         -           5                           152     --
1- -st.ut Subtotl               671  3.2_53          6. 536    2,343       88     167     -        -       162-7                    167                   3.478-                         167     -         -          167     -         -          167     -        -           167     --                -
Voolablo Cost.
lilo.  /7                           -       -           -          -          120     137     155      073     1,90    2718     242    261      296     325      357     383       409       437      465       495      527       56        534      629       666      705        746      78        856      177
W-rh-tej.                           .        -              36         72      72 2    72      7        72      7    2       72      72      72      72       72      72       72        72        72       72        72       72        72        72       72  7          72        72        72       72      72
Bolksrla3 -9                                               311       623      934     934     934     934      934     954 _3          _14 -14 934  934     934       934                    934.23   934  934 -.3    ..34...-.34            934      934       93       934        94   ~934          934    934
VarIable Coa  tubt-i1                                  37         695  1.12610143  7.61  Li!!   1,202  1.224  1,248  1.274 1,002  1.331  6.563  1.319    1.341                         1.443    1.471   1.501   15373    1.56$    1.600    1,435    1.672  12.71              . 723   1.7L2      1 830  1.883
Fitad Coat
Sil                                         -                      -          275     235     235      275     275     275     275      273     771     275     270      275       275       273      775       275      2 75      275       275      2 75'     273      275'       273      275       2735    275
W.rsb-t.ee                                                 123        125     120     125      123     125     125     123      125     125     123      125     173     125        125      123       125      125       125      l.S       17    5   1        125      52         125       125      123     125
B.k.ti..                                    ~~~~~~19   39       SR      59      50       5   58          S 58    58 _568                  50       50      SR         SR       38        SR       SR        SR       50                 58 50               58       58 SR     S          8      38
Noted Coat Sub-totl                                    I"-14      164     450    458      438      459     450     458    458    430        458   4-50       418   -45t         436      458       458      450    4_~58       458       458      458       458            451   48      458       438    4~58
061o                                 31       81           122       17       116-                                                                                                         -        -         -                  -         -        -        -                             - 
Rorhoo-o                              12      55            27         36      25                                                                                                                   --                           -         -        -         --                           --                -
Bok-i-o                              58      180           143       653      53                                                                                                                                                                                                                     
Ada. 4 T-h. Subtotal             101     326           292        319     174--                                                                                                                                               .         -        -         -        -.                  ..                -
P-oja-   Coat Total                      772  )_327         7.319  ...3,.5 10 846  1. 768  1.833  17697   1.827  1.682  1_706   0.8999 176     0719 '6,299   0 847                    0.873    2,769    1_929    1.959    2,158   23024    2,038    2,260   2,130    7,_4 6 9   2_  _    2. 252    2,295  2.341
Rat tBofita:  Tota  Prolso              (772) (3,5775       56,320)   (0,521) 3, 932  4,443  5,065  3,540   5,0899  6,630  7, 22 7  0,696   0,556  9,290   6,615 10,~7 23    11,375  11,901   12,783   13,077   14,142  15,113  15,969  16,676   07,770  08,735    19, 573  20,7R3  21,871 23,849
tot Seorfta - Stlu Co.u7oao           52755   (320)       14,785)    0,403  2,515  3,100  3,590  4,073  4,376  5,155  9,752  6,373   7,091  7,023  6,005  9,248                    9,900  10,570   11,308   12,052  12,019   13,638  14,485  15,355   16,290   07,260    11,250  19,308  20,396 21,539
Na tBNsnelt: WaO-h..a
Cuapooo                           1375(20375              026       433     466    471    471    471          471    471    471    471         470     471    470      471        4 71      471      420       571      471       471      470       470       471      4 71       470      471       471  1,41?7
Nat Ra   Blt: lkaty Cottyt-o   0312455(1,220))            01,661)      55515    971     852  1,004   1,004       832  1,004   1,004        29  1.004   1,004       052  1,004       1,004      652    1,004    1,004        8352    1,004    1,004      0 52    1,004    1,004        852   0,004    1,004   1,004
E-oooic Ran-  of R-tor   ond S-ioul lot   An-1ouis
Ba..       Io---eo   Coat,  -5107.          AdiltaleadToblo    totos                         0%      qrrrfl    ot  oO1            Ptio    ert   n-00          j4080    j9tlaYt
V-tt  OtoOtt                     31.7               29.8                                             31.5                                       30.9                        20.7                           27-6
SOlo Copto                    40.76              38.4                                              40.                                        40.                         3.                             32.
W-rhoua  ot7000                16.                0551.                                                                                        59                          14.3                           14.1'
oBroy" Coapotoo                20. 3              09.5                                             20.1                                       10015.7                                                    14.0
Ao-raa  Bulk Goult, Ctr   1b633/ '8,04 I tone; RSitug of 8 das toe  arud ties P.r  6hip, tO rflnt 46 Bt$u,GWO.
e-In.0  etRd at 0.W
Sntrt  of op ..tiot:  2 1- tot  bekerisa  it 1978, 2 ian 2979, sad 27i t go 1 .
B0loi.:   7.7-sab_r  it _tona     fdull0t   .400 kg/day/o58nbt.  --I eaRto   2.56 log datly etttpis   f asetle ba,  -erge-sird family o-t of 3-d.y a-pply If  -od:  YRIR 0.00  (791.785: 82%  -f oood p,trb-nd  -td to breed  -atftet-
is h-  YROt 6.4/3 duye for bred btkiag 6 a-  1t.tt  wsOsade  for pretssales
Result:  u779499,ooo etord etch y-t  tro-  **b.tit,tia  to  dteeS-fRtd                       - 1.,toteotly beltd btost Con  -od lat.Oto, Row-bold brad.
40  Inle    0.73  1tjt  OONt..  oldbaSk.  rots  8o 1 dieald2tI1207/116t. (s,nalois  teas).
2OSNttnod.tt, Odbtkaey,  onese7¶/YMt-e.rl   C Noodydl furl  -te -ttig. dbo  asbbtau f distal ro  ooo..do   YOSs 22.4/dly for n 0.75-rSt-  btRe.y.
AasuaPt-ot:   Otl  of btktrtes  --ord by rabablittti_n  f-dt to Itet11ti - lst-fi-a  vn.a 29  ~int. ot a-eeR  0.75 a t-m  55ps-Y.
rsl:0407,002 aa-uu  net fo-I aoitI.
/6  ONtio  rNl-tOstn:
30% of  qup..teet    - Inet-at  -tet for 2 lisa ton  bake-is o 5%  of  qRutwe.t Ilu-seb.et  -ottaf 9.n to   -td 9 54. te   b)aeri- tine  100% of 1975%   ohiolt coat.
) equlpeetl-ot=t  -tNotsofr 3 a 000  -ad 9 lot tun   -tre      75% of total i-tortat  -teo.MY,17
)totil -tbtolN not -$1.52,COM  0 W48,00C/tt-ko, 06$40,0/tots..8                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ,17
(7  t-ieble Costa  of 0010.5/ ,nnbandied,
t3 sro80505          17:    i.tn5                t*')1.ttO              1979:   lo-ato              3OtO          92-aton    18:-.ROe



IBR D-11979
613 fi>,   :  sg   f  @    44                                                                     16            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FEEPRUARY 1976 
-   xilAsx;>   IRAN ,/>JaSl                                                                   YEM EN    ARAB      REPU BLIC
'UN tAL'i'/ i--1- ..\ SAUDI ARABIA   GRAIN STORAGE AND PROCESSING PROJECT
4                                         99 AUDs AREEIC -^ 3= L OLOCATI ON
AI     Warehouses
rX %-                                        No\ on,        . S A ,  i    >.t | rS Government Bokeries
su-AW(         f-      ;    * -; *       /)            9    j/       .r '-  -                     2      Small Bakeries
j $le_.~ N -,  sw ................./ Paved Roads
o ( S ErHlOPIA t F  -<                                                                          P - -  Pav,ed Roads Under Construction
Liv  -                                                   ____________    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Other  Roads
- 4on , ;Ax iS v 0 ( i I; D g   A    H  20  Cities, Towns and Villages
.I   -                                     \                                         E n -. i1\ c :_ : t \/ t   Wadis
oO-400   Contours in Meters
4'    International Airports
favAm  .-   \Provincial Boundaries
o         f    ' -    '  \ I<  -.-  bIntern-atonal Boundaries
0     20    40    60    80    100
.         20         40         60
MILES
I    b,l    RondoS                     MrnibI 
17~~~~~~~~~~~~~.
09                            PEI0 00 0 0A        taAI      \8°0D.>*zfEID
PEOPLE'S          DEMOCRATIC  REPUBLIC  OF  YEMEN
U-,~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
P_H 1. A. 'I. X  /    H.                                 9
Xff'3'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s \oaL,,, tva,,i, \i COO:-0                     ,o 4
A~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POL'   DEORAI    REUBI    OFDba                                    YEMENX :
E T H I O P I A                       
.~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ U/  S                        F    Of   XA DtUf
/F. T. A. 1.'                                                                                                 -                                '
/e                                                                    41i e 0 r , e . 0b



