CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 636 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
(Grain Storage and Processing Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated June 7, 1976


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 7, 1976, between YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
and
(B) The Borrower intends to contract from the Saudi Fund
for Development (hereinafter called the Saudi Fund) a loan (here-
inafter called the Saudi Fund Loan) in an amount equivalent to
eleven million dollars ($11,000,000) to assist in financing part
of the Project on the terms and conditions set forth in an agree-
ment (hereinafter called the Saudi Fund Loan Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and the Saudi Fund; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said Generpl Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General Con-
ditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the Gen-
eral Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and tlhe following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "ACF" means the Agricultural Credit Fund Department
established within the Central Bank of the Borrower in connection
with the Development Credit Agreement (Credit No. 376 YAR) between
the Borrower and the Association dated May 7, 1973, as expanded
for the purposes of Section 3.02 of this Agreement;
(b) "YGGC" means the Yemen General Grain Corporation estab-
lished pursuant to Section 3.01 (a) of this Agreement; and
(c) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and its Central Bank pursuant
to Section 3.01 (d) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all Schedules to the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to five million two hundred thousand dollars (t5,200,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services re-
quired for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the goods and works to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4


﻿of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on August 1 and February 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each August 1
and February 1 commencing August 1, 1986, and ending February 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on February 1, 1996 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Gen-
eral Conditions.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish a Yemen general
grain corporation (YGGC), a wholly-owned Government corporation
with such organization, powers and responsibilities as shall be
set forth in a charter acceptable to the Association as such
charter may be amended from time to time by the Borrower in agree-
ment with the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Parts B and E (2) of the
Project through ACF and all other parts of the Project through
YGGC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate financial, commercial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities and
other resources required for the purpose.
(c) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A, C and E (1)
and (3) of the Project, the Borrower shall cause ACF to act as
the administrative channel for the Borrower's equity contribution
to YGGC amounting to the equivalent of eight million five hundred
thousand dollars ($8,500,000).
(d) For the purpose of carrying out Parts A, B, C and E
of the Project, the Borrower shall lend to its Central Bank an
amount equivalent to eleven million seven hundred thousand dollars
($11,700,000) out of the proceeds of the Credit, the Saudi Fund
Loan and the Borrower's own funds under a subsidiary loan agree-
ment to be entered into between the Borrower and its Central Bank


﻿-6-
upon terms and conditi6ns (including those set forth in Schedule
5 to this Agreement) which shall have been approved by the Asso-
ciation.
(e) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsid-
iary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shpll not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
(f) The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be
necessary for the transfer of the obligations, powers and respon-
sibilities of the Central Bank under this Agreement and the Sub-
sidiary Loan Agreement to ACF if the Borrower decides, in con-
sultation with the Association, to establish ACF as a national
credit institution.
(g) For the purpose of carrying out Part D of the Project,
the Borrower shall cause ACF to act as the administrative chamnel
for the Borrowers grant to YGGC amounting to the equivalent of
nine hundred thousand dollars ($900,000).
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the execution
of the Project, the Borrower shall cause ACF to be expanded in such
manner as described in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purpose of carrying out Part C of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause YGGC to employ consultants whose


﻿-7-
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.04. In order to assist YGGC in the implementation
of the Project and in the training of selected local counterparts,
the Borrower shall cause YGGC to: (a) employ, not later than 14
months from the date of this Agreement, or such other date as
shall be agreed with the Association, such experts whose qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall
be satisfactory to the Association; (b) ensure that the qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment of suc-
cessors, if any, to said experts shall be satisfactory to the As-
sociation; (c) formulate, not later than 16 months from the date
of this Agreement or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, a training program for local counterparts satisfactory
to the Association; and (d) implement such training program by
December 1979, or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower in the prepara-
tion of plans and specifications for the facilities under Part A
of the Project, the supervision of construction thereof and the
preparation of bidding documents and evaluation thereof, the Bor-
rower shall employ engineering consultants acceptable to the As-
sociation whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.06. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident


﻿-8-
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.07. (a) The Borrower shall cause YGGC to furnish to
the Association, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, speci-
fications, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall rea-
sonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall cause YGGC and ACF to maintain
records adequate to record the progress of the Project (including
the cost thereof) and to identify the goods, works and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the
use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construction
sites included in the Project and to examine the goods financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such
information as the Association shall reasonably request concerning
the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit and the
goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds.


﻿-9-
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall take or cause to be taken
all such action as shall be necessary to: (i) select, not later
than three months from the date of this Agreement or such other
date as shall be agreed with the Association, all such land as
shall be required for the construction of the facilities included
in Parts A(2) and A(3) of the Project; and (ii) acquire, not later
than 3 months from the Effective Date, all such land and rights
in respect of land as shall be required for the construction of
said facilities and shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association
that such land and rights in respect of land are available for
purposes related to the Project.
01


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause YGGC and ACF to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently
maintained sound accounting practices the operations and financial
conditions of YGGC and ACF.
(b) The Borrower shall cause YGGC and ACF to: (i) have their
accounts and financial statements for each fiscal year audited,
in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently applied,
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than 6 months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies
of their financial statements for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Association such other information concerning the accounts and
financial statements of YGGC and ACF and the audit thereof as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) The Borrower shall cause YGGC to: (i) prepare quarterly
progress reports on the Project and to submit such reports to the
Association not later than 3 months after the end of each quarter;
and (ii) submit to the Association, not later than 3 months after
the end of each fiscal year, a report evaluating Project performance
for said year.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.02. (a) In order to enable YGGC to generate suffi-
cient revenue to cover operating costs, depreciation, financial
charges and a reasonable return on equity, the Borrower shall (i)
ensure that YGGC shall establish adequate charges for the services
rendered by the facilities referred to in Part A of the Project;
and (ii) cause said charges to be adjusted annually in accordance
with cost changes..
(b) In order to enable private bakeries supplying bread under
contract with the Government to generate sufficient revenue to cover
operating costs, depreciation, financial charges and a reasonable
return on equity, the Borrower shall: (i) ensure that said private
bakeries shall establish adequate charges for services rendered to
the Government; and (ii) cause such charges to be adjusted annually
in accordance with cost changes.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause YGGC to take out and
maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.04. (a) The Borrower shall, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1979 or such other date as shall be agreed with the Asso-
ciation, establish a team of experts, acceptable to the Association
to: (i) conduct the evaluation of the programs referred to in Part
D (3) of the Project and, in the event said team of experts recom-
mend that said programs should be continued, (ii) suggest any
modifications thereof which may appear desirable and (iii) consider
the possibility of extending the nutrition promotion program under
Part D (2) of the Proiect to rural areas within the territories
of the Borrower.


﻿- 12 -
(b) The Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities and other reSources required for continuation of the
bread fortification, and nutrition promotion programs under Parts
D (1) and D (2) of the Project in the event the team of experts
referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section recommend that said
programs be continued in such manner and for such period as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to ensure that promptly upon completion of the con-
struction of the Project facilities, all Government-owned grain
storage and processing facilities, except those owned and operated
by the Borrower's armed forces, shall be transferred for operation
and management by YGGC.
Section 4.06. (a) In the event the Borrower should require
YGGC to engage in the sale or purchase of cereals or cereal pro-
ducts or to participate in any other manner in the cereal market,
the Borrower shall, promptly as needed, provide YGGC with such
funds, staff, facilities and other resources as shall be necessary
for YGGC to undertake such transactions.
(b) The Borrover. undertakes to bear (i) any loss that may
occur to YGGC as a result of the transactions referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section; and (ii) any subsidies that the Borrower
may provide in connection with said transactions.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall, not later than December 1979
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, take
all such action as shall be necessary to ensure that all bulk


﻿-13 -
grain imported through the port of Hodeidah shall be handled by
the silo referred to in Part A (1) of the Project.


﻿- 14
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Subject to subparagraph (b) of this paragraph:
(i) The right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Saudi Fund Loan shall have been
suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
in part, pursuant to the terms of the Saudi Fund
Loan Agreement, or
(ii) Such Loan shall have become due and payable
prior to the agreed maturity thereof.
(b) Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply if
the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of the Association
that: (i) such suspension, cancellation, termination or prematuring
is not caused by the failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under the Saudi Fund Loan Agreement, and (ii) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other
sources on terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of
the Borrower under this Agreement.


﻿-15 -
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely,
the event specified in paragraph (a) (ii) of Section 5.01 of this
Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 16-
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Developmcnt Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) the Saudi Fund Loan Agreement has been signed by the
Borrower and the Saudi Fund;
(b) that the Borrower has approved a charter establishing
YGGC acceptable to the Association;
(c) the consultants referred to in Section 3.05 of this
Agreement shall have been employed; and
(d) the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ment on behalf of the Borrower and its Central Bank, respectively,
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional mat-
ter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Condi-
tions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be furnished to
the Association, namely, that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by, and executed and delivered on
behalf of the Borrower and its Central Bank, and is legally binding
upon the Borrower and its Central Bank in accordance with its terms.


﻿- 17 -
Section 6.03. The date of October 1, 1976 is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty
five years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿- 18-
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Supply of the Borrower is desig-
nated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of 1the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Supply
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable address:
Ministry of Supply
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
S


﻿-19 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in Sanala, Yemen Arab
Republic, as of the day and year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By /s/ S. Al-Hakimi
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. Wapenhans
Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa


﻿-20-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be fi-
nanced out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Engineering                 500,000          100% of foreign
Consultants                                  expenditures or
75% of local ex-
penditures
(2) Technical Services                           100% of foreign
expenditures or
90% of local ex-
penditures
(a) Expatriate staff     1,700,000
(b) Fellowships,           300,000
training and
equipment and
materials
(3) Warehouses                 600,000           30%
(4) Private Bakeries          1,200,000          50% of sub-loans
to private
bakers


﻿-21-
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category              Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5) Bread Fortification         300,000            30%
and Nutrition Promo-
tion and Planning
(6) Unallocated                 600,000
TOTAL          5,200,000


﻿- 22-
2.   For the pixrposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit de-
creases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the Bor-
rower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $160,000, may
be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on account of pay-
ments made for such expeLditures before that date but after Feb-
ruary 1, 1976.


﻿- 23 -
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures in respect of Category (3) prior to the acquisition of the
land required for the warehouses to be constructed under Part A
(2) of the Project.
6.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insuffi-
cient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i) real-
locate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the esti-
mated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association
are not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such real-
location cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals under such Category may continue
until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
7.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under
the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel
such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would


﻿otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿- 25 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following parts:
Part A:   The carrying out by YGGC of the following:
(1) Construction of a 20,000 metric ton silo with
ship unloading facilities of a ated capacity
of about 400 metric tons per hour and bagging
equipment of a rated capacity of about 200 metric
tons per hour at the Port of Hodeidah including
a grain laboratory, offices, a warehouse of about
1000 metric ton capacity and the necessary
supporting facilities;
(2) construction of six regional warehouses with a
total capacity of 18,000 metric tons; and
(3) construction of two   10 metric ton/day Government
bakeries in Sana'a and Taiz, equipped with whole
grain flour mills.
Part B:   Private Bakeries:
(1) Construction of one 3 metric ton bakery and nine
1 metric ton bakeries; and


﻿- 26 -
(2) rehabilitation and improvement of about
50 existing bakeries.
Part C:   Storage Study:
The carrying out of a study of existing grain storage
facilities and future needs in order to establish a national
storage investment program.
Part D:   Nutrition Program:
(1) The carrying out of a bread fortification program;
(2) the carrying out of a nutrition promotion program;
(3) technical evaluation of the effectiveness of the
bread fortification and nutrition promotion pro-
grams referred to in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
Part of the Project to recommend whether said
programs should be continued or terminated on
completion of the Project; and
(4) the carrying out of a nation-wide nutrition status
survey and the formulation of a national nutrition
plan.
Part E:   Technical Assistance:
(1) Provision of engineering and other expert services
and related equipment and supporting facilities


﻿- 27 -
to YGGC and overseas and in-service training and
fellowships for YGGC staff;
(2) provision of expert staff and related equipment
and supporting facilities to ACF and overseas
and in-service training for ACF staff; and
(3) provision of extension services for private bakers.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1980.
0


﻿-28-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A (2) hereof: (a) contracts
for the construction of the warehouses included in Part A (2) of
the Project and for the construction and improvement of private
bakeries included in Parts B (1) and (2) of the Project; and (b)
contracts for the procurement of items or groups of items of
equipment may be procured on the basis of local procedures accepta-
ble to the Association.
2.   Minor construction services and small items of equiment
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 may be pro-
cured directly through local firms and negotiated purchases.
B.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts.
With respect to all contracts under Part A (1) of this
Schedule:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together


﻿- 29 -
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request,
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, on the evaluation and com-
parison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on
which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for with-
drawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such contract.


﻿- 30 -
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit except for contracts for construction and
rehabilitation of private bakeries under Part B of the Project
and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior
to the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Associstion shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with this Schedule, promptly inform the Bor-
rower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿- 31 -
SCHEDULE 4
Expansion of the Agricultural Credit Fund Department
1.   ACF staff will be expanded by employment of the following:
(a) an expatriate senior industrial credi.t expert;
(b) an expatriate accountant/financial controller; and
(c) local experts and counterparts.
2.   ACF shall establish a new branch office in Santa, a new
field office in Hodeidah and expand the existing offices in
0 Taiz and Ibb.
3.   The necessary general supporting staff, equipment, vehicles
and other facilities for ACF head office and branch and field
offices will also be provided.


﻿- 32-
SCHEDULE 5
Principal Terms and Conditions
of the Credit Arrangements
1.   Lending terms - the Borrower to its Central Bank
(a) Period = repayment within 20 years including a
6 year grace period.
(b) Interest =4% per annum on outstanding balance.
2.   Lending terms - the Central Bank to YGGC and private
bakers.
(a) Terms:
(i) maturities shall not exceed the life of the
assets financed;
(ii) maximum repayment periods for the various
sub-loans shall be as follows:
Investment Category           Grace     Repayment      Total
Years
Silo                            5             9          14
Warehouses                      4            10          14
10 - metric ton Bakeries        3           10           13
3 and 1 - metric ton
Bakeries                     3             5           8
Rehabilitation Credit           1             4           5


﻿- 33 -
(iii) for YGGC investments the equity contribution
shall be 50%; and
(iv) for private bakers the minimum contribution
shall be 20% of the investment cost.
(b) Interest: 9% per annum on outstanding balance.
0
0


