Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GRANT NUMBER TF029522
Japanese Grant Agreement
(Land Administration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator
of Grant Funds provided by JAPAN
Dated October 4, 1996
GRANT NUMBER TF029522
JAPANESE GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 4, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the 
Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
acting on its own behalf (the Bank) and as Administrator (the Administrator) of grant funds 
provided by JAPAN (Japan).
Page  2
WHEREAS (A) pursuant to a letter agreement dated July 30, 1990 between Japan and 
the Bank and International Development Association (the Association), Japan has requested the 
Bank and the Association, and the Bank and the Association have agreed, to administer grant 
funds to be made available by Japan for the financing of certain programs and projects supported 
by the Bank and the Association, as the case may be, in accordance with the provisions of such 
letter agreement;
WHEREAS (B) Japan has agreed to make available to the Recipient a grant out of said 
grant funds (the Grant) to finance the cost of carrying out the technical assistance described in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement (the Technical Assistance) on the terms and conditions hereinafter 
set forth;
WHEREAS (C) the Recipient has requested the Bank to carry out the Technical 
Assistance;
WHEREAS (D) the Bank has agreed to carry out the Technical Assistance on the terms 
and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions; Term of Technical Assistance
Section 1.01.
The Technical Assistance shall be undertaken by consultants (the 
Consultants) who shall, as far as practicable, include Consultants with expertise in the following 
areas:
(a)
land administration and management;
(b)
natural resources policy and management; 
(c)
land, natural resources and administrative law; and
(d)
institutional strengthening and rural and urban community participation.
Section 1.02.
As used in this Agreement, the terms “Dollar” and “$” mean the 
currency of United States of America, and the term "Consultants" includes individual consultants 
as well as any consulting firm that provides any of the experts referred to in Section 1.01.
Section 1.03.
The Consultants are expected to commence their services on September 
1, 1996 and to provide a total of 24 man-months of service between that time and December 31, 
1997.
ARTICLE II
Page  3
Responsibilities of the Bank and the Administrator
Section 2.01.
The Grant to be provided by Japan for the Technical Assistance shall be 
in an amount of four hundred thousand Dollars ($400,000).
Section 2.02.
The Administrator shall utilize the Grant to finance the following 
expenditures in connection with the services of the Consultants:
(a)
remuneration, per diem and other allowances;
(b)
international and local travel expenses; and
(c)
out-of-pocket expenses, including communications and reports, incurred by the 
Consultants in foreign and local currency in the performance of their services.
Section 2.03.
The Bank shall make reasonable efforts to secure the services of the 
Consultants.
Section 2.04.
The recruitment, engagement and supervision of the Consultants shall be 
the responsibility solely of the Bank and shall be done according to the Bank's applicable 
procedures.
ARTICLE III
Responsibilities of the Recipient
Section 3.01.
The Recipient shall cooperate with the Administrator, the Bank and the 
Consultants to ensure that the Technical Assistance is carried out promptly and effectively and, 
for this purpose, shall issue appropriate instructions to its officials, agents and representatives.
Section 3.02.
The Recipient shall:
(a)
make arrangements for all personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical 
Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's 
territories) and all dependents of such personnel promptly to be provided with any necessary 
entry and exit visas, residence and work permits, exchange documents and travel documents 
required for their stay in the Recipient's territories during the duration of the Technical 
Assistance;
(b)
facilitate clearance through its customs of any equipment, materials and supplies 
required for the Technical Assistance and any personal effects of the personnel of the 
Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance (other than nationals of the Recipient or 
permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and the dependents of such personnel;
(c)
permit the Consultants to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's 
territories reasonable amounts of foreign currency for purposes related to the Technical 
Assistance;
(d)
permit the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the Technical Assistance 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the Recipient's territories) and 
Page  4
the dependents of such personnel to bring into, and withdraw from, the Recipient's territories 
reasonable amounts of foreign currency for their personal use; and
(e)
exempt the Consultants and the personnel of the Consultants assigned to the 
Technical Assistance from (or the Recipient shall pay on behalf of the Consultants and such 
personnel) any taxes, duties, fees, levies and other impositions imposed under the laws and 
regulations in effect in the Recipient's territories on the Consultants and such personnel in 
respect of:
(i)
any payments whatsoever made to the Consultants and such personnel 
(other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent residents of the 
Recipient's territories) in connection with the carrying out of the 
Technical Assistance;
(ii)
any equipment, materials and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which, after having been brought into such 
territories, will be subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them;
(iii)
any equipment, material and supplies brought into the Recipient's 
territories by the Consultants for the purpose of carrying out the 
Technical Assistance and which will be consumed therein or become the 
property of the Recipient; and
(iv)
any property brought into the Recipient's territories by the Consultants or 
such personnel (other than nationals of the Recipient or permanent 
residents of the Recipient's territories) or the dependents of such 
personnel for their personal use and which will be consumed therein or 
subsequently withdrawn therefrom by them upon their respective 
departure from the Recipient's territories, provided that the Consultants, 
such personnel and their dependents shall follow the usual customs 
procedures of the Recipient in importing property into the Recipient's 
territories.
Section 3.03.
The Recipient shall be responsible for dealing with any claims arising 
out of, or resulting from, the Technical Assistance that may be brought by third parties against 
the Administrator or the Bank.  The Recipient shall indemnify the Administrator and the Bank 
against any costs, claims, damages or liabilities arising out of, or resulting from, any acts or 
omissions in connection with the Technical Assistance, except those resulting from the gross 
negligence or willful misconduct of the Administrator or the Bank, as the case may be.
Section 3.04.
For purposes of carrying out the Technical Assistance, the Recipient 
shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, the data, services, facilities and 
equipment set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.
Section 3.05.
The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants, free of charge, 
such counterpart personnel to be selected by the Recipient, with the advice of the Bank and the 
Consultants, as are set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  If any member of the counterpart 
personnel fails to perform adequately any work assigned to him by the Consultants that is 
consistent with the position occupied by such member, the Consultants may request the 
Page  5
replacement of such member, and the Recipient shall not unreasonably refuse to act upon such 
request.
ARTICLE IV
Reports and Other Matters
Section 4.01.
The Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator shall, from time to time, 
at the request of any party, exchange views on the Technical Assistance and consult on any 
reports prepared by the Consultants and the implementation of any recommendations made in 
those reports.
Section 4.02.
The Bank and the Administrator may use any reports prepared by the 
Consultants for any purpose that the Bank or the Administrator, as the case may be, may consider 
appropriate but those reports may not be made public except by agreement between the 
Recipient, the Bank and the Administrator.
ARTICLE V
Enforceability of Agreement; Failure
to Exercise Rights
Section 5.01.
The rights and obligations of the Bank, the Administrator and the 
Recipient under this Agreement shall be valid and enforceable in accordance with their terms 
notwithstanding the law of any State or political subdivision thereof to the contrary.  Neither the 
Bank nor the Administrator nor the Recipient shall be entitled in any proceeding under this 
Article to assert any claim that any provision of this Agreement is invalid or unenforceable 
because of any provision of the Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
Section 5.02.
No delay in exercising, or omission to exercise, any right, power or 
remedy accruing to any party under this Agreement upon any default shall impair any such right, 
power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver thereof or an acquiescence in such default.  No 
action of such party in respect of any default, or any acquiescence by it in any default, shall 
affect or impair any right, power or remedy of such party in respect of any other or subsequent 
default.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date, Suspension
and Termination
Section 6.01.
This Agreement shall become effective upon its execution by the parties 
hereto.
Section 6.02.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank and the Administrator in 
writing to terminate the Technical Assistance.  Whether or not the Recipient has made such a 
Page  6
request, the Administrator may at any time suspend or, after consultation with the Recipient, 
terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Technical Assistance if any of 
the following circumstances shall have occurred and be continuing:
(a)
The Recipient shall have failed to make payment of principal or interest or any 
other amount due to the Bank or the Association: (i) under any loan or guarantee agreement 
between the Recipient and the Bank; or (ii) under any development credit agreement between the 
Recipient and the Association; or (iii) in consequence of any guarantee or other financial 
obligation of any kind extended by the Bank to any third party with the agreement of the 
Recipient.
(b)
The Recipient shall have failed to perform any obligation under this Agreement.
(c)
The Bank or the Association shall have suspended in whole or in part the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank or any development 
credit agreement with the Association because of a failure by the Recipient to perform any of its 
obligations under such agreement or any guarantee agreement with the Bank.
(d)
Any event shall have arisen that, in the opinion of the Bank or the Administrator, 
as the case may be, interferes or threatens to interfere with the successful implementation of the 
Technical Assistance, the accomplishment of its purposes, or the execution of the Technical 
Assistance in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement.
(e)
The Recipient: (i) shall have been suspended from membership in or ceased to 
be a member of the Bank; or (ii) shall have ceased to be a member of the International Monetary 
Fund.
(f)
A representation made by the Recipient in or pursuant to this Agreement, or any 
statement furnished in connection therewith, and intended to be relied upon by the Administrator 
in making the Grant, shall have been incorrect in any material respect.
Section 6.03.
If the Technical Assistance is suspended or terminated, the Recipient 
and the Administrator shall consult with each other concerning any further action that may be 
necessary or desirable.
Section 6.04.
The Administrator is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and 
shall not have any fiduciary relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to 
any portion of the Grant that is not expended by the Administrator pursuant to this Agreement.
ARTICLE VII
Representation
Section 7.01.
All communications with respect to this Agreement shall be addressed as 
follows:
For the Recipient:
Minister of Public Finance
Page  7
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico
Zona 1, Guatemala
Guatemala
Cable address:
Telex:
MINFIP
9207 MINFIP GU
For the Administrator and the Bank:
Director
                          Central America Country Department
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names as of the day 
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By  /s/ José Alejandro Arévalo Alburez
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
  AND DEVELOPMENT
on its own behalf and as Administrator of the Grant
By  /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
 Acting Regional Vice President
Page  8
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1
Description of Technical Assistance
The Technical Assistance consist of the following activities to be carried out in 
connection with the preparation of  the proposed Land Administration Project to be carried out 
by the Recipient:
Part A
: Institutional Strengthening
Strengthening of the legal and institutional framework of land titling and registration 
process, including the provision of technical assistance and training required therefor.
Part B
: Modernization of Land Registry Systems
Carrying out of a study with respect to the decentralization and modernization of the land 
registration system of the Recipient.
Part C
: Cadastral Strengthening
1.
Formulate a proposal to incorporate cadastral data into the real property records within 
the Recipient’s General Registry of Property.
2.
Implementation of the proposal mentioned in Part C.1 above.
3.
Design of guidelines to establish a national cadastre.
Part D
: Local Land Use Management System
Design of a land use management system at the community, municipal and/or micro 
watershed levels.
Part E
: Review of International Experience
1.
Carrying out of study tours abroad with respect to land administration for the benefit of 
individuals to be selected by the Recipient in accordance with criteria acceptable to the 
Administrator.
2.
Provision of training to: (a) the personnel of the Recipient’s agencies mentioned in 
paragraph 1 of Schedule 2 to this Agreement; and (b) the individuals to be selected by the 
Recipient in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Administrator, with respect to land 
administration.
3.
Organization of seminars in order to discuss the objectives and the activities of the 
proposed Land Administration Project.
4.
Carrying out of surveys of the people living in the area where the proposed Land 
Page  9
Administration Project will be carried out.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of Services, Facilities, Equipment and Counterpart Personnel to be made 
available by the Recipient:
The Recipient shall make available to the Consultants the following:
1.
All the data and information necessary to assist the Consultants in the carrying out of the 
Technical Assistance, including, inter alia, statistics and technical and legal documentation in 
possession or under the control of the Recipient’s Ministry of Public Finance, the Ministry of 
Agriculture, the Military Geographic Institute, the General Registry of Property, the National 
Institute of Agriculture Transformation and other agencies concerned.
2.
Office space and equipment such as computers, copy and facsimile machines, and 
telephones as required.
3.
Secretarial and office services as required.
