Report No. PID4636
Project Name                     Guatemala-Land Administration Project (@+)
Region                           Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                           Natural Resources and Rural Poverty
Project ID                       GTPE49616
Implementing agency              Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food
7 Ave. 12-90, Zona 13
Guatemala, Guatemala
(502) 230-4450; fax 334-3510
General Property Registry
9A Av. 14-25, Zona 1
Guatemala, Guatemala
(502) 253 9548; fax 232 6739
Borrower                         Government of Guatemala
Date this PID prepared           September 1997
Date initial PID prepared        September 1996
Projected Appraisal date         December 1997
Projected Board date             June 1998
Country and Sector Background
1.              Guatemala signed a comprehensive Peace Accord on December 29,
1996, to end thirty-six years of civil conflict. The Accord supports
establishing democracy and introducing economic policies which will foster
sustainable growth. The promise of peace has provided Guatemalan society with
a point of convergence, opening spaces for the Government of Guatemala (GoG)
to pursue fiscal, institutional and legislative reforms to support its
development agenda. The Accords land-related commitment include establishing
a cadastral-based land registry, which would be supported under this
operation. Other commitments include establishing of a Land Fund, which the
GoG has requested be supported under a separate operation, and land conflict
resolution mechanisms, which would be supported under both operations
depending on their nature. Guatemala's greatest challenge is to reduce the
poverty which afflicts over 75t of the population, 86t of the rural population
and 93t of the indigenous population. tc "       Since the return of civilian
rule to Guatemala in 1985, progress towards negotiating a lasting peace,
establishing democracy and introducing economic policies which will foster
sustainable growth has been slow and uneven. Government's inability to
overcome conservative private sector opposition to tax system reform and
enforcement has resulted in significant fiscal problems. Guatemala's greatest
challenge is to reduce the poverty which afflicts over 75t of the population,
86t of the rural population and 93t of the indigenous population."
2.              In Guatemala, the agricultural sector generates one quarter of
GDP, 55t of foreign exchange earnings and over 50t of employment.    It is
dualistic, consisting of a modern sector dedicated primarily to export crops
and a traditional sector which largely produces basic grains. Agricultural



growth has grown relatively steadily since 1990 at about 2.7 percent per year
(less than population growth of about 3 percent per year). Agricultural
exports are dominated by traditional products such as coffee, cotton, sugar,
and bananas. Total foreign exchange earnings from these products, however,
represented 43 W of total export receipts in 1996, down from 58t a decade
earlier, owing to falls in production and lower world prices for these
commodities. Non-traditional agricultural exports, such as vegetables and
flowers, on the other hand, have increased substantially since 1983: they now
generate about 12t of total foreign exchange earnings and about 22 ; of
agricultural export earnings.
tc "   The agricultural sector generates one quarter of GDP, 60t of foreign
exchange earnings and over 50t of employment.    It is dualistic, consisting of
a modern sector dedicated primarily to export crops and a traditional sector
which largely produces basic grains. Agricultural production has grown
relatively steadily since 1986 at between 3 and 4 percent per year.
Agricultural exports are dominated by traditional products such as coffee,
cotton, sugar, and bananas. Total foreign exchange earnings from these
products, however, have declined by about 429 since 1983, owing to falls in
production and lower world prices for these commodities. Non-traditional
agricultural exports, such as vegetables and flowers, on the other hand,
almost doubled in value between 1983 and 1993.   They now generate about 12t of
total foreign exchange earnings and about one third of agricultural export
earnings."
Project Objectives
3.              The project's objectives are to support the already signed, land-
related commitments under the Socioeconomic and Agrarian and Indigenous
Peoples Sub-accords, particularly on land security and access, a key
constraint to community and smallholder sustainable land management and a root
cause of the civil conflict. The project's specific objectives are to: (a)
regularize land tenure in the Peten Department and selected areas, for all
property owners, including to strengthen the legal and institutional framework
for land registry and cadastre services, promote the maintenance of
regularized records and establish conflict resolution mechanisms; and (b)
assist the GoG to create a uniform geographic information system (GIS) in the
Peten Department for management of protected areas, land registry and
cadastre, and support sustainable development initiatives by federal and local
authorities, including projects financed by other donors in the Department
(IDB, KfW, USAID, NGOs). Poor communities and small-scale land holders would
be the principal project beneficiaries because their land security is the most
precarious and have least access to land regularization. The regularized land
registry and cadastre would be unified for urban and rural land, and the
information made accessible at the federal and municipal levels for planning
and fiscal purposes.
Project Description
4.      The project would consist of four components:
(a) Land regularization in the Peten and selected areas. This includes aerial
photography and complementary topography for cadastral purposes, land registry
research, field and office adjudication work and quality control, and
integration of both physical and legal information into a large scale
geographic information system to establish an integrated modern land registry
-2 -



and cadastre. The integration of cadastral information into the land registry
would allow locating property rights on the land and therefore avoid
overlapping claims. This component would also include legal and institutional
framework improvement, for both affected communities and Government
institutions. For the communities, this would include providing legal
information and support for knowledge on land law, support for
municipal/community organizational activities and establishment of legal
entities able to own land, legal assistance for land tenure regularization,
and in the translation and articulation of legal concepts with customary law.
For the Government institutions, institutional strengthening would support
the decentralization of cadastre works supervision and maintenance to the
Peten, and to improve access to information to municipal centers. The
component would finance civil works building and rehabilitation (to locate the
new Peten Geographic Information Service), and cadastral works (aerial
photography, restitution, production of cadastral maps), equipment (vehicles
and computer equipment for geographic information systems and office use),
technical assistance and training to create capacity in the new streamlined
legal and cadastral procedures and information management not currently
available in the public sector, documentation systems and training in public
and private conflict resolution mediation and other mechanisms, information
campaigns and dissemination, and recurrent costs on a declining basis.
b) Land Registry Component, involving the establishment of Guatemala's third
registry (only the two main cities have land registries: Guatemala City and
Quetzaltenango). The registry would be the pilot for decentralization of
registry offices, as mandated by the 1985 Guatemalan Constitution. The pilot
would be a modern registry, automated, and integrating cadastral information.
It would serve first the Peten area, and it would be ascertained later
whether and how coverage should be extended. The component would finance
civil works to house the new registry; vehicles and office equipment;
technical assistance and consultant services to transfer of land records from
the Guatemala office, the scanning and setting up for business using
traditional metrology but improving access, the establishment of a modern data
base to convert to new business methods when cadastral and field information
are available. Other investment costs would include training of registry staff
in the new procedures, and studies to: (i) review and propose appropriate
legislation to facilitate installing new systems; (ii) develop streamlined
and automated systems for land registry and cadastre security and updating;
(iii) review tariffs and potential new products to promote financial
accountability in the land registry; and (iv) propose legislative initiatives
to prepare for upscaling registry activities to the rest of the country. In
addition, the project would finance recurrent costs on a declining bases to
start up the new registry, aiming at self-sustainability.
(c) Geographic Information System in the Peten. This would include the
establishment of a geomatics capability to integrate all spatial information
available in the Peten. The component would finance civil works and mapping
activities (including purchase of satellite imagery), vehicles, office and
field equipment, technical assistance, training, and recurrent costs on a
declining basis.
(d) Project Management Unit to finance the management, administration,
coordination, auditing and accounts, procurement, disbursement and studies
for the project al all involved levels of the Government: federal, Department,
municipalities, as well as for coordinating with donors, NGOs and other
-3 -



partners and local constituencies. Of particular importance would be the
financing of technical assistance and training for procurement and works
supervision activities. The component would finance vehicles, field and
office equipment, technical assistance and training, and recurrent costs on a
declining basis.
Project Costs and Financing
5.              Total estimated project costs are US$ 33 million with a proposed
loan of $25 million. In August 1996, the Bank approved a $2.0 million PPF (P-
300-0-GU); these funds are now being processed for administration by UNDP
under a Cost-Sharing agreement to facilitate disbursements.
Project Coordination and Implementation
6.              Because land is an important issue and many GoG institutions have
different mandates regarding land policy and management, the GoG has
established a high-level commission to make policy and strategic decisions and
coordinate on all activities related to land both within the GoG and with
donors and civil society. In April 1997, the GoG established PROTIERRA
(Institutional Commission for the Strengthening and Development of Land
Property Rights), including the Ministry of Finance, the Peace Secretariat
(SEPAZ) and MAGA (coordinator) heads, as well as the Planning Secretariat
(SEGEPLAN), the General Property Registry (RGP), and the Military Geographic
Institute (IGM). PROTIERRA is supported by a technical-juridical unit (UTJ),
funded by Sweden. PROTIERRA coordinates all land-related activities, including
donor-supported projects in land registry and cadastre, land conflict
resolution, Land Fund, geographic and statistical information, land taxes and
rural investment. The Viceminister of MAGA, Board Director of the
Presidential Office on Land Conflict Resolution and the Coordinator and a
member of the UTJ are the Government's four representatives to the Paritary
Commission on Land Issues established under the Indigenous People Sub-accord
commitment.
7.      PROTIERRA also coordinates closely with the two official Commissions in
the Peten: the Peten Sustainable Development Commission (PSDC) headed by the
Peten Governor, and the Peten Land Commission (PLC) headed by MAGA. The PSDC
coordinates all Peten projects, so will have access to all data on the Peten,
whether generated by the GoG or donor projects. The PLC is in charge of land
policies in Peten, including adjudication; this is different from the rest of
the country because has the Peten Land Law 38-71.
8.      PROTIERRA's office in the Peten, or Field Project Management Unit (PMU)
would be the main implementing unit, together with the Peten land registry.
It would coordinate closely with entities under the PSDC and PLC to carry out
activities. The PMU would be established with PPF financing to prepare the
project and implement start-up activities. The PMU would implement the GIS
component directly and in coordination with the PSDC. The PMU would also help
set-up the pilot land registry in the Peten, which would become, over
implementation, a modernized and decentralized land registry including
cadastral and GIS capabilities to update the regularized land records for
public and private land in the Peten. For protected areas, the PMU would
support the functions of the Regional Unit of the National Commission of
Protected Areas (CONAP), including protected area demarcation and property
rights.
-4-



Project Sustainability
9.              By transferring essential resources and skills to public agencies
at the federal, department, and municipal level as well as communities and
small property owners, the project will improve land administration and
provide information for better land and protected area management. Two
elements of sustainability are critical: (a) community knowledge and
participation to understand the uses and functions of the land registry and
cadastre, so that they ensure tenure security by conveying and updating
information to the land registry; and (b) financial sustainability of the land
registry. In Guatemala, the RGP's budget is generally in surplus; it is
expected to remain financially healthy and be able to contribute to financing
cadastral updating as a quid pro quo for integration and increased coverage
(currently estimated at 309 of all property owners, mostly urban) . tc "
By transferring essential resources and skills to farmers, grassroots
rural producers' organizations, and small property owners, project impact on
growth and poverty alleviation will be sustainable and will be maintained
beyond the life of the project."
Lessons Learned
10.             For more than two decades the Bank has been involved in land
reform and land tenure issues under its poverty-oriented rural development
strategy. In 1975 the Bank published a land reform paper. Evaluation of
projects in Thailand and Kenya suggest that land administration programs are
most cost-effective and contribute to equity objectives when they are area
wide and combined with agile conflict-resolution mechanisms. The projects
showed that land titling is an important step in increasing rural productivity
in areas where (a) population densities are high; (b) freehold tenure is a
reality; (c) traditional systems of land allocation and dispute adjudication
have broken down; and (d) formal credit systems are willing and able to lend
to small farmers against the security of land titles. These reflect
accurately the situation in Guatemala, except for (d). With respect to (d),
the credit link is still weak in Guatemala but there are a number of
initiatives, including the preparation of a World-Bank supported Rural
Investment Project, which are addressing the issue.
11.             A review of World Bank experience with rural land titling projects
throughout the world reported that, except for the Thailand Land Titling I and
II projects (Loans 2440-TH and 3254-TH, respectively), the 12 operations
surveyed performed poorly. The main problems were: lack of political support;
conflicting bureaucratic priorities; lack of institutional capacity or
support; and complex multiple objectives of which titling was only an adjunct.
By contrast, the Thailand projects were relatively successful due to: full
political and institutional support; Government commitment to adequate
resources; single titling objective; and a relatively favorable land policy
environment. Although the proposed project has objectives beyond titling, its
other GIS management objective is a complementary one. The proposed project
is also characterized by full political support -- as included in the Peace
Accords and demonstrated by the establishment of PROTIERRA. The GoG proposed
starting project activities in the Peten Department because of its relatively
favorable land policy environment, and because its Peten Land Law allows
regularization with minimal, if any, legislative changes. This should provide
a conducive ground for testing methodologies, legal and technical
specifications and community information programs which, once refined, can be
- 5 -



applied to the rest of the country and provide a more promising vehicle for
land administration and policy improvement.
12.              The proposed project also draws lessons from the implementation
of the pilot project in the Sonsonate Department in El Salvador, financed
under PRISA (Ln. 3576-ES), which has become a showcase for other Central
American countries. This pilot has covered the 160,000 hectares of Sonsonate
Department. This first phase showed that the registration program was highly
popular, and enhanced when adequate local publicity was given before visits by
field teams. It also provided the first set of hard data on the magnitude of
the problem and target group: it was found that, in the first two
municipalities, about 60 percent of properties were registered, and less than
half have cadastral references. Moreover, of the unregistered parcels, most
were small (76 percent of the urban were below 500 m2 and 91 percent of the
rural were below 3 ha). It also demonstrated that conflicts are rare, even in
an area with a legacy of massive population displacement and where land
records would be expected to be contested. The pilot also showed that, even
if the methodology of systematic adjudication is well understood, these
projects cannot be turn-key because the private sector is not always
accountable or capable to deliver the quality product required to quell the
populations' land security concerns, particularly because the GoES is the
ultimate bearer of responsibility for the project These data confirmed the
poverty reduction potential and the public goods generation nature of the
proposed project. Furthermore, the pilot experience in cost minimization
yielded costs per hectare similar to recent experiences in similarly densely
populated countries in East Asia.
13.             Finally, the proposed project is a response to the explicit GoG
commitments under the Peace Accords. The establishment of PROTIERRA reduces
the potential for conflicting bureaucratic priorities. Lack of institutional
capacity is dealt with in the current project by technical assistance,
training, informed participation, and community development within the context
of Peace Accords and GoG commitment.
Poverty Category
14.             The project would have a heavy poverty focus and would be included
in the World Bank's Program of Targeted Interventions. Project beneficiaries
would be all those with land rights in the Peten but particularly those so far
excluded from land registry and cadastre services who are overwhelmingly poor
and indigenous.  Of the population of Peten, 12.7 W are indigenous and 58.4w
live in extreme poverty.
Environmental and Social Aspects
15.             The project has been assigned an environmental classification of
B. There are two aspects to be considered: impact on the environment and on
indigenous peoples. Environmental issues include regularizing possessory
rights over land (secure land tenure is expected to lengthen farmers' planning
horizon for better land management and promote investment) and impact on
socially disadvantaged groups. Because land regularization involves acquired
possessory rights as confirmed by public entities and/or neighbors and
communities, it potentially (i) avoids creating incentives for deforestation
because no evidence of use is required; and (ii) decreases settlement pressure
on protected areas because titled farmers have more secure tenure permitting
- 6 -



more intense farming and less need to migrate, and can be more relied upon to
control open access to adjacent protected areas. The project does not include
involuntary resettlement, because would recognize possession within the
existing legal framework and establish conflict resolution mechanisms.
16.             With respect to indigenous peoples, the Indigenous Peoples Sub-
accord constitutes an impressive framework of commitments in policy and
specific activities consonant with O.D. 4.20. A full Social Assessment and
Participation Plan will be available at the Public Information Center at or
prior to appraisal. As inputs to the Social Assessment, the Bank organized two
broad consultations with Mayan Elders in September and December of 1996, and
drafted an Indigenous Peoples Profile. Within this framework, clear guiding
principles to operationalize commitments were discussed with the GoG in March
1997, including informed participation, concertation and consultation, access
to provision or management of project services, and training of indigenous
peoples. The proposed Land Administration project design and implementation
will reflect the results of this participatory process.
Program Objective Categories
17.             Program of Targeted Interventions (PIT).
Contact Points
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone:       (202) 458-5454
Fax:             (202) 522-1500
Cora M. Shaw
Task Manager
(202) 473-9263
Guatemala Land Administration
Environmental Annex
The project has been assigned an environmental classification of B.
The Guatemala Land Administration would address two main aspects: impact
on the environment and on indigenous peoples.
Environmental issues include regularizing possessory rights over land
(secure land tenure is expected to lengthen farmers' planning horizon for
better land management and promote investment) and impact on socially
disadvantaged groups. Because land regularization involves acquired possessory
rights as confirmed by public entities and/or neighbors and communities, it
potentially (i) avoids creating incentives for deforestation because no
evidence of use is required; and (ii) decreases settlement pressure on
protected areas because titled farmers have more secure tenure permitting more
intense farming and less need to migrate, and can be more relied upon to
control open access to adjacent protected areas. The project does not include
involuntary resettlement, because would recognize possession within the
existing legal framework and establish conflict resolution mechanisms.
With respect to indigenous peoples, the Indigenous Peoples Sub-accord
-7 -



constitutes an impressive framework of commitments in policy and specific
activities consonant with O.D. 4.20. A full Social Assessment and
Participation Plan will be available at the Public Information Center at or
prior to appraisal. As inputs to the Social Assessment, the Bank organized
two broad consultations with Mayan Elders in September and December of 1996,
and drafted an Indigenous Peoples Profile. Within this framework, clear
guiding principles to operationalize commitments were discussed with the GoG
in March 1997, including informed participation, concertation and
consultation, access to provision or management of project services, and
training of indigenous peoples. The proposed Land Administration project
design and implementation will reflect the results of this participatory
process.
Hans P. Binswanger and Klaus Deininger, "World Bank Land Policy: Evolution and
Current Challenges." This paper was prepared for the World Bank Agricultural Sector
Symposium, 1994.
Environment Department, Research and Policy Division Working Paper No. 1992-35,
March 1992.
-8-



