Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4415-GU
Loan Agreement
(Land Administration Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated April 27, 2000
LOAN NUMBER 4415-GU 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated April 27, 2000, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank has received from the Borrower a letter dated June 25, 
1998, which letter describes the Borrower’s national land administration program (the 
Program); 
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), and which 
forms part of the first phase of the Program, has requested the Bank to assist in the 
financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:  
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans" of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997), with the modifications set forth below (the General 
Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Paragraph (c) of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions is modified to read as 
follows:
Page  2
"(c) Not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, the 
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a report, of such scope and in 
such 
detail as the Bank shall reasonably request, on the execution and initial 
operation of the Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived 
from 
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respective 
obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes of 
the 
Loan.".
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Banco de Guatemala" means the Borrower’s Central Bank; 
(b)
" Beneficiaries" means an individual, a rural community or a legal entity 
(other than the Legal Entity as hereinafter defined) that meet the criteria set forth 
in the Operations Manual to be adjudicated land rights; 
(c)
"CONTIERRA" means the Borrower’s Legal Assistance and Conflict Resolution 
Office (Dependencia Presidencial de Asistencia Legal y Resolución de Conflictos sobre 
la Tierra) established pursuant to Executive Accord No. 452-97; 
(d)
"CTP" means the Land Commission of El Petén (Comisión de Tierras del 
Petén) of the Borrower; 
(e)
"Decree No. 38-71" means the Borrower’s Decreto No. 38-71 of May 18, 1971 
which established the legal framework for, inter alia,  the adjudication of national 
land in the Department of El Petén, as amended;
(f)
"Decree No. 26-97" means the Borrower’s Decreto No. 26-97 of April 9, 
1997 (with the exception of Article 24) which established the legal framework for the 
protection of the Borrower’s cultural property; 
(g)
"Executive Accord No. 452-97" means the Borrower’s Acuerdo Gubernativo 
No. 452-97 of June 4, 1997 which established CONTIERRA, as such Executive Accord has 
been amended to the date of this Agreement; 
(h)
"IDAEH" means the Institute of Anthropology and History (Instituto de 
Antropología e Historia) of the Borrower established pursuant to the Borrower’s 
Executive Accord (Acuerdo Gubernativo) No. 22 of February 23, 1946;  
(i)
"INTA" means the National Institute for Agrarian Transformation 
(Instituto Nacional de Transformación Agraria) of the Borrower; 
(j)
"Legal Entity" means the entity referred to in Section 3.08 of this 
Agreement; 
(k)
"MAGA" means the Ministry of Agriculture, Livestock and Food (Ministerio 
de Agricultura, Ganadería y Alimentación) of the Borrower; 
(l)
"Municipal Agreement" means any of the agreements referred to in Section 
3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
(m)
"Operations Manual" means the manual referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (ii) 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(n)
"Participating Municipality" means any of the Borrower’s Municipalities 
located in the Department of El Petén benefited under the Project; 
(o)
"PMU" means the project management unit established within MAGA pursuant 
to the Borrower’s Executive Accord No. 307-97 of April 9, 1997; 
(p)
"Project Area" means the physical area covered by the Department of El 
Petén, excluding all core and multiple land use zones of Protected Areas located in 
such Department; 
(q)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the Project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on August 15, 1996 and on behalf of the Borrower on August 12, 1997; 
Page  3
(r)
"Protected Areas" means those areas which have been declared protected 
pursuant to the Borrower’s Decree No. 4-89 of January 7, 1989, as amended; 
(s)
"RGP" means the Borrower’s General Property Registry (Registro General de 
la Propiedad);
(t)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02(b) of 
this Agreement; 
(u)
"Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement referred to in Section 3.08 
(a) of this Agreement; and 
(v)
"Supplemental Letter" means the letter of even date herewith from IDAEH 
to the Bank setting forth IDAEH’s policies in the demarcation of cultural property.  
Section 1.03. Each reference in the General Conditions to the Project 
implementation entity shall be deemed as a reference to the Legal Entity. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
thirty-one million Dollars ($31,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project open and maintain in 
Dollars a separate special deposit account in Banco de Guatemala on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits into, and payments out of the Special 
Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement. 
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a fee in the amount equal to 
one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. On or promptly after the Effective Date, 
the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to 
itself the amount of said fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread. 
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the initial period from and including the 
date of this Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest 
Payment Date occurring thereafter, and after the initial period, 
each period from and including an Interest Payment Date to, but 
excluding the next following Interest Payment Date. 
(ii)
"Interest Payment Date" means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this Agreement. 
Page  4
(iii)
"LIBOR Base Rate" means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for value 
the first day of such Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the Interest Payment Date 
occurring on or next preceding the first day of such Interest 
Period), as reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
"LIBOR Total Spread" means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such Interest Period, below (or 
above) the London interbank offered rates, or other reference 
rates, for six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s 
outstanding borrowings or portions thereof allocated by the Bank 
to fund single currency loans or portions thereof made by it that 
include the Loan; as reasonably determined by the Bank and 
expressed as a percentage per annum. 
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six months’ notice to the Borrower of 
the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice period 
unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection thereto, in 
which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on February 15 and August 15 in each year. 
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall:
(a)
carry out: (i) Part A.1 of the Project through MAGA; (ii) Part A.2 of the 
Project through MAGA with the participation of CTP, CONTIERRA and IDAEH; (iii) Parts 
A.4 through A.8 of the Project through MAGA; (iv) Part A.9 of the Project through MAGA 
with the participation of CONTIERRA; (v) Part B of the Project through RGP; (vi) Parts 
C.1, C.2, C.3, C.4 (b), C.5, C.6 and C.7 of the Project through MAGA; and (vii) Part 
C.4(a) of the Project through MAGA with the participation of RGP, all with due 
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, 
financial, environmental, cultural, engineering and land adjudication and registration 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project; and 
(b)
(i) cause each Participating Municipality to carry out, within their 
jurisdiction, Part A.3 of the Project with the participation of MAGA and CONTIERRA 
pursuant to an agreement (the Municipal Agreement) to be entered  into between the 
Borrower and each Participating Municipality under terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, not later than thirty days after the Borrower has approved the 
Participating Municipality’s request to participate in the carrying out of Part A.3 of 
the Project; and (ii) take or cause to be taken all action, including the provisions 
of funds, facilities, services and other resources necessary or appropriate to enable 
each Participating Municipality to perform its obligations set forth in the 
corresponding Municipal Agreement, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action 
which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement. 
Page  5
Section 3.03. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (ii) of 
Section 3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out Part A.2 of the Project 
in accordance with the provisions of the Operations Manual. 
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (b) (i) of Section 3.01 
of this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause each Participating Municipality to carry 
out Part A.3 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Operations 
Manual. 
(c)
The Borrower, through IDAEH, shall participate in the execution of Part 
A.2 of the Project in accordance with the provisions of the Supplemental Letter. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall perform all of its obligations under the 
Municipal Agreements and shall exercise its rights thereunder in such a manner as to 
protect the interest of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan.
Section 3.05. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six months before the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan to ensure the 
continued achievement of the Project’s objectives; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan.
Section 3.06. (a)
 The Borrower shall operate and maintain during the 
implementation of the Project the PMU with functions and responsibilities satisfactory 
to the Bank, including, inter alia, the responsibility to coordinate, monitor and 
supervise the implementation of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PMU is at all times headed by a 
Project coordinator and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all with qualifications 
and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with monitoring and evaluation indicators, 
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, not later than June 30 of each calendar year of Project implementation, 
starting in the year 2000, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by December 31, 2001, or such later date as the 
Bank shall request, the reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said reports and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.08.  In the event that during Project implementation the functions and 
responsibilities of MAGA to carry out Part A.2 of the Project are assigned to an 
entity with separate legal personality, the Borrower shall:  
(a)
not later than thirty days after the occurrence of such event transfer, 
on a grant basis, the proceeds of the Loan (allocated to finance Part A.2 of the 
Project)  withdrawn pursuant to Section 2.02 of this Agreement and remaining with the 
Borrower to such entity pursuant to an agreement (the Subsidiary Agreement) to be 
entered into between the Borrower and such entity under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, including, inter alia, the pertinent obligations set forth 
in this Agreement;  
(b)
exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Agreement in such a manner as to 
Page  6
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of 
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not amend, 
assign, suspend, terminate, waive, abrogate or fail to enforce the Subsidiary 
Agreement or any provision thereof; and
(c)
 take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable the Legal 
Entity to carry out Part A.2 of the Project, and shall not take or permit to be taken 
any action which would prevent or interfere with the carrying out of Part A.2 of the 
Project by the Legal Entity. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower, through MAGA, shall establish and thereafter 
maintain a financial management system, including records and accounts, and prepare 
financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the 
operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months after the end of each such year: (A) 
certified copies of the financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section for such year as so audited; and (B) 
an opinion on such statements, records and accounts and report of 
such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Loan Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the Legal Entity shall have failed to perform any of its obligations 
under the Subsidiary Agreement;
Page  7
(b)
an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it 
improbable that the Legal Entity will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Subsidiary Agreement;
(c)
Executive Accord No. 452-97 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as 
to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of 
CONTIERRA to  assist the Borrower or the Legal Entity, as the case may be, and the 
Participating Municipalities in the carrying out of Parts A.2, A.3 and A.9 of the 
Project; 
(d)
the legal framework (which established the Legal Entity) or any provision 
thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced in such a manner so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of 
the Bank, the ability of the Legal Entity to carry out Part A.2 of the Project;
(e)
any of the actions referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (i) of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement shall have been reversed by the Borrower; and
(f)
Decree No. 26-97 or any provision thereof shall have been amended, 
suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of IDAEH to 
assist the Borrower or the Legal Entity, as the case may be, in the carrying out of 
Part A.2  of the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall 
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and 
(b)
any of the events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) or (e) or (f) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
the functions and responsibilities described in Article 3 of Decree No. 
38-71 have been assigned to MAGA or the Legal Entity, in a manner satisfactory to the 
Bank, to carry out Part A.2 of the Project; 
(b)
the Borrower has employed consultants to carry out Part C.6 of the 
Project; and 
(c)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, has been 
established by the Borrower as provided in Section 4.01 (a) of this Agreement.  
Section 6.02. The date July 26, 2000 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Page  8
Centro Cívico
Zona 1, Guatemala
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFIP
9207 MINFIP GU
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
Guatemala city, Guatemala, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By /s/ Manuel Maza Castellanos
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Acting Regional Vice President 
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
     Amount of the
    Loan Allocated
   % of Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)   to be Financed  
(1)
Works
   1,500,000
90% 
(2)
Goods
   2,500,000
100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory cost)
and 80% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants' services
(a) under Part A.2 of
   5,700,000)
      the Project
      )
Page  9
                  )
(b) under Part A.3 of
   3,800,000)
100%
      the Project
      )
      )
(c) under other Parts 
   8,100,000)
      of the Project
)
(4)
Training
     800,000
100%
(5)
Operating Costs            4,300,000
100% until withdrawals
under this Category 
have reached an 
aggregate amount of 
$2,500,000; thereafter
70% until withdrawals 
under this Category 
have reached an 
aggregate amount of
$4,000,000; and 40% 
       thereafter
(6)
Fee                          303,960
Amount due 
pursuant to 
Section 2.04
of this Agreement
(7)
Refunding of               2,000,000
Amount due 
Project Preparation
pursuant to 
Advance
Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement 
(8)
Unallocated                1,996,040
TOTAL                     31,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  
(c)
the term "Training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of the training 
activities under the Project, including the travel cost and per-diem of the trainers 
and trainees, rental of facilities and training materials; and
(d)
the term "Operating Costs" means expenditures incurred by the Borrower 
for recurrent costs associated with the implementation of the Project, including: (i) 
operation, leasing and maintenance of vehicles (which includes fuel, repairs and spare 
parts); (ii) office supplies, rental of office facilities and office utilities 
associated with the PMU; (iii) insurance for equipment and vehicles financed with Loan 
proceeds; (iv) communications expenses; (v) transportation costs as approved by the 
Bank; and (vi) salaries and travel and per-diem costs for the representatives of 
CONTIERRA in the Project Area and the MAGA’s personnel which will carry out 
supervisory activities under Part A.7 (b) of the Project.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:  
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding $3,100,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures before that date but after 
January 1, 2000; 
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (a) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless: (i) Article 21 of Decree 38-71 (which sets forth 
the limitations on land adjudication) has been amended or abrogated or superseded by 
subsequent legislation, all in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) a manual 
Page  10
which includes, inter alia, the guidelines for the implementation of Parts A.2 and A.3 
of the Project (the Operations Manual) has been approved by the Bank; and  
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (3) (b) of the table in 
paragraph 1 of this Schedule unless the condition referred to in paragraph 3 (b) (ii) 
has been met.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods estimated 
to cost less than $150,000 equivalent each with the exception of the first two 
contracts for goods to be procured under Parts C.1 (a) and C.2 of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for works estimated to cost less than 
$150,000 equivalent; (c) contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less 
than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) contracts for the employment of individual 
consultants costing less than $30,000 equivalent each; and (e) Training and Operating 
Costs as set forth in Categories (4) and (5) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to increase legal security of land 
tenure; and (b) to strengthen the legal and institutional framework for land registry 
and cadastre services, particularly in the Department of El Petén.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
Cadastre and Land Regularization 
1.
Carrying out of cartographic activities in the Department of El Petén. 
2.
Carrying out of a demand-driven national land adjudication process in the 
Project Area which consists of: (a) identifying potential land for adjudication; (b) 
carrying out cadastral activities in each solicitant’s plot of land; (c) addressing 
any land disputes that may arise during such process; (d) granting land rights to 
Beneficiaries; and (e) thereafter registering such rights in the office referred to in 
Part B.1 of the Project.
3.
Carrying out of a demand-driven municipal land adjudication process in the 
Project Area which consists of: (a) identifying potential land for adjudication; (b) 
carrying out cadastral activities in each solicitant’s plot of land; (c) addressing 
any land disputes that may arise during such process; (d) granting land rights to 
Beneficiaries; and (e) thereafter registering such rights in the office referred to in 
Part B.1 of the Project. 
4.
Design and carrying out of social communication campaigns to inform the 
population of the Project activities. 
5.
Installation of about 12 offices in the Project Area to provide free 
multilingual legal assistance to the local population and Participating Municipalities 
concerning the land adjudication and registration processes referred to in Parts A.2 
and A.3 above. 
6.
Creation of a data base with the information resulting from the land 
adjudication processes referred to in Parts A.2 and A.3 above for purposes of 
establishing an integrated parcel-based cadastre and registry system.
7.
(a) Improvement of national technical standards and performance criteria for the 
carrying out of land adjudication and registration activities in Guatemala; and (b) 
supervision of the activities mentioned in (a) herein for quality control purposes. 
8.
Strengthening of  the capacity of Participating Municipalities and of those 
entities and agencies to be selected by the Borrower to maintain and update land 
mapping and cadastral data. 
9.
(a) Strengthening of the institutional capacity of CONTIERRA to carry out its 
functions in the Department of El Petén through the establishment of field offices and 
the provision of training to its personnel in mediation and other conflict resolution 
Page  11
mechanisms; and (b) carrying out of: (i) national campaigns to inform the population 
of CONTIERRA’s mandate and current activities; and (ii) social monitoring studies on 
the carrying out of Parts A.2 and A.3 of the Project.
Part B:
Land Registry 
1.
Establishment of an RGP’s branch registry office in the Department of El Petén, 
including the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and 
utilization of equipment required to commence its operations. 
2.
(a) Modernization of the Department of El Peten’s land records maintained by RGP 
and INTA for purposes of managing the land registry information contained in such 
records; and (b) design of an integrated cadastral and registry system.
Part C:
Project Management Unit 
1.
Strengthening of the PMU to carry out its functions through the provision of 
technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of goods. 
2.
Carrying out of a review of foreign and domestic land legislation for purposes 
of improving Guatemala’s land legal framework. 
3.
Carrying out of studies to improve the system referred to in Part B.2 (b) of the 
Project. 
4.
(a) Carrying out of a review of RGP’s tariffs; and (b) development of new 
cadastre and registry services.
5.
Carrying out of: (a) socio-economic and land tenure analyses in the Protected 
Areas within the Department of El Petén; and (b) studies in fields related to land 
administration and tenure. 
6.
Provision of technical assistance to carry out the procurement activities under 
the Project. 
7.
Carrying out of technical audits of Parts A, B and C.1 through C.6 of the 
Project. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
August 15, 2004
  670,000
August 15, 2005
  710,000
August 15, 2006
  755,000
August 15, 2007
  800,000
August 15, 2008
  850,000
August 15, 2009
  900,000
August 15, 2010
  955,000
August 15, 2011                           
1,015,000
August 15, 2012                           
1,075,000
August 15, 2013                           
1,140,000
August 15, 2014                           
1,210,000
August 15, 2015                           
1,285,000
August 15, 2016                           
1,365,000
August 15, 2017                           
1,445,000
February 15, 2019
1,490,000
___________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, 
except as provided in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement 
Page  12
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provision shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B: 
(a)
Preference for domestically manufactured goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures  
1.
National Competitive Bidding 
(a)
Goods estimated to cost $25,000 equivalent or more but less than $150,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
(b)
Procurement of goods under this Part shall be carried out using standard 
bidding documents acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
Shopping 
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $700,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international or national shopping procedures, at the option 
of the Borrower, in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the 
Guidelines. 
3.
Procurement of Small Works 
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $200,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and 
relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions 
of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to: (i) each contract for goods and works to be procured 
under Part B.1 of this Section; and (ii) the first two contracts for goods to be 
procured under Part C.1 (a) of this Section, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
Page  13
and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts for goods to be procured under 
Part C.2 of this Section, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier, the Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a report on the comparison and evaluation of 
quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured, the Borrower 
shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the 
draft contract; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for Parts C.7 of the Project estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Single Source Selection
Services for Part C.6 of the Project may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be 
procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the 
Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Individual Consultants
Services for Parts A.4 through A.9, B.1, C.1, C.4 and C.5 of the Project may be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
Page  14
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines 
shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference for the 
particular assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and 
approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
(e)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $30,000, the terms of 
reference for the particular assignment shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall 
have been given.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (5) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement in respect of the Project; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equal to $2,000,000 in 
respect of the Special Account for the Project to be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the 
basis of such request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw 
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as 
the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the 
Page  15
Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Loan Account under the respective eligible Categories, 
and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement, any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account for the Project, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of 
twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan 
Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Project shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the 
extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the respective Special Account as of the date of such notice will be 
utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be. 
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of 
this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for 
cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including 
the General Conditions. 
Page  16
