                                     Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                       Report No: ICR0000462




            IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                                    (IBRD-44150)




                                       ON A

                                       LOAN

                       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$31.0 MILLION


                                      TO THE

                            REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA

                                       FOR A

                         LAND ADMINISTRATION PROJECT

                                SEPTEMBER 28, 2007




Sustainable Development Department
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region

                          CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective March, 2007)

                               Currency Unit: Quetzal

                                 1.00 Q. = US$ 0.13

                                 US$1.00 = 7.75 Q.

                                  FISCAL YEAR
                              January 1 ­ December 31

                      ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS       Country Assistance Strategy
CONAP     National Council of Protected Areas (Consejo Nacional de Áreas Protegidas)
CONTIERRA Presidential Commission for the Resolution of Land Conflicts (Comisión
          Presidencial para la Resolución de Conflictos de Tierra)
ERR       Economic Rate of Return
FONTIERRAS Land Fund (Fondo de Tierras)
GTZ       German Society for Technical Cooperation
IBRD      International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDAEH     Anthropology and History Institute (Instituto de Antropología e Historia)
IDB       Inter-American Development Bank
IGN       National Geographic Institute (Instituto Geográfico Nacional)
INAB      Forest National Institute (Instituto Nacional de Bosques)
INTA      National Institute for Agrarian Transformation
IRR       Internal Rate of Return
IUSI      Real property tax
KfW       German Institute for Technical Cooperation
M&E       Monitoring and Evaluation
MARN      Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (Ministerio de Ambiente y
          Recursos Naturales)
MTR       Midterm Review
NGO       Nongovernmental organization
NPV       Net Present Value
PAD       Project Appraisal Document
PDO       Project Development Objective
PPF       Project Preparation Facility
PROTIERRA Inter-institutional Commission for the Strengthening and Development of
          Land Property Rights (Comisión Interinstitucional para el Desarrollo y
          Fortalecimiento de la Propiedad de la Tierra)
QAG       Quality Assessment Group
QER       Quality Enhancement Review
RECTA     (Red Centroamericana en Administración de Tierras)
RGP       General Property Registry (Registro General de la Propiedad)
RIC       Cadastral Information Registry (Registro de Información Catastral)
SAA       Secretary of Agrarian Affairs (Secretaría de Asuntos Agrarios)
UNDP      United Nations Development Programme

USAID   U.S. Agency for International Development
UTJ     PROTIERRAS' Technical and Legal Unit (Unidad Técnico Jurídica)
VAP     Apostolic Vicariate of Petén (Vicariato Apostólico del Petén)




                       Vice President: Pamela Cox
                    Country Director: Jane Armitage
                     Sector Manager: Ethel Sennhauser
                Project Team Leader: Jorge A. Muñoz
                   ICR Team Leader: Zhong Tong

                                                  Guatemala
                                    Land Administration Project




                                                 CONTENTS




Data Sheet

 A. Basic Information....................................................................................................... v
 B. Key Dates................................................................................................................... v
 C. Ratings Summary....................................................................................................... v
 D. Sector and Theme Codes .......................................................................................... vi
 E. Bank Staff.................................................................................................................. vi
 F. Results Framework Analysis....................................................................................vii
 G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs .................................................................... x
 H. Restructuring (if any)................................................................................................. x
 I. Disbursement Profile................................................................................................. xi
 1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design.............................................. 1
 2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
 3. Assessment of Outcomes.......................................................................................... 17
 4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome......................................................... 21
 5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 21
 6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 24
 7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 25
 Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing......................................................................... 27
 Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................ 28
 Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis and Fiscal Impact Analysis .................... 38
 Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ........... 48
 Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results........................................................................... 50
 Annex 6. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR ........................................................... 51
 Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents ..................................................................... 55
 MAP

A. Basic Information

                                                                       Land Administration
Country:                Guatemala               Project Name:
                                                                       Project
Project ID:             P049616                 L/C/TF Number(s):      IBRD-44150
ICR Date:               09/28/2007              ICR Type:              Core ICR
                                                                       REPUBLIC OF
Lending Instrument:     APL                     Borrower:
                                                                       GUATEMALA
Original Total
                        USD 31.0M               Disbursed Amount:      USD 29.9M
Commitment:
Environmental Category: B
Implementing Agencies:
Registro de Información Catastral (RIC)
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:


B. Key Dates

     Process              Date             Process          Original Date    Revised / Actual
                                                                                 Date(s)
Concept Review:        06/18/1997    Effectiveness:          07/26/2000         07/26/2000
Appraisal:             05/26/1998    Restructuring(s):
Approval:              12/03/1998    Mid-term Review:                           10/23/2003
                                     Closing:                06/30/2003         03/31/2007


C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes:                                       Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome:                    Moderate
Bank Performance:                               Moderately Satisfactory
Borrower Performance:                           Moderately Satisfactory


C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
         Bank                  Ratings                Borrower                 Ratings
Quality at Entry:       Moderately Satisfactory Government:            Moderately Satisfactory

Quality of Supervision: Moderately Satisfactory Implementing
                                                Agency/Agencies:       Moderately Satisfactory

Overall Bank                                    Overall Borrower
Performance:            Moderately Satisfactory Performance:           Moderately Satisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
    Implementation                               QAG Assessments
      Performance              Indicators              (if any)               Rating

Potential Problem Project No                    Quality at Entry     Satisfactory

at any time (Yes/No):                           (QEA):
Problem Project at any                          Quality of
                          No                                        None
time (Yes/No):                                  Supervision (QSA):
DO rating before
                          Satisfactory
Closing/Inactive status:


D. Sector and Theme Codes
                                                              Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                              96
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector                                  100
Sub-national government administration                           4


Theme Code (Primary/Secondary)
Decentralization                                             Secondary        Not Applicable
Land administration and management                            Primary            Primary
Law reform                                                    Primary            Primary
Municipal governance and institution building                                   Secondary
Personal and property rights                                                     Primary


E. Bank Staff
         Positions                      At ICR                         At Approval
Vice President:           Pamela Cox                        Shahid Javed Burki
Country Director:         Jane Armitage                     Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Manager:           Ethel Sennhauser                  Maritta R. V. B. Koch-Weser
Project Team Leader:      Jorge A. Muñoz                    Cora Melania Shaw
                          Zhong Tong with Fernando
ICR Team Leader:
                          Galeana
                          Julia Wolf (FAO), Zhong Tong,
ICR Primary Author:
                          Jorge A. Munoz

F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Increase legal security of land tenure in El Petén Department.

Strengthen the legal and institutional framework for land registry and cadastre services in
El Petén.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)

No.
(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                          Original Target       Formally       Actual Value

   Indicator        Baseline Value          Values (from         Revised       Achieved at
                                             approval             Target      Completion or
                                            documents)            Values       Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Passage of law modernizing land rights in El Petén
                                                                             FONTIERRAS law
Value          Old Petén law and INTA                         FONTIERRAS passed in May
quantitative or                          n/a                  operating in a 1999, regulations
Qualitative)   law                                            timely manner.passed in May
                                                                             2000.
                                                              Law May

Date achieved                                                 1999,
                                                              Regulations,  03/31/2007

                                                              May 2000
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved, law thoroughly modernizes land property rights in Guatemala

achievement)   (100%).

Indicator 2 :  Passage of law establishing cadastral institutional framework and formalizing
               cadastral procedures
                                                                            Law of the Registry
                                                              Cadastre Law of Cadastral
                                                              enacted, new Information (41-
Value                                                         institution   2005) enacted in
quantitative orNo law or institution     n/a                  created, and  August 2005.
Qualitative)   exists                                         cadastral     Publication of
                                                              regulations   cadastral
                                                              published.    regulations
                                                                            expected in 2007.
                                                              August 2005,
                                                              Dec. 2005,
Date achieved                                                 Regulations   03/31/2007
                                                              awaiting
                                                              approval
Comments       95% achieved. RIC Law establishes new cadastral legal and institutional
(incl. %       framework for Guatemala. RIC fully functional since December 2005.
achievement)   Regulations are awaiting approval, expected December 2007.

Indicator 3 :  Establishment of an integrated institutional structure between the cadastre and
               registry, particularly for El Petén
                                                              Agreement        Technical
                                                              reached          committee between

Value                                                         between RIC cadastre and

quantitative or No such link exists         n/a               and RGP to       registry established.

Qualitative)                                                  establish        Development of
                                                              common           technical platform
                                                              technical        will occur during
                                                              platform.        Phase II.
Date achieved                                                  Feb. 2004       03/31/2007
Comments        Partially achieved (70%). Agreement between RIC and RGP reached. Technical
(incl. %        teams have been working since 2005, but no joint proposal has been approved
achievement)    yet.
Indicator 4 :  Opening of Registry office in El Petén
                                                                               Registry office is
Value           No Registry office exists                      Registry office open and fully
quantitative or                             1 office (5 staff) open and fully operational. RGP
Qualitative)    in El Petén                                    operational     will continue to
                                                                               finance the office.
                                                              Open May
Date achieved                                                 1999, fully      03/31/2007
                                                              oper. Jan 2000
Comments
(incl. %        Fully achieved, early on (100%).
achievement)

Indicator 5 :  Land conflicts resolved by CONTIERRA, as percentage of cases submitted
               (urban, rural)
Value                                                         90% (urban)
quantitative or 0, 0                        n/a               and 90%          78% (urban) and

Qualitative)                                                  (rural)          79% (rural)

Date achieved                                                 Periodically
                                                              reported         03/31/2007

Comments
(incl. %        Achieved satisfactorily. At project closing, CONTIERRA met 87% (urban) and

achievement)    88% (rural) of targets.


(b) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                             Original Target     Formally         Actual Value

   Indicator         Baseline Value           Values (from                        Achieved at
                                                approval          Revised        Completion or
                                               documents)      Target Values      Target Years
Indicator 1 :  Area covered with ortho-photos (km2)
Value
(quantitative   0                           35,500 km2        35,000 km2      36,000 km2
or Qualitative)

Date achieved                                                 Geodetic
                                                              Network in      03/31/2007

                                                             May 2004,
                                                             ortho-photos
                                                             & cartography
                                                             in Dec. 2006
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved (103%)
achievement)
Indicator 2 :  Cadastral surveying of national "rural" lands in hectares (area titled)

Value                                                        650,000 ha      723,983 ha
(quantitative  0                           11,400 km2        surveyed and    surveyed and
or Qualitative)                                              325,000 ha
                                                             titled.         29,889 ha titled.

                                                             Surveyed in

Date achieved                                                March 2007,
                                                             Titled, not     03/31/2007

                                                             achieved
Comments
(incl. %       Partially achieved (60% overall). 111% of target for surveyed lands achieved (S

achievement)   rating) but only 9% of titling (U).

Indicator 3 :  Cadastral surveying of municipal "urban" lands in hectares (area titled and
               registered)
                                                                             67,706 parcels
                                                                             surveyed and

                                                             50,000 parcels  28,747 parcels

Value                                                        surveyed and    titled and

(quantitative  0                           12 areas          15,000 parcels  registered. Plus

or Qualitative)                                              titled and      5,046 parcels

                                                             registered      surveyed outside El
                                                                             Petén (in Bartolomé
                                                                             de las Casas, Alta
                                                                             Verapaz)
                                                             Surveyed Feb/

Date achieved                                                2004,
                                                             Titled Sep.     03/31/2007

                                                             2005
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved (HS rating). 135% (surveyed) and 192% (titled and registered).
achievement)
Indicator 4 :  Municipal offices in the Project Area
Value
(quantitative  0                           12                12              12
or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                                May 2003        03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved. All 12 municipalities have offices functioning (100%)
achievement)
Indicator 5 :  Municipal boundaries measured (km)
Value
(quantitative  0                           n/a               1,100 km        1,305 km

or Qualitative)
Date achieved                                         Sep. 2004  03/31/2007
Comments
(incl. %       Fully achieved (103%).
achievement)


G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

                                                                     Actual
 No.     Date ISR
         Archived              DO                   IP           Disbursements
                                                                 (USD millions)
  1     03/25/1999          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.00
  2     06/22/1999          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.00
  3     11/23/1999          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.00
  4     05/19/2000          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                0.00
  5     10/26/2000          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                4.64
  6     05/14/2001          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                6.87
  7     10/16/2001          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                6.87
  8     04/09/2002          Satisfactory        Satisfactory                8.31
  9     12/11/2002          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               12.33
  10    06/19/2003          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               13.87
  11    06/27/2003          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               13.87
  12    12/22/2003          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               17.34
  13    05/19/2004          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               18.54
  14    12/20/2004          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               22.36
  15    04/09/2005    Moderately Satisfactory   Satisfactory               22.95
  16    07/19/2005          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               24.60
  17    12/23/2005          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               25.86
  18    06/28/2006          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               27.94
  19    12/18/2006          Satisfactory        Satisfactory               29.88



H. Restructuring (if any)
Not Applicable

I. Disbursement Profile

1. Project Context, Development Objectives, and Design

1.1 Context at Appraisal

Guatemala has a long history of high rural poverty and severe income inequality. For over
three decades, the country experienced civil war, with tens of thousands of people killed or
displaced. In May 1996, the Peace Accords were signed and these included specific
provisions related to land issues. Specifically, the Peace Accords called for the (i) promotion
of access to land (through the creation of a Land Fund, FONTIERRAS, and other means); (ii)
reform of the legal and institutional framework to increase tenure security and resolve
conflicts; and (iii) establishment of a modern, decentralized cadastre / registry system. At the
time the Guatemala Land Administration Project was appraised (1998), poverty afflicted over
75 percent of the country's population, 86 percent of the rural population, and 93 percent of
the indigenous population. It was estimated that at that time, 95 percent of rural parcels in
Guatemala were not registered and the country had one of the most skewed land distribution
structures in Latin America. Land administration services were restricted to the main cities.
The General Property Registry (RGP), for example, had offices only in Guatemala City and
Quetzaltenango. Not surprisingly, at the time of project preparation, only 30 percent of the
country's properties were registered, mostly in these two urban areas. Also, the country
lacked a comprehensive cadastre law governing the surveying of land parcels.

In 1997, an Inter-institutional Commission for the Strengthening and Development of Land
Property Rights (Comisión Interinstitucional para el Desarrollo y Fortalecimiento de la
Propiedad de la Tierra, PROTIERRA) was established to coordinate the Government's
efforts to address land tenure issues as agreed in the Peace Accords. The Commission created
a Technical and Legal Unit (UTJ) to function as its "executive arm" and started a number of
pilot projects to regularize land in selected areas. With the purpose of modernizing the public
sector, the Government supported decentralization measures to transfer responsibilities and
resources from the Central Government to the regional, departmental, municipal, and local
levels with the objective of improving public administration and delivery of public services.

Improving land tenure security was considered a precondition for: (i) reducing land conflicts
generated by unclear tenure, (ii) providing an incentive for long-term productive investments
in land, (iii) improving land use planning, and (iii) supporting decision-making on land-
related conflicts and policy reforms at the Government level. Due to its importance and its
effects on other land-related initiatives, the Project was considered a priority for the
Government and an instrument to achieve the objectives of the Peace Accords.

The Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time (Report No. 18036-GU, dated 14
July 1998), which was largely based on the 1996 Peace Accords, and other World Bank
reports had identified the resolution of land tenure issues as key for poverty alleviation. The
Bank's strategy to assist Guatemala in meeting the land-related objectives of the Peace
Accords was to finance two separate but parallel Adjustable Program Loans (APLs), which
was the ideal instrument for long-term reform programs.

The Land Administration Project was formulated at the same time as the Land Fund Project
(IBRD Loan 4432-GU). While implementation was simultaneous, the former dealt with

improving land tenure security, modernizing the land administration system, and resolving
land conflicts (with national legal and institutional reforms, and regional field activities
restricted to El Petén), while the latter focused on establishing an effective land redistribution
mechanism and supporting land reform beneficiaries1. At the time of their preparation, both
projects faced a volatile political context, an uncertain legal framework, and a complex and
incomplete institutional set-up for project implementation. In hindsight, these challenging
circumstances and the centrality of land issues in implementing the Peace Accords, provided
an historic window of opportunity in which the Bank was able to approve both projects.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDOs) and Key Indicators

The development objectives of the three-phase Program, of which this project represents
Phase I, were to assist the Government of Guatemala to: (i) increase legal security of land
tenure in Guatemala; and (ii) strengthen the legal and institutional framework for land
registry and cadastre services nationwide. These were to be achieved through a participatory
process for conflict mitigation and resolution that included indigenous and non-indigenous
communities. The program was supposed to be implemented over a period of at least 12
years. Phases I and II were planned to cover six departments each, while Phase III was
supposed to cover the remaining 10 departments (for a total of 22 for the country as a whole).

Phase I of the Program (i.e., this "Project") had the following Project Development
Objectives (PDO): (i) increase legal security of land tenure in the Department of El Petén,
and (ii) strengthen the legal and institutional framework for land registry and cadastre
services, particularly in El Petén. There is a discrepancy about the project area of Phase I of
the program between the time of appraisal (in May 1998) as reflected in the Project Appraisal
Document (Report No. 18550-GU, dated November 10, 1998) and the Loan Agreement
(IBRD Loan 4415-GU, negotiated on October 29, 1998, but signed on April 27, 2000).
Shortly before negotiations in late 1998, the Government and the Bank agreed that only El
Petén (which covers about one-third of Guatemala's territory) would be included in Phase I,
since it was the only department in Guatemala at the time with a comprehensive land law
which allowed land regularization activities as envisioned by the Project. The Loan
Agreement explicitly restricts the project area to the Department of El Petén. Unfortunately,
the PAD was not updated in time to reflect this restriction in the Project Area. Thus, for the
purposes of evaluating the results of Phase I, indicators and triggers apply only to El Petén.
As a result of successful results in El Petén, the Bank approved a limited project area
expansion to selected municipalities in Alta and Baja Verapaz in April 2005.

The original PDO indicators for Phase I were:
    · Change in private investment in land/municipality
    · Number of land conflicts successfully resolved
    · Maintenance of up-to-date cadastral and registry information in El Petén
    · Financial sustainability of the El Petén branch of the General Property Registry
    · Community participation and conflict resolution



1For a detailed review of the performance of the Land Fund Project, see its Implementation Completion
Report (Report No. 34615, dated March 21st, 2006).




                                                                                                     2

1.3 Revised PDO and Key Output Indicators, and Reasons/Justification

The     original     Project    Development     Objectives      were    maintained   throughout      the
implementation period. However, the original PDO indicators determined at appraisal were a
combination of impact ("change in investment"), outcome ("maintenance" of information and
"sustainability" of an institution), and output indicators ("number" of resolutions) without
quantified baselines or specific target values. Therefore, during the Mid-Term Review (MTR),
which took place in mid-2003, the PDO indicators were redefined and quantified, and target
values were agreed to (see Table 1).

Although the original output indicators by component were clearly quantified at appraisal,
some of these indicators were unimportant (number of staff) or actually referred to inputs
(financial or staff weeks). Consequently, during the MTR some output indicators were
revised as a result of the experience gained during the first three years of project
implementation. This was also intended to ensure consistency with the project activities
described in the Loan Agreement (see Table 2 for key output indicators and revisions). Some
revisions applied only to units of measurement, such as using hectares of land and number of
parcels instead of km2 or number of urban areas. Others were revised as a result of a better
understanding of the issues on the ground. For example, during implementation, the use of
ortho-images proved to be faster and cheaper than aerial photography. Also, since the
delimitation of municipal boundaries within the Department of El Petén was recognized as
fundamental to ensure land tenure security, a corresponding indicator and target value were
included. Similarly, since the implementation showed that a considerable timing gap
inevitably emerges between the number of parcels surveyed (urban or rural) and those
eventually titled, so the titling target values were revised downward.

From the MTR onward, the revised PDO and individual component output indicators from
Tables 1 and 2 (and Table A2.1 in Annex 2) were used to monitor project performance and
evaluation of achievement of project objectives.

                   Table 1. Revised Project Development Objective Indicators

Development Objective Indicator              Baseline                          Target

1. Passage of Law modernizing land in El     1. Old Petén and INTA laws in     1. FONTIERRAS law
Petén                                        force                             passed

2. Passage of law establishing cadastral     2. No law or institution exists   2. Law passed and
institutional framework and formalizing                                        Cadastral entity created
cadastral procedures

3. Establishment of an integrated            3. No such link exists            3. Formal agreement
institutional structure between the cadastre                                   reached between RIC
and registry, particularly for El Petén                                        and RGP to establish
                                                                               common tech. platform


4. Opening of Registry offices in El Petén   4. No Registry in El Petén        4. Registry office open
                                                                               and fully operational

5. Land conflicts resolved by
CONTIERRA, as percentage of cases            5. 0, 0                           5. 90%, 90%

submitted (urban, rural)



                                                                                                       3

                Table 2. Key Project Component, Subcomponent, and Activity
                                        Performance Indicators

Output Indicator                                            Original Target         MTR Revised
                                                                                    Indicator and Target

Component 1) Land Regularization
Cartographic activities
- Establishment of new basic geodetic network               40 points               40 points

- Production of a 1/30,000 aerial photo over 35,500 km2     35,500 km2              Ortho images instead,
                                                                                    with maps 35,000 km2
- Production of a 1/8,000 aerial photos, and 20cm-          40 km2
accurate maps over 40 km2 (urban areas)                                             Ortho images instead,
- Prod. of 1m-accurate ortho-photos over 18,500 km2         18,500 km2              with maps over 55 km2

- Demarcation of all municipal boundaries in El Petén       n/a                     1,100 km
Adjudication process of rural lands
- Geo-referencing, surveying, titling, and registration of  11,400 km2              650,000 ha. surveyed
rural ("national") lands                                                            325,000 ha. titled

- Geo-referencing, surveying, titling, and registration of  12 municipal areas      50,000 land parcels
urban ("municipal") lands                                                           surveyed
                                                                                    15,000 parcels titled

                                                                                    No target set, but
- Number of urban titles with a woman (as head of           n/a                     indicator tracked for
household) as titled holder (number, out of total)                                  monitoring purposes
Social communication campaigns
- Proportion of rural pop. aware of project activities      n/a                     75%
- Proportion of urban pop. aware of project activities                              75%
Component 2) Land Registry
- Establish a Registry office in El Petén                   1 office                Office established and
                                                                                    fully functional


1.4 Main Beneficiaries

The Project's primary direct beneficiaries include two principle groups. The first group
includes the owners and occupants of the 67,706 urban land parcels surveyed by the Project
(28,747 of which received registered titles, and 40% of which are female heads of household).
The second group includes the owners and occupants of the 723,983 hectares of surveyed
rural lands (2,981 properties titled and registered) in the Department of El Petén.2 The latter
included approximately 113,000 rural settlers with existing land claims resulting from the
agrarian reform process pursued by the National Institute for Agrarian Transformation


2 In El Petén, the multi-ethnic groups are organized on the basis of (a) language affiliation, and (b)
settlement history and length. In terms of language affiliation, there are two groups: Mayas (among them
Q'eqchi' and Itza) and Ladinos (refer to the table below). In terms of settlement type, there are various
groups including native Peteneros, colonists, settlers organized in cooperatives, and groups interested in
forest concessions. The intersection of these categories results in four groups of settlers: (a) native Petén
Ladinos and Itza Maya; (b) Ladino and Maya colonists, including displaced persons; (c) Ladino and Maya
settlers in cooperatives, including returning refugees; and (d) Ladino and Maya groups interested in forest
concessions.


                                                                                                           4

(INTA).3 These settlers benefited from either conflict-resolution regarding lands, surveying
of their land parcels, or ultimately, titling of their land rights. More generally, the
approximately 500,000 people living in El Petén at the time of appraisal (of which at least
210,000 were classified as "extremely poor") were primary indirect beneficiaries as users of
the improved land administration services in the Department. In April 2005, the number of
direct beneficiaries increased when the geographic project area was expanded slightly to
include selected areas within the municipality of Fray Bartolomé de las Casas, located in the
border area between the departments of El Petén and Alta Verapaz.

All 12 municipalities in the Department of El Petén benefited directly from the project in
terms of the demarcation of municipal boundaries, provision of municipal cadastre offices,
training, institutional strengthening and capacity-building programs.

Indirect beneficiaries also included the broader clientele of land administration services
outside of El Petén. In these areas, the project has been instrumental in developing cadastral
surveying methodologies and standards, reaching an agreement on a Cadastral Law which as
approved in August 2005. As a result of these efforts, many individuals and public and
private organizations have benefited from improved land administration services provided by
UTJ (transformed into the Cadastral Information Registry, RIC, since August 2005).

A second group of indirect beneficiaries included the users of several other public
organizations, including the Land Fund (Fondo de Tierras, FONTIERRAS), the Presidential
Commission for the Resolution of Land Conflicts (Comisión Presidencial para la Resolución
de Conflictos de Tierra, CONTIERRA), the National Property Registry (Registro General de
la Propiedad, RGP), the National Council for Protected Areas (Consejo Nacional de Áreas
Protegidas, CONAP), the National Forest Institute (Instituto Nacional de Bosques, INAB),
the National Geographic Institute (Instituto Geográfico Nacional, IGN), the Ministry of
Environment and Natural Resources (Ministerio de Ambiente y Recursos Naturales, MARN),
the Apostolic Vicariate of Petén (VAP), and other nongovernmental organizations (NGOs).

Financial institutions were indirect beneficiaries of the project as well. They benefited from
an increase in financial transactions where land was used as collateral. Initially, only formal
banks were involved, but later regional savings and credit cooperatives also offered financial
services to project beneficiaries. The target beneficiary populations of projects financed by
other donor agencies and NGOs also benefited indirectly due to the project's pivotal role in
providing a stable framework for coordination among the various supporters of the long-term
National Land Administration Program, including the Inter-American Development Bank
(IDB), United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), and several bilateral cooperation
agencies.




3In 1962, an agrarian reform law (Ley de Transformación Agraria Decreto No. 1551; INTA 1981) was
enacted which contained provisions for addressing the problems of land concentration and underutilization.
Unutilized lands could be legally taxed and/or expropriated. Nevertheless, these dispositions were not
implemented (World Bank 1978). Nevertheless, for the following three decades (until the enactment of the
FONTIERRAS Law in 1999) much land was allocated in El Petén which, in the absence of a cadastre and
with an incomplete registry, over time led to the development of informal land market transactions.


                                                                                                        5

1.5 Original Components

Component 1 Cadastre and Land Regularization (US$31 million)
The objective of this component was to carry out comprehensive cadastral surveying, conflict
resolution, and titling of both rural (or "national" as they are legally known in Guatemala)
lands and urban ("municipal") lands for the entire Department of El Petén, excluding
protected areas. The open and participatory manner in which project activities were
conducted has been critical to the resolution of conflicts. Key activities supported under this
component were: (a) modernizing the existing geodetic network; (b) mapping of the entire
Department of El Petén with ortho-photo imaging (approximately 36,000 km2); (c)
geographical and legal data acquisition, including fieldwork to measure and demarcate each
parcel of land, clarify property rights, resolve on-site boundary disputes, and provide titles to
landholders; and (d) conflict resolution, which included conflict identification, monitoring,
and resolution in a participatory process.

Component 2 Land Registry (US$2 million)
This component supported the establishment of a Registry office in El Petén, the
strengthening of the RGP more generally, and the design of an integrated cadastral-registry
system. Activities supported under this component included: (a) Basic infrastructure, training,
communications links, and operational costs of the Registry office in El Petén; (b) Scanning
of land documents in El Petén; (c) Development of information technology infrastructure;
and (d) Studies to improve the operational efficiency and technological compatibility of the
RGP databases with those being created by the cadastral process.

Component 3 (US$6 million)
This component supported the establishment and operation of the Project Implementing
Agency (UTJ, which in August 2005 RIC) responsible for the implementation, administration,
procurement and financial management, monitoring and evaluation, and financial audits of
the project. UTJ/RIC was also in charge of coordination with other projects, donors, NGOs,
and civil society. Of particular importance was the component for technical assistance and
training for procurement and supervision of project implementation. This component also
included the issuing of studies such as: (a) legislation to improve land legal framework and
scaling-up registry activities to the rest of the country; (b) an integrated parcel-based cadastre
and registry system; (c) a tariff system and new systems to promote the land registry and
cadastre; and (d) socioeconomic and land tenure studies. Finally, the financing of vehicles,
field and office equipment, furniture, consultant services, and training were also included in
this component.

1.6 Revised Components

The original project objectives and components were maintained throughout project
implementation.

1.7 Other Significant Changes

There were no revisions in the Project Development Objectives or individual component
objectives. Some changes were made in the following areas: (a) the name and legal status of
the Implementing Agency; (b) the timing of project implementation; (c) the definition and



                                                                                                6

quantification of PDO and component output indicators was refined; (d) a minor expansion in
geographic scope; and (e) project activities and implementation modalities.

    (a) Change of name and legal status of Implementing Agency
The Registry of Cadastral Information (RIC) was created by Legislative Decree 41-2005
(RIC Law) and approved by the Guatemalan Congress on June 15, 2005 as an autonomous
public institution with the objective of establishing, maintaining, and updating the cadastre.
This law effectively replaced a temporary unit created by decree (UTJ) with a permanent
entity created by law. RIC assumed all the responsibilities and assets of UTJ (including all
those financed by the Project), and it became the implementing agency of the Land
Administration Project. This change symbolized the achievement of one the Project's (and
the longer-term Program's) development objectives; namely, establishing a coherent legal
and institutional framework for cadastral services for the country.

    (b) Timing of project implementation
Although the Project was approved by the Bank's Board in December 1998, it was approved
by the Guatemalan Congress only in March 2000 (and signed in April 2000). This delay was
due to the intense discussions in Guatemala at the time about the new Land Law (the so
called FONTIERRAS law approved in May 1999, and its regulations approved in May 2000).
Understandably, Guatemalan authorities were reluctant to approve a project loan until their
land rights legal framework was clarified. Consequently, the significant delay in declaring the
loan effective (on July 26, 2000) was due to the Government's slow approval process,
unrelated to project operational matters. The project's closing date was extended three times.
The first extension was granted from June 30, 2003 until May 31, 2005. The undisbursed
loan in March 2003 amounted to US$17.9 million. This first extension was largely to
compensate for the significant delays between Board Approval and Loan Effectiveness (more
than 18 months). The extension was approved by the Bank because Government had met four
critical implementation milestones agreed with the Bank in 2002, namely: (a) international
bidding for works in the rural areas had taken place, (b) more than 15,000 urban lots had been
surveyed, (c) more flexible mechanisms were created to facilitate payments for land at the
municipal level, and (d) the technical design to integrate the cadastral with the registry
system had advanced.

The second extension was granted from May 31, 2005 to May 31, 2006. The Government
requested this extension in order to take advantage of the Bank's recently-approved changes
in financing procedures which allowed for more flexible counterpart funding arrangements.
In light of the Government's overall fiscal constraints, the subsequent reallocation of
expenditure categories and change in financing parameters greatly facilitated project
implementation and initiation of preparatory activities for Phase II of the APL Program. A
third and final extension was granted from May 31, 2006 until March 31, 2007. This
extension was justified on the basis that rural titling was still to be completed and that the
institutional setup and human resources needed to be maintained in place until Phase II
started.

    (c) Better definition and quantification of PDO and component output indicators
As noted in 1.3 above, in the course of the Mid-Term Review in 2003, the PDO and
component output indicators were redefined and quantified in order to more accurately
indicate progress in achieving the PDOs and individual component outputs, and to
incorporate the lessons learned during the first 3 years of project implementation.


                                                                                             7

    (d) Minor expansion in geographic scope
As noted earlier, in April 2005, the geographic project area was expanded slightly to include
selected areas within the municipality of Fray Bartolomé de las Casas, located in the border
area between the departments of El Petén and Alta Verapaz. The additional costs from this
Project Area expansion were covered by savings generated in the implementation of cadastre-
related activities in urban areas of El Petén.

    (e) Modifications of cadastral techniques, implementation modalities, and project
        activities
Mapping techniques: At the beginning of the project, aerial photography was used to collect
cartographic information, but this turned out to be inappropriate given the large forest cover
in El Petén. The project team then decided to purchase satellite images (which is considerably
less expensive) in order to produce maps that would allow the digitalization of topographic
elements (roads, rivers, and so forth) and the planning of the fieldwork.

Land regularization in urban areas: As a result of the considerable investments in
developing and validating cadastral surveying techniques and training technical staff (field
and supervisory staff) early on, by 2002 UTJ had developed the capacity to implement, on its
own, land regularization activities in urban areas. It was thus decided that implementation of
these urban activities by UTJ staff, instead of subcontracting foreign firms, was preferable as
it was faster, cheaper, and strengthened local capacities.

Municipal boundaries: The determination of the municipal boundaries was not included in
the PAD as a specific project activity and thus had no indicator. But this was essential for
land regularization purposes and needed to be monitored. The definition of the 1,300
kilometres of municipal boundaries with El Petén has allowed establishing legally the area
under the jurisdiction of each municipality. This has also served to resolve conflicts between
communities residing in bordering municipalities.

Demarcation of Protected Areas: Following the successful results of a pilot implemented
after the 2003 Mid-Term Review, the Bank approved in March 2005 a Government request to
include the demarcation of selected protected areas under the Project. The cartography and
mapping of protected areas were considered necessary to achieve one of the main
objectives of the project: harmonizing El Petén's cadastral and registry information. This
change was needed because under the modified legal framework, the harmonization of
cadastral and registry information could not be carried out without proper demarcation of
protected areas.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design, and Quality at Entry

During the negotiation of the Guatemala Peace Accords, the Bank was recognized as an
effective partner that could play a strong coordinating and "honest broker" role. This was
voiced during the 1997 Country and Sector Implementation Review, where the Government
of Guatemala specifically requested the Bank play a coordinating and technical assistance
role on land administration issues.



                                                                                             8

In a Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) Review, overall project design was rated satisfactory.
It was highlighted that the project had a strong social focus in terms of alleviating poverty
and reducing exclusion. The project clearly addressed key issues identified by target
beneficiaries, residents of El Petén, were land tenure insecurity and inadequate land
administration services. The report appreciated that a high level of attention was given to
conflict resolution. The QEA criticized the appropriateness and realism of project operations,
and considered that many issues had been left as a condition of effectiveness or disbursement.
Also, the QEA assessment criticized the fact that no provision had been established for direct
cost recovery. The last two factors were the only ones rated as moderately satisfactory in the
QEA.

The design of the project was based on the Bank's experience in land-related projects
throughout Latin America and on participatory consultations with various stakeholders,
including high-level Government authorities such as the General Secretary of the Presidency,
the Finance Commission of the Congress, the Vice-president of the Congress, the Ministry of
Agriculture, the Ministry of Finance, the Secretary of the Peace Accords, and the Paritarian
Land Commission of Indigenous Peoples.

The social assessment carried out during project preparation identified a strong demand for
land regularization services and for an open and transparent field-based adjudication process.
Accordingly, the Project's adjudication and conflict resolution processes were highly
participatory. The Indigenous Accord (an integral part of the Peace Accords) constitutes a
framework of commitments of policy reforms and specific activities consonant with O.D.
4.20. The guiding principles to implement these commitments, including informed
participation, consultation, access to provision or management of project services, and
training of indigenous communities, were discussed with Government in March 1997. A
Local Community Participation and Support Plan (Annex 12 of the PAD), which reflected all
relevant concerns, was also agreed to with the Government. Mayors of the municipalities in
El Petén confirmed their support for the Project by sending letters to the President of the
Republic and the Congress. In sum, the Project enjoyed broad support from the Government
at various levels and from civil society organizations in El Petén.

Project preparation was satisfactory in terms of reaching difficult agreements with and
commitments from the Guatemalan authorities at a time of high political volatility and
uncertainty, particularly regarding land issues. However, project design suffered from a few
weaknesses. As noted above, PDO indicators were a combination of impact, outcome, and
output indicators without quantified baselines or specific target values. In particular, no
baseline data was collected on beneficiaries' living conditions, on land markets in El Petén,
or on environmental conditions at the time. Also, the project had a difficult start during the
first couple of years due to the weak legal framework. Even though this was, in a sense,
inevitable and a decision was made to move ahead regardless, it limited the operational
capacity of the Project's implementing agency (UTJ).

2.2 Implementation

Project implementation was influenced by a number of external and internal factors, positive
and negative. The project had a slow start. Between 1997 and 2000, UTJ, the Project



                                                                                            9

Implementing Agency, carried out pilot activities in the Municipality of San Francisco using
resources from a Project Preparation Facility (PPF). Effectiveness was delayed by 18 months,
largely as a result of a slow approval process in Guatemala at a time when debate in Congress
about the new land law was still going on and the country was facing general elections in
1999. Once Loan Effectiveness was declared in July 2000, implementation accelerated.

External factors outside the control of the Government
Project implementation was facilitated by the advent of better, cheaper, and faster
technologies required for land administration services. For example, the low cost availability
of satellite images at a resolution which allowed mapping of the Project Area reduced the
costs and time of this fundamental step in the land regularization process. Similarly, over
time the availability of improved individual Global Positioning System (GPS) instruments
considerably reduced the time required to obtain parcel coordinates in the field. Likewise, the
arrival of more powerful computers, which were not available at the time of project
preparation, considerably reduced the time required to process data and print the
documentation needed to issue and register titles.

Another important positive factor which greatly assisted project implementation was the
virtually uninterrupted international support to Guatemala to meet the Peace Accords targets.
In particular, explicit support by many bilateral and multilateral donors to the specific land
administration provisions of the Peace Accords (such as passage of a cadastral law) provided
strong incentives for most Government agencies to meet their obligations under the project
(FONTIERRAS was a notable exception, see next section below).

Also, between 2001 and 2005, Central American governments and the Bank promoted the
exchange of experiences among different land administration projects in the region through a
series of seminars sponsored by the Central American Network in Land Administration (Red
Centroamericana en Administración de Tierras, RECTA) and the setting up of an Internet
portal (www.landnetamericas.org/contact.asp) which contributed to the assimilation of
lessons learned and avoidance of costly mistakes.

Internal factors within the control of Government
The most significant positive factors which helped project implementation were: (i) passage
of the FONTIERRAS Law in 1999 (regulations in 2000) which revised the overall legal
framework for land administration, particularly regarding adjudication of rights in rural areas
("national lands"); (ii) strong political support to UTJ (and later RIC) throughout project
implementation; (iii) passage of the cadastre law in August 2005 which turned the temporary
UTJ into a permanent and strong RIC, and converted into law the cadastral procedures and
methodologies developed during project implementation; and (iv) after a severe credibility
crisis in 2003, the General Property Registry launched a long-overdue process of institutional
reforms, which is gradually leading to a more consolidated integration between the cadastral
and the registry functions of land administration.

On the other hand, several factors under the control of Government hindered project
implementation at various stages. First, irregular and, at times, unpredictable transfers of
counterpart funds to UTJ restricted some project activities at various times during project
implementation. Second, the performance of FONTIERRAS, responsible for titling of rural
lands, has been unsatisfactory throughout most of the Project's implementation period.
Despite the clear legal mandate to perform titling activities (both under the 1999 law and the


                                                                                            10

Project's legal covenants) and direct financial support from the Project, FONTIERRAS
proved unable to keep up with the rapid pace of cadastral surveying activities.
FONTIERRAS' disappointing performance under the Project was due to two main reasons: (i)
FONTIERRAS' competing mandates (one, facilitating access to land through market
mechanisms and two, regularizing national lands) often resulted in the latter having only
secondary importance to its constituents; and (ii) FONTIERRAS is an autonomous entity run
by a Board which is not under complete Government control. Although some may argue that
FONTIERRAS' autonomy from Government control may have benefits related to
FONTIERRAS primary functions, it clearly proved to be an impediment to the achievement
of one of this Project's critical outputs, namely, the titling of rural properties. Repeated
efforts by UTJ (and later RIC), the Ministry of Agriculture (which chairs the FONTIERRAS
Board), and Bank supervision missions to influence the behaviour of FONTIERRAS yielded
limited results. And third, approval of the RIC law took much longer than anticipated, which
meant the cadastral procedures developed under the Project were in legal limbo for about 5
years.

Factors within the control of the Project Implementing Agency
As noted earlier, the Project Implementing Agency, UTJ (and later RIC), enjoyed strong
political support throughout project implementation. This was reflected in four important
ways. First, UTJ had very stable leadership throughout project implementation. Second, UTJ
managed to develop strong operational partnerships with all 12 municipalities in El Petén,
CONTIERRA, the General Property Registry, the Vicariate of Petén, and other important
organization. Third, UTJ served as a very effective focal point for international donor
coordination related to land administration. And fourth, UTJ developed and maintained a
strong cadre of technical staff, particularly for field-level activities.

UTJ's effectiveness was also reflected in the widespread and positive "name recognition"
that it had in the field among residents in El Petén. The understandable initial reluctance of
many people to participate in land regularization activities, for fear that this may lead to high
taxation, was gradually overcome thanks to effective communication campaigns, strong
partnerships with municipal governments, and strategic alliances with key stakeholders such
as the Church.

The single most significant shortcoming by UTJ was the long delay in launching the
international bidding process for rural land regularization activities. Since this activity was
critical for achievement of the rural surveying and titling targets and the international contract
represented roughly one-fifth of the loan, its delay by about two years seriously handicapped
the Project. By project closing in March 2007, the most significant shortcoming of the Project
is the limited number of titled rural properties.

The 2003 Mid-Term Review
The Bank carried out a comprehensive Mid-Term Review of project implementation from
May to October 2003 which resulted in the adoption of a detailed action plan to address the
Project's shortcomings to date. At the time of the MTR, the Project's main achievements
were: (i) well-established partnerships and institutional strengthening with all 12
municipalities in El Petén; (ii) major accomplishments in terms of cadastral surveying and
tilting of urban lands; (iii) regular support and strengthening of CONTIERRA in conflict
resolution throughout El Petén; and (iv) establishment and regular functioning of the
Registry's office in El Petén.


                                                                                               11

The main shortcomings identified at the time were: (i) baseline data on the Project's main
indicators had not been collected; (ii) land regularization activities in rural areas were
seriously delayed; and (iii) the development of an integrated cadastre (ie, geographical data
on land parcels) - registry (legal information on the owners of land parcels) information
system was moving very slowly.

The MTR resulted in the adoption of specific measures to address the Project's shortcomings
identified at the time. First, during the MTR, the Project's PDO and individual component
output indicators were revised and quantified (see Section 1.3 and Tables 1 and 2 above, and
Table A2.1 in Annex 2). As part of the action plan agreed to at the MRT, UTJ also
significantly strengthened its monitoring and evaluation functions. It established a system
which reported to the Bank progress on Project performance indicators at least quarterly, and
often monthly. Second, the international contract to implement regularization activities in
rural lands was signed in May, 2003 and was subject to close supervision and monitoring by
UTJ since then. And third, the Project increased its support to the General Property Registry
in order to encourage an institutional reform process there and facilitate the development of
an integrated cadastre ­ registry information system.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation, and Utilization

Project design envisioned two sets of monitoring mechanisms: (i) inter-institutional
coordination and information sharing on broad land administration issues and (ii) monitoring
of project-specific performance indicators. Regarding the first, as noted in 2.2 above, UTJ
played a pivotal role in coordinating the activities of several government and civil society
organizations involved in land administration matters. In particular, it ensured that different
cadastral surveying activities taking place in various regions of the country shared a
minimum set of common techniques and standards. UTJ also served as an effective focal
point for international donor coordination.

The monitoring of project-specific performance indicators, on the other hand, was barely
operational during the first 3 years, until the Mid-Term Review when reporting of Project
performance indicators was significantly improved and regularized. As part of the action plan
agreed to at the MTR, UTJ reported to the Bank, at least quarterly, progress on achievement
of the Project Development Objectives (Table 1 above) and provided an updated detailed list
of individual component output indicators (see Table A2.1 in Annex 2, a summary of which
is presented in Table 2 above). The M&E unit periodically also reported data that identified
the proportion of women beneficiaries (as heads of households) as the primary title holder of
the land parcel (39.8 percent by project closing).

In addition, starting in 2004, UTJ staff working on Monitoring and Evaluation functions
devoted increased attention to the collection of data and preparation of studies to evaluate the
performance of the project and assess the achievement of the agreed triggers to move into
Phase II of the program (see Section 2.5 below). They commissioned an independent
evaluation of the Project (which was a pre-requisite for preparation of Phase II), including a
survey of land values used for the ex-post economic analysis for this ICR (see Annex 3).
They also commissioned an independent project beneficiary assessment and an updated




                                                                                             12

social assessment, the results of which have been used in this ICR and for preparation of
Phase II.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance

The project triggered OD 4.01 (Environmental Assessment), OP 4.04 (Natural Habitats), OP
4.11 (Cultural Property), OD 4.20 (Indigenous Peoples), and OP 4.36 (Forestry). Safeguard
issues were correctly identified during project preparation, the safeguard measures adopted
were adequate, and compliance with safeguard issues was generally satisfactory.

Environmental Assessment and Demarcation of Protected Areas
As required by OD 4.01, an environmental assessment was carried out in 1998 and it
concluded that there were no significant environmental concerns associated with the project,
given that protected areas were excluded from the land regularization activities to be financed
by the Project. At the time of Project appraisal, the Bank's recommended course of action for
land administration projects was to stay away from protected areas until country conditions
(e.g., an improved legal and institutional framework for land issues) and project operational
experience showed that the demarcation of protected areas could be carried out in compliance
with Bank safeguards. In the following years, experience in several Bank-financed projects in
Latin America and elsewhere showed that the demarcation of protected areas was desirable
and could be incorporated into land administration projects. Therefore, to bring the Project
into line with the Bank's knowledge and experience at the time, the project team decided, on
a pilot basis, to include selected protected areas in the Project's land regularization activities.

The 2003 Mid-Term Review evaluated project compliance with environmental safeguards
and made the following recommendations: (i) the project would implement a few pilot
environmental subprojects in order to assess the impact of land regularization activities (i.e.,
land tenure studies, mapping, physical demarcation of boundaries, etc.) in selected protected
areas; (ii) the procedures for the demarcation of protected areas by the firm in charge of
regularization of rural lands would be clarified; (iii) landowners' obligations and rights
regarding cultural sites and restrictions of use would be simplified; and (iv) an ex-post
environmental assessment would be carried out at the end of the Project. These
recommendations were largely implemented, except that the environmental assessment (and
an accompanying strategic environmental action plan) was not completed by the time the
Project closed in March 2007. Nevertheless, with an amendment to the Loan Agreement in
March 2005, which allowed the demarcation of protected areas, the Project completed the
demarcation of the external perimeter of the Biotopo San Miguel La Palotada (37,861
hectares), the Biotopo Cerro Cahuí (611 hectares) in the municipality of San José, and the
Tikal National Park (47,523 hectares) in the municipality Flores.

Demarcation of Archeological Sites
In compliance with OD 4.11, the Project's Loan Agreement included a Supplemental Letter
requiring the Anthropology and History Institute (Instituto de Antroplogía e Historia,
IDAEH) to demarcate any archeological site discovered in the course of land regularization
activities financed by the Project. The 2003 Mid-Term Review noted that the performance of
IDAEH in the demarcation of archeological sites largely complied with the Bank's
safeguards policies, but its operations moved considerably slower than those of UTJ. By the




                                                                                                13

end of the Project a total of 22 sites were demarcated in 7 municipalities in El Petén (a
detailed list of these sites is presented in Annex 2).

Indigenous Peoples
In compliance with OD 4.20, a Social Assessment was carried out during project preparation
(Annex 11 of the PAD). It identified some Mayan groups, mostly Qéqchi' and Itzá,
comprising 44.5 percent of the population of the Department of El Petén. The remaining 55.5
percent were considered ladinos, mostly settlers who migrated from various regions of
Guatemala. The Project signed an important collaboration agreement with the Apostolic
Vicariate of El Petén (Vicariato Apostólico del Petén) to offer free bilingual (Spanish and
Qéqchi) legal services to indigenous peoples benefiting from land regularization activities
financed by the Project. Typically, indigenous peoples communities benefited from a higher
frequency of meetings and other communication efforts in order to address their questions
and concerns about the Project. The lessons learned during the Project, in particular the
importance of involving a high-credibility interlocutor between project officials (government
and contractors) and indigenous peoples, have been incorporated into the design of Phase II
of the APL Program, which will cover selected areas in seven new departments of Guatemala,
some of which have higher proportions of indigenous peoples (see Section 2.5 below).

Financial Management and Audits
Financial Management functions were carried out by UTJ with the assistance of UNDP. At
the request of Government, the Project used UNDP as a financial agent. Bank loan proceeds
and Government counterpart funds were deposited in a UNDP account monitored by UTJ.
Although UTJ carried out the financial management functions--including conciliation of
accounts, inventories of project assets, contracting of external audits--and procurement
processing, payments were made by UNDP which provided monthly statements to UTJ.
Financial Management was considered satisfactory throughout most of Project
implementation, but was downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory in the last year of
implementation due to a 13-month delay in submitting the 2005 audit report. Except for these
two years, annual audits were submitted on time, and no major issues were identified by the
auditors. UTJ was staffed with a team of experienced financial management specialists and
benefited from the assistance of UNDP. The project maintained proper internal controls
(including segregation of fiduciary responsibilities) and oversight throughout implementation,
and management of project funds (including management of bank accounts, maintenance of
supporting documentation for project expenditures, and production of interim financial
reports) was satisfactory. Therefore, overall, financial management functions receive a rating
of moderately satisfactory.

Procurement
Procurement functions were also carried out satisfactorily throughout most of project
implementation. However, during the transition period resulting from the approval of the
RIC law (in August 2005) some project staff, including the most experienced
procurement specialist, left UTJ and were not promptly replaced when RIC was being
consolidated. Since these changes occurred at the tail end of project implementation, this
loss of procurement capacity did not negatively affect achievement of the Project
Development Objectives or compromise the use of project funds. One important
procurement issue which arose at the end of the project was the complaint raised by the
Project's single largest contractor, the Tracasa-Novotecni Consortium, in charge of carrying



                                                                                           14

out the cadastral surveying of rural parcels in most of the Project Areas in El Petén. The
complaint centered on a dispute over whether the payments for the contractors services were
exempt from taxes or not. The contractor wrote to the Bank regarding this dispute and, in
accordance to the Procurement Guidelines and other applicable Bank policies, the Bank
promptly referred the issue to Government and facilitated the dialogue between the two
parties until a final agreement to resolve the dispute was reached in March 2007. Overall,
procurement functions receive a rating of moderately satisfactory.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase

The Project had several positive outcomes in terms of achieving its Development Objectives,
namely, increasing land tenure security in the Department of El Petén through the
establishment of new legal and institutional framework for land registry and cadastre services.
The enactments of the FONTIERRAS Law in 1999 and the RIC Law in 2005, the
establishment of a Registry office in El Petén, and the agreement reached in 2004/2005
between RGP and RIC to integrate the cadastral (i.e., geographical) and registry (i.e., legal)
databases of land parcels are major positive outcomes of Phase I of the three-phase Land
Administration Program. By the time Phase I closed in March 2007, the status of Triggers for
Phase II of the Program had been met as follows:

1) Geographic coverage: Fully met
    · 100 percent of inter-municipal boundaries in the Department of El Petén mapped
    · 100 percent of urban parcels in El Petén surveyed
    · 100 percent of rural parcels in El Petén surveyed. Titling fell considerably behind.
        However, titling targets were not part of the trigger.
    · Registry office in El Petén fully operational after the first year.

2) Achievement of national program: Fully met
    · The project's implementing agency, UTJ, was transformed into RIC in August 2005,
        thereby establishing a strong institutional foundation for cadastral services for the
        entire country.
    · A communication strategy has been successfully tested and is ready for launching of
        Phase II of the Program.
    · Regulatory changes to Petén Law: No longer relevant, since the 1999 FONTIERRAS
        Law replaced the Petén Law. Trigger waived.

3) Social monitoring: Fully met
    · Update of Social Assessment, and compliance with applicable safeguards: Social
        Assessment updated for Phase II and safeguards complied with.
    · Evaluation of beneficiaries, as part of preparation of Phase II. Eighty-five percent of
        public in urban areas and 89 percent in rural areas rank the Project as good or very
        good.
    · Follow-up to the original Social Assessment, as part of preparation for Phase II,
        shows improvement in social conditions and community perceptions.

4) Institutional, technical, and social strengthening at Department of El Petén level: Fully met
    · 80 percent of UTJ technical staff internationally certified. By project closing 88
        percent of UTJ/RIC staff has been trained and internationally certified.


                                                                                             15

    · 100 percent of UTJ technical staff evaluated as competent by public. Survey shows
         that 97 percent of the public evaluates UTJ/RIC staff as competent. Although
         quantitatively short of target, the trigger can be considered met.
    · Participatory and conflict resolution methodology is accepted. Social monitoring
         assesses that the majority of the public evaluates the Project as good or very good.
         Although the Project's conflict resolution mechanisms continue being improved, this
         trigger can be considered met.

Accordingly, Phase II of the Program4 was prepared in 2005-2006 and approved by the
Bank's Board on December 14, 2006; it is expected to become effective by the end of 2007.
The Program's long-term development objectives remain unchanged. The Project
Development Objective for Phase II is to foster the process of achieving land tenure security
in seven new departments (Alta Verapaz, Baja Verapaz, Chiquimula, Escuintla, Izabal,
Sacatepéquez, and Zacapa) and the municipality of Pachalum in the Department of Quiché,
through the provision of efficient and accessible cadastral and land administration services.
This geographical coverage represents roughly 22 percent of Guatemala's territory, bringing
the total coverage from Phases I and II to about 50 percent of the country.

Phase II PDO indicators are:
    · 80 percent of new transactions in the project area conducted with validated and
         integrated cadastral and registral information.
    · 80 percent of land conflicts indentified during the cadastral survey are in a resolution
         process, out of which 50 percent are solved.
    · Satisfactory rating (third level on a four-scale basis) by at least 50 percent of National
         System of Cadastral Information (Sistema Nacional de Información Catastral, SNIC)
         users.
    · At least 70 percent of the targeted population in the project area participates in the
         cadastral survey.

Phase II of the Program is to be implemented over a six-year period and has a total cost of
US$62.3 million, about 50 percent higher than envisioned in 1998, to compensate for a
smaller present commitment from other donors, which currently amounts to about US$13.4
million under parallel financing arrangements5. Phase II will have four components: (i)
Cadastral and land regularization, (ii) Maintenance of cadastral information and municipal
services, (iii) Legal reforms and institutional strengthening, and (iv) Project management and
monitoring and evaluation.




4For a detailed description of Phase II of the Program, see its Project Appraisal Document, Report No.
37995-GT, dated November 15, 2006.

5In 1997-98, it was estimated that the three-phase Land Administration Program would cost about US$208
million (or about US$264 million at 2006 prices), of which the Bank would finance US$113 million
(US$143 million at 2006 prices), other donors US$ 63 million; and Government US$32 million. In 1998,
the Bank's expected contribution for Phase II of the Program was US$32 million (US$40.5 million at 2006
prices) and for Phase III US$50 million (US$63.3 million at 2006 prices). Thus, in real terms, the Bank's
contribution to Phase II (US$62.3 million) is about 50% higher than anticipated in 1998, while the expected
contribution to Phase III has been reduced by about 35 percent to US$41.4 million (in 2006 prices).


                                                                                                        16

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design, and Implementation

Rating: High overall relevance
The Project's objectives were highly relevant and consistent with the priorities of the
Government of Guatemala's commitments under the 1996 Peace Accords. The reform of the
legal and institutional framework to increase land tenure security and the establishment of a
modern, decentralized cadastre / registry system were two of the most important political
commitments reached by Guatemalan society under the Peace Accords. They are
fundamental ingredients for the resolution of conflicts and the reduction of poverty,
particularly in rural areas. The Project was also consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) at the time (dated July 14, 1998), which aimed at consolidating
peace, supporting programs designed to end the exclusion that has characterized Guatemala's
dualistic society and economy. The Project was also consistent with the new Government's
strategy (2004 to 2008 period) "Let's Go Guatemala" (Vamos Guatemala), under
implementation since early 2004, which includes three pillars: (i) Guate Solidaria (social), (ii)
Guate Crece/Compite (economic), (iii) Guate Verde (environmental). The Bank's strategy for
Guatemala for 2005­2008 (dated April 11, 2005) supports these three pillars. The Project was
primarily relevant to the second pillar, but it also contributed to the social and environmental
pillars.

The Project was highlighted for its strategic importance within the Bank's assistance program
to Guatemala during the visit of several Bank Executive Directors to the country in October
2005.

As noted earlier, project design was satisfactory in terms of reaching agreements at a time of
high political volatility and uncertainty in Guatemala, particularly regarding land issues. The
participatory nature of the land regularization methodologies implemented under the Project
and the emphasis on reaching broad political support for needed legal reforms have also been
highly relevant, as demonstrated by the successful approval of the RIC Law in August 2005.

The Land Administration Program's overall objectives continue to be of high relevance for
achieving the commitments under the Peace Accords, as confirmed by the strong support
provided by the Guatemalan authorities in the preparation of Phase II of the Program.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Increase legal security of land tenure in the Department of El Petén
When the Project was designed, Guatemala did not have a unified law that regulated land
property issues in a comprehensive way. Most of the country was regulated then by the INTA
Law (named after the Instituto Nacional de Transformación Agraria) which addressed a
broad range of issues related to the redistribution of land to reduce concentration and
underutilization of land, but was not considered a land property rights law per se. On the
other hand, the Department of El Petén had its own land law (passed in 1971, amended in
1972 and 1973) which laid out specific procedures for adjudication of land rights. Likewise,



                                                                                            17

the country did not have a comprehensive cadastre law governing the surveying of land
parcels, nor did it have a credible institutional set-up for resolving land conflicts. The
enactments of the FONTIERRAS Law in 1999 and the RIC Law in 2005 provided a strong
foundation for increasing legal security of land tenure in the entire country. Achievement of
the PDO is rated moderately satisfactory because the RIC Law regulations have not been
approved yet--approval is expected by the end of 2007.

In addition, the Project facilitated the opening of three new regional branch offices of
CONTIERRA, the Presidential Commission for Resolution of Land Conflicts, to increase the
outreach to project beneficiaries. The offices provided bilingual and free legal assistance to
municipalities and beneficiaries. In addition, participatory conflict management programs for
municipal mayors and beneficiaries were organized. As a result of these efforts, between
1998 and 2007, 1,266 land conflict cases in the project area were submitted to CONTIERRA,
of which 78 and 79 percent of urban and rural cases, respectively, were satisfactorily solved.

Strengthen the legal and institutional framework for land registry and cadastre services,
particularly in El Petén

Enactment of the RIC Law also provided for the legal recognition of the cadastral surveying
methodologies, standards, and actual field results achieved during project implementation.
Moreover, the RIC Law mandates that the General Property Registry and the Cadastral
Information Registry develop procedures to integrate their respective databases. Under the
auspices of the Project, these two institutions are already in the process of developing a
common technological platform to integrate cadastral (geographic) and registry (legal)
functions of land administration. Obviously, these two Project outcomes are for the benefit of
the entire country and are not restricted to the Department of El Petén. And finally, the
establishment of a fully functional Registry office in El Petén greatly facilitated the transfer
of information and documentation between the Project-sponsored cadastral activities in the
field in El Petén and the Registry's headquarters in Guatemala City. A total of 29,251 land
titles from the Department of El Petén (28,747 urban and 765 rural) were registered by the
Project. In a single year (July 2004 to June 2005), over 1,500 property sales and over 1,700
mortgages were registered in the Petén branch of the Registry. Before 1999, when the
Registry office in El Petén was opened, Petén residents had to travel all the way to Guatemala
City in order to register any land-related transaction. These Project-supported activities
clearly resulted in a stronger legal and institutional framework for land administration in El
Petén.

A project beneficiary assessment was carried out by an independent firm in 2007. The
evaluation showed that beneficiaries appreciated the fact that the Project had introduced
knowledge management and a "culture" of land administration in El Petén and that they
had been able to participate in the process. The evaluation also found that 78 percent of
the rural beneficiaries participating in the survey had made improvements in better seeds,
fencing, pasture management, and watersheds; and that 68 percent of urban beneficiaries
reported to have upgraded their houses and garden fences, and even started new
construction. There was also considerable increase in requests for loans by project
beneficiaries between 2000 and 2007, as reported by rural banks in El Petén. These
behavioural changes surely must be correlated with a greater sense of land tenure security
by El Petén residents.


                                                                                             18

3.3 Efficiency

Rating: Satisfactory

Although it is too early to measure the full economic impact of project activities, an ex-post
economic analysis of the Project (using a time horizon of 20 years and a discount rate of
10%) estimated a Net Present Value (NPV) of US$12.48 million, an economic rate of return
(ERR) of 27 percent. These figures are considerably higher than those estimated at appraisal
(NPV of US$7.1 million, IRR of at 12.3 percent).

A financial analysis of the Registry office in El Petén was also carried out. The financial
sustainability of this office was found to be satisfactory, with an NPV of US$702,922 and a
cost-benefit ratio of 2:7.

In addition, a fiscal impact analysis for the 12 municipalities in El Petén showed that their
revenues had increased from Q24,931 in 1996 (approximately US$4,100 at the time) to
Q1,297,000 in 2005 (approximately US$167,000), as a result of Project activities.

3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome Rating

Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project achieved its two Development Objectives (see Section 3.1 above). Although
some challenges remain, particularly regarding the continued reforms needed at the General
Property Registry and the full integration of RGP and RIC databases, which are key
objectives of Phase II of the Program, Guatemala now has a much more solid legal and
institutional framework for land administration services than it did in 1998.

The Project has also achieved most of its intermediate outcome indicators (some exceeding
its targets), showing the viability of the cadastral methodologies developed and implemented
under the Project, which can now be applied to other regions of the country (see Annex 2).
Moreover, the Project reached all the agreed triggers for successful preparation of Phase II of
the Program (see Section 2.5 above). The truly disappointing result has been the slow pace of
titling of rural lands by FONTIERRAS, but this is a limitation that can be resolved during the
implementation of Phase II of the Program.

Finally, the Project has also shown that it is possible to build strong political support (over
three different administrations) for a long-term program of strategic national interest and
fundamental importance for achieving the goals of the Peace Accords.

3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes, and Impacts

     (a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

Poverty Impacts: According to a 2004 World Bank Study, 3.3 percent of the population of
Guatemala lived in El Petén, of which 68 percent are estimated to be poor and 12.9 percent
live in extreme poverty. The intended direct beneficiaries of the Project were the inhabitants
of the 12 municipalities in El Petén, which amounted to close to 500,000 people in the late



                                                                                            19

1990s. In these municipalities, the latest estimated poverty rates range from a relatively low
26.7 percent in the Municipality of San Benito to a high of 71.4 percent in San Luis. The
Project has had a positive impact on direct beneficiaries, as measured by the increase in value
of their landholdings. Different sources have estimated the increase in urban land values as a
result of land regularization activities to be 28 percent on average for surveyed-only plots and
up to 40 percent when titled. The figures for rural areas are 14 percent and 20 percent,
respectively. Considering the total area of surveyed, regularized, and titled lands, the value
added generated by the Project is in the order of approximately US$144.7 million (see Annex
3). In addition, the Project afforded the residents of El Petén with other immediate benefits
arising from reduced land conflicts and lower transaction costs in many land administration-
related issues, such as transfers, subdivisions, certifications, etc.

Yet the analysis presented in Annex 3 could assess only the short-term economic impacts. In
most cases, people who obtained land titles were not new settlers, but people already living
on those lands and producing, thereby regularizing and formalizing their land tenure. In the
medium term, benefits are likely to increase even more as longer-term investments on land
parcels (urban and rural) show returns. Also, over time a more dynamic land market will
result in efficiency gains and increased factor mobility. Similarly, as FONTIERRAS and the
12 municipalities continue to issue new titles, additional economic benefits will be accrued to
the region.

Gender Aspects: Historically, women were not given much of a role in public discussions
related to land issues in El Petén. Traditionally, women were expected to let their husbands
take title to their land, which over time led to countless cases of improper documentation due
to a husband's or father's death. The massive communication campaigns implemented by the
Project, coupled with the highly public nature of Project events, allowed women to have
greater access to information and to become more aware of their rights. Project staff made
special efforts to ensure that women benefited from project activities and to monitor project
impacts. By project closing, some 39 percent of titles issued by the Project were issued to
women as heads of household. This proportion varied by municipality, with a range between
23 percent in San Luis to 43 percent in Melchor de Menchos.

    (b) Institutional Change/Strengthening

Institutional strengthening was a key aspect across the three project components. The most
important institutional change achieved by the Project was, of course, the enactment of the
Cadastral Information Registry (RIC) Law in August 2005. The project team was dedicated
to this goal for many years until it finally paid off. The creation of a strong, autonomous RIC
will greatly facilitate implementation of Phase II of the Program.

The Project also supported important institutional changes and strengthening of capacities in
other organizations at the national level (CONTIERRA, RGP, FONTIERRAS, and
Universities) and the local level (municipalities, the Registry office in El Petén, Apostolic
Vicariate of Petén). Through the Project, many public and private agencies have been
strengthened in terms of building up a human resource and knowledge base to deal with
present and future land administration issues. Similarly, many technical staff trained by the
Project are now working in the private sector providing land administration services, the
demand for which has increased significantly over the past decade.



                                                                                             20

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome

Rating: Moderate

At the time the Project was appraised, the single most significant risk that threatened
achievement of the Project development objectives was uncertainty regarding legal reforms,
particularly a new land law and a new cadastre law. With the enactment of the
FONTIERRAS Law in 1999 and the RIC Law in 2005, this major risk has been removed.
Guatemala now has a solid legal and institutional foundation for increasing legal security of
land tenure. Implementation of the RIC Law in the coming years by a well established RIC is
likely to further reduce this risk to the Project's development outcomes. Nevertheless, some
of the Project's intermediate outcomes are exposed to other less determinant factors which
may threaten the sustainability of the investments made. In the short-term, there is the
substantial risk that FONTIERRAS may not title all the rural land parcels that were surveyed
under the Project. This would reduce the longer-term benefits of the Project for those people
still waiting for a title. There is also the moderate risk that RIC and the RGP do not move
forward on the integration of their databases, which would threaten the reliability of some of
the cadastral information obtained through the Project. Over time, this could lead to a re-
informalization of land transactions, as people lose faith in the accessibility, reliability, and
overall value of registering transactions.

However, the high levels of project beneficiary satisfaction observed during Phase I and the
valuable experiences gained by national and municipal level entities reduce the above risks in
the short-term, particularly since implementation of Phase II of the Program will deliver
benefits to a broader constituency for next half-decade.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance

5.1 Bank Performance

      (a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
           Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Although a Quality at Entry Assessment (QEA) Review gave the Project a Satisfactory rating,
with hindsight, the Bank had only a moderately satisfactory performance during the
identification, preparation, and appraisal of the Project. As noted in Section 2.1 above,
project design suffered from a few weaknesses related to readiness for implementation,
monitoring arrangements, and a weak legal framework which limited the operational capacity
of the Project's implementing agency. In addition, the time frame envisioned for the Project
proved to be highly unrealistic. However, to compensate, the Bank supported Government
with valuable advice and understanding from a highly qualified team during the almost two-
year delay between project appraisal and effectiveness.

      (b) Quality of Supervision
           Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Bank supervision of the Project was likewise moderately satisfactory. On the positive side,
the various Bank supervisory teams were very supportive during critical periods, particularly



                                                                                              21

during the pre-effectiveness period (1998-2000), through the Registry crisis in 2003, and
during the transition from UTJ to RIC (2005 to 2006). Bank supervision missions took place
on a regular basis. In almost every mission task team members traveled to El Petén to talk
directly to field office staff, co-executing agencies, and beneficiaries themselves. The 2003
Mid-Term Review was also an important achievement from a supervision standpoint. The
MTR took stock of where the Project was at the time, assessed all aspects of design and
implementation (technical, operational, fiduciary, environmental, and financial), and
concluded with a clear action plan which, in a sense, re-launched the Project with a crisper
sense of direction. Monitoring of project performance indicators improved considerably after
the MTR. In addition, the MTR reoriented some Project resources to ensure the triggers for
Phase II of the Program would be met and the Program would continue.

On the other hand, Bank supervision suffered from some short-comings. The Project was led
by four different Task Team Leaders during its 8-year implementation. This reduced the
Bank's effectiveness in identifying problems early on. For example, the UTJ team gradually
came to the conclusion that its staff had developed the capacity to carry out land
regularization activities more cheaply and faster than through big international contracts. UTJ
took advantage of this built-in capacity to regularize urban areas, but it could only do so by
drawing on its "operating costs" expenditure category. It took a while before remedial actions
were taken to correct this imbalance in expenditure categories. Likewise, it could be argued
that Bank approval of three extensions of closing date, amounting to almost four years, may
reflect supervision shortcomings.

      (c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
          Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

In retrospect, Bank performance was very good during preparation in terms of seizing the
window of opportunity to assist Guatemala in implementing the 1996 Peace Accords during
the crisis periods in 2003 and 2005-2006, when project agencies needed high-level technical
support and guidance. On the other hand, the Bank could have performed better during the
first year of implementation to ensure the Project's M&E arrangements were adequate. It
could also have performed better during the last couple of years when implementation slowed
down considerably during preparation of the Phase II.

5.2 Borrower Performance

      (a) Government Performance
          Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

The Project received strong political support (from three different Government
administrations) throughout its implementation. Although approval of the RIC Law took
almost seven years, the fact that it was enacted and that RIC is now a strong and well
structured institution is testimony of the Government's commitment to modernize
Guatemala's land administration system. On the other hand, Government performance could
have been better on a number of issues. Three were particularly important: (i) higher and
more regular provision of counterpart funds, (ii) increased efforts to ensure FONTIERRAS
complied with its commitments under the Project, and (iii) increased efforts to encourage




                                                                                            22

greater cooperation between RGP and RIC in developing an integrated cadastre ­ registry
database.

      (b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
          Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Implementing Agency                                           Performance

Technical and Legal Unit (UTJ) ­ Cadastral Registry (RIC)     Moderately Satisfactory
General Property Registry (RGP)                               Moderately Satisfactory
Presidential Commission for the Resolution of
        Land Conflicts (CONTIERRA)                            Moderately Satisfactory
Land Fund (FONTIERRAS)                                        Unsatisfactory
Anthropology and History Institute (IDEAH)                    Moderately Satisfactory
National Geographic Institute (IGN)                           Moderately Satisfactory
Municipalities                                                Satisfactory
United Nations Development Programme (UNPD)                   Moderately Satisfactory

In the early stages of project implementation, Government was very keen to use UNDP as a
financial agent for payments and processing of contracts, in order to enhance the credibility
of the program and isolate project transactions from political interference. As UTJ fiduciary
capacities developed, the need for UNDP services was questioned by Government,
particularly considering the relatively high management fee charged by UNDP (3.5 percent
of amounts managed). And although UNDP's performance under the Project was generally
satisfactory, under Phase II of the program it will no longer serve as a financial or
procurement agent on RIC's behalf.

      (d) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower / Implementing Agency
          Performance

The Project's implementing agency, initially UTJ, RIC at the end, consistently displayed
a strong commitment to achieving the Project Development Objectives. It enjoyed strong
leadership with continuity throughout most of project implementation, it developed a
qualified technical and administrative team, both at the central level in Guatemala City
and in El Petén, and it played an effective coordinating role, particular with other donor-
financed land projects. Inter-agency coordination and monitoring was particularly
challenging, but except in the case of FONTIERRAS (and at times RGP), UTJ managed
to keep all participating agencies relatively well-engaged. UTJ-RIC also performed well
with regards to engagement of project beneficiaries, through extensive communication
campaigns, strategic alliances with municipalities, CONTIERRA, and the Apostolic
Vicariate of Petén. Approximately US$1 million was spent on capacity building and
communication to develop a "culture" of land administration at the beneficiary and
municipality level, and to train local staff. UTJ also had some shortcomings, the most
significant being its inability to prepare the international bidding package for rural
cadastral works early on in the Project. It also could have performed better in terms of
conducting baseline surveys early on in the Project.




                                                                                          23

6. Lessons Learned

The Project yielded important lessons, namely:

   · Political commitment is fundamental for legal and institutional reforms: The Project
       has shown that meaningful legal and institutional reforms on land issues only take
       place when there is strong political support at the highest levels of government in
       both branches, the Executive and the Legislative. When political support is present,
       land administration projects can be an effective instrument to develop sound technical
       proposals, facilitate exchange of experiences with other countries, and build public
       support for agreed reforms. Once legal changes are in place, implementation also
       requires political support. The consolidation of RIC is a good example of this.

   · Social communication and beneficiary participation are fundamental to get buy-in
       early on: From the outset, UTJ relied quite heavily on extensive communication
       campaigns to get its messages across. The understandable initial reluctance to
       participate in land regularization activities that people often have can be overcome by
       appropriate and persistent communication. In addition, UTJ's use of strategic partners,
       particularly the municipalities for the case of urban lands and the Apostolic Vicariate
       of Petén for the case of rural lands, was very successful in encouraging public
       participation in project activities. Identification of common interests and building
       trust among different stakeholders are also fundamental.

   · Integration of the Cadastre and Registry may take some time: The integration of
       cadastral and registry functions under one institution is very rare; only a couple of
       countries in the region have done it. The Project has shown that Guatemala is not
       ready at this time for a full institutional integration between the Cadastre and the
       Registry; otherwise the law that created RIC could have just as well created an
       integrated Registry. Under these circumstances, the second-best approach is a gradual
       integration, as currently planned under Phase II of the Program.

   · Cadastral surveying, conflict resolution, and legal validation cannot all be
       subcontracted without strong local participation: The Project has shown that, with
       proper training, piloting and experienced external technical support, many land
       administration capabilities can be developed locally fairly quickly. Since international
       contractors inevitably need to rely on local subcontractors for the extensive field
       work required for land surveying, for knowledge of local laws and customs, and for
       alternative conflict resolution mechanisms, it makes more sense to rely on several
       smaller contracts than on one large contract. This new approach is the one being
       pursued under Phase II of the Program.

   · Baseline data collection should take place during project preparation: Baseline data
       collection should have taken place shortly after the basic design of the Project had
       been agreed (mid-1998). This could have been accomplished by taking advantage of
       the PPF facility, and would have resulted in considerably better evaluation of project
       impacts at the household level.




                                                                                            24

7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners

(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

The Borrower highlighted the following issues in its Completion Report and comments to the
draft ICR:

Achievement of Project Objectives. The Borrower considers the enactment of the RIC Law
as the Project's most significant achievement because it strengthens the institutional
framework for land administration in Guatemala and mandates social participation in the
various steps of the cadastral process. Until August 2005, this legal foundation to the
cadastral process simply did not exist in Guatemala.

Strengthening of Municipalities. The Project strengthened local governance by establishing
12 cadastral offices in El Petén (one in each municipality) which are now maintaining the
cadastral databases in the Department. Municipalities are committed to updating their
respective databases at least bi-monthly. This has considerably strengthened the formalization
of land market transactions and increased land values.

Strengthening of CONTIERRA. Likewise, the Project's support to CONTIERRA, the main
mechanism for conflict resolution over rural lands, is highlighted. The Project established
three CONTIERRA offices and one mobile unit which have greatly facilitated the
coordination between cadastral activities (responsibility of UTJ/RIC) and conflict resolution
(CONTIERRA/SAA).

Establishment of a Registry Office in El Petén. This Project outcome has significantly
reduced the turnaround times for registering properties (urban and rural). By Project closing,
this process was reduced from several months to about 4 to 6 weeks.

Design of the Integrated Cadastre-Registry System. Some progress was achieved under the
Project in the design of an integrated system. The experience under Phase I of the program
suggests that full integration requires close coordination among several public entities besides
RIC and RGP, that is, the National Council for Protected Areas, the Anthropology and
History Institute, the Forestry National Institute, the Ministry of Environment and Natural
Resources and others. The participation of civil society organizations has also shown to be
important for promoting better understanding of land administration issues and mobilizing
public support for institutional reforms.

Bank Comments. The Bank team largely concurs with the Borrower's assessment of the
Project's main achievements. Indeed, as argued throughout this ICR, Phase I of the program
was fundamental for establishing a solid legal and institutional framework for land
administration in Guatemala. Under Phase II, the APL program will expand vertically
(through further institutional reforms, of the RGP especially, and the technical integration of
land regularization processes) and horizontally (through wider geographical coverage).
However, the Bank's team considers that closer institutional coordination, although necessary,
is not sufficient to achieve full integration between the cadastre and registry. Considerable
compromises by both RIC and RGP, involving some loss of autonomy from each, will be
needed if the integration of their databases is to succeed. Also, continuous technical support



                                                                                             25

from both entities to municipal level cadastral offices and registry branches will be needed
for several more years until they fully develop their own local capacities.

(b) Cofinanciers

The Project did not have any cofinanciers. However, several other donors had parallel
financing arrangements in different regions of the country, all of which were coordinated by
UTJ. These are summarized below.

               Table 3. Major Related Projects Financed by Other Agencies

    Project Name          Amount          Financier     IP/DO              Sector Issue
                           (US$)                       Ratings
Escuintla Cadastre            2.2 mill. Sweden                     Tenure security in selected
Project                                                            municipalities of Escuintla
Zacapa-Chiquimula             6.9 mill Netherlands                 Support to technical, legal,
Cadastre Project                                                   and social framework for
                                                                   land tenure in Zacapa-
                                                                   Chiquimula
Izabal Cadastre               4.1 mill Norway                      Support to national cadastral
Project                                                            process and field work in
                                                                   Izabal
Sacatepéquez                  0.6 mill Spain                       Cadastral field work in
Cadastre Project                                                   selected municipalities of
                                                                   Sacatepéquez
Verapaces Cadastre            1.3 mill GTZ                         Cadastral field work in
Project                                                            selected municipalities of
                                                                   Alta and Baja Verapaz
Institutional                 7.6 mill Switzerland                 Topographic equipment and
Strengthening of                                                   technical assistance to UTJ
UTJ and IGN Project                                                and IGN

(c) Other partners and stakeholders

The Borrower's assessments in Section 7(a) above include the inputs of the main partners which
participated in the Project, including FONTIERRAS, RGP, CONTIERRAS, IDAEH, and
municipalities from El Petén.




                                                                                              26

                            Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing

(a) Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)

                                     Appraisal Estimate  Actual/Latest
           Components                                                        Percentage of
                                        (US$ million)      Estimate
                                                         (US$ million)         Appraisal

     CADASTRE AND LAND
        REGULARIZATION                       27.2              21.7              80%

         LAND REGISTRY                        2.2               1.2              55%
 PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNIT                      5.2              10.9             210%


         Total Baseline Cost                 34.6               33.7             97%

       Physical Contingencies                 1.7                0
         Price Contingencies                  2.2                0
         Total Project Costs                 38.5               33.7             86%
      Project Preparation Fund                0.0                2.2
         Front-end fee IBRD                   0.0               0.3
      Total Financing Required               38.5               35.5             92%



(b) Financing

           Source of Funds                Type of      Appraisal Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                         Cofinancing   Estimate     Estimate
                                                     (US$ million) (US$ million) Appraisal

Borrower                                                 7.5           5.7          73%

International Bank for Reconstruction and
Development                                              31.0         29.9          96%




                                                                                          27

                             Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Outputs under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF)

Rating: Satisfactory

Between 1998 and 1999, preparatory activities in the municipality of San Francisco in the
Department of El Petén were financed by a PPF amounting to US$2.2 million. During
this period, the cadastral surveying on procedures were developed and tested, resulting in
367 surveyed land parcels with a total size of 50,455 hectares. Also, the municipal
boundaries of San Francisco were demarcated and the Petén branch of the Registry was
opened in May 1999. Those early experiences showed that local authorities and
beneficiaries were very supportive of the cadastral surveying and titling methodologies
being developed by UTJ and provided an early indication of the potential impacts that a
massive land regularization program could have, in terms of increased land tenure
security.

Component 1: Cadastre and Land Regularization (US$31 million)

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This component included the most significant investments made by the Project. To evaluate
the component's performance, one must disaggregate investment activities by each of its
eight subcomponents (see Table A2.1 below).

1.1 Cartographic activities

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

This subcomponent was highly successful in achieving its goals. The Project financed:
    · Establishment of a new basic geodetic network with 41 points in the Department of
        El Petén (currently awaiting validation by the National Geographic Institute),
        reaching 103% of target.
    · Purchase of satellite images (spot images with 4 channels and resolution of 10 meters)
        over an area of 36,000 km2 (103% of target), which was the basis for updating the
        basic cartography of the entire Department of El Petén. Satellite images were used
        instead of aerial photography because they were cheaper, readily available, and more
        practical, given that aerial photography is more difficult to obtain due to the extended
        periods of cloud coverage in El Petén.
    · Production of municipal urban maps covering 116.34 km2 (212% of target).
    · Definition of all inter-municipal boundaries within the Department of El Petén, with
        an extension of 1,305 km (119% of target), although these are still awaiting approval
        by the Guatemalan Congress.




                                                                                             28

                 Table A2.1. Project Component, Subcomponent, and Activity
                                        Performance Indicators

                                                                     MTR           Actual Value

Component /                                   Original Target Revised Indicator    Achieved at
                                                                                    Completion
Subcomponent /                                                    and Target      (% of target)

Activity Performance Indicator                                                        Rating

Component 1) Land Regularization                                                        MS

Cartographic activities                                                                 HS
- Establish. of new basic geodetic network    40 points       40 points           41 pts. (103%)

- Production of 1/30,000 aerial photos over   35,500 km2      Ortho images          36,000 km2
35,5000 km2 (rural)                                           instead, with maps      (103%)
                                                              35,000 km2
- Production of a 1/8,000 aerial photos and
20cm-accurate maps over 40 km2 (urban)        40 km2          Ortho images          116.34 km2
- Production of 1m-accurate ortho-photos                      instead, with maps      (212%)
over 18,500 km2                               18,500 km2      over 55 km2

- Demarcation of all municipal boundaries                     1,100 km               1,305 km
in Department of El Petén                                                             (119%)
Adjudication process of rural lands                                                    MU
- Geo-referencing, surveying, titling, and    11,400 km2      650,000 ha.           723,983 ha.
registration of rural ("national") lands                      surveyed and            (111%)
                                                              325,000 ha. titled  29,889 ha. (9%)
Adjudication process of urban lands                                                     HS
- Geo-referencing, surveying, titling, and    12 municipal    50,000 land parcels 67,706 parcels
registration of rural ("municipal") lands     áreas           surveyed and         (135%), plus
                                                              15,000 titled       5,046 outside El
                                                                                       Petén
                                                                                   28,747 titled
                                                                                      (192%)
- Establishment of municipal cadastral
offices                                       12              12                    12 (100%)

- Number of urban titles with woman (as       n/a             No target set, but      39.8%
head of household) titled holder (number,                     indicator tracked
out of total)                                                 for monitoring
                                                              purposes
Conflict resolution                                                                      S
- Cases resolved in rural areas               n/a             90 %                     79%
- Cases resolved in urban areas                               90 %                     78%
Design and implementation of social                                                      S
communication campaign
- Proportion of rural population aware of     n/a             75%                      95%
project activities                                                                    (127%)
- Proportion of urban population aware of     n/a             75%                      65%
project activities                                                                    (87%)
Improvement of national cadastral                                                        S
technical standards                           n/a             Rural and urban     Both manuals
                                                              manuals adopted     adopted (100%)




                                                                                               29

Creation of a cadastral database to be                                                   MU
integrated with Registry                      Constitution of  Cadastral database      Cadastral
                                              cadastral        created and             database
                                              information      functioning          created, but not
                                              system                                integrated with
                                                                                       Registry
Demarcation of special areas                                                               S
- Demarcation of archeological sites          n/a              No targets set, as    22 sites in 7
                                                               these are done on     municipalities
                                                               chance-find basis

- Demarcation of protected areas                               No targets set, as   Three protected
                                                               these were done on   areas covering
                                                               a pilot basis          85,996 ha.
Component 2) Land Registry                                                                MS

- Establish a Registry office in El Petén                                                  S
                                              1 office         Office established    Office fully
                                                               and fully functional    functional
                                                                                        (100%)
- Registration of Titles in RGP                                                            S
                                              65,000           20,500               29,512 (144%)
- Design of an integrated cadastre - registry                                            MU
database                                                       Integrated database      Only an
                                                               design completed     agreement b/w
                                                                                    RGP & RIC to
                                                                                     develop joint
                                                                                     platform was
                                                                                    reached (30%)
Component 3) Project Management                                                           MS

- Financial management, audits,                                                     FM/audits ­ MS
procurement, inter-institutional              n/a              n/a                    Proc. ­ MS
coordination, etc.                                                                   Coord. ­ MS

Overall Outputs Performance                                                               MS

1.2 Adjudication process of rural ("national") lands

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The targets of this subcomponent were only partially completed. On the one hand, the targets
for geo-referencing and surveying rural land parcels, under the responsibility of UTJ were
met. A total of 723,983 hectares of rural lands was surveyed (111% of target), of which
193,735 ha. were completed by UTJ staff and 530,248 ha. by an international contractor. But
field work by the contractor (Consortium Tracasa-Novotecni) started very late, due to long
delays in preparing the international bidding package and adjudicating the contract. This was
the Project's single largest investment (about US$6 million), and it was not signed until May
2003. Given this delay, this activity's rating can only be moderately satisfactory.

The titling of surveyed parcels, on the other hand, under the responsibility of FONTIERRAS,
was the Project's most significant short-coming. The performance of FONTIERRAS has
been unsatisfactory throughout most of the Project's implementation period. Despite the clear


                                                                                                 30

legal mandate to perform titling activities (both under the 1999 law which created it and the
Project's Loan Agreement) and direct financial support from the Project, FONTIERRAS
proved unable to keep up with the rapid pace of cadastral surveying activities.
FONTIERRAS' disappointing performance under the Project was due to two main reasons.
First, FONTIERRAS is a Land Fund whose main purpose is to redistribute large farms to
smallholder farmers. The titling of already settled lands in the Department of El Petén is of
secondary importance to its constituents. And second, FONTIERRAS is an autonomous
entity run by a Board which is not under complete Government control. Although some may
argue that FONTIERRAS' autonomy from Government control may have benefits related to
FONTIERRAS primary functions, it clearly proved to be an impediment to the achievement
of one of this Project's critical outputs, namely, the titling of rural properties. Repeated
efforts by UTJ (and later RIC), the Ministry of Agriculture (which chairs the FONTIERRAS
Board), and Bank supervision missions to influence the behaviour of FONTIERRAS yielded
limited results. By project closing, only 29,889 ha. of rural lands were titled (9% of target),
and only 765 new rural titles were registered, a clearly unsatisfactory outcome. Thus,
combining the moderately satisfactory rating for surveying activities with the unsatisfactory
rating for titling activities gives an overall rating for this subcomponent of moderately
unsatisfactory.

1.3 Adjudication process of urban ("municipal") lands

Rating: Highly Satisfactory

In sharp contrast with the rural subcomponent, the regularization of urban lands was the
Project's most successful subcomponent. The Project established 12 municipal offices,
trained municipal and project staff, and provided continuous operational support for
implementation of field data collection, desk reviews, conflict resolution, and legal
verification of surveyed parcels. These capacity building efforts resulted in the successful
geo-referencing and cadastral surveying of 67,706 urban land plots (135% of target), and the
titling and registration of over 42 percent of these (28,747 land titles, or 192% of target). In
addition, the Project also surveyed 5,046 parcels, covering 913.19 km2, in the municipality of
Bartolomé de las Casas in the Department of Alta Verapaz. It is worth noting that close to 40
percent of these registered titles were issued to women as heads of household.

The success of this subcomponent can be attributed to three important factors. First, from the
outset, during the preparatory phase financed by the Project's PPF, UTJ prioritized the
establishment of strong and effective partnerships with municipal authorities in El Petén. The
Project signed participation agreements with each municipality, provided training to project
and municipal staff operating in the 12 municipal cadastral offices, and established a
permanent presence in each municipality. Second, UTJ invested considerably in social
communication campaigns. It took advantage of popular local events, weekly fairs for
example, to inform the public about the benefits of the cadastral surveying process and to
strengthen its institutional partnerships with local governments and civil society
organizations. And third, municipalities ended up playing a more significant role in
mobilizing the local populations, given the considerable and immediate benefits to them.
Municipal authorities agreed to charge project beneficiaries only a "social price" for land
adjudication rights. Although this price varied by municipality, it was roughly US$0.25 per
sq meter of urban land, quite affordable to the great majority of beneficiaries. In some



                                                                                             31

municipalities, it was reduced on a couple of occasions to accelerate the process titling and
registration. The definition inter-municipal boundaries and the production of urban maps
facilitated the zoning of urban areas, providing a sound technological basis for territorial
planning and development. Also, the inscription of beneficiaries into the municipal registry
enabled municipal authorities to start collecting property taxes on municipal land (see Annex
3 on fiscal impact).

1.4 Conflict resolution

Rating: Satisfactory

As part of the Peace Accords, a Presidential Commission for the Resolution of Land
Conflicts (Comisión Presidencial para Resolución de Conflictos, CONTIERRA) was created
in 1997. The Project facilitated the opening of three new regional branch offices of
CONTIERRA, to increase the outreach to project beneficiaries. The offices provided
bilingual and free legal assistance to beneficiaries and municipalities. In addition,
participatory conflict management programs for municipal mayors and beneficiaries were
organized. In 2004, CONTIERRA was transformed into the Secretariat of Agrarian Issues
(Secretaría de Asuntos Agrarios, SAA-CONTIERRA).

CONTIERRA concentrated its efforts in officially registered serious conflicts. A number of
"softer" cases, such as disputes over property boundaries, missing or incomplete identity or
tenure documentation, were solved by project staff who had received training in conflict
resolution techniques. As a result of these efforts, between 1998 and 2007, 1,266 land
conflict cases in the project area were submitted to CONTIERRA, of which 78 and 79
percent of urban and rural cases, respectively, were satisfactorily solved (compared to a target
of 90%).

In addition, the role of the Catholic Chuch has also been important in conflict resolution
activities financed by the Project. In late 2003, the contractor responsible for rural land
regularization activities dramatically increased its field presence in rural Petén. It became
obvious at the time that UTJ needed to find a credible partner to act as an honest broker
between beneficiaries, particularly indigenous communities, on the one hand, and the
contractor's technicians and project staff on the other. Consequently, in January 2004 a
landmark collaboration agreement was signed between UTJ and the Apostolic Vicariate of El
Petén to provide free and bilingual legal advice, orientation and guidance to project
beneficiaries during the land regularization process.

1.5 Social communication campaigns

Rating: Satisfactory

The project implemented extensive communication campaigns in both urban and rural areas.
UTJ regularly contracted communication specialists for the design of campaigns and for
monitoring project impacts. A beneficiary assessment survey carried out at the end of the
project showed that 95 percent of those surveyed in rural areas, and 65 percent in urban areas
in El Petén, were aware of project activities. Accordingly, this subcomponent is rated
satisfactory.



                                                                                             32

1.6 Creation of a cadastral database to be integrated with the Registry

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The Project was instrumental in developing cadastral surveying methodologies, standards,
and information databases. These were implemented by UTJ quite independently from the
General Property Registry, which is one of the most autonomous entities in Guatemala (see
Section 2, below). The Project's land regularization activities generated a wealth of
information requiring a fairly sophisticated data management system which was gradually
developed and adjusted to the needs of various institutional users, including RGP. UTJ was
successful in developing a parcel-based geographical cadastral database, but it was not
integrated with RGP's deed-based registry database. During project implementation,
adjustments were made to facilitate the interaction between the two databases, but full
integration was not accomplished. By February 2004, an agreement was reached between
UTJ and RGP to establish a common technical platform to integrate their respective
databases. Enactment of the RIC law in August 2005 made it a legal imperative for the two
institutions to cooperate more closely, with an eventual integration of their databases. During
2005 and 2006, RGP and RIC made significant progress towards this integration.
Unfortunately, by project closing in March 2007, the common platform had not been
developed yet. This integration is now a central objective of Phase II of the program. Thus,
this subcomponent output (which is related to an activity under Component 2) deserves a
rating of moderately unsatisfactory.

1.7 Improvement of national cadastral technical standards

Rating: Satisfactory

Given the considerable political support UTJ (and subsequently RIC) has enjoyed since its
creation, it has been successful in developing national cadastral technical standards that have
now been officialised with the enactment of the 2005 RIC Law. UTJ developed, tested, and
officialised both rural and urban cadastral manuals. Therefore, this particular subcomponent
has a satisfactory rating.

1.8 Demarcation of special areas

Rating: Satisfactory

In compliance with OD 4.11 (Protected Areas), the Project's Loan Agreement included a
Supplemental Letter requiring the Anthropology and History Institute (Instituto de
Antroplogía e Historia, IDAEH) to demarcate any archeological site discovered in the course
of land regularization activities financed by the Project. Accordingly, the Project demarcated
22 sites in 7 municipalities in the Department of El Petén (see Table A2.2 below).

In addition, the Bank responded positively to a Government request to include, on a pilot
basis, selected protected areas in the Project's land regularization activities. This was not
originally envisioned at project design, but emerged in the context of the Mid-Term Review.
Table A2.3 below lists the three protected areas demarcated by the project, comprising
85,996 ha.



                                                                                            33

                         Table A2.2. Archeological Sites Demarcated

                 Municipality                               Site

                San Luís           Naj Tunich

                Dolores            Ixtutz, Ixtontón, Ixkún, Sacúl, El Chal

                San José           Motúl

                La Libertad        El Tamariz, Zapote Bobal, Itzinté, El Polol, San
                                   Joaquín

                Flores             Tayasal, Uaxactún, Ixlú

                Sayaxché           Parque Nacional "El Rosario", El Ceibal (pending
                                   completion), Aguateca, Dos Pilas, Sayaxché

                Melchor de         La Blanca
                Mencos



                           Table A2.3. Demarcated Protected Areas

                 Name of Protected Area               Location            Area (ha)

                Biotopo San Miguel La
                Palotada (El Zotz)                     San José             37,861

                Tikal National Park                     Flores              47,523

                Biotopo Cerro Cahuí                    San José               611
                                      Total                                 85,996



Component 2: Land Registry (US$2 million)

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

This component was much smaller than Component 1 and it focused exclusively on those
activities related to the General Property Registry. The component basically supported the
establishment of a Registry office in the Department of El Petén, but it also supported the
strengthening of the RGP more generally, and the design of an integrated cadastral-registry
system.

2.1 Establishment of Registry office in El Petén

Rating: Satisfactory

The Registry office initially opened in el Petén in 1999 as a window to receive documents
from project beneficiaries and forward them to the RGP's headquarters in Guatemala City for
final approval. The office collected fees for registering land sales, subdivisions of parcels



                                                                                          34

(desmembraciones), mortgages, title cancellations (arising from court judgements,
FONTIERRAS resolutions, or other causes), liens, pledges, issuance of certifications, and
other land-related transactions.

In June 2005, the office assumed additional functions and established a digital connection
with the Registry's headquarters, so duplicate documents were immediately fed into the
official registry system at the central office. Paper copies of the documents, however, still
have to be transported between El Petén and Guatemala City. It is expected that a digital
signatures will be introduced in late 2007, making the physical transport of documents
unnecessary. Also, the Registry has provided direct online access for tracking documents.
This can be done directly through RGP's website (www.rgp.org.gt). Direct access by project
beneficiaries to the Registry has reduced the processing time of documents from about six
months in the late 1990's to just a few weeks. Also, the Registry office in El Petén offers
guidance to users on how to prepare and submit documents. Through an agreement with
BANRURAL of Petén, project beneficiaries were able to make Registry fee payments at this
local bank.

The successful experience with the Registry's Petén branch is being used to open three new
Registry branches in the departments of Escuintla, Zacapa, and Alta Verapaz, where Phase II
of the Program will operate.

2.2 Titles registered in RGP

Rating: Satisfactory

All new titles issued under the auspices of the Project were immediately registered at RGP
before delivery to the beneficiary. This proved to be an important feature of the land
regularization process, because it eliminated the possibility of project beneficiaries having
unregistered titles. By closing in March 2007, the Project supported the registration of 29,512
titles (144% of target), meriting a satisfactory rating for this subcomponent.

2.3 Design of an integrated cadastral ­ registry database

Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

As noted earlier, Guatemala's General Property Registry, created in 1877, is one of the most
autonomous entities in the country. The Registrar is appointed by the President of the
Republic, and because the institution does not receive regular budget transfers (it operates
with its own revenues), it is not subject to the standard fiduciary controls of other public
entities. This special status by the RGP has been partly responsible for the limited integration
that has taken place between its deed-based registry database and UTJ's parcel-based
geographical database.

After a severe credibility crisis in 2003, RGP launched a long-overdue process of institutional
reforms, including administrative reforms and a review of standards and practices. In 2006
the Registry was incorporated into SIAF, the Government's integrated financial and
administrative system which received considerable Bank support. These reforms, coupled
with the enactment of the RIC Law in 2005, are allowing closer cooperation between RGP



                                                                                             35

and RIC. Phase II of the Program has, as one of its objectives, the development and
implementation of an integrated cadastre-registry computerized system. Because the design
of such a system was supposed to have taken place under this Project, and this did not occur,
this subcomponent has a moderately unsatisfactory rating.

Component 3: Project Management (US$6 million)

Overall Rating: Moderately Satisfactory

Formally, the Project Implementing Agency was the Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock,
but in practice the Project was run by UTJ, which enjoyed considerable political support and
autonomy. Moreover, UTJ played a pivotal role in coordinating the activities of several
government and civil society organizations involved in land administration matters. In
particular, it ensured that different cadastral surveying activities taking place in various
regions of the country shared a minimum set of common techniques and standards. UTJ also
served as an effective focal point for international donor coordination. Two important
shortcomings in UTJ's performance were (i) the long delay in the preparation of the
international bidding package and awarding of the contract for rural cadastral works, (ii) its
inability to exert more preasure on FONTIERRAS to expedite the titling of rural land parcels.
Therefore, UTJ's performance as project implementing unit receives a rating of moderately
satisfactory.

Throughout most of the Project's life, fiduciary compliance has been satisfactory. Financial
Management functions were carried out by UTJ with the assistance of UNDP, as a financial
agent. Bank loan proceeds and Government counterpart funds were deposited in a UNDP
account. Although UTJ carried out the financial management functions--including
conciliation of accounts, inventories of project assets, contracting of external audits--and
procurement processing, payments were made by UNDP which provided monthly statements
to UTJ.

Financial Management performance was downgraded to moderately unsatisfactory in the last
year of implementation due to a 13-month delay in submitting the 2005 audit report. Except
for these two years, annual audits were submitted on time, and no major issues were
identified by the auditors. The project maintained proper internal controls (including
segregation of fiduciary responsibilities) and oversight throughout implementation, and
management of project funds (including management of bank accounts, maintenance of
supporting documentation for project expenditures, and production of interim financial
reports) was satisfactory. Therefore, overall, financial management functions receive a rating
of moderately satisfactory.

Procurement functions were also carried out satisfactorily throughout most of project
implementation. However, during the transition period resulting from the approval of the
RIC law (in August 2005) some project staff, including the most experienced
procurement specialist, left UTJ and were not promptly replaced when RIC was being
consolidated. Since these changes occurred at the tail end of project implementation, this
loss of procurement capacity did not negatively affect achievement of the Project
Development Objectives or compromise the use of project funds. One important
procurement issue which arose at the end of the project was the complaint raised by the



                                                                                           36

Project's single largest contractor, the Tracasa-Novotecni Consortium, in charge of carrying
out the cadastral surveying of rural parcels in most of the Project Areas in El Petén. The
complaint centered on a dispute over whether the payments for the contractors' services were
exempt from taxes or not. The contractor wrote to the Bank regarding this dispute and, in
accordance to the Procurement Guidelines and other applicable Bank policies, the Bank
promptly referred the issue to Government and facilitated the dialogue between the two
parties until a final agreement to resolve the dispute was reached in March 2007. Overall,
procurement functions receive a rating of moderately satisfactory.




                                                                                         37

         Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis and Fiscal Impact Analysis

                            Table A3.1. Summary of Economic Analysis


                                     Phase I, Land Administration Project
                              NPV                       US$ 12.48 million
                              ERR                              27%



I. Economic Costs of the Project

As shown in Annex 1, the actual Total Financing for the Project was US$35.5 million. Of
this, US$21.7 million was spent on Cadastre and Land Regularization, US$1.2 million on
Land Registry and US$10.9 million on Project Management. Additionally, the total
financing includes US$2.2 million for the Project Praparation Facility (PPF) and US$0.3
million for the IBRD Front-end Fee. Operational costs are calculated from 2008 onward
and are not expected to exceed US$2,852,000. They are accrued until 2021.

II. Estimation of Benefits

It is relatively difficult to estimate the real financial benefits of the investments in terms of an
increase in household income due to the fact that no baseline survey was conducted at the
beginning of the project. Similarly, a number of land titles have been submitted since efforts
to evaluate the economic impact were completed. Nevertheless, some indicators exist and
show that through the establishment of a land regularization and titling system, the project
has generated a number of benefits in both rural and urban areas.

An evaluation conducted by an external party showed that beneficiaries of the project
appreciate the introduction of a land administration system in Petén, especially since they
were able to participate in the development process. The evaluation states that 78 percent of
the beneficiaries queried in rural areas made investments in productive assets. This includes
the purchase of improved seeds, fencing, pasture management, and watersheds, among other
investments. Likewise, 68 percent of urban beneficiaries queried reported having made
improvements to their houses and garden fences, or starting new construction. There was also
a considerable increase in access to credit. Out of 169 households surveyed in El Petén, 9%
of those from rural areas and 29% from urban areas had obtained loans using their land title
as collateral. In contrast, of those without land titles, only 2% and 15%, respectively,
obtained loans from financial institutions. Interestingly, 100 percent of the urban loans
reported had taken place in the last 4 years, and 78 percent of the rural loans in the lasat 8
years, when the Project started.

Impact of the land surveying and regularization process on property values

Increases in property value due to land surveying and regularization primarily generally come
about for two reasons: (a) land tenure security provides an incentive to invest in land
improvements and/or construction on the land; and (b) secure land can be used as collateral
for access to credit. At the same time, property values are influenced by a wide range of


                                                                                                 38

factors such as location, size, neighbouring infrastructure, value of construction on the land,
and potential uses of the property. Since estimating the impact of these factors separately can
be rather complex, the economic benefits of the project were estimated based on the land
value differential between unregularized land, regularized land, and titled land. In theory, this
increase is an economic indicator of the future flow of net benefits that can be obtained from
the induced investments on the land (either by current or future owners) as a result of greater
security of ownership and the ability to sell the property later on.

Estimate of the increased value of land

Two sources of information were used in order to determine the incremental value of the land
that was regularized under the project: (a) a survey of project beneficiaries; and (b)
information received from BANRURAL.

(i) Estimated increase of land value by the beneficiaries (through a survey)

As part of an external evaluation, 170 people were surveyed. Of the 85 beneficiaries living in
rural areas, 15 responded (Table A3.2). Of the 83 beneficiaries living in the urban areas, 16
gave quantifiable information (Table A3.3).

     Table A3.2. Comparison between Land Prices of Rural Beneficiaries of the Project
                                    Between 1999 and 2005

                  Beneficiaries   Price of Land     Price/Hectare    Price/Hectare
                  Interviewed     Before Project      of Surveyed        of Titled
                                                         Land             Land
                                        Q/ha             Q/ha              Q/ha
                 1                     1,250             2,344            3,125
                 2                     3,005             5,409            6,010
                 3                     1,250             1,563            2,500
                 4                     1,563             2,813            3,125
                 5                     1,172             1,563            3,125
                 6                     1,563             2,344            3,125
                 7                      781              1,563            2,344
                 8                      558              1,116            2,232
                 9                      710              1,136            1,420
                 10                     781              1,563            3,125
                 11                    1,339             1,674            2,232
                 12                     335               670             1,116
                 13                    1,042             2,083            3,125
                 14                    9,115             1,302            2,604
                 15                    1,157             2,315            3,472
                                             Averages
                 Q/ha                  1,666             2,222             4,444
                 Q/m²                   0.16              0.22             0.45
                 US$/m²                0.021             0.029            0.058
                 Difference             0%                38%             181%
                Source: Ing. Raúl Maas, Evaluation of economic benefits in Petén, Guatemala.



                                                                                              39

         Table A 3.3. Comparison between Increases of Land Values of Project
                      Urban Beneficiaries between 1999 and 2005

              Beneficiaries  Price of Land   Price/Hectare   Price/Hectare
              Interviewed    Before Project   of Surveyed   of Titled Land
                                                  Land

                                 Q/ha             Q/ha           Q/ha
              1                  5,000            7,500         15,000
              2                  20,000          40,000         50,000
              3                  20,000          35,000         40,000
              4                  5,000           25,000         50,000
              5                  1,000            2,000          5,000
              6                  5,000           10,000         10,000
              7                  50,000          90,000         120,000
              8                  5,000           10,000         25,000
              9                  30,000          50,000         60,000
              10                 5,000           12,000         18,000
              11                  300             2,000          5,000
              12                 5,000           10,000         20,000
              13                 50,000          75,000         150,000
              14                 75,000          100,000        175,000
              15                 25,000          50,000         75,000
              16                150,000          450,000        500,000
                                        Averages
              Q/ha               28,206          60,531         82,375
              Q/m²                2.82            6.05            8.24
              US$/m²              0.37            0.79            1.07
              Difference           0%             115%           192%



Land Value Estimated by the RIC Office in Petén

  Values indicated by the RIC office in the department of Petén for urban areas that have
  not yet been surveyed,vary between US$0.65/m2 to US$2.58/m2 (Q5.00/m2 to
  Q20.00/m2). Prices depend largely on the level of development of each municipality. For
  example, the current prices for the municipality in San Francisco are US$2.0/m2 (Q16),
  whereas in the less developed municipalities of Santa Elena, Flores and San Benito they
  are around US$3.2/m2 (Q25.00).

  In rural areas, land values vary between Q0.17/m2 for areas without any cadastral
  information and Q0.45/m2 for areas with titles. Reported prices vary between Q60,000 to
  Q100,000 per caballería (45 ha)--equivalent to Q0.13/m2 to Q0.22/m2--in unsurveyed
  areas, and Q200,000 to Q400,000 per caballería (Q0.44/m2 to Q0.89/m2) for titled land,
  although a plot of land with water would cost up to Q600,000.00 per caballería
  (Q1.33/m2).




                                                                                      40

       The borrower's final report indicated that in some cases, they observed price increases of
       more than 300 percent for surveyed land and an additional 100 percent when the land is
       titled, in both urban and rural areas.

Values Estimated by BANRURAL

       Local experts (including real estate agents, credit agents, and cadastral technicians) value
       titled and surveyed land at a much lower level. A baseline study undertaken for Phase II
       of the Project consulted with BANRURAL and produced a conservative estimate. For
       land within the Department of Izabal (which has similar socioeconomic and ecosystem
       characteristics as Petén), they estimated only a 25 percent value increase per hectare with
       respect to the original value for titled property in rural areas and a 50 percent increase for
       urban properties. BANRURAL estimated that surveyed land in the area of the Petén
       would increase in value by 35 percent in urban areas and 17.5 percent in rural areas, and
       that titled land would increase in value by 50 percent in urban areas and 25 percent in
       rural areas.

Net Present Value and Economic Rate of Return Estimated

In light of the above, the NPV of net economic benefits is based primarily on BANRURAL
estimates. Additional adjustments are made for the incremental value generated through the
titling of land (50 percent in urban areas and 25 percent in rural areas) and the cadastering of
the land (35 percent in urban areas and 17.5 percent in rural areas) It is also assumed that
considering the level of poverty Petén, only one-third of beneficiaries with surveyed land
would be in the position to move forward with the registering and titling process (which
involves paying a registration fee and other costs). The baseline prices of land are based on
information provided by municipalities for the urban areas and by FONTIERRA for the rural
areas. The discount rate used for the analysis is 10 percent (Table A3.4).

Table A 3.4. Base Data for Calculation of NPV, ERR

                                                                             Initial average Increase in value of Increase in value of Total benefits
                                                           Surveyed and      price (US$) per     land due to      land due to titleing   due to land    Total benefits due
                    Total Area (m²)*      Surveyed              Titled            m² **         surveying***              ***            surveyed            to titles
 Peten                 7,356,197,933
 Urban                    116,367,933          78.66%               21.34%        0.260            35.0%                15.0%                 2,773,894            967,380
 Rural                 7,239,830,000           96.75%                 3.25%       0.130            17.5%                 7.5%                53,064,738          2,291,733
                                                                                                                                      Total in ('000)               59,098
*Information Received by UTJ/RIC
** The initial average price were given by the municiplaities for the urban and by FONTIERRA for the rural areas.
 *** Information on % of the increase of value of land were given by BANRURAL
Exchange rate used is: Q7.7 for US$1.00


To simulate a situation where the increased value of land is the NPV of a future stream of net
benefit flows, the increased value of land was decomposed in 20 annuities (with interest rate
equal to the discount rate, and a payment period of 20 years)--the same methodology used
for the economic analysis in the PAD. The NPV estimate based on the above-mentioned
assumptions is US$13.9 million and the associated ERR is 27 percent (Table A3.5).




                                                                                                                                                                    41

Table A3.5. Estimates of NPV and ERR of the Land Administration Project (table 2.4&2.5)

                                         1998   1999  2000  2001   2002  2003  2004  2005  2006  2007  2008  2009  2010  2011  2012  2013  2014  2015  2016  2017   2018
                                             0     1     2      3      4     5     6     7     8     9    10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19     20
Costs
Bank commission                                        304
PPF                                      1,556   543     0      0
Loan                                                   452  2,705  3,275 6,150 5,681 5,310 3,214   190
Counterpart Funds                                  0   143     97  1,867 1,200 1,026   866   485 32.26
Contributions RIC for OM                                                                               2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852  2,852
Total Costs                              1,556   543   595  2,802  5,142 7,350 6,707 6,176 3,699   222 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852 2,852  2,852
Discounted Costs                        1,556   494    492  2,105  3,512 4,564 3,786 3,169 1,726    94 1,100 1,000   909   826  751    683   621  564    513   466  2,852
Added value of cadastred and titled
land                                                               6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942  6,942
Total Benefits                               0     0     0      0  6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942 6,942  6,942
Discounted Benefits                          0     0     0      0  4,741 4,310 3,918 3,562 3,238 2,944 2,676 2,433 2,212 2,011 1,828 1,662 1,511 1,373 1,249 1,135  1,032
Net Benefits                            -1,556  -543  -595 -2,802  1,800  -409   234  766  3,242 6,720 4,089 4,089 4,089 4,089 4,089 4,089 4,089 4,089 4,089 4,089  4,089
Discounted Net Benefits                 -1,556  -494  -492 -2,105  1,229  -254   132  393  1,513 2,850 1,577 1,433 1,303 1,184 1,077   979   890  809    735   669   608

Discount Rate                      10%
NPV                                     12,480
ERR                                      27%




                                                                                                                                                                    42

II. Financial Analysis of the General Property Registry Office in Petén

The Registry office in Petén was inaugurated in 1999 during the pilot phase (under the PPF)
and set up in its full capacity of operation during Phase I of the project, in March 2007.

The project allocated US$2 million to Component 2, which supported institutional
strengthening, the opening of a Registry office in Petén, and consultancy services to design
an integrated system of registry-cadastre.

Initially, as mentioned in the PAD, the office was designed as a fully decentralized "third-
registry" which would have included a fully autonomous process from the central registry.
During project implementation, however, the office was first used as a "transition" office,
receiving and sending physical (and later scanned) documents between Petén and Guatemala
City. Services were then extended to include, amongst others, electronic consultations. The
registry office sells its services according to a tariff system agreed in the Governmental
Agreement (Acuerdo Gubernativo, Arancel General para los Registros de la Propiedad) No.
325-2005, signed on 22 August 2005 (Table A3.6).

Table A3.6. Schedule of Fees According to Agreement 325-2005, for RGP

    Type of Transaction                                                   Fee in Q   Fee in US$
Buying and selling (for a value of less than Q10,000)                      160.00      $20.65
Tax cancellation                                                           160.00      $20.65
Division of land (for a value of less than Q10,000)                        210.00      $27.10
Certifications (up to 4 pages, Q5.00 for each additional page)             51.00        $6.58
Electronic consultations (up to 4 pages, Q2.00 for each additional page)   10.00        $1.29
Remote consulting (US$1.00)                                                 7.70        $0.99

The income generated through the selling of public services was captured automatically to
the Registry office in Guatemala City. Monthly office operational costs of approximately
US$6,245 (Q48,088) were paid by the project during implementation, but beginning in April
2007, regular transfers are guaranteed by the central office.

As mentioned in the PAD, one of the project objectives was to establish a regional office of
property registry that would be financially sustainable.

The objective of this analysis was to evaluate the financial sustainability of the Registry
office based on its operational costs and income.

Operating Costs:

Monthly operational costs of the Registry office are estimated below (Table A3.7).




                                                                                             43

                Table A3.7. Operational Costs of the Petén Office

                  Categories                         Amounts per Months (Q)
                  Office Rent                                          2,400
                  Services                                             8,210
                  Staff Salary:
                  Head of Office                                       8,155
                  Assistant of Head of Office                          6,524
                  Accountant                                           6,417
                  Administrator                                        5,885
                  Assistant Administrator                              4,928
                  Cashier                                              4,113
                  Cleaning services (half time)                        1,453
                  Total monthly in staff                               37,478
                                                          Total        48,088
                                                  Total Annual        577,063
                                            Total Annual in US$        74,943
                  Source: Developed by national consultant based on information
                  received by RGP Central office.



Revenue stream:

The office receives payments through (a) buying-selling transactions; (b) splitting of lots
(desmembraciones); (c) mortgage (hipotecas); (d) cancellation (letters of payment, judicial
notice, resolutions of Fund of Lands); (e) land detentions; (f) agrarian security/pledge; (g)
certification requests of the registered operations; (h) long-distance consultations: and (i) all
other documents related to the registry operation. Fees are based on those stipulated in
Governmental Agreement 325-2005, dated 18 July 2005. Also, there are additional
agreements between the RGP in Petén, the Land Fund, and the UTJ/RIC, with specific
costing arrangements. According to the information received, seven staff are currently
working on a full-time basis, four in the Petén office and three in the Central Registry office.
The Petén has a supervisor and two cashiers.

Income generated by the RGP in Petén:

Between July 2004 and January 2007, the Regional Office in Petén generated an average
income of approximately US$12,775 (Q99,005) monthly, or US$639 (Q4,950) daily. Out of
this income, approximately 52 percent of the total documents inscribed and transactions
undertaken were facilitated through the project activities (Table A3.8).




                                                                                             44

Table A 3.8. Transaction of Documents in the Registry Office, Petén

                              Regional Registry Office in the Peten
Income per registered document and contribution through the project
Observation time: July 2004- January 2007
                                                                        Number of Documents
 Month       through    through other                                   documents per year
and Year     project         users         Total in Q        in US$     UTJ/RIC
    Jul-04                      36,400          36,400            4,697
   Aug-04                       37,863          37,863            4,886
   Sep-04                       43,840          43,840            5,657
   Oct-04                       44,445          44,445            5,735
   Nov-04       44,200         173,336         217,536           28,069        318
   Dec-04       43,734          17,268          61,002            7,871        315         633
    Jan-05      40,027           7,356          47,383            6,114        288
   Feb-05       33,406          52,082          85,488           11,031        261
   Mar-05       58,055          66,838         124,893           16,115        452
   Apr-05                       45,863          45,863            5,918          0
   May-05       32,865          25,803          58,668            7,570        257
   Jun-05      202,014          60,333         262,347           33,851      1,578
    Jul-05      32,325          30,969          63,294            8,167        253
   Aug-05      198,240          65,088         263,328           33,978      1,862
   Sep-05       48,986          81,505         130,491           16,838        413
   Oct-05       46,975          11,873          58,848            7,593        338
   Nov-05                       38,460          38,460            4,963
   Dec-05                       35,995          35,995            4,645                  5702
    Jan-06      36,633          20,842          57,475            7,416        288
   Feb-06       33,417          14,989          48,406            6,246        263
   Mar-06       30,200          66,279          96,479           12,449        238
   Apr-06                       59,018          59,018            7,615
   May-06       41,301          36,920          78,221           10,093        325
   Jun-06                       68,821          68,821            8,880
    Jul-06                      59,306          59,306            7,652
   Aug-06       40,112          16,068          56,180            7,249        316
   Sep-06       38,555          29,851          68,406            8,827        304
   Oct-06       39,989          54,112          94,101           12,142        315
   Nov-06       37,090          69,368         106,458           13,737        179
   Dec-06      412,530          96,900         509,430           65,733      1,964       4,192
    Jan-07     105,210           5,520         110,730           14,288        506         506
   Total     1,595,864       1,473,311       3,069,175          396,023     11,033     11,033
Average month                                    99006           12,775
Day                                               4950              639

Source: Sede Regional de Petén, del Registro General de la Propiedad.




                                                                                              45

To estimate the financial sustainability of the RGP office in Petén, investment costs were
excluded. The analysis took into consideration regular cost flows and income streams and
calculated the following scenario.

Assumptions made for calculations:

· Average income per month of US$12,775
· Average operational costs per month as of April 2007
· Period of the analysis: 10 years
· Discount rate of 10 percent
· Part of the costs for the trimester in 2007 was still covered by the Project.

Table A3.9. Calculations of Financial Sustainability of the Petén Registry Office



                    2004    2005    2006      2007     2008    2009      2010   2011    2012   2013    2014

                        0       1       2        3         4       5        6       7       8      9      10

 Costs
 Operations costs                           41,739    74,943  74,943   74,943  74,943  74,943 74,943  74,943

 Total costs            0       0       0   41,739    74,943  74,943   74,943  74,943  74,943 74,943  74,943
 Discounted
 costs                  0       0       0   31,359    51,187  46,534   42,304  38,458  34,962 31,783  28,894

 Benefits
                                                                                       154,29 154,29  154,29
 Direct Benefits  154,295 154,295 154,295  154,295   154,295 154,295  154,295 154,295       5      5       5

 Discounted
 Benefits         154,295 140,268 127,516  115,924   105,385  95,805   87,095  79,177  71,980 65,436  59,487

 Net Benefits     154,295 154,295 154,295  112,556    79,351  79,351   79,351  79,351  79,351 79,351  79,351
 Discounted Net
 Benefits         154,295 140,268 127,516  112,556    72,138  65,580   59,618  54,198  49,271 44,792  40,720

 Discount Rate
 10 percent

 NPV              796,888
Source: Elaboration of national consultant based on information received from RIC and RGP.

As shown in Table A3.9, the RGP in Petén is already managing a scale of operations that
covers operational costs. The income stream is generated through transactions facilitated
through the project and through other activities.

Based on a sensitivity analysis, even with 25 percent of reduced transaction, the office would
still be covering its recurring costs. This would produce an NPV of US$521,295 and a cost-
benefit factor of 2.7.

For the rural areas, while only 26 percent of the total number of titles facilitated through the
project has been submitted to the registry, there is still a large number that need to complete
the regularization process. Therefore, in a scenario with a 25 percent increase in transactions,
the NPV would amount to US$702,922.13 with a cost-benefit ratio of 2.7.




                                                                                                    46

III. Fiscal Impact Analysis

The project facilitated an increase of fiscal income at the municipality level in Petén through
the formal registration of landholders, since they were liable to pay the real property tax
(IUSI), according to the IUSI law, approved in 1997. In Petén, the IUSI collection was
among the lowest in the country, Q24,931 in 1996 (Table A3.10).

Parallel to the start of the land administration project in 1998, the municipalities
progressively subscribed to the "Program for fiscal decentralization and strengthening of
municipalities," promoted by the Ministry of Finance. The project did not directly promote
the collection of tax revenue since this was outside its mandate, as explained and discussed
during the social communication campaign.

Flores was the first municipality to start collecting tax. In 2000, San Benito joined; in 2001,
La Libertad, Sayaxché, Dolores, Poptún, and Melchor; and in 2002, the remaining
municipalities--San José, Santa Ana, San Andrés, San Francisco, and San Luis--joined. In
2005, Q1,297,000 in tax revenue was collected. The efficiency of tax collection varied across
municipalities, as presented in Figure A3.1.

                      Figure A3.1. Proportion of Property Tax Collected
                            in the Petén Municipalities up to 2005

                                      Flores
                                     24.73%

             San Benito                                               La Libertad
               20.74%                                                   25.36%



                                                                        Santa Ana
                                                                         0.14%
            Poptun
             6.90%

                    San Jose                                           San Francisco
                     4.59%                                                 0.88%
                            Melchor              Sayaxche
                             4.33%    San Luis             Dolores  San Andres
                                                   3.27%
                                       3.81%                3.15%     2.09%


        Source: DICABI, Ministry of Finance (2006).




                                                                                            47

    Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

(a) Task Team Members

          Names                         Title            Unit  Responsibility/
                                                                  Specialty
Lending
Cora M. Shaw             Sr. Agricultural Economist     ECSSD Former TTL

Supervision/ICR
Jorge A. Muñoz           Sr Land Administration Spec.         TTL
Frederic de Dinechin     Sr Land Administration Spec.   LCSAR Former TTL
Nadim Khouri             Sr. Technical Spec.            ARD Former TTL
Maria Alejandra Bouquet  Rural Development Specialist   LCSAR Land/Legal
Zhong Tong               Agric. Economist               LCSAR Economist
Fernando Galeana         Junior Professional Associate  LCSAR Land/Operations
Ann Jeannette Glauber    Environmental Spec.            LCSEN Environment
George Campos Ledec      Lead Ecologist                 LCSEN Environment
Irma Yolanda Avila       Consultant                     LCCGT Social
Waleska Garcia-Corzo     E T Consultant                 LCCGT Operations
Virginia Barrios         E T Consultant                 LCCGT Operations
Antonio Blasco           Financial Management Spec.     LCSFM FM
Fabienne Mroczka         Financial Management Analyst   LCSFM FM
Manuel Vargas.           Sr Financial Management Spec   LCSFM FM
Monica Lehnhoff          Procurement Analyst            LCSPT Procurement
Luis R. Prada Villalobos Sr Procurement Spec.           LCSPT Procurement
Ketty Morales            Language Program Assistant     LCSAR Administrative




                                                                             48

 (b) Staff Time and Cost

Stage of Project       Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)

Cycle                Number of Staff   USD Thousands (including
                         Weeks         travel and consultant costs)
Lending
  FY88                                             0.35
  FY89                                             1.31
  FY90                                             0.25
  FY91                                             0.54
  FY92                                           102.84
  FY93                                           168.85
  FY94                                           246.49
  FY95                                            69.46
  FY96                                           122.26
  FY97                                           134.79
  FY98                                            47.87
  FY99                                             0.49
             Total:                              895.50
Supervision/ICR
  FY97                                             3.15
  FY98                                            63.06
  FY99                                            61.09
  FY00                        23                  51.39
  FY01                        15                  57.37
  FY02                        15                  86.08
  FY03                        20                  79.12
  FY04                        17                  55.68
  FY05                        15                  71.99
  FY06                        15                  14.34
  FY07                         4                   0.00
             Total:          124                 543.27




                                                                   49

                           Annex 5. Beneficiary Survey Results

In late 2006, the Borrower commissioned an independent survey of Project beneficiaries in El
Petén. Results of the survey (including information of beneficiary perceptions, land values,
access to credit, and other subjects) were used by the Borrower in preparing its Completion
Report (summarized in Section 7 of the main text) and by the Bank in preparing this ICR.
Table A5.1 below shows the sample distribution by municipality. The consultant's report of
the survey, along with the questionnaires used and statistical tables of responses are available
in the Project files.


                     Table A 5.1 Distribution of Beneficiary Households
                                         In Survey

                     Municipality         Urban         Rural        TOTAL
                 San Luis                    2             8             10
                 Poptún                     13             4             17
                 Dolores                     6            20             26
                 Santa Ana                   6             9            15
                 San Francisco               5             9             14
                 Flores                     14             0             14
                 San Benito                 20             2             22
                 San Andrés                  1             0             1
                 San José                    7             0             7
                 Melchor de Mencos           4             0             4
                 La Libertad                 3             6             9
                 Sayaxché                    5            25             30
                 Total                      86            83            169




                                                                                             50

Annex 6. Borrower's Comments on Draft ICR




                                             51

52

53

54

                  Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

· Land Fund Law (May, 1999)

· Regulations to Land Fund Law (May, 2000)

· Project's Mid-Term Review report (October, 2003)

· Law of the Cadastral Information Registry (RIC) (August, 2005)

· Consultant's report on Project Benefits, with annexes, including results of
  Beneficiary Survey (March, 2007)

· Borrower's Completion Report (submitted July, 2007)




                                                                                55

                                                       91°00'                          90°30'                                      90°00'                                 89°30'                                                G U A T E M A L A
               This map was produced by the
                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DEPARTMENT OF
               Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
               The boundaries, colors, denominations
               and any other information shown on                                                                                                                                           Azul
               this map do not imply, on the part of                                                                                                                                    Rio                                      EL PETÉN
               The World Bank Group, any judgment
               on the legal status of any territory, or                                                                                                                                                              Land Administration Project
               any endorsement or acceptance of
               such boundaries.                                                                                                                                                                                  Implementation Completion Report
              17°30'                                                                                                                                                                                   17°30'
                                                                                                                                                                                               MELCHOR                    RURAL AREAS BY UTJ
                                                                                     SAN ANDRÉS                         Carmelita              SAN JOSÉ                 FLORES
                                                                                                                                                                                                  DE                      RURAL AREAS BY CONTRACTOR
                                                                                                                                                                    Uaxactun                    MENCOS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          AREAS FINANCED BY OTHER PROJECTS
                                                                                         E             L         P   E      T    É    N
                                                                                San                                                            San Miguel
                                                                                                                                               San Miguel                                                                 MUNICIPAL EJIDOS/URBAN AREAS BY UTJ
                                                                             Rio   Pedro
                                                                                                                                               La Palotada
                                                                                                                                               La Palotada     Tikal                                                      NATIONAL PARK DEMARCATED BY PROJECT
                                                                      El Naranjo                                                                Protected
                                                                                                                                                Protected
                                                                                                                                                  Area
                                                                                                                                                  Area           Ti
                                                                                                                                                                 Tikal                  Cerro Cahui
                                                                                                                                                                                        Cerro Cahui                       PROTECTED AREAS DEMARCATED BY PROJECT
                                                                                                                                                             National Park
                                                                                                                                                             National Park          Protected Area
                                                                                                                                                                                    Protected Area
                                                                                                                    Sabaneta                           Lago                                                               BUFFER ZONES
                                                                                                                                                      Petén                       Melchor de Mencos
                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MULTIPLE USE AND CORE ZONE OF
                                                                                                                                                       Itzá
              17°00'                          Usumaci                                                                                                                                                                     BIOSPHERE RESERVE
                                                     Rio                                                                                       San José                                                17°00'
                                                                                                                                San Andres
                                                                                                                                               Flores                                                                     AREA EXPANSION OUTSIDE EL PETÈN
                                                       nta                                                                       San Benito                                                             BELIZE
                                                                                                                              SAN BENITO        Santa Elena                                                               DEPARTMENT CAPITAL

                                                              Bethel             LA LIBERTAD                                                                                                                              MAIN CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                  La Libertad                        Santa Ana                            án

                                                                                                                                       San                                             Mop                                RIVERS
                                                                                                                                    Francisco             SANTA ANA
                                                                                                                                          SAN                                       Rio                                   LAKES
                                                                                                                                      FRANCISCO
                          0        10      20 KILOMETERS                                               Las Cruces                                                                                                         MUNICIPAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                                                                                   El Chal
                                                                                                                          El Subin                                                                                        DEPARTMENT BOUNDARIES
                                                                                                 Pasión                                                           DOLORES
                                                                                           la                                                                                                                             INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                                         de
              16°30'                                                                  Rio                                Sayaxche                                          Dolores
                                                                                                                                                                                                       16°30'


                           M E X I C O                                                                                                              achaquilá                                                      G u l f o f M e x i c o                   CUBA
                                                                                                                                                   M
                                                                                                                                                              POPTUN        Poptun


                                                                                                   inas                SAYAXCHE             Rio

                                                                                                Sal     La Soledad                                                                 San Luis
                                                                                             Rio                                                                                                                            Area of map         C a r i b b e a n
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S e a
                                                                                                                                                                    SAN LUIS                                      MEXICO              BELIZE

                                                                                                                                                                                Rio
                                                                   Ixcan                                                                                                                                              GUATEMALA
              16°00'                                                                                                                                                          Cancuén                  16°00'                         HONDURAS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Guatemala City
             HUEHUETENANGO
                                                                                                                    Xuctzul                                Fray Bartolome                                                   EL SALVADOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NICARAGUA
                                                                                                                        Raxruja                            de las Casas                     Modesto

SEPTEMBER
                                                                                                           Chisec                                                     Sarstún               Mendez

                                                                                                                                                                  Rio
                                                                                                                                                                       Chahal                                                                                     IBRD

                                                Q U I C H E                                 A L T A                    V E R A P A Z                                                                              P A C I F I C             COSTA RICA                35717R
                                                                                                                                                                                   I Z A B A L
         2007                                                                                                                                                                                                      O C E A N                              PANAMA

                                                      91°00'                           90°30'                                       90°00'                                89°30'

