Dommut of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6576
PROJEC'r COMPLETION REPORT
BANGLADESH
AGRICUIL'T'U!RAL KFSEARCH  I PROJECT
(CRFI)IT 928-BD)
December 31, 1986
5outb Asia Project- Department
G,eneral Agrictilture T TDivision
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank d,ithoriza.!onf



WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                      0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)            640 ac (259 ha)
1 maund (md)            =        82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (to-,)     =        26.8 md
AbBREVIATIONS
BARC    -    Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI    -    Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAU     -    Bangladesh Agricultural University
BJRI    -    Bangladesh Jute Research Institute
BRRI    -    Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
BWDB    -    Bangladesh Water Development Board
DCA     -    Developmert Credit Agreement
EC/NEC  -    Executive Committee of the National Economi.c Council
FRI     -    Forestry Research Institute
COB     -    Goverr,ment of Bangladesh
1YV     -    High Yielding Varieties
IRRI    -    International Rice Research Institute
PP      -    Project Proforma
PWD     -    Public Wtorks Department
RMB     -    Resident Mlission, Bangladesh
SRI     -    Sugarcane Research Institute
TRI     -    Tea Research Institute
TWG     -    Techr.ical Working Group
UISAID   -    US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
U S A
Offe of Die,tow-GmneraI
Opertain Ivauultan
December 31, 1986
MEMORANDUM TO TIlE EXECUTIVE' DIRI'CIORS ADl) THE PEE:IDEN'I
SUIBJECT:  Project Completion Report:   Bangladesh - A2ricultural
Research T Prj ect (Credit 392-BID)
Attached,  for information,  is a cPov oa  a reT)ort mtitlod
"Project Completion Report:   Bangladesh - Agric2iltiral  Research T
Project  (Credit 392-BD)" prepared Iv the South Asia Repional nffice.
Under the modified svstem for oroject performance auditing,  further
evdluation of this prolec:t bv the Operations Fvaluatior, Department
has not been -tace.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reuipients only in the performance
:( their olficia! duties Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without Worid Bank authorization j



FOR OM(AAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT (CREDIT 828-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE                                                                       i
BASIC DATA SHEET
SUMMlAY                                                                      v
I.       INTRODUCTION .,, ............... ,,,*....,,,,,...............                  1
II.      BACKGROUNCDTIO         .   .    .  . . .. . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .1
A.  Project Origin ... ............1.... 
B.  Appraisal and Effectiveness .................... ....                     2
C.  Project Description and Detailed Features  ...........                    2
-  Project Description  .. ...... ..................  ...               2
-  Detailed Features ............................ off.                   3
III.     IMPLEMENTATION  4.         .................... .                              4
A.  Start-up and Timing of Disbursements ...............                      4
B.  Revision        .....              .................                      5
C.  Reporting  ..           ..............                                    6
D.  Procurement  ..        ... ..           ...         ..   .....            7
E.  Cost  ................................................                    7
F.  Disbursement by Categories .................. ..........                  7
G.   Implementation of Specific Components  ...* ...........                  8
-  BARI Regional Station Development  ............                       8
-  BARC Headquarters Complex ................ .......                    9
-  Research Grant Subprojects  .........                 .......         9
-  Contract Research Results ..............   *I ......                11
-  Development of National Agricultural Research Plan                  13
-  Training ....         ...........            , , ,   .  .           13
-  Technical Assistance ....... *................-.*,    14
-  BARC    Staffing   ................   ..................            14
-  Provision of Operatiig Funds .....................                  14
IV.      PROJECT IMPACT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT ............                    15
V.       IDA  PERFORMU47CE . ....... .             ...... . . ..  . . . . .... .      16
VI.      CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED ......................                       17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLES
1     Project Cost
2     Local and Foreign Exchange Cost (Current)
3     Status of Disbursement
4     Appraisal Estimates and Actual Disbursement Schedule
5a    Status of Expenditure Under
Research Subprojects Approved by BARC (Summary)
5b      Research Subprojects Approved by BARC (Soil and Water)
5c      Research Subprojects Approved by BARC (Agriculture Economics)
5d      Research Subprojects Approved by BARC (Coordinated Cropping System)
5e      Research Subprojects Approved by BARC (Agricultural Engineering)
MAP     IBRD 13447



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Credit 828-BD
Prf ace
This is a project completion report (PCR) for the Agricultural
Research I Project in Bangladesh for which a credit of US$6.0 million
(No. 828-BD) was extended to :he Government of Bangladesh in June 1978.
Credit closing occurred on time (12/31/84) in spite of a two month delay in
credit effectiveness.  The final disbursement was made in September 1985 and
the undisbursed credit balance of US$350,000 (6% of the credit amzunt) was
cancelled.
The PCR has been prepared by the General Agriculture I Division of
the South Asia Region. Its preparation is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report (No. 1974a-BD) dated May 16, 1978 and the Development Credit and
Project Agreements dated June 16, 1978. Correspondence with the borrower
and internal documents and memoranda on the project contained in the Bank's
files, have also been consulted.
Following a review of the PCR by OED staff, it was decided not to
audit the project and the PCR was sent to the Borrower for comment on
October 8, 1986.  The Bangladeshl AgriculLural Researoh Council acknowledged
receipt but had no additional cominent to make.



-ii-
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
Credit 828-BD
Basic Data Sheet
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal         Actual or           Column 2 as x
EstimEte       Current Estimates       of Column 1
(1)
Total Project (US$ million)                      7.4              6.2                    84
Credit Amounts (US$ million)                     6.0              5.65                   94
Date Physical Components Completed              6/30/84          L,30/84
Institutional Peformance                       Good
CUMULATIVE DISBURSEMENTS
FY79   FY80   FY81   FY82   FY83   FY84   FY85   FY86
Appraisal Estimate (US$ million)         -      1.5    3.7    5.5    5.8    6.0         -       -
Actual (USS million)                     -      0.62   2.13   4.14   5.01   5.51   5.64   5.65
Actual as % of Appraisal                 -       41      56     75      86     92       94      94
Date of Final Disbursement:             September 18, 1985
Original
PROJECT DAIES                                 Plan               Actual
Negotiations                                                     04/27/78
Board Approval                                                   06/15/78
Credit Signing                                 -                 06/16/78
Credit Effectiveness                        09/15/78             11/15/78
Closing Date                                12/31/84             12/31/84



-iii-
OTHER DATA
Borrower                                             Government of Bangladesh
Name of Currency (Abbreviation)                      Taka (TO)
Fiscal Year                                          July 1 - June 30
Exchanpe Rate j/
Appraisal Year (1977)                           15.25
Interv2ning Years' Average (1979/84)            19.86
Completion Year Average (1984/85)               25.50
Foilov-up Proiect
Name                                            Agricultural. Research lI Project
Credi.t No.                                     14554-FD
CrediL Amount (SgR MiX I .on)                   23.4
Date of Board Apprcoval                         Karcb 29, 1984
Date of Credi t Si.gqing                        May 18, 1984
Date of Effectiveapss                           April 23, 1985
AJ   The deili  e  in r&ki; vs;.ue over th?  Ji.sbursemner!t period regpistered  40%.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT (CREDIT 828-BD)
Hission Data
Date          No. of         Manweeks                         Performance Rating       Type of
Mission                Month/Year      Persons        in Field    Specialization         Status   Trend         Problem
11               2/        31           5/
Identification
Preparation 4/
Appraisal              11/12/77          4            iC,        A. Eng. E.                         -
Post Appraisal 1         6/78            2             2            A.E.                  1         2              P
Post Appraisal I1       10/78            2           _ 2            A.E.                  1         1              M
Sub-total       20
Supervision 1            3/79            2          1+RMB 6!        A.E.                  1         2              H
Supervision II          11/79            2          l+RMB           A.E.                  1         2              H       c
Supervision III          5/80            2          1+RMB           A.E.                  2         3             M.F.
Supervision IV          12/80            1           RMB             E.                   1         2              M
Supervision V            6/81            2          2+RMB           A.E.                  2         1             M.F.
Supervision VI           2/82            2           RMB            E.E.                  2         1             M.F.
Supervision VII          7/82            2          2+RMB           A.A.                  2         1             M.F.
Supervision VIII        12/82            1            1              A                    2         2             M.F.
Supervisiir IX           5183            1           RMB             A                    2         2             M.F.
Supervision X           11!83            1            1              A                    2         2             M.F.
Supervision Xi           5/84            1           RHIB            A                    2         1              m
Supervision XII         11/84            I            1              A                    2         1              H
Sub-total      10
Total          30
jJ  Specialization A - Agriculturist; Eng. - Engineer; E. - Economist; Ar. - Architect.
_2J  Performance rating, status: I   problem free/minor problems; 2 = moderate problems; 3   major problems.
3!  P-rformance rating, trend: 1   improving; 2 = stationary; 3 = deteriorating.
4/  Carried out by Resident Mission (RMB) and GOB.
5/  Type of problem; M   management; F - financial; P = political.
6/  'Supervision whollv and partly undertaken by Resident Mission (RB) not included in man-weeks.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT (CREDIT 828-BD)
PROJECT COMPLETIOW REPORT
EVALUATION SUMMARY
1.      The project is the result of the reconv.tendations contained in the
Bank's Land and Water Resource Sector Study (IBRD Report PS-13) completed in
December 1972 which recommended inter alia an US$80 million ten-year research
program for strengthening of agricultural res. rch in Bangladesh.  The
project was prepared by a Government of Bangladesh (GOB) team consisting of
scientists from the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) and the
Bangladesh Agricultikral Research Institute (BARI), and was appraised by IDA
in November/December ;977. The Credit agreement was signed on June 16, 1978,
and became effective on November 15, 1978.  The Credit closed as originally
plannec, on December 31, 1984. The final disbursement was US$5.65 M and an
amount of US$350,000 was cancelled.
Objectives
2.      The project's objective was to strengthen agricultural research,
specifically the research facilities, management, and scientific manpower of
BARI; and the planning, coordination and monitcring functions of BARC. The
project included funds for: (a) land development, physical facilities,
machinery and equipment at four BARI regional research stations and an office
complex at BARC headquarters in Dhaka; (b) research subprojects at various
research institutes and universities, to be administered by BARC; (c) train-
ing of scientific and extension staff; (d) short-term technical assistance;
and (e) incremental operating costs for BARC.
3.      BARC was responsible to guide and direct the preparation of a
national research plan and ensure coordination between research institutes
and donors. Physical constructioLn and procurement were the responsibility of
BARC and BARI. Selection, supervision and evaluation of research subprojects
was the responsibility of BARC's technical comm:ctee.  Formal approval of
research subprojects for financing was to be the responsibility of BARC's
Executive Committee, which was interdisciplinary in composition.
Implementation Experience
4.      Though project activities started on time, difficulties were
experienced in procurement of equipment and provision of local funding.



-vi-
There were considerable cost overruns under civil works and equipment com-
ponents. A vevision of categories was agreed to in late 1981, resulting in
increased spending under civil works and equipment, made up by using funds
under "unallocated" category and some reduction under training, contract
research, and technical assistance. The reduction under the latter
categories was made up by additional funding from the United States Agency
for International Development (USAID). Despite the above, the credit closed
on schedule with 94% of funds disbursed. Implementation was completed by
December 1984, six years after start up.
j.      The appraisal report was too specific in itemizing some of the equip-
ment. Once this was included in the project proforma, flexibility was lost
and purchases were made without reference to the updated project require-
ments.  Procurement of Rquipment was also delayed due to a weak procurem!nt
cell at BARC and complex (,OB clearance procedures.
6.      Project reporting was poor.  Under the project, BARC was responsible
to coordinate the work of different institutions. As BARC did not have
executive authority over the institutions, coordination was weak. The SAR
did not suggest regular meetings chaired by the Secretary, Ministry of
Agriculture to review project progress with the Executive Chairman BARC and
the Director of BART.  As a result, reporting requirements were not
monitcered.
7.      Separate accounts were noL maintained Eor individual research sub-
proiects.  There was considerable delay in providing audited accounts due to
weaknesses in the geri,ral auditing procedures.
Ag of September 18, 1985 (date of fin.al disbu-sement), an amountt of
US$5.65 mil;i.ni had heen 3iqburFed ind LtS$350,OO0O cancelled, against the
total credit ot US$6.0 miliion,  Ihe mairn shortfal.l. was due to the suspension
of research station development at Ramgarh and 51.ow progress of the contract
research propram.
Results
3.      The mlain feature of the project was to acceleraLe thie institu-
tion-huLLding process for agricultural researcht in Bangl.adesh.  As a result
of the project, BARC's role as an apex institution for planning, coordinAt-
ing, and mocaicortng research has gained increased recognitiorn. The
strengthening of research facilities at regional research stations located in
three out of the four main agroecological zones has helped in identification
and addressing uf farmers problems under different conditions.  Action has
been initiated by BARC to prepare a National AgricuLtural Researc'i Plan aimed
at developing research policies, strategy and prioritCes.



-vii-
Findings and Lessons
10.     The main findings are the following:  (a) there has been considerable
improvement in research planning and institution building; (b) while the
contract research program has been we l implemented, its objectives are not
clear to al' concerned; and (c) an appropriate coordination mechanism was not
set up to ensure better monitoring of project activities and resolve
implementation problems.
11.     Main lessons learnt are:  (a) provision of equipment at regional
research stations should be based on the research programs to be implemented;
(b) advance planning should be done to moke lull utilization of training
funds; (c) technical assistance funded by different agencies should be
properly coordinated to ensure specific responsibilities; (d) contract
research funding should be made to supplement normal research programs;
(e) composition of supervision missions should be such that expert support is
available to help solve specific implementation problems; and (f) a coordina-
tion mechenism is essential to bring together different organizations respon-
sible for project implementation, review progress, and resolve problems.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH I PROJECT
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01    Before the implementation of the IDP-assisted Agricultural Research I
Pr-ject, agricultural research in Bangladesh was widely dispersed over 12
autonomous research institutes which were under nine ministries. There was
no overall coordinating body to provide broad guidelines for research
activities to promote relevant research appropriate for Bangladesh conditions
or to prevent duplication of research effort. The Agricultural Research I
Project was designed to both strengthen adaptive research capacity as well as
institutionalize coordination among the dispersed research institutes.
1.02    The Agricultural Research I Project was not the first research
project in Bangladesh. In 1976, USAID had initiated their first agricultural
research project which concentrated on supporting the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Institute (BARI) at Joydebpur, developing the Ishurdi Centre for
work on wheat, and providing funds for technical assistance, training and
contract research. Also, in early 1976, the Bank initiated a review which
eventually led to the Extension and Research I Project (Credit 729-BD); this
project became effective in January 1978. A small research component was
included which covered development of five research sub-stations, the financ-
ing of contract research through a research grant scheme of about US$200,000
under the dangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) and demonstration
of simple farm implements.
1.03    While these above developments were steps in the right direction, the
Agricultural Research I Project was the first attempt to establish a coherent
agricultural research system in Bangladesh.
II. BACKGROUND
A. Project Origin
2.01    The origin of the project lies in the World Bank's Land and Water
Resuurce Sector Study (IBRD Report PS-13) completed in December 1972 which
recommended strengthening of research institutes, focusing of the investiga-
tions on specific agricultural problems, and establishing efficient linkages
between the various institutes concerned. The Agricultural Research I
Project was prepared by a GOB team consisting of BARC and BARI scientists,
assisted by staff of the Bank's Dhaka office.



-2-
B.  Apraisal and Effectiveness
2.02    The project was appraised by IDA in November/December 1977 and a
report issued on May 16, 1978 - Bangladesh Agricultural Research Project,
Report No. 1974a-BD.
2.03    The appraised project's objectives concentrated on strengthening
BARC, strengthening the research system in general to enable it to better
undertake applied and adaptive research relevant to local conditions, and to
assist GOB in the preparation of a National Agricultural Research Plan
(NARP). The project was approved on June 15, 1978; the Credit agreement was
signed on June 16, 1978 set to become effective on September 15, 1978.
However, effectiveness was delayed by two months due to the lateness of
issuing the project proforma (pn) by COB. By November 15, 1978, the out-
standing conditions were met and the project became effective.
C. Project Description and Detailed Features
Project Description
2.04    The project was designed to provide funds for:
(a)  essential buildings and land development a:, BARI regional research
stations located at Jamalpur, Jessore, Hathazari, and the highland
crop-cum-soil-conservation station at Ramgarh;
(b)  essential cropping and harvesting machinery, and workshop and
laboratory equipment for the above BARI research stations;
(c)  the construction of a modest 16,000 sq ft first stage office complex
for BARC at an existing site in Dhaka;
(d)  research subprojects to be funded by BARC, for execution by local
research institutions and universities;
(e)  special studies to assist BARC in developing a long-term agricultural
research plan;
(f)  overseas and local training for scientific staff and local training
of extension staff;
(g)  about 36 man-months of short-term technical assistance in:
Ci) land development at BARI research stations;
(ii) sttdies to define research programs and research plans;
(iii) periodic monitoring of BARCs research grant system; and



-3-
(h) incremental operating costs of BARC and the four BARI stations to
make effective use of facilities, equipment and scientific staff
provided under the project.
Detailed Features
2.05    BARI regional station development.  Four research stations located in
four distinct agro-ecological zones were selected for development. The
stations were to be provided with essential office and residential buildings;
land development, including levelling and shaping; irrigation facilities;
services including provision of drinking water and electricity, and essential
storage and workshop space. Land development involved land levelling, land
shaping and soil conservation work at Ramgarh, and improved drainage at all
stations. Irrigation facilities were to be designed to cope with peak water
requirements of the crops to be researched. At each station a brick road was
to connect the main road with the office, residential, and storage blocks.
The farms were to be fenced and provided with water storage tanks, on-farm
piped water, and electricity. A workshop/machine shed was to be built. The
project was also to provide machinery and equipment. For land development
work at each station, a scraper, a leveller and a land plane were provided to
be drawn by two tractors (45 and 65 hp) supplied for cropping purposes.
Also, associated accessories and implements plus basic workbhop facilities
and tools were to be provided. The provision of basic laboratory equipment
and vehicles was also part of the project.
2.06    BARC headquarters complex.  To enable all five divisions of BARC to
be housed together and to enable BARC to organize periodic scientific semi-
nars, a functional office of 16,000 sq ft was to be constructed. Design and
layout were to allow for subsequent expansion. The design was to be prepared
by a local consulting firm with qualification and experience satisfactory to
IDA.
2.07    BARC financed research subprojects.  All research institutions in
Bangladesh were eligible to receive funds for research subprojects. BARC was
to develop coordinated efforts in cropping systems research, soil and water
management, appropriate technology in agriculture, agricultural economics,
and crop protection. Other priority research area were to be agreed between
BARC and IDA during implementation.
2.08    Manpower Development.  The project was to fund 25 Ph.D. programs, 20
one-year M.Sc. degree programs, about 30 short-term career development cour-
ses, study tours for research managers, local training at research stations
for extension workers and subject mattor specialists and local seminars.
About 80Z of Ph.D. training was to be overseas but BARC was to attempt to
arrange with the overseas university for chesis work to be done in
Bangladesh. BARC was to encourage local Ph.D programs at the Bangladesh
Agricultural University (BAU). Also, BARC was to promote 20 M.Sc. degrees at



-4-
BAU and encourage active interaction between BAU and other local research
institutions. BARI was to organize about 1,200 man-weeks of training spe-
cially for extension staff so as to promote the links between research and
extension.
2.09    Research plan.  BARC was to develop a long-term pLan for agricultural
research covering all commodities and problem area. Short-term technical
asaistance hired by BARC was to be used for this purpose.
2.10    Technical assistance.  As most technical assistance was already being
provided to the research system by USAID, about 36 man-months of supplemen-
tary technical assistance was to be commissioned (15 man-months for BARI and
21 man-mcnths for BARC). It was agreed that it would be a condition of
disbursement against research subprojects that about 6 man-months of
short-term expert services would be used annually to monitor the effective-
ness of BARC's research grant system. USAID agreed to provide additional
techni^ial assistance for contract research monitoring.
2.11    Incremental operating costs.  Both BARC and the four BARI project
stations were to be fully staffed by December 1979 according to a staffing
plan satisfactory to IDA. During project c?velopment, incremental operating
costs of BARC and four BARI stations were Lo be financed under the project.
2.12    Project cost and financing.  The project was estimated to cost
US$7.4 M inclusive of US$0.85 M for taxes and duties and US$1.6 M for physi-
cal and price contingencies. Civil works (US$2.6 M base cost) and machinery
and equipment (US$0.48 M base cost) together made up about half of all costs.
Overseas training, local training, contract research futnds, BARC incremental
operating costs and technical assistance made up the remainder. The IDA
credit was for US$6 million which was to finance about 90% of project costs,
net of duties and taxes. The credit was to cover all foreign expenditure
(US$2.8 million) and about 70% of local costs of Tk 70.4 million
(US$4.5 million). Detailed appraisal. cost estimate and actual expenditure
for the project are in Table 1.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
A. Start-up_and Tim_ingof Disbursements
3.01    Project implementation started promptly with agreement over architec-
tural and land developmen. consultancies, but considerable difficulty was
experienced over equipmert procurement, where there was very little technical
assistance to an inexperienced procurement cell. Implementation was com-
pleted by December 1984, just over six years after start up, and final :lis-
bursement on September 18, 1985.



-5-
3.02    Implementation proved to be quite difficult in the early years, owing
to considerable cost overruns in equipment procurement, in the main building
components, and latterly with difficulties experienced over the provision of
local funding.
3.03    Moreover, all major disbursements, apart from training and contract
research, were scheduled in the SAR to be completed by the end of Year 3,
June 30, 1982. As the PPs were based on the SAR, there was no authority for
implementing agencies to incur further investment expenditure although sta-
tion development had not been fully completed. A short-term solution was
found by the utilization of PL 480 Title II funds for certain specified areas
of day-to-day expenditure.
3.04    Notwithstanding the above and with a revision of categories in 1981
(see para 3.05), the credit closed as scheduled with 94% of funds disbursed,
following more or less the original implementation schedule. All major legal
covenants were complied with, although audit reports were submitted with some
delays. The performance of the project compares favorably with other
agricultural development projects in Bangladesh.
B. Revision
3.05    The BARI and BARC PPs conformed entirely with the SAR but, due to a
lack of coordination between these two institutions and some confusion over
the apportioning of funds between categories concerning land development and
research stubprojects, cost of buildings and equipment diverged from the SAR
and led to early indications of overspending. A revision of the categories
was agreed in late 1981. This increased spending on buildings and machinery,
and reduced spending on local training, contract research and technical
assistance. Additional funding for these latter activities was provided to
BARC from USAID which by that time was strongly supporting BARC affairs.
3.06    Table 3 shows both the original and the revised DCA allocation.  The
following categories were reallocated additional funds:
US$
Equipment and machinery                  200,000
Construction                              93,000
Overseas training                        200,000
BARC operating costs                     200,000
These increases in allocation amounted to US$693,000 and came largely from
the 'unallocated' category in the original DCA. The 'unallocated' funds were
reduced from US$600,000 to US$70,000 releasing US$530,000. The remaining
US$163,000 were made available by reductions under local training, technical
assistance, and contract research.



-6-
C. Reporting
3.07    According to the SAR, quarterly reports, which were to be based on
the monitoring of physical execution of project works, were to be provided by
the office of the D)irector of BARI and the Executive Vice Chairmtn of BARC.
They were to include action programs for the following quarter and were to
compare actu&t achievement with targets. Regular reviews of BARC's research
grant system were also to be carried out.
3.08    Reporting requirements of the project were not met.  Apart from
regular reports on disbursement, there was no regular progress reporting
during the implementation period. A review of research grant subprojects was
carried out by BARC with the assistance of USAID-funded TA and procedures
were found to be satisfactory. A seminar on the results of specific sub-
projects was held in late 1984 and the proceedings published in March 1985.
Ad hoc reports on particular experiments have been published on a variety of
subjects such as an agro-eco.omic study of 'country bean' (Dolichos lablab)
production, and on cropping systems research but these have not been pub-
lished in a regular manner with due cognizance given to the research grant
system. The only other regular reporting during implementation was that done
by the twice yearly Bank supervision missions.
3.09    The non-compliance in reporting may be attributed to three main
causes:
(a)  Although a format and methodology was established, it was not
apparent to wl-om reports should be made;
(b)  the fact that BARC di.d not have executive authority over research
workers on institutes to demand reports; and
(c)  the complexity of the reporting format.  Repurts were to be based
on the progress of the procurement and construct.;on cells wnich in
the evenc were not properly structured and were lt( '-v relatively
inexperienced officers.
3.10    No regular meetings were foreseen in the SAR as, for example, a
prescribed regular meeting at the office of the Secretary for Agriculture
with the Director of BARI and the Executive Vice Chairman of BARC to review
progress. Ad hoc meetings were called by BARC but were often poorly
attended.  Regular reporting during the early stages of implementation might
have prevented the early overspending which was parcly responsible for a cut
back in local training.
3.11    BARC accounts were only audited up to FY82 and those of BARI up to
FY83. These were not made available under 1984. Accounts for the .otal
contract research fund was maintained by BARC, but no separate iccounts for



-7-
specific contract research projects were maintained in sccordance *th
Project Agreement, clause 3.J2.  The slowness in proiiding audited accounts
indicated weakness in the accounting procedures of BARI and BARC and in the
Auditor Ceneral's Office.
D.  Proc ir .neri
3.12    A prociren2nt ceLl -7as set up in BARC to hanile all purchases.  This
Jnit was sa.ed :y reLatiVely inexperienced officers wK h .10 access to the
technical expeccisd necessary to interpret the list cf equipment in the SAR.
Difficulries weru also experienced over complex G03 clearance procedures on
Leader sele:i.n which in turn led to letter of credit extensions and extra
C o) S t.s
3.13    A L;horc, lrA inpuC to reviow the full list or elilJLpirlen1  drawn up by the
procurement cell, before tenders were called, would have minimized such
Problems a,  ±cilrchas~iig .ractors with mismatched imple.nents and 3pecifying
overly sophi.ssi(7ated laboratory equipment for regional stacions.  The SAR was
coo spvcific in iternizing equipment which was included in tne PP aild pur-
chaesed wdloi- rererence to che proposed work programs.  C> i K'ines and block
alloc.ioni jihould have been shown which could then liave beel, applied accord-
ir.g to the exigencies of the project within the Development Credit Agreement
(DCA) cateF,ori.s and the nacional budgets.
i..  Cost
3.14   'The cotaL project costs (including l.ocal funds), given in Table 1,
show that ,he actual cost in 'T'aka was 84% of the SAtR estimate. The main
reabn DefindJs .'iis lower tnan estlmated cotal cost appears to be the devalua-
rtion of the Taka by 40% 'Detween 1978 and 1984.  The lower total cost, does
noL, however  inmean tha: chers were no cost overruns in specific categories.
rn Taa    tms h e cost: Stf BA.  buildings, land development, the purchase of
ma-thi .erv and equipnein, - t:in>ig and BARC's operating costs all appear Lo
lave irvoIved cost overrin.;.
r D,sc)ars<ne',',! Dy CategDr-eS
3.15    I;*r ;,D,A, Ctedi. .t ,s JIS$6.0 mill-icn and was expected to finance 90% of
project costs.  Of this anw,,i.-, US$5.65 million had been disbursed as of
SeptemIer .8, 1985 jhe, The final disbursement was made.  Expenditures for
tc al _ivil; works wert! in        . v:th thz uriginal SAR, although one original
agricultural research  Ra&'., Ramgarh, was aoc developed.  Costs of
machinery and equipment vere tTove tne es.mate due to the fact that inade-
quate review of specifications co:mbined with a weak procurement cell led to
t.he acquLsition of unnecessarily expensive ma:er:..  Only half of the
pr,,jec: ed runds were used 'or s-.5.rprojects under     -.l research grant system due
primari ly    t L;ie sack or'f 3AkC  enXor mnanagment. resnurces capable of handling
..e~ wo.t>'uua  :>:voived.  incr cm en,:Ia' costs, mainly tor 3ARC, were heavily
., ;   '.r-ing r:n1; were on -..rge,, ii bn>h ap,rlicat;on of Lraini ng



-8-
funds was overly biased in favor of overseas training. Consultancy funds
were somewhat underspent due to an abundance of TA expertise already avail-
able to BARC under the USAID-funded Agricultural Research II Project.
3.16    Disbursement, however, was orderly, following the original estimates
reasonably closely. Some difficulties were created by the depreciation of
the Taka and delays in the release of local funds but completion was achieved
with a satisfactory utilization.
3.17    Overall, the project's disbursement remained somewhat below expecta-
tions due mainly to the suspension of station development at Ramgarh, a
slowing down of the contract research program because of administrative
difficulties and the near absence of expenditure on local training.
G. Implementation of Specific Components
BARI Regional Station Deve!opment
3.18    Facilities were created on only three of the four stations selected.
For socio-political reasons, it was agreed between the Bank and COB not to
proceed with the development of Ramgarh, which is situated almost on the
border between India and Chittagong Hill Tract District. Only a small amount
of building material had been purchased when work was suspended.
3.19    Most of the improvements anticipated at appraisal were completed on
the remaining stations apart from fencing where it was decided that the
specified design was not strong enough to deter human and livestock incur-
sion. Concurrently, much shorter lengths of 'pucca' wall were constructed in
the most critical areas, leaving the stations relatively unprotected.
3.20    Deep tubewells were sunk on each station.  Outputs were unexpectedly
high and exceeded the delivery capacity of the lined channels, which had no
control structures or proper gates making it difficult to irrigate accurately
small plots. The buildings were designed by local architects and displayed
heavy brick overhangs and arched roofs. The designs were to provide cool
working conditions but reduced practical efficiency. Workshops were created
without inspection pits, processing sheds are high and open sided making it
difficult to work in the rainy season and blocks of flats have been built
with design faults in kitchen arrangements and electrification.
3.21    Equipment was not well specified in the SAR.  Further complications
arose due to the fact that the equipment list from the printed Project File
was not available to the procurement cell. The main items of workshop equip-
ment, such as 6 ft. lathes and table drilling machines and some of the equip-
ment in the cropping and harvesting list such as the reversible ploughs would
have been more appropriate to a commercial farm than for a research station.
Technical assistance in agricultural engineering was provided to BARC and
BARI by USAID but too late to change equipment procurement lists.



-9-
3.22    Lack of critical analysis of scientific equipment requirements led to
the purchase of highly techn;.cal laboratory equipment which had little
application in the present relatively unsophisticated atmosphere of a
regional station. In fact, sophisticated laboratory analysis is presently
centralized at BARI headquarters in Joydehpur and regional stations do not
play a major role in this regard.
3.23    Notwithstanding the above shortcomings, it should be emphasized that
the project has substantially improved facilities at the regional stations.
The availability of buildings, equipment, and proper access roads allows
staff to move out from the BARI central complex at Joydehpur and to par-
ticipate in decentralized adaptive research.
3.24    At the BARI Jamalpur regional station, the mission was told that
during the rainy season the station was more suitable for rice research than
for any other crop due to the flooding of almost two-thirds of the station.
However, BARI does not conduct rice research. Creater use could have been
made of facilities if the station were used by more than one institute but
that was not fe,sible under the project. In Jessore, research was largely
concentrated on wheat. Fodder crops and legumes should be given more atten-
tion in future programs.
BARC Headquarters Complex
3.25    Originally BARC functioned in a small rented office with few staff
and no room for expansion. Under Credit 828-BD, a suitable headquarters
building for BARC was constructed on a site already identified by GOB in the
center of Dhaka.
3.26    Considerable difficulty was experienced by IDA in clearing the design
prepared by local consultant architects. Finally, an imposing building was
constructed with considerable cost overrun. The additional costs were accom-
modated in the 1981 revision of categories. The building is functional
although space allocation could have been better designed especiclly in view
of the possibility of further expansion. The building nevertheless has
increased the status of BARC and has facilitated the activities of the
Council.
Research Grant Subprojects
3.27    This component was foreseen as an instrument for BARC to have an
increased impact on the agricultural research system. Since 1976, BARC had
been operating a research grant scheme to direct research efforts into areas
of priority. The first funding came from GOB and the USAID-funded
Agricultural Research I Project, and some 40 studies had already been
initiated. About 90 further research projects were proposed under
Credit 828-BD at a total cost of about $1.8 million. Under the constraints



-10-
imposed by the closing of the PP which, since 1982, only allowed the servic-
ing of ongoing projects, 41 subprojects were actually funded during implemen-
tation at a total cost of less than US$0.50 million.
3.28    Contract r.s;earch project headings and individual costs are shown in
Tables 5a to 5e. In summary form and under the headings proposed in the
SAR research grant, subprojects covered the following areas during
implementation.
Priority_Research Area                      Number of Subprojects
Approved
Soil and Water Management                          19
Agricultural Economics                              7
Cropping Systems                                    8
Agricultural Engineering                            7
Total                                           41
3.29    The weakest area of subproject activity was agricultural engineering
where two selected studies had to be dropped.  Of the total funds finally
'u.ilized, agricultural engineerin.g took up just over 7% which reflects a
ge.neral weakness in agricuiLural engineering research and also a weakness in
BAr.RGs st aff capability in this field.  On regional. stations, too much
emphasis  was put on plant breeding and agronomy and too little oni agricul-
Z.ral economics and engineering.  This reflects the make up of research
Sc.-nc.ists in Bangladesh; there are many breeders and agronomists but very
few economists and agricultural engineers.
3.30    A formaL seminar was held at BARC at the end of 1984 when highlights
of the program were presented to an invited audience in che form of short
papers. The seminar proceedings ;.2re dublished in March 1985 and illustrated
some .f the research results achieved to date.  Unfortunately, the semnirar
'eai.t wlth all contract research, irrespective of funding, and grouped
lresentations which meant that results from individual contracts could not be
_]oLatcd. Further reporting of specific contracC results is expected and
vi-ere appropriate pubiicationsi should be made for utilization by the exten-
SioTI agency.
3./il   -ihe provision of research grant funds has increased BARC's influence
on the research system.  It has alLowed the Council to direct funds into
areas oi priority and to encourage the participation ot institutions outside
the nmainstream of agricultural research such as, for example, the
i,oi-agricultural universities.  The Council has also been able to assist
rescarch programs requiring inter-institutional and inter-disciplinary
p;Rrat On.



-11-
3.32    Four universities, the Institute of Nuclear Agriculture, four
agricultural research institutes, the Ministry of Agriculture and BARC itself
were all involved in specific grant-funded research subprojects. Four of the
projects involved inter-institute cooperation but many of the other projects
displayed inter-disciplinary cooperation which conformed to the original
concept of research grant funding.
3.33    In any future assessment of the research system, the role of contract
research should be clearly defined. Contract research is a facility to
promote priority research in areas not already covered by existing research
programs. It should not be seen as a replacement for normal research
programs. Contract research is a valuable tool for promoting research coor-
dination between institutions. However, the workload of administering con-
tract research and particularly in reviewing work programs is considerable.
At present staffing levels contract research threatens to overburden BARC's
administrative capability.
Contract Research Results
3.34    The proceedings of the workshop on contract research held at BARC in
late 1984 dealt with the results to date of all contract research; it did not
separate work under the project from other contract research. Further,
reporting was organized on the basis of participating institutions and not
according to individual subprojects. In future each subproject must be
isolated for reporting purposes. The proceedings give many detailed trials
results some of which are summarized here.
3.35    National Coordinated Cropping Systems Projects were conducted by BAU,
BARI, BJRI and SRI and funded from contract research. Combinations of rice,
wheat, jute and potatoes were tested and specific varieties identified for
their rotation cropping potential. Great inter-seasonal differences in
varietal response were apparent. Sugarcane was intercropped with a range of
crops including vegetables, mustard and rice. Vegetables performed well and
significantly enhanced sugar profitability but technologies need multiloca-
tion testing before being released. BARI had identified traditional cropping
patterns at many sites and had managed to combine high yielding rice with
several crop system3. Zinc and sulphur deficiency was a serious limiting
factor in rice ptoduction. This finding was confirmed in micronutrient
studies; zinc deficiency was found to be widespread in calcareous soils and
sulphur deficiency was a serious problem around Debiganj. Recommendations
for sulphur and zinc application were produced and confirmed in several
independent subcontracts. Based on the above work, BARC produced a manual
titled "Fertilizer Guide for most crops in Bangladesh 1985", which includes
site and crop specific recommendations to reach those yield levels.
3.36    Monitoring of costs and returns for each cropping sequence in the
Cropping System Projects for a sample of 45 farmers was conducted by the
Agricultural Economics Units of BARI, BWDB and BJRI. The work was undertaken
in cooperation with the Agronomy Division. Descriptive staten,ents on farm



-12-
and farm family characteristics and cost benefit analysis added to the study.
Information was also collected on yields, returns, and farmer uptake of
improved technology. Socio-economic studies were carried out on assessment
of improved technology for wheat, rice, potato and jute. Studies were car-
ried out on the management of deep and shallow tubewell system. All this
information should be fed back to scientists for their use in modifying
research objectives and trials' procedures.
3.37    BARI and BRRI had worked on the efficiency of fertilizer applica-
tions. A single basal application of urea gave higher rice returns than
split broadcast applications particularly in boro but not in aman.
3.38    A study of soil and water management was begun in 1980 and scheduled
for completion in 1986. Crop water responses of wheat, potato, cotton,
sugarcane, mustard and maize were determined. No significant responses to
irrig tion of lentils and chickpeas were observed.  Benchmark socio-economic
studies are almost complete at several sites and will be combined with
irrigation management and cropping pattern results to produce crop recommen-
dations for farmers. Interesting work was undertaken on biological nitrogen
fixation under irrigated and non-irrigated conditions. Seven local and two
exotic strains of rhizobium had been collected from riungbean. Dhaincha
showed promise as a green manure and 31 root modulc forming bacteria are
under study. Eleven native and three exotic strains of Azolla are under
study. Biomass studies with Azolla had revealed problems with high tempera-
tures; shade and phosphate application increased biomass. Low cost techni-
ques where developed to reduce seepage losses in farm-level irrigation.
Studies on brackish water management are continuing.
3.39    One contract research subproject had investigated .he possibility of
using bamboo instead of galvanized pipes for hand tubewells. The bamboo
tubewells discharged from 8-11 gpmn and could irrigate between 0.3 and 1.0
acre depending upon the crop. Well life was estimated at 3-6 years. This
work is continuing with different types of hand pump. A multipurpose seed
drill for jute, wheat and soyabean was developed. After some adjustments, it
would be tested under farmers conditions.
3.40    A consultant was employed by BRRI using contract research funds tc
undertake a survey of deep-water aman paddy in Dhaka, Tangail and Mymensilgh
Districts; no authentic records were available previously. Yield and proauc-
tion constraint information had been gathered and recommendations for
research produced. The survey showed the enormous potential for increased
production by improving varieties, by better agronomic practices and by
introducing an improved cropping pattern. The survey identified major crop-
ping patterns, flood depths and farmers' practices and constraints. Over 100
varieties of paddy were identified in Dhaka. This particular study was
valuable and illustrated the benefit from close supervision of an independent
experienced local consultant.



-13-
Development of a National Agricultural Research Plan (NARP)
3.41    Prior to Lhe nroject, .angladesh had no Research Plan.  Fulfilling
one of the main objectives of the project, BARC published a preliminary NARP
in December 1979 which drew up some of the perspectives and guidelines for
the nation,al research systcm. It also presented research priorities. The
NARP was a first effort and mostly involved BARC staff; other Ministries were
not involved. Much more work will have to be done to translate the plan into
a national program with priorities, manpower and resources clearly spelled
out and matched to the national development effort. The development of a
fully satisfactory NARP will take time and many versions as more institutions
contribute to tiue document. However, the project's impact in starting this
process has been important.  The strengthening of the agricltural research
system initiated througll this project is being sustained and expanded through
a Second Agricultural Research Project (Cr. 1455-BD) which became effective
in April 1985.
Training
3.42    In general, the overall program was not particularly well executed
although 3± Ph.D. programs were arranged overseas in appropriate disciplines.
The only training in Bangladesh was 515 man-weeks of seminars arra;iged by
BARI.
3.43    Initially, the BARC training cell was headed by a relatively junior
scientific officer who had considerable difficulty in identifying suitable
candidates, overseas placements and planning suitable programs in Ph.D.
courses. The practical difficulties of studying in foreign universities were
not appreciated, like the need for a good command of the English language,
which led to most courses of study being extended. Much assistance was given
by USDA, particularly with regard to U.S. universities which helped to over-
come some of the difficulties.
3.44    The main problems appear to have been, first, the weakness of the
BARC training cell (a Director cf Training was eventually appointed in 1981),
second, the lack of suitable curricula at BAU, and, third, almost a total
lack of communication between BARC and BAl' on priorities and training needs
in research training disciplines. BARC advertised the availability of fund-
ing for local Ph.D.s at BAU but received no applications. Good candidates
were only interested in overseas studies. The weakness of the BAU Ph.D.
curricula is reflected in the fact that only four Ph.D. degrees have been
awarded by the University between its creation in 1961-62 and the end of
1984, although currently 20 Ph.D. students are under supervision.
3.45    In late 1981, when it appeared that there would be a considerable
overspending on buildings and equipment, and when it was agreed that locaL
training programs were running into problems, GOB and IDA agreed to limit
manpower devElopment to that already underway, namely 31 overseas Ph.D.
programs, and to suspend attempts to promote local training courses.



-14-
3.46    Of the 31 overseas place.ents, 23 have returned with a Ph.D. degree,
2 have returned with M.Sc. degree. Five remaining Ph.D. candidates will
complete their courses shortly. A recent BARC survey of returnees has shown
that without exception they have benefitted from their studies and most have
assumed senior positions in their parent institutes. The project has created
a greater awareness of the need to strengthen in-country training and has
prompted BAU to make better use of available funds by preparing adequately
structured curricula for advanced level studies. Technical assistance for
training was provided by USAID and a manpower training plan was produced
during the project period.
Technical Assistance
3.47    Thirty-six man-months of technical assistance were proposed covering
station development, studies to assist BARC in research programming, and
monitoring of the research grant system.  Assistance was utilized for station
development and for preparing a manual for contract research, but little was
needed for research planning in view of the TA available liberally to BARC
unecr the USAID Agricultural Research II Project.
3.48    The assistar.ce provided was adequate but, as already mentioned,
considerabLe advantages could have bee;, derived from providing outside exper-
tise on procuremnent matters where there was a marked weakness.
BARC. Staffing
3.49    Staffing lceves at BARI regional stations and at BARC headquarters
were built uip satisfactorily except at the most senior levels where expertise
is short throtighout Bangladesh. BARC's improved credibility and standing
depended largely on the status of its Executive Vice Chairman. Considerable
difficulty was experienced in finding well qualified and experienced can-
didates for the key posts of Member-Directors for the different BARC
Divisions. The position of hember-Director Engineering was not filled during
implementation and this no doutt reflected on poor equipment and machinery
specifications and procurement. Three of the Member-Director positions were
still vacant at project completion and three of the nine positions were
filled by t mnporary staff.
Provision of Operating Funds
3.50   Project proforma for the release of funds were prepared on a timely
basis. Or June 30, 1982, a crisis developed when the PP came to an end.
Theoretically, COB should have continued to provide all operating costs and
support for facilities developed under the project. However, as this
occurred during a period of severe stringency in all GOB budgets, all pay-
ments to staff on the development budget and normal servicing tf running



-15-
exercises were postponed, leading to a severe cutback in activity, par-
ticularly on the regional stations. kesearch stations were disrupted and all
travel was stopped.
3.51    The crisiS was partly resolved wien GOB and USAID reached agreement
over the utilization of PL 480 Title II funding for specified areas of expen-
diture such as operating costs of the BARI research station. This arrange-
ment is c-ntinuing but is obviously not a satisfactory long-term solution.
IV. PROJECT IMPACT AND INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
4.01    The project was set up to strengthen the agricultural research system
in Bangladesh and to enable it to improve adaptive research relevant to local
conditions. The project was also to support an ongoing GOB program of
improving BARI research facilities, management and staffing, and to
strengthen BARC to permit it to fulfill its role in planning, coordination
and monitoring agricultural research on a national basis.
4.02    As has already been mentioned, the project has enabled BARC to move
into a substantial new headquarters complex with meeting room and seminar
facilities to assist research coordination. Also BARC has established con-
siderable credibility through its management of the research grant system
and the creation of a forum to discuss national needs in agricultural
research. A start was made on the development of a National Research Plan.
4.03    BARI now has improved facilities on regiona!  stations where little
existed in the past. BARI is now involved in serious internal discussion
over moving more of its research programs from the central complex at
Joydehpur to the regional stations; this would be an important positive
move. Staffing levels have been increased with adequate interdisciplinary
representation.
4.04    The project has also created a greater awareness of national require-
ments in agricultural training at all levels. Curricula are being upgraded
at BAU and guidelines are being drawn up to better combine overseas institu-
tions with local training.
4.05    During the project period and largely as a resul: of BARC's increas-
ing influence, the Jute Research Institute and the Institute for Nuclear
Agriculture were brought into the central system. In the words of its
Chairman, BARC is slowly moving the Bangladesh agricultural research system
towards being "functionally separate but structurally integrated". In
effect, the main crop research institutes would maintain their "functional"
autonomy but fully cooperate with BARC in establishing "structurally" coor-
dinated development aims and planning a national strategy. Before the
project, BARC was almost non-existent, now it is a significant central force
in agricultural research.



-16-
4.06    The project was principally of the institution-building type and has
long-term objectives. It is not p(ssible at present to assess all of its
major benefits. Nevertheless, overall the project has assisted COB in
strengthening its national agricultural research system through improved
facilities, better coordination, and improved management.
4.07    When considering the impact of the project, it has to be appreciated
that it is part of an ongoing program assisted by a number of donors (mainly
IDA and USAID) aimed at developing a mature research system. The ultimate
success of the project will depend on whether BARC can continue extending its
coordination efforts among the autonomous institutes and whether it will be
able to carry the national agricultural research plan through to a series of
properly funded and managed complementary research programs. The main
problem presently besetting BARC io that the increasing volume of resources
at its disposal may outst-ip its administrative capability. Also, exces-
sively complicated procedures as exemplified in the screening of research
proposals could indeed hamper the promotion of research activities. BARC
must be seen as a research facilitator, not another bureaucratic hurdle. In
order to maintain its position as the apex institution in agricultural
research, BARC must make every effort to attract suitably qualified and
mature candidates to assulme the positions of Mermr~ Directors of its divi-
sions.
V.  IDA PERFORNANCE
5.01    Project design has generelly proved satisfactory and overall cost
estimates were not far from. those actu<ally incurred. In the Staff Appraisal
Report, however, there were a number of weaknesses which created considerable
difficulties during project implementation. These were:
(a)  a lack of clear guidelines in the organization and management section
on how coordination between the two benefitting institutions was to
be achieved. In the early stages of the project, competition over
funds between BARC and BARI could have been avoided. No doubt the
appraisal mission was influenced by the fact that the Head of BARI
and the Head of BARC were one and the same person at that time.
Later, however, as BARC's functions became more visible the need for
a coordination mechanism became obvious; and
(b)  the format of disbursement categories in the DCA was extremely con-
fusing as the various parts (i.e. part A, BARI; part B, BARC) becarile
intermixed. This added to the apparent lack of effort to keep the
funds of the two parts separate and greatly confused accounting.
5.02    The relationship between IDA and GOB was at all times cordial and
cooperative. Considerable help was extended by the Bank's Resident Mission
in overcoming difficulties in procurement of equipment. A good working
relationship was created with the local USAID office which was implementing a
similar  nstitution-building project.  This helped to avoid duplication of



-17-
effort and to some extent resolved the local funding problems. IDA's super-
vision was regula-ly carried out but might have been more effective if some
of the earlier miss.ons had provided expertise in architecture and engineer-
ing. However, as a result of the close supervision by IDA, delays in
implementation were minimized.
VI. CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS LEARNED
Conclusions
6.01    The project has significantly strengthened the Bangladesh agricul-
tural research system through institution-building, improved facilities and
manpower development.
6.02    With increasing funds becoming available under different projects
from different donor agencies, the time has come to ensure that the objec-
tives of contract research are clearly understood. If all approved funds for
contract research are to be used efficiently, the workload will more than
double over the next few years. With its present staff BARC has already
great difficulty in managing the present volume. BARC's approved estab-
lishment has been increased but Member Director posts must be filled. A
situation is also occurring where funds for contract research are substitut-
ing for funds which should be provided for regular programs of research
institutes. Figures for 1983/84 show that contract research projects
accounted for 70% of all work carried out by the research institutes. While
contract research is crucial, the funding of research ;nstitutes is becoming
unbalanced.
6.03    Finally, the project had demonstrated the need for clear procedures
to coordinate the work of different institutions. Reporting requirements
were not met and difficulties were experienced over cost control in the eariV
years of implementation. Regular coordination meetings of the BARC and BARI
under a senior Government official were not foreseen in the SAR and hence
there was no focal point to monitor the project.
Lessons Learned
6.04    The main lessons learned were:
(a) While upgrading regionaL research stations, care should be taken to
provide equipment geared to the reseerch program;
(b)  National training institutions should develop curricula more attuned
to local needs;
(c) Advancc planning should be initiated to implement project related
training programs;



-18-
(d)  In the Bangladesh context, more attention should be given to prepare
an adequate project proforma;
(e) When technical assistance is provided by more than one donor, clear
understandings on roles and responsibilities must be spelt out;
(f) Contract research funds must be incremental to normal funding and
support supplementary research;
(g)  When more than one autonomous institution benefits from one develop-
ment credit, a clear coordination mechanism should be agreed with
Covernment to ensure proper reporting procedures and orderly drawdown
of the Credit; and
(h) Supervision missions should be so staffed that the expertise needed
to deal with the more complex components such as engineering and
architecture are represented. If in-house expertise is not avail-
able, then consultants must be ',rpd.



UaGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ProLect Coj ATk: 0001
1979/80           1980/81          1981/82           198zf83           1983/84           1984/85            Total         Total Actual
Year I           Year 2            Year 3            Year 4            Year 5            Year 6                             as 2 of
SAR  Actual      SAR  Actual        SAR  Actual  ___SAR  Actual        SAR  Actual       SAR  Actual       SAR Actual          SAB
CIVIL WRKS
Bu IId IIIWS
MARC HQ complex (3a)               1,415   1,743   7,835   <'2r    1,415   3,105             -      887        w   1,097         -     875   5,665  12,236         216
BARt station development(3b)    7,520   5,809  15,035   2,385   7,520             980        -      116        -   4,198         -      788  30,075  14,276         50
Contingencies                      2,255        -   6,475         -   4,305         _        _-       -        -                 -        -  13,035         -        -
Totai  utiLdinrs                  11,190   7,552  24,345   6,914  13,240   4,085             -   1,003              5 95             1,663  48,775  26,512          54
Land Development(3a                1,495        -   1,495       461      335      969        -   3,281         -   1,495         -       83        -        -        -
Contingencies                        465        -      635        -      190       --- -              -                 -        -        -   1,290         -        -
Total Land Development             1,960        -   2,130       46!      525      969        -   3,281         -   1,495         -       83   4,615   6,25V        13b
Total Civil Works (3a & 3b)   13,tS0   7,552  26,47%   7,375  13,765   5,054                 -   4,284         -   6,790         -   1,746  53,390  32,801          61
MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT
Mach. & Equip. (I & 2)             3,910        -   2,820         -      630        -        _        -        -            -             -   7,360         -        -
Contingencies                        665        -      725        -      215        -        -        -        -        -        -        -   1,506         -            I
Total Mach.                       4 Equip.  4,S75   2,807   3,545   6,294  845   5,158       -      747        -   1,707         -     472   8,965  11l,185        234
RESEARCH AND TRAINING
Training (5)                       2.410   4,716   4,305   6,442   5,66S   7,979   3,005   5,646   1,360   1,046                 -      16k  16,745  25,990        155
Research Grants (4)                1,5I 0       -   6,050       392   8,100)  :',105         -   3,530         -   2,699         -   1,406  15,700  11,132          71
Contingencies                        545        -   1,360         -   2,300         -   1,520         -      830        -        -        -   6,555         -        -
Total Res. and TraininR            4,505   4,716  11,715   6,834  16,065  11,084   4.525   9,176   2,190   3,745                 -   1,567  39,000  37,122          95
I NCREMENTAL OPERATING COST
MARC (7)                             460        -      760        -   1,065                  -        -        -        -        -        -   2,285   6,853       300
BAR                                 s590        -   1,190         -   1,780         -        -        -        -        -        -        -   3,560         -        -
Contingencies                        115        -      385        -      795                                                     -        -   1,295         -        -
Total          0.Cost              1,i65   1,925   7,335          -   3,640             -                 -             -        -        -   7,140   6,853         96  bi
TFCHNICAL ASSISTANCE (6)           1,835      569   1,975       785      695      498               495        -       84        -        -   4,505   2,431         54    *
Price Contingencies                  190        -      330        -      150        -                 -                 -        -        -     670         -        -
TOTAL PROJECT COST               25.230  17.569  46.045  21.288  35080 23,820   4,525  17,604   2.190  12.326                    -   3.785 113.000  96.392         84
Source:  RMB Disbursement Section, Dhaka (Figures in brackets refer to DCA category).



- 20 -                                   Table 2
AGRICULTURAL lESKARCR PROJECT
Local and Forpitn Excb&age Cost (Current)
(Tk'000)
_Aaris&J Estimste                     Actual Disbursement
Foreign                            Foreign
Local    Exchanie    Total         Local    Echanze    Total
A.  Civil Works                      41,110    12,279    53,390         27,662      5,139    32,801
B.  Machinery & Equipment             3,228      5,737      8,965        6,597    10,588    17,185
C.  Research & Training              17,550    21,450    39,000         11,360    25,762    37,122
D.  Incremental Operating Cost        5,927      1,213      7,140        6,853          -      6,853
E.  Technical Assistance                902      3,604      4,505          499      1,932      2,431
F.  Total Project Cost               68,717    44,283   113,000         52,971    43,421    96,392
Source: RMB Disbursement Section, Dhaka.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Status of Disbursement
(USS million)
Final              % Disbursed
Name of DCA Category                                       DCA Allocation         Disbursement      Against Allocation
and Number                          Agency          Original    Revised    at 31/12/84         Original      Revised
Equipment & Machinery (la, 2a)          BARI              0.300       0.500          0.469           156             94
Equipment & Machinery (lb, 2b)          BARC              0.375       0.452          0.391           104             86
Land Development (3a)                   BARI              0.100 (a)  0.169           0.179            179           106
Construction (3b)                       BARI              1.860 )
)    2.293 4J       2.228            101            97 1/
Construction (3b)                       BARC              0.341 )
Research Subprojects (4)                BARC              0.700 (b)  0.633           0.474             68            75
Overseas Training (58)                  BARC              1.150       1.350          1.381            120           102
Local Training (5b)                     BARC              0.150       0.007          0.003              2            42
Technical Assistance                 BARC & BARI          0.300       0.201          0.187             62            93
Operating Cost                          BARC              0.125       0.325          0.338            270           104
Unallocated                                               00.070                         -              -- _    __  _   __  007_
Total          _______ ____ ___                      6.000       6.000           5.650            94            94
Source:  The SAR, the DCA, last supervision report, and the RMB disbursement unit;
note that SAR and the DCA give different estimates for (a) and (b),
i.e. for land development and for research subprojects.  The figures of
this table concerning these two categories are from the DCA.
1/ The revised DCA does not separate category 3(b) for BARC and BARI.



- 22 -                          Table 4
BANGLADESH
AGRICULrJRAL RESEARCH PROJECT
AL2rai il Estimates and Actual Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year         Appraisal Estimate                       Actual
and Semester         Cumulative Disbursement            Cumulative Disbursement
--------------------(US$ million)----- --
1979 - 2nd
1980 - 1st                    0.65                                  0.19
2nd                    1.5                                  0.62
1981 - 1st                    2.7                                   1.53
- 2nd                    3.7                                   2.13
1982 - 1st                    4.6                                   3.41
- 2nd                    5.5                                  4.14
1983 - 1st                    5.7                                   4.60
2nd                    5.8                                  5.01
1984 - lat                    5.4                                   5.19
2nd                    6.0                                  5.51
1985 - lst                    6.0                                   5.58
2nd                      -                                  5.64
1986 - 1st                                                          5.65



Table 5a
- 23 -
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Status of Expenditure as at 31 December. 1984
under Research Sub-proiects Approved by BARC
(SUMARY).
Number of         Revised Escimated         Expenditure as
Sub-project        Sub-projects             Cost             at 31 December, 1984
Soil and
Water                   19                 7,714                     6,830
Agricultural
Economics                7                 5,778                     4,752
Cropping
Systems                  8                 6,568                     5,219
Agricultural
Engineering              9                j6°____
Total                   43                21J680  __     _         18.094
Source:  RMB based on SkRC figurps.



- 24 -~~~~           Table 5b
- 24 -
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Status of Ex2enditure as at 31 December. .984
under Research Sub-Proiects Approved by BARC
Soil and Water Sub-proiects
Expenditure
Estimate              as at
Sub-project                      Institute    Original  Revised           31.12.84
--------- (Tk 000)       __
Soil Test Crop Response Studies:
Wheat and jute                      IND           451        623           671
Maize                               DU            675        824           993
Jute                                JRI           414        584           478
Rice and wheat                      BARI          529        529           555
Sugarcane                           SRI           275        342           311
Irrigation Studies:
Devices for low-lift irri.          BAU           150        150           119
Control devices for avoiding
water losses                     BAU            523        608           310
Development of on-farm water
distribution structures          DU/BUET        363       413            373
Irrigation requirements of
rice and jute                    BAU            362       472           474
Water requirement for cotton        BAU            79         79            65
Water requirement for mustard    BAU              256        256           138
Water requirement of HYV
paddy and wheat in genetic
alluvial tract                   BWDB           232       302           305
Soil moisture relationships
of wheat and gram                INA            148       228            218
Water requirement of sugarcane   SRI              288        288           269
Study seasonal soil moisture
flux of benchmark soils          DU/BUET        239       287           306
Brackish water management
studies                          BWDB           272       272           246
Grading of brackish water
for irrigation                   DU/BARI       609        609            573
Economics of water management    BWDB             148        148           126
Proiect Evaluation                  BARC          300        300           300
6.313     7.714          6.830
Source:  RMB based on BARC figures.



Table 5c
- 25 -
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Status of Expenditure as at 31 December. 1984
under Research Sub-proiects Approved by BARC
Agricultural Economics Sub-Projects
Expenditure
Estimate              as at
Sub-project                      Institute    Original  Revised         31.12.84
--------- (Tkh000)       
Study on irrigation system,         MOAF          900     1,097         1,097
institution and policy impli-
cation in northern region
Study on irrigation system,         JNU           544       734           704
institution and policy impli-
cation in Dhaka region
Socio-economic assessment of        BJRI          496       547           397
improved agricultural
technology in jute
Socio-economic assessment of        BWDB          300       300           229
improved agricultural tech-
nology in DND projects and its
wider adoption in other regions
Socio-economic assessment of        BARI          686       832           698
agricultural technology in
wheat and maize, identification
of constraints to their higher
production at farm level
Socio-economic assessment of        BARI          668       768           573
improved agricultural tech-
nology in potato and other
tubers and identification of
constraints to their produc-
tion at farm level
Data entry system                   BARC        1.500     1.500        1.054
5.094     5.778        4.752
Source: RMB based on BARC figures.



Table 5d
- 26 -
BANGLWAESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Status of Expenditure as at 31 December. 1984
under Research Sub-proiects Approved by BARC
Coordinated Cropping System Sub-Proiects
Expenditure
Estimate               as at
Sub-project                        Institut2    Original  Revised           31.12.84
----- ----(TVE 000)   -- - -- - -
Sugarcane based cropping              SRI            746        931           430
system
Cropping system research              BAU            793        998           815
and development programme
at BAU
Jute based cropping svstem            BJRI          824      1,008            901
and development programme
Coordinated cropping syerems          BWDB           780        971.          684
research prograume
Defined areas (Je.ssore/              BAR1          893       ],135         1,137
Chittagong) croppLng jystems
study
Survey of deepwater  Amar             BRRI           ;18        318           325
and mixed Aus-Aman (Ohaa
District'
Development and preduct:on            BARI           560        360           539
of potatu basic seed
Coordinated oest surveillance         BARI/          395        550           287
and monitoring research               BRRI
IDA _roiect evaluation                               97          9      t7     97
__5_406_6 L.",_6__   ____ 56 6 8   5,2!5
Source:  RMF basEd on BARC figures.



2 27 -
Table 5e
BANGAD ESH
AGAICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Status of ExRenditure as at 31 December. 1984
under Research Sub-mroiects Approved by BARC
Agricultural Engineering Sub-Proiects
Expenditure
Estimate               as at
Sub-project                       Institute    Original  Revised           31.12.84
Design and development of             BAtU           21         21            21
manually operated paddy
and wheat thresher
Development of multipurpose           BAU            22         48             22
seed metering device suitable
for rice and wheat
Development of seecd drill            BARI           20         2S             51
for jute
Design and development of             BAU            26         39            L.6
qoLar dryer for fish, fruar
and vegetable
Performance evaluatict, of           BARI           i43        243            328
solar pump compared with
.ther ava,able irrigarion
equipmert .
Study of indigenous irri-            AAT            515        5lS           '37
gati.on appliances                 (DE & M)
Collection of agricultural           AATC           6 2 0      620            il]
im.plements fromr. neighbouring   (BRRI, BARI,
countries                          SRI & BJRI)
Completion of a directory of         AATC          1.00        100            100
indigenous agricultural equip-
ment and machinery
Design modiZication of the           BAU             12         12             l2
existing Japanese weeder keep-
ing in view cre possibilities
of manufacturing at village
level
Total                       ___                   1 579      i '2Q  .L    97
Source. RMB based on BARC figures.



MA P    ¶)PF ("I' I ON



EXTENSION AND RESEARCH 11 PROJECT
, ~  Xt twx <)             I N D I ARESEARCH STATIONS
IN DIA                                    o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ CRelntral Reseorch Stotions
_-,   UJ u> <?                                                                                        <    Regional Reseorch Stations
t (     /      O Vebiqonj                                                                                  \    t A  Substot-ons/Speciol Research Stations
C                                            A  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRRI
-Thak.,goon  Dorna,  A)   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~[~BJRI
26                                   Burirho1   BAU
)                                                                                                              *   SRIphemor.  SR
At Livssrock
|gput A[081                                                           M A  facdOIes oe.ng Develaped under the Pro1ect
DINA     JP;>                          \               /
)               /                                                                         caJ\2                                25' I~'_    o 
L~~~~~                                   ~~~~ -                           - , (o.-.                                                           SYN Ts        aut 7 
ifi    V                     J r-2i?urttA  e        \<        0    Ne.rrJktGno                                                               21'Y NSiNG
a                                                                         ) t   >la  0GK  ~>c  8 1l ~   w;*  T
tudhEp,- Mht  '
N   ~ ~ ~ ~   ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~ ~ j~~~~~~~~~I<~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ksborqonlt
RAJS kHAJHydr                                  TAM;A'    -        _
C)         'T.bwnio   PA OB NW,                 \yheipnk                                                                                                 2 
)                                                 4;t'.                                         Sbanw    nx1HI
V~~~~~~~~~~     
Ii       D-AAr
RIDPL)R~~~~~~~~oidki
0-_  d-, ~    ~     ~     ~      x-
-5                                                                                                                          '1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~adod
ILL
Haji ~'V. 



2 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~~~~~~~~~~~r
i   'Ni  /  (                                         Rohmrutjur0 0t                                     0kt
2                          A RBARISAL
Si  Chund  ANGA AT
(                                                                                                (                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~)
0, PAT!JAKHA,                                           CHIT
r_.s y.s  , _... f..,   ..o..    -'.   ,' A..    ..A  * .... n     _ ifS  _ f t1de
o              e f   .  ..... *._.'. ,,..  an' - a 1 *,',d S,e                                y                o  r
I'AK-: :=  =_..                     _                                                                                                                           Cox;s Razor rR 4r  
2                   p4----.-----,, Ra,!woys
r     A           '                                                                            RNers
v'  r'BuRMA
In*ernatfonaIl boutoaries
BANGLADESH                                                                                                                                                                B
0              0       10    20     30     40      50 s
0                                                     21,                                                                                                                                                                    13D *
g                         fJoz   of  fJengo/                                                       o        20       40       o0       so
SRtI IANV.A
co                                                                                                            _ _ ____-                             ____



