Document of
The World Bank    FILE CoPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1974a-BD
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
May 16, 1978
South Asia Projects
Agriculture B Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at
26.70 to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats rela-
tive to the US Dollar and consequently the Taka, US
Dollar rate is subject to change. The rate below has
been used throughout this report.
US$1           -     Tk 15.25
Tk 1                0.0655
Tk 1 million  -      65,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)            =   0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi) =   640 ac (259 ha)
1 maund (md)           =   82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
I metric ton (ton)         26.8 md
ABBREVIATIONS
BARC   -   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI   -   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAU    -   Bangladesh Agricultural University
BRRI   -   Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
EC/NEC -   Executive Committee of the National Economic Council
FRI    -   Forestry Research Institute
GOB    -   Government of Bangladesh
HYV    -   High Yielding Varieties
IRRI   -   International Rice Research Institute
JRI    -   Jute Research Institute
M      -   Million
PWD    -   Public Works Department
SRI    -   Sugar Research Institute
TRI    -   Tea Research Institute
TWG    -   Technical Working Group
USAID  -   US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. PROJECT GENESIS .         .....................   1
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND           ..                                 1
A. General.                                                  1
B.  Agricultural Research in Bangladesh.                     2
C.   Institutional Developments.                             3
D.   Scientific Achievements and Potential.                  5
E. Problems and Constraints.                                 6
III. THE PROJECT..                                                  8
A.   Objectives and Summary Description.                     8
B.   Detailed Features ......................9  .........    9
C.   Project Cost .........       ...................   18
D.   Financing .       ...........................   19
E.   Procurement ........       ....................   20
F.   Disbursement and Audit ............................  21
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT   ............................  22
A.  Research Planning and Coordinating .....     ...........  22
B.   Project Implementation .......     .....................  23
C.   Monitoring and Evaluation ......     ...................  30
D.   International Review Team ......   ...................   31
V.  BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION ....... ......................  32
VI.   RECOMMENDATIONS    ........................................   33
LIST OF TABLES
1.  BARI:  Station Staffing, Buildings and Equipment
2.  BARI:  Research Stations:  Nominal Space Allocations
3.   BARI:  Station Building Program
4.   BARI:  Land Development
5.   BARI:  Cropping, Harvesting and IErrigation and other Equipment
6.   BARC:  Headquarters Complex
7.   BARC:  Research Grants
8.   Project Training Requirements
9.   Project Training Cost
10.   BARC:  Incremental Operating Costs
11.   BARI:  Incremental Operating Costs
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. A.K. Seth, A.J. Pritchard (IDA), G.B. Johri and S. Kadleigh (consul-
tants) which visted Bangladesh in November/December 1977.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-2-
12.   Project Cost
13.   Procurement Packages
14.   Disbursement Schedule
LIST OF CHARTS
I.   Organization Chart:  BARC
II.   Organization Chart:  BARI
III.   Organization of Agricultural Research Responsibilities
ANNEXES
1.   Agricultural Research Programs in Bangladesh
2.   List of Materials on Project File
MAP



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
I. PROJECT GENESIS
1.01      A Land and Water Resources Sector Study (IBRD Report PS-13) com-
pleted in December 1972 by the Bank pointed out that an essential part of
the research program should be the strengthening of its various agricultural
Bangladesh development effort particular a sharper focus in the programs of
these institutes on the specific problems of Bangladesh. In 1973, GOB estab-
lished the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council, to assist GOB in drawing
up research priorities and, the Bangladesh Rice Research Institute to focus
on this major crop.
1.02      Encouraged by the quick success achieved by BRRI in screening,
breeding, and producing breeding stocks of high yielding rice suitable for
Bangladesh, GOB invited the Bank Group to undertake a review of the research
sector, in particular research on crops other than rice. In January 1977, Sir
John Crawford visited Dacca and proposed a two phase action program to ensure
a more balanced development of the research effort and more effective coor-
dination. To implement the first phase of the outlined action program and
to initiate preparatory work for the second phase, this project was prepared
by a GOB team consisting of BARC and BARI scientists, assisted by the staff of
the Bank's Dacca office. This report is based on the findings of an appraisal
mission, consisting of Messrs. A. Seth, A. Pritchard (IDA), G.B. Johri and S.
Kadliegh, (Consultants) which visited Bangladesh in November/December 1977.
II. SECTOR BACKGROUND
A. General
2.01      Bangladesh has a gross area of 35 M ac of which about 22.5 M ac
are under cultivation at a cropping intensity of about 135%. With a popu-
lation estimated at 83 M, it has a population density among the world's
highest, about 1,500 per sq mile. Ninety five percent of the population
lives in rural areas, much of it at, or below, absolute poverty levels.
2.02      Agriculture is the most important sector of the Bangladesh eco-
nomy accounting for 55% of the gross national product, 85% of all employment
and 80% of the country's exports. Because agriculture dominates the economy
and is so vulnerable to natural disaster such as cyclones alternating with
floods and drought, the overall rate of economic growth has been erratic,
varying from less than 1% per annum to 8% per annum.



- 2 -
2.03      In FY78, due to a combination of good weather and improved pro-
duction policies, foodgrain production reached 13.2 M ton, the highest since
independence but per capita availability, despite annual imports of 1.8 m
tons, was still 10% below pre-independence levels; jute production (5.5 M
bales) increased by 17% over the previous year (FY77) but remained below the
peak FY70 production of 7.2 M bales. Production of gram, pulses, oilseeds
and sugarcane is still only 75-80% of pre-independence levels, while potatoes,
tea and tobacco have not increased above the FY70 levels.
2.04      There is, however, a large unexploited potential for increasing
production since Bangladesh has large areas of highly fertile deltaic soils,
a climate suitable for year-round cropping, and abundant groundwater potential
for dry season irrigation.  In recent years, the development of high yield-
ing varieties of rice and wheat, suitable for cultivation in large areas of
Bangladesh both under irrigated and rainfed conditions, and some new varieties
of jute, sugarcane and potatoes, has opened up prospects for substantial
increases in production which could lead to greater food self-sufficiency.
Thus, GOB agricultural development strategy aims at (i) increasing the area
under irrigation; (ii) delivering a package of key inputs such as quality
seeds, fertilizers and pesticides; (iii) strengthening extension, credit,
and other farmer support services; and (iv) operating a domestic procurement
system for the major crops to ensure incentive prices to producers. Recent
IDA agriculture sector projects support GOB efforts to achieve these objec-
tives, and credits totalling about $225 M have been made to aid this develop-
ment by support for irrigation, foodgrain storage, cereal seed production,
fertilizer manufacture, agricultural extension, rural development and jute
production.
B. Agricultural Research in Bangladesh
2.05      GOB's agricultural strategy depends for its success upon the con-
tinuing availability of optimum packages of inputs and practices suitable for
the varied local conditions found in Bangladesh. While for the major crops
adequate plant varieties and information about practices to support GOB's
immediate development effort exist, there are many situations, even in the case
of the main crops, and crops,for which applied research efforts need strength-
ening. For example, benefits from regional studies on optimum rates and
application methods for irrigation water and fertilizer application under
different soil types, could be large. Similarly rust diseases of wheat, which
are a potential threat to wheat yields require immediate research efforts. To
ensure the continuing availability of optimum packages, an effective national
research system is essential.
2.06      Although organized agricultural research in Bangladesh dates back
to 1909, when a nucleus agricultural research laboratory was established, the
research system is still in its infancy, its growth seriously interrupted by
two events. In 1962, most of the laboratory buildings and sites were appro-
priated for other government purposes, so that virtually no agricultural
research was possible in Bangladesh between 1962 and 1973.  Research staff



continued to be employed, but funds available were barely sufficient to pay
their salaries. Consequently, their research output was disappointing, and
the spirit of scientific enquiry gradually disappeared. Then, following
independence, because the parent institutions were situated in Pakistan, a
research vaccum was created; and in the upheaval of liberation financial
constraints and lost and damaged facilities further contributed to the
decline of research in Bangladesh.
2.07       Efforts to rehabilitate the agricultural research system in Bangla-
desh began in 1973. Since then both institutional developments and scientific
achievements have been significant though there is still a long way to go
before a mature research system of the necessary effectiveness and flexibility
develops.
C. Institutional Developments
Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
2.08       In 1973, following the reports of two international research teams,
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) was established, with
responsibility for drawing up research priorities, advising GOB on the allo-
cation of scarce resources, coordinating the research of the various Insti-
tutes, evaluating research programs and facilities, and preparing manpower
development programs and overall research plans. BARC is autonomous and its
Board is headed by the Minister of Agriculture. Its members are selected from
among the civil service, Directors of Research Institutes, University Vice-
Chancellors and eminent scientists. Decision making authority is delegated
to a small Executive Committee, headed by an Executive Vice-Chairman (Chart I).
Since 1977 in recognition of BARC's growing role, a full time Executive Vice-
Chairman has been appointed.
2.09       Since 1976, BARC has been operating a research grant scheme to
direct, through financial support, research efforts into areas of priority
which may otherwise be neglected. All institutions involved in agricultural
research are eligible for these grants. In FY77, thirty five projects cost-
ing Tk 14.5 M in total and involving 15 different institutions were funded.
Most projects were of three year duration and are still under implementation.
Where a project is large enough to encompass the interests of and to be
carried out by more than one Institute, BARC has set these up and financed
and monitored them as Coordinated Research Projects. Three such projects,
in Soybean, Vegetables and Pulses are in operation now (Annex 1). BARC has
completed an inventory of scientific staff, initiated a local fellowship
program for MSc and PhD students, fostered greater scientific interaction
between researchers through its various advisory committees, better integrated
the Agricultural University with the research community and encouraged, through
financial support, local scientific publications.



- 4-
Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
2.10      The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) was established in
1973 at Joydebpur, 30 miles north of Dacca, to accelerate the pace of devel-
opment of this major crop. It was the first autonomous research institute in
Bangladesh. BRRI with a Board of Governors headed by the Minister of Agri-
culture, now has a total scientific staff of about 75 of whiich 17 have PhD
degrees. Because of early and continuing support from the ][nternational Rice
Research Institute (IRRI), Ford Foundation, USAID, and other external agencies,
especially for training personnel and developing the Joydebpur site, BRRI is
a fully operative and viable research institution.  Its research effort is
enhanced by four internationally recruited resident scientists provided by
the Ford Foundation. Four of BRRI's five sub-stations also receive financial
support for capital improvement under the IDA supported cereal seeds project
(Credit 410-BD).
Bangladesh Agriculture Research Institute (BARI)
2.11      BARI, the parent institution from which most existing research
institutes, including BRRI, have emerged, became an autonomous institute in
1976. With its own Board of Governors, also headed by the Minister of Agri-
culture, BARI is responsible for research on crops other than those covered
by the specialized institutes. The specialized institutes cover rice, tea,
jute, sugar, fisheries and livestock. A full time Director has been in posi-
tion since 1977; he is assisted by three Associate Directors. There are
approximately 200 scientific staff in nine research divisions (Chart II).
In addition to the Central Station, also at Joydebpur, BARI has 17 Regional
Stations and sub-stations which range in size from 20 to 500 ac. These sta-
tions are situated in different agro-ecological zones, and wien fully
developed will enable location oriented research and experimental verifica-
tion to be undertaken on a regional basis.
2.12      Until USAID mounted a project in 1975 to develop the BARI's Central
Station, little research was possible. In 1976, under this UrSAID project
meaningful field experimentation recommenced and work was re-started to com-
plete the laboratories, offices and staff quarters and to develop one (Ishurdi)
of BARI's four regional stations. The project also included 21 man years of
long term and 12 man months of short term technical assistance for research
and management and about 30 fellowships. The internationally recruited tech-
nical assistance team is expected to assemble in Bangladesh in August 1978.
2.13      Recently a detailed three year research program has been prepared,
and is being implemented where facilities permit. Recruitment of young
scientific staff and their training at international institutes, particularly
CIMMYT, has been initiated. One-year training fellowships in potato, oil-
seed and citrus technology have also recently been made available through
bilateral arrangements. However, BARI has not yet become an effective re-
search institute and faces serious constraints (para 2.19) in implementing
its research programs.



-5-
Other Research Institutes
2.14      Five other semi-autonomous specialized research institutes have
been established to undertake systematic research efforts in their fields
(Chart III). The Jute Research Institute (JRI), located near Dacca, consists
of an Agricultural Research Wing and a Technological Research Wing, the latter
concerned with research on industrial processes. The Agricultural Research
Wing consists of six divisions with a staff of 35, four with PhD degrees. Four
sub-stations, ranging in size from 15 to 50 ac are distributed throughout the
jute growing area. The Sugar Research Institute (SRI), established in 1951,
suffered badly from damage and theft during the war of 1971. Since then, it
has been rehabilitated and although there are only 6 scientific staff, good
research work is underway. An Australian-assisted project for training, tech-
nical assistance and physical facilities has recently been approved. The
Tea Research Institute (TRI) has twenty staff, who do advisory work in addi-
tion to research work. Its facilities and staff are to be developed under a
UK-ODM assisted project presently under consideration. The Fisheries Research
Institute, located at Chandpur, is receiving assistance from Denmark while the
Forestry Research Institutes (FRI), located at Chittagong, is assisted by
SIDA. The Livestock Research Center concentrates on vaccine production rather
than on research, though a small German-aided pilot project in breeding and
animal husbandry is underway.
Agricultural University
2.15      Almost all recent recruitment of research scientists has been from
the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU) established in 1961-62 at Mymen-
singh, with financial support from USAID and IDA. The University is organized
around six faculties: Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Agricultural
Economics, Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Science and Fisheries. A 600 ac field
station is attached to the campus. The staff of 300 includes 78 with PhD
degrees, and of the 3,000 students enrolled, 150 are studying for MSc degrees
and 4 for PhD degrees.
D. Scientific Achievements and Potential
2.16      Annex I describes in detail the research programs underway at various
institutes, their relevance and potential. In rice BRRI has been successful
in screening, selecting and breeding new high yielding varieties which have
performed well in Bangladesh. The area under these high yielding varieties
has expanded steadily and in 1977 covered about 20% of the total rice acreage
and contributed 40% of the total rice production. Extensive work on rice
nutrition has been a key to a three-fold increase in fertilizer use over the
period 1965-1975. BARI's main effort is devoted to wheat which was once a
minor crop, but due to the selection by BARI of suitable varieties, is now
expanding very rapidly and has become a major cereal crop. BARI has programs
on grain legumes, pulses, oilseeds, tobacco, cotton, potatoes and horticultural



- 6 -
crops in progress. Experiments are concerned with variety evaluation, fertil-
izer requirements, water management, cropping systems and crop agronomy. Work
on jute at JRI concentrates on breeding improved varieties, disease and pest
control, agronomic practices and improving retting methods. New high yielding
varieties of jute suitable for early sowing which can enable farmers to harvest
before floods arrive have been developed. In sugar cane, SRI: has developed a
promising new variety (BS96), which in some trials has resulted in a 100%
increase in yield over traditional varieties.
2.17      The above achievements are modest, and much remains to be done.
While rice will probably always be the major food of Bangladesh and as such
is being given priority attention, the potential for increases in production
in other agricultural crops, particularly wheat, but also pulses, oilseeds,
groundnut, sugarcane, potatoes and other fruits and vegetables is consider-
able. Priority research programs are discussed in Annex I.
E. Problems and Constraints
Funds and Facilities
2.18      Past GOB investments in agricultural research have not been com-
mensurate with the sub-sector's need or importance because of (i) the urgent
rehabilitation needs of the economy following liberation; and (ii) the uncer-
tain and long gestation period of benefits from most agricultural research
investments; and (iii) a lack of research leadership since separation from
the parent institutions in Pakistan. Compared to an incremental investment
level of $80 M over the ten years 1973-1983 recommended by the IDA Land and
Water Survey of 1972, actual expenditures in agricultural research over the
five years 1973-78 have totalled about $20 M. Of the total agricultural
research expenditure of about $6.5 M in FY77, BARI and BRRI accounted for
about a third each, Jute (15%), Forestry (7%), Fisheries (7%), SRI (4%) and
BARC (4%), with about 80% of the total expenditure being for capital improve-
ment. Most capital and operating expenditures of the research Institutes
were financed directly by GOB, but about 15% of the operating expenditures
came through BARC research grants. BAU, BARI and BARC's Appropriate Technology
Cell were the major recipients of BARC grants, receiving about 20% each, while
BRRI, FRI, and the Institute for Nuclear Agriculture received about 7% each.
With the possible exception of BRRI, operating funds, until recently, were
only sufficient to pay for staff salaries, and even now, research efforts are
curtailed, especially at BARI regional stations, due to lack of funds. Exist-
ing facilities at the BARI field stations (Table 1) are grossly inadequate for
effective research. Office buildings where they exist are inadequate; machin-
ery is old and inoperative; facilities for housing are virtually non-existent,
forcing married scientists to live away from their families and in some
instances to share one room labor quarters with four others; irrigation
facilities are poor; and basic research and laboratory equipment such as weigh
scales, microscopes and ovens are not available. Land for experimentation
is sufficient, although it needs development, and lack of fencing and the
resulting pilfering often makes accurate experimental work impossible.



-7-
Scientific Staff
2.19      BAU, which produces most of the trained scientific staff is able to
allocate only 5% of its financial resources to research because of funding
constraints. Most of this is for MSc level thesis work. Few departments have
been able to develop research programs of sufficient depth to permit meaning-
ful PhD thesis work. Loss of qualified staff to higher paid posts abroad has
reduced the number of supervisors available to guide thesis work, and the low
level of financial support given to holders of MSc fellowships has been in-
adequate to attract the highest quality candidates.
2.20      In all institutes, except BRRI, there is a general lack of trained
scientific staff. In recent years some bilateral donor agencies have provided
training facilities for the staff of institutes but BARI has been particularly
neglected in this respect. At present only one member of a staff totalling
about 400 has a PhD degree. Recently USAID made funds available for nine PhD
degree courses for BARI staff but this number is insufficient for such a large
Institute. Although BARI, in its recent recruitment drive, has been able to
attract some high quality locally produced young scientists, and to obtain
commitment from some Bangladeshi scientists now completing PhD degrees
overseas, its present research management staffing remains weak.
Research Planning and Coordination
2.21      The inadequacy of facilities, funds and staff at most institutes
has forced the problems of research coordination and planning to the back-
ground. Consequently, BARC has faced great difficulty in fulfilling its
responsibilities in directing research into neglected areas of high national
priority while avoiding wasteful duplication, preparing a national research
plan to advise GOB on priorities, monitoring the national research effort,
and forging active linkages between research institutes, extension system,
universities and policy makers. The direct constraints on BARC are both
financial and organizational.
2.22      The authorized staffing for BARC is adequate and includes 18 scien-
tific staff and about 85 other staff. Its administration consists of the
Executive Vice-Chairman, the Secretary and five Member-Directors responsible
for Crops and Forestry, Soils and Irrigation, Agricultural Engineering, Live-
stock and Fisheries, Agricultural Economics and Social Science respectively
(Chart I) plus an Appropriate Agricultural Technology Cell (AATC).  However,
as funds available to BARC have been constantly inadequate, the posts of
secretary and of four of the five Member Directors and most scientific staff
positions were vacant at the time of appraisal in December 1977.  Since then
three more Member-Directors have been appointed. Because of this lack of
administrative and technical capacity, GOB has been unable to call for BARC's
advice on major research issues. In addition, the BARC research grant scheme
(para 2.09) has faced a funds constraint. In 1977, 31 sub-projects proposals
which were approved by the BARC Technical Committees were turned down due to
a lack of funds. Further its capacity to initiate desirable national projects
is restricted, and its monitoring of sub-projects has been weak. Its premises
are quite inappropriate since office space is limited and seminar, document-
ation and publication facilities do not exist.



-8-
2.23      Agricultural research in Bangladesh involves tweLve institutes and
nine ministries (Chart III). BARC itself is linked to the Ministry of Agri-
culture but this is responsible for only three research institutes (BRRI, BARI
and FRI). Although there is a wide acceptance amongst the institutes of the
concept of BARC as an apex institution for planning, coordination and monitor-
ing of research, the wide dispersion of BARC and the institutes among various
ministries has established administrative and political impediments to achiev-
ing this role and to the eventual development of an effective research system.
In the face of this problem, it is GOB policy to build BARC and its role
gradually, starting with: strengthening its staff, technical competence;
fostering more active BARC/GOB consultation; and directing BARC attention
initially to the institutes attached to the Ministry of Agriculture.
2.24      The project proposed in this report would focus on strengthening
BARC to undertake the role described above including an expansion of its
research grants scheme; on equipping and staffing BARI to enhance its research
capacity, in particular in the area of location specific research at its
regional stations; and on initiating preparatory work, including a national
research plan (para 4.01), for a larger national research effort in the
future.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives and Summary Description
3.01      The project would strengthen the agricultural research system in
Bangladesh to enable it to better undertake applied and adaptive research
relevant to the local conditions. The project would support an on-going GOB
program of improving BARI research facilities, management and staffing and
would strengthen BARC to permit it to fulfill its crucial role in planning,
coordinating and monitoring agricultural research on a national basis.
3.02      Towards achieving these objectives the project would provide funds
for:
(a)  essential buildings and land development at BARI regional
research stations located at Jamalpur, Jessore, Hathazari, and
the highland crop-cum-soil-conservation station at: Ramgarh;
(b) essential cropping and harvesting machinery, and workshop
and laboratory equipment for the above BARI research stations;
(c) the construction of a modest 16,000 sq. ft. first stage office
complex for BARC at an existing site in Dacca;
(d) research sub-projects to be funded by BARC, for execution by
local research institutions and universities;



(e) special studies to assist BARC in developing a long-
term agricultural research plan;
(f) overseas and local training for scientific staff and
local training of extension staff;
(g) about 36 man months of short-term technical assistance
in (i) land development at BARI research stations;
(ii) studies to define research programs and research
plans; and (iii) periodic monitoring of BARC's research
grant system; and
(h) incremental operating costs of BARC and the four BARI stations
to make effective use of facilities, equipment and scientific
staff provided under the project.
3.03      The project would be complementary to an on-going USAID supported
project (para 2.12), and to the IDA supported Extension and Research Project
(Credit 729-BD), which became effective in January 1978. The latter is
designed to assist GOB in establishing, in the Northwest of Bangladesh,
the training and visit system of extension, develop two of BARI's field
stations, and provides about $200,000 for employment under BARC's research
grant scheme.
B. Detailed Features
BARI Station Development
3.04      The four research stations are located in four distinct agro-
ecological zones, and are representative of the types of soils, topography
and climatic conditions in the regions in which they are located. Research
stations in the Northwest are excluded because the stations in the region are
being developed under other projects (para 3.03). The four stations selected
for development under this project are:
Area    Annual
Total  Rainfall  Soil                     ---Research Activity--
Station (acres) (Inches)  Type    Topography    Commodity   Discipline
Jamalpur  190       90    Silty   Levelled high  Wheat         breeding, path-
loam    to medium                   ology, fertil-
high land.                  izers, agronomy
Mustard    breeding agronomy
Pulses     introduction,
agronomy
Sugarcane  adaptive testing
cropping systems
Rice       fertilizers



- 10 -
Area    Annual
Total  Rainfall  Soil                    ---Research Activity--
Station (acres) (Inches)  Type    Topography    Commodity   Discipline
Jessore   120       60    Sandy   Incompletely   Wheat         breeding, fertil-
or      levelled                    izers, agronomy
clay    lowland.        Sugarcane  adaptive testing
loam                                cropping systems,
Vegetables variety trials,
Potatoes   adaptive testing
fertilizers
Mustard    pathology
Hathazari 160      130    Loam    Levelled         Banana      selection, variety
sandy   lowland                     trials
loam    with one        Pineapple  cropping systems
or      area of         Sugarcane  adaptive testing
silt    low hills                   cropping systems
Potatoes   sesed quality,
adaptive testing
Soybeans   adaptive testing
Pulses     cropping system
Ramgarh   200      150    Loam    Hilly            Banana      selection, cropping
or                                  systems
sandy                   Pineapple  cropping systems,
loam                                hesrbicides,
soil conservation;
Cotton )   new crops for high-
Rice   )   land terraces, crop
Spices )   yields on terraces,
Sugar  )   effects of mulch
3.05      The stations would be provided with essential buildings, office
and residential; land development, including levelling and shaping, irrigation
facilities; services including provision of drinking water and electricity;
essential storage and workshop space. These requirements are based on pro-
posed research programs and staffing needs. Office, laboratory, storage and
residential space allocations are based on conservative norms used at other
Bangladesh research stations (Table 2). All existing buildings would be
retained, after rehabilitation if necessary, and a suitable site plan would
be prepared by a firm of architects with experience and qualifications satis-
factory to IDA.  The contract between BARI and the architectfs as well as the
designs and layouts finally employed, would be subject to IDA concurrence.
Building design criteria are in the project file. Specifications would re-
flect finish standards appropriate for the semi-urban areas in which the
stations are located. Detailed development programs for the four stations
are in Table 3.
3.06      Modest additional office space would be provided at each station,
except possibly at Ramgarh where existing space is adequate. Officers will



- 11 -
share offices and junior staff will occupy a central large hall. The three
regional stations would have a small dormitory/training complex able to
accommodate up to 16 and train up to 25 people. This would facilitate a
more active interaction between research and extension staff through periodic
training programs (para 3.28).
3.07      The stations are located in areas where housing facilities are
scarce, and the rental of even extremely modest housing is beyond the
financial reach of most scientific staff despite their housing allowances
(average 150-200 Tk/month). Consequently, suitable housing would be pro-
vided at the stations and the housing allowances for these staff would be
eliminated. A small 2-room guest house to facilitate visits by staff of
headquarters and other institutes would also be built.
3.08      Land development (Table 4) would involve land levelling (110 ac),
land shaping and soil conservation work at Ramgarh (180 ac), and improved
drainage at all stations. Irrigation systems would be based on existing
shallow and three new deep tubewells. At Hathazari, an existing tank for
collecting surface run-off water would be enlarged and re-excavated to permit
irrigation of about 40 ac. Irrigation facilities would be designed to cope
with the peak requirements of the crops likely to be researched. Main chan-
nels would be lined. Details of preliminary designs are in the project file;
final designs would be prepared by the land development consultant (para
3.28). Recruitment of the consultant, the designation of the BARI agricul-
tural engineer counterparts for each project station, and the completion of
contour and soil maps for these stations (which are now being prepared by
BARI with the help of GOB's soil survey department), were agreed as condi-
tions for disbursement against land development expenditures.
3.09      On each farm, tar surfaced brick roads would connect the main
road with the office, residential and storage blocks; the rest of the farm
would be served by unsurfaced tracks. The farms would be fenced and a water
storage tank, on-farm piped water and electrical supply systems would be
provided. Most stations have adequate godown space, presently cluttered with
mostly unrepairable and obsolete machinery and equipment. Such material
would be auctioned off or otherwise removed prior to start of new construc-
tion. A workshop/machine shed would be built, where necessary.
Machinery and Equipment
3.10      The project would provide machinery and equipment for (i) land
levelling; (ii) cropping and harvesting; (iii) laboratories and workshops; and
(iv) vehicles and offices (Table 5). For land development work a scraper, a
leveller and a land plane would be provided for each station, to be drawn by
the 45 and 65 HP tractors supplied for cropping purposes. This equipment would
be useful for routine maintenance and annual fine levelling. In addition to
tractors, cropping and harvesting machinery would include associated implements
and accessories including a paddy puddler and mud-wheels, seed and fertilizer
drills and plot and head threshers for the small lots typically handled at
research stations. It is assumed that all harvesting would be done manually.
To ensure adequate maintenance, basic workshop facilities and tools would be



- 12 -
included (see para 4.05 also). Bullocks required for experimentation relating
to appropriate technology and farming systems would be retained.
3.11      Basic laboratory equipment appropriate for field research would
be provided, but sophisticated equipment, for example a flame-photometer
would be omitted as inappropriate for this level of research. Vehicles would
be provided for each of the four BARI stations (a total of 4 pick-ups and 2
motorcycles) to facilitate station out-reach activities, and to BARC (4 cars
and 1 pick-up) for its additional staff and to service the short-term experts
it would employ. Vehicles would be owned and maintained by the individual
institutions. Essential audio-visual and duplicating equipment would also be
provided for BARC.
BARC Headquarters
3.12      To enable all five divisions of BARC to be housed together, and to
enable BARC to organize periodic scientific seminars, a functional office
building would be constructed on the 3 ac. site in Dacca already earmarked
for the purpose. Out of BARC's estimated full development needs of up to
45,000 sq. ft. the project would finance 16,000 sq. ft. (Table 6) construc-
tion for the following:
Office of the Vice-Chairman & staff       1,300 sq ft (net)
Member Directors & staff                  6,400   "
Administrative  staff                     3,400   "
Conference Hall/Support Services          2,600   "
Library/Documentation Center              2,300
Total                    16,000 sq ft (net)
The proposed space for the museum, national herbarium, germ plasm bank, and
the plant introduction center would be left for later development after the
BARC role in these areas is clearly established.
3.13      Space allocations are based on current GOB practice and are reason-
able. Design and layouts, which would allow for subsequent expansion, would
be prepared by a firm of architects, with qualifications and experience satis-
factory to IDA. The final design would be subject to IDA concurrence. Design
criteria for the BARC buildings which have been agreed with BARC, are in the
project file. Designs would minimize the use of mechanical means for ventila-
tion, airconditioning, and for the movement of people.
BARC Financed Research Sub-projects
3.14      All research institutions in Bangladesh would be eligible to submit
research proposals for financing under grants made by BARC witlh funds provided
under the project. Criteria for the selection of sub-projects and terms and
conditions of the grants are listed in para 4.08. Most proposals received from
the agricultural research institutions will tend to reflect their commodity
orientation. However, many of the problems facing farmers in Bangladesh, for



-13 -
example, the management of irrigation water, are common to a range of commodi-
ties and while some of these problems are being researched others are ignored
since responsibility for tackling the problem cannot be assigned to a
single institution. Clearly there is a need for a coordinated approach to
problems of this type.
3.15      Under the project BARC would pay particular attention to sponsoring
coordinated research programs aimed at the solution of some of general prob-
lems within the frame of which, individual sub-projects would be carried out
by different institutions. BARC would have primary responsibility for devel-
opment of these coordinated programs but would work closely with the institu-
tions in their design. In allocating project funds for research sub-projects
BARC would give particular priority to such coordinated work. BARC would seek
to develop coordinated efforts in cropping systems research, soil and water
management, appropriate agricultural technology, agricultural economics and
crop protection and would use short term technical assistance provided under
the project for this purpose. It would be a condition of effectiveness that
BARC had constituted two Technical Working Groups (TWG) to develop the soil
and water management and the farming systems research programs. Experts re-
cruited under terms of reference agreed with IDA, would assist these TWGs.
Assurances were obtained from BARC that it would provide to IDA draft research
programs in appropriate technology by March 31, 1979, and in soil and water
management and farming systems by August 31, 1979, and suitably incorporate
IDA comments before initiating their funding. Other priority research areas
suitable for BARC research sub-project funding would be agreed between BARC
and IDA during implementation.
3.16      Cropping Systems Research.  Present cropping intensity in Bangladesh
is about 135-140% but 300% is possible in some districts.  An overall cropping
intensity of 200% would bring the equivalent of 15 M acres into production and
provide 3 M man years of employment, in addition to much needed food. Crop-
ping systems research would entail examination of the constraints preventing
year-round land utilization and the replacement of low productive systems
with those capable of increased per acre yields. Rice/jute culture presently
dominates the cropping system but a broader based rotation will be needed
in future to allow for better land use, especially during the dry season
both under irrigated and non-irrigated conditions. Several of the commodity
research groups have begun work in this area, more especially with rice-wheat,
rice-jute, and rice-soybean rotations and preliminary cropping systems have
been developed. Methods of intercropping sunflowers, sugarcane, cotton and
coconuts with vegetables and cereal crops have been examined and relay crop-
ping has been proposed for vegetables. These are only small uncoordinated
*        attempts to enter the complex field of cropping systems research, which to be
effective should be tackled through a coordinated multi-disciplinary team
approach. The coordinate research program to be developed by BARC would
begin with a survey of existing cropping patterns in Bangladesh. The data
collected would include crop yields, resource requirements, and costs of pro-
duction. The survey would be used to identify the high priority topics for
study in cropping system research. The expectation from this research would
be a series of location specific cropping patterns which would raise overall
production, farm income, and employment possibilities.



- 14 -
3.17      Soil and Water Management.  There are many aspects to water manage-
ment. On the one hand irrigation supplies and flood water control must be
improved. The present efficiency of the irrigation schemes is low and there
is a large discrepancy between the designed and actual command areas. Research
is required in engineering, agriculture and sociology before remedies can be
found.  On the other hand crop water requirements under both irrigated and dry
conditions must be studied and means devised to either supply crops with the
optimum amounts, without wastage, or under rainfed conditions dlevise means of
conserving water in the soils so that crop yields can be maximized. Several
institutes have begun to work on problems associated with water use and man-
agement. The breeding work on drought tolerant varieties of whleat and flood
tolerant varieties of rice is relevant to this topic. Lack of adequate facil-
ities has limited the amount of research on crop water requirements and inter-
actions between water, soils and climate, but this work is essential and must
be pursued, because, in contrast with crop fertilizer requirements for which
useful data are being gradually accumulated, there is little quantified infor-
mation available in Bangladesh on the use of irrigation water. The program to
be developed by BARC would have as its ultimate aim increased crop production,
primarily by enabling crops to be grown in the dry boro season and overcoming
the problems of water deficits and uncontrolled water levels which may occur
in the aus and aman season. Eventually the program would include work on the
following topics:
(a)  soil-plant-water interaction studies to maximize yield
and determine optimum crop water requirements;
(b)  interaction between water management, fertilizer and
cropping patterns under different conditions to develop
a management package and improve efficiency of water use;
(c)  water monitoring systems to reduce water wastage;
(d)  breeding crop varieties with improved water use efficiency;
(e)  dry season water requirements of crops;
(f)  possible use of drainage water;
(g)  effects of continuous irrigated rice cultivation and
means of rectifying any yield reductions occurring with
time;
(h)  effects of different levels of submergence on the aus rice
crop;
(i)  methods of conserving water in the root zones of rainfed
crops;
(j)  methods of erosion control in the Chittagong hills and the
development of a more appropriate land use system; and



- 15 -
(k) effect of controlled flood and irrigation levels on crop
ecology in areas where these techniques have been recently
introduced.
3.18      Appropriate Agricultural Technology and Agricultural Engineering.
Solutions to the problems facing the farmer with respect to tillage opera-
tions, food processing and food storage must be found which are feasible,
practical and within the financial constraints set by the farmers' income.
An Appropriate Technology Cell is located at BARC, which is responsible for
research coordination and the dissemination of information. Actual research
in agricultural enginering appears now to be confined to BARI where several
new implements have been designed, e.g. 3-row seed drill, seed and fertilizer
drill and pedal type rice-dryer. The appropriateness of these cannot be
assessed because there is no information on the rate of adoption of these
machines by farmers. The need for new technology in rural areas where large
machines are inappropriate and uneconomical is well recognized in Bangladesh.
Research is needed reducing foodgrain losses in storage, either due to pest
attacks or spoilage associated with high grain moisture contents. Research is
also needed for the development of drying and storage methods suitable for
small scale operations. Low power requiring implements are also needed
and priority should be given to the development of a small rice-huller, a
jute-seeder, a small bio-gas plant and methods of processing and utilizing
soybeans and groundnuts as human food. Research is also justified on manual
drilling methods for tubewells and on waste recycling for fertilizer use. The
program that BARC would organize under the direction of its Appropriate Agri-
cultural Technology Cell would involve engineers, agriculturalists, sociolo-
gists and economists. As much equipment and data has been developed overseas,
this program would concentrate primarily on testing and adapting imported
technology.
3.19      Agricultural Economics.  The results of most current agricultural
research in Bangladesh receive insufficient attention from the economic stand-
point. More economic research is needed, not merely on the questions of
relationships between profit, crop yield and inputs, but also on the effects
of different cropping systems and management practices on farm incomes. In
addition, socio-economic surveys are required to elucidate the factors limit-
ing the size of the command area of tubewells, and those influencing farm
production and income. This last topic should include a study of the rate of
uptake of research findings in order to determine the reasons for continuing
low crop yields in spite of the recommendations which research has provided and
the trials which have been conducted on farmers' fields. Under the project
BARC would encourage sub-projects that tackle the above issues.
3.20      Crop Protection.  The control of pests and disease outbreaks, when
attempted in Bangladesh is usually through the use of expensive chemical
measures. Improved methods are needed to reduce the amount of pesticides
and fungicides used, which will protect the environment as well as cut
production costs. Research on specific pests and diseases is in progress
in many of the commodity institutes often in support of breeding programs,
but investigations are now needed into integrated methods of control which
involve the use of rotations and cultural methods in addition to strategic
chemical sprays. The amount of pesticide used could also be reduced if the



- 16 -
time of application could be accurately synchronized with the critical
stages of pest attack. Research is therefore needed, and would be sponsored
by BARC on the development of methods for surveying and monitoring the build-
up and spread of pests and diseases with a view to establishing an early
warning system for crop spraying.
3.21      Research sub-projects costing above $30,000 would be subject to IDA
review prior to formal approval by BARC, but the cut off level would be
subject to review during implementation to ensure that about 20% of the
number of sub-projects are subject to such review. The average cost of the
sub-projects is likely to be about $15,000-20,000, and it is estimated that
over the 3 years of the project about 15-20 sub-projects out of 70-100 are
likely to be presented for prior IDA review. Total cost of these sub-projects
would be about Tk 15.7 M ($1.0 M) (Table 7).
Research Inventories and Plans
3.22      To facilitate sub-project selection, BARC would compile a total in-
ventory of all relevant completed and on-going agricultural research, spelling
out the objectives, methodology and results. This inventor, would be prepared
by the institutes (some have already done these). Formats and timetables would
be agreed between BARC and the institutes. Assurances were obtained from GOB
that it would ensure that all major institutes 1/ involved in agricultural
research would participate in the .BARC efforts for preparing these inventories.
3.23      BARC has been given by GOB the responsibility to clevelop a long-term
plan for agricultural research covering all commodities and problem areas, and
spelling out relative priorities, potential benefits, likely costs and resource
requirements. BARC will do this in close conjunction with the various commodity
institutes and if necessary would provide funds under the project to assist the
major institutes 1/ to prepare their own three year research programs for 1980-
82. (BRRI and BARI already have these planning and programmiing efforts under-
way.) Assurances were obtained from GOB that it would ensure that the various
institutes would participate in this way. Assurances were also obtained from
BARC that it would assemble these studies into a long-term national agricul-
tural research plan for review by IDA not later than 31 December 1980. Short-
term experts hired under the project would be used by BARC to assist in the
preparation of the plan.
Scientific Manpower Development
3.24      The project would fund 25 PhD degree programs; 20 one-year MSc
degree programs; about 30 short term career development courses; study
tours for research managers; local training at research stations for exten-
sion workers and subject matter specialists; and local seminars (Table 9).
3.25      About 80% of the PhD training would be overseas but BARC would
attempt to arrange with the overseas university for thesis work to be done
1/   Sugar, Jute, Rice, Agriculture, Tea, Fisheries and Forestry Research
Institutes.



- 17 -
in Bangladesh. Research staff of all institutes would be eligible, but about
half the number are expected to be allocated by BARC for BARI, which faces a
particularly grave situation (para 2.20). BARC would continue to encourage
local PhD programs by offering about five PhD fellowships at BAU. Given the
acute scarcity of PhD level scientists, training would be mainly by major
disciplines, but some specialized commodity training would also be included
(Table 8).
3.26      BARC would offer 20 MSc degree fellowships at BAU, and encourage
active interaction between BAU and the local research institutes by requiring
that the thesis experimental work be done at a local research institute. Thesis
topics would be jointly agreed between BARC, BAU and the research institute.
3.27      Short-term career development programs (up to 6 months) at the
international and other overseas research institutes would focus on specia-
lized techniques, research management and administration. Attendance at
international seminars, subject to BARC and IDA approval, would be encouraged.
Guidelines for trainee selection have been agreed with GOB (para 4.11).
3.28      BARC would encourage active interaction of extension staff and
research scientists by offering financial support for properly designed
and planned training programs organized by research institutes for extension
staff. Dormitory and lecture hall facilities to be established at BARI would
enable these interactions to be strengthened. About 1,200 man weeks of such
training is expected to be organized by BARI, and a similar amount by other
institutes over 3 years (BRRI already has an active program of this nature).
When training is conducted under a BARC supported scheme, BARI would not
charge BARC for the use of physical facilities financed under the project.
BARC would organize local seminars of research scientists, managers and
economists. The new office complex would have special facilities for such
meetings.
Technical Assistance
3.29      About 36 man-months of technical assistance costing about $7,000/man
month, would be commissioned by BARI (about 15 man-months) and BARC (about
21 man-months). All assistance would be short-term in nature; the experts'
stay in Bangladesh not exceeding 4 months at any one time. BARI would need
support in designing and supervising land development. The first visit of an
expert to initiate design work would be timed so that farm drainage problems
could be studied first hand.
3.30      Short-term technical assistance for BARC would be of special ex-
pertise in identifying the components of a national program of coordinated
research, initially in soil and water management and farming systems (para
3.16). The scope and nature of such assistance to be commissioned by BARC
would be agreed with IDA. It was agreed that it would be a condition of
disbursement against research sub-projects (para 3.21) that about 6 man-months
of short-term expert services, to annually monitor the effectiveness of its
research grant system under the project (para 4.17) had been commissioned by



- 18 -
addition, provision would be made under the project for BARC to recruit short
term experts as necessary to assist it in drafting the long term agricultural
research plan (para 3.23). Draft terms of references for these activities
which were provided to BARC at negotiations, are in the project file. The
project financed technical assistance would complement the substantial tech-
nical assistance being provided by USAID to BARI, and other institutes by
other donors (paras 2.12 and 2.14).
Incremental Operating Costs
3.31      Both BARC and the four BARI project stations would be fully staffed
by December 31, 1979 according to staffing plans satisfactory to IDA. Suit-
able assurances were obtained. With the research station development, and
equipment provided under the project research activities should increase sub-
stantially. During the project development period incremental operating costs
of BARC (Table 10), and of the four BARI stations (Table 11), would be financed
under the project. Station operating expenditure is estimated to increase to
Tk 35,000 per scientist man-year (SMY) or to Tk 2,500 1/ per acre under re-
search, excluding staff salaries and allowances. Operating expenses at the
various BARI stations are estimated to increase by 190%, and those of BARC by
135% in real terms over 1976/77.
C. Project Cost
3.32      Detailed cost estimates for the project are in Table 12 and are
summarized below:
1/   Cultivation, harvesting and experimentation costs per acre under research
are estimated at Tk 940 for pulses, Tk 1,965 for wheat and Tk 2,260 for
vegetables.



- 19 -
% Foreign
Local Foreign Total   Local Foreign Total  Exchange
 ___-('000 Tk)----(US$'00o)
Civil Works
BARI Station Buildings    22,905  7,170  30,075  1,500    470  1,970           24
Land Development       3,015    310   3,325    200       20    220        10
BARC Headquarters           4,295  1,370   5,665    280        90    370       24
Sub-total             30,215  8,850  39,065  1,980    580  2,560         23
Machinery and Equipment    2,635  4,725   7,360    170    310    480           64
Research Sub-projects      14,130  1,570  15,700    925    105  1,030          10
Manpower Development        2,515 14,230  16,745    165    935  1,100          85
Incremental Operating
Costs                     4,850    995   5,845    320        65    385       17
Technical Assistance           765  3,070   3,835      50    200    250        80
Base Cost Estimates         5,110 33,440  88,550  3,610  2,195  5,805          38
Physical Contingencies      3,790  2,325   6,115    250    150    400
Price Contingencies        11,505  6,830  18,335    745    455  1,200
Total Project Cost   70,405 42,595 133,000  4,605  2,800  7,405          38
3.33      Estimates are based on December 1977 prices.  A physical contingency
of 5% has been applied to machinery and equipment, 10% for civil works and
training, and 15% for land development.  Price contingencies have been applied
to all civil works: 9% for 1978 and 1979, and 8% thereafter; other costs,
7.5% till 1978 and 7% thereafter. No price contingencies are required for
funds to be allocated by BARC to research sub-projects that have yet to be
defined. Project costs include duties and taxes estimated at US$0.85 M.
Contingencies amount to 21% of total project costs.
D. Financing
3.34      The proposed IDA Credit of US$6 M would finance about 90% of project
costs, net of duties and taxes. It would cover all foreign exchange expendi-
ture of Tk 42.6 M (US$2.8 M) and about 70% of local costs of Tk 70.4 M
(US$4.50 M). GOB would provide the remaining US$1.4 M. GOB procedures for
funding approved projects included in the Annual Development Plan have recent-
ly been streamlined. As a result, BARC and BARI can obtain funds on a timely
basis during every quarter, subject to a mid year review of expenditures.
Assurances were obtained from GOB that it would continue its practice of



- 20 -
releasing approved project funds on a quarterly basis to both BARC and BARI.
It was agreed that it would be a condition of Board presentation that GOB's
Planning Commission had approved the project proformas, and a condition of
effectiveness that GOB had released amounts agreed with IDA, out of its first
year's contribution to the project.
E. Procurement
3.35      Project civil works involve housing, offices, farm roads, water
supply and storage sheds. Designs would be simple and construction techniques
labor intensive. Civil work contracts (US$2.7 M) would be located at five
sites and construction spread out over three years. Such contracts would not
be suitable for international competitive bidding and would be let through
local competitive bidding, using established GOB procedures satisfactory to
IDA. Imported construction materials (US$0.5 M), such as cement and steel
bars, would be provided by the selected contractors as individual requirements
would be too small to justify separate tenders under the project. To ensure
full control of quality, bricks would be procured by BARC and BARI through
local competitive bidding, and supplied to contractors. Land development
(US$0.3 M) would be by force account supervised by the concerned station man-
agers as no contractors experienced in this work are available in Bangladesh;
either small contractors or force account would be used for minor works such
as tank re-excavation and channel lining; the Bangladesh Agricultural Development
Corporation would be employed to supervise tubewell drilling and intallation.
Purchase of agricultural machinery and equipment (US$0.6 M) would be bulked for
all BARI stations, and procured through international competitive bidding
(draft specifications are in the project file). However, prudent shopping, up
to a maximum of US$100,000, would be permitted for specializted equipment
required by BARI for research, where total cost of each type of equipment is
below US$10,000. The small number of vehicles (about 6 cars, 4 pick-ups, 2
motorcycles and 1 micro bus) costing about US$0.1 M would be procured through
competitive bidding advertised locally; there are sufficient representatives
of foreign firms in Bangladesh to ensure a satisfactory degree of competition.
3.36      Research grants (US$1.0 M) to qualified institutiOnIS would be made
using criteria which have been agreed with IDA (para 4.08). Since research
equipment, financed under these grants are expected to cost less than
US$10,000 each, they would be procured by BARC and the institutions executing
the approved sub-projects, through prudent shopping. Such purchases are be-
lieved unlikely to exceed US$300,000. For procurement of research supplies
required for sub-projects the institutions would use their normal procedures
for local purchases, which are satisfactory to IDA.
3.37      Training (US$1.5 M) local and overseas, would be arranged by BARC
and procurement of technical assistance services (US$0.25 M) would be in line
with IDA guidelines with individual contracts being let under terms and condi-
tions agreed with IDA. The remainder of the project costs (US$0.45) would be
incremental operating costs for BARC and BARI.



- 21 -
3.38      In the case of civil works contracts exceeding $100,000, and
machinery and equipment contracts exceeding $50,000 ex-ante IDA approval
of specifications, tender procedures and contract award would be required.
Full supporting documentation for contracts exceeding $10,000 would accompany
disbursemert requests. For other contracts and for all contracts relating
to procurement under BARC financed research sub-projects, bid documents
would be retained by BARI and BARC and made available for IDA review. It is
anticipated that about 65% of the value of all contracts let under the project
and 10% of the actual contracts would be subject to ex-ante review; 25% and
15% respectively for ex-post review before disbursement, and 10% and 75%
respectively for field review (Table 13).
F. Disbursement and Audit
3.39      Disbursement under the credit would be for:
(a) 100% of foreign expenditures, or 100% of local expenditures
ex-factory, or 70% of total expenditures, for machinery,
equipment, vehicles and related spares;
(b) 75% of total expenditures for civil works executed through
contractors;
(c) 100% of expeditures on technical assistance, training and
special studies;
(d) 100% of the total BARC research grants for approved sub-
projects; other than for equipment which is included in
(a) above; and
(e) 90% of BARC operating costs in excess of its actual 1977-78
expenditures.
Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation, prepared by
BARC and BARI, except for (d) and (e) for which disbursement would be made on
the basis of a certified statement of expenditure for which BARC would retain
supporting documents for IDA inspection. Field records for (d) would include
statements of funds released, and semi-annual expenditure statements with
supporting documents from the institute executing the sub-project. BARC's
audit wing, which would audit the sub-project accounts submitted by the insti-
tutes, would be strengthened for the purposes (para 3.3) and BARC annual
internal audit reports would be available to IDA for inspection. Assurances
were obtained from both BARI and BARC that they would maintain separate
project accounts, including the research sub-project accounts, which would be
audited annually by independent auditors, satisfactory to IDA, and that the
audited accounts would be sent to IDA within six months of the close of the
fiscal year. Both BARC and BARI are strengthening their finance and account-
ing sections to cope with the increased work load due to greater research
activity at dispersed locations. Assurances were obtained from BARC and BARI



- 22 -
that they would both appoint to their staff a qualified accountant in case of
BARC, and a senior level officer not below the rank of a depulty director in
case of BARI, before August 31, 1979 to head their accounts operations.
3.40      Disbursements would extend over six years (Table 14), though 90% are
expected to be made in the first four years, when civil works and equipment
would be implemented and procured. No financial commitments qualified for
disbursement under the project would be permitted beyond December 31, 1981.
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Research Planning and Co-ordination
4.01       In line with GOB policy (para 2.23), BARC's advisory, consultative,
planning and coordinating role in relation to the entire agricultural research
system would be developed through greater collaboration between BARC and GOB.
This would include consultation with BARC regarding the annual plan alloca-
tions for various research institutes. Directors of all agricultural research
institutes, and representatives of the GOB's Planning Commissions, are members
of BARC. This broad based membership combined with improved staffing and
funding, would enable BARC to fulfill the key research leadership functions
given to it under its charter. Among these would be to:
(a) coordinate the preparation of the draft long-term national
agricultural research plan (para 3.23);
(b) commission, and follow up on, the recommendation of the
International Research Review Team (para 4.29);
(c) undertake an annual evaluation of the national agricultural
research effort and make policy recommendations to C:OB
(para 4.17);
(d)  review the annual reports of the various research insti-
tutes and recommend suitable action to GOB; and
(e) ensure adequate coordination among both donors and
institutes participating in foreign added research
projects.
(f) direct the preparation of a follow-up research project
covering the needs of the national agricultural research
system based on (a) and (b), above;



- 23 -
B. Project Implementation
4.02      Physical execution of project works and procurement would be the
responsibility of BARI and BARC. Operation of the research grant system
and training programs would be BARC responsibility exclusively.
Construction Cells
4.03      BARI and BARC would handle the execution of civil works separately,
through two small construction cells. One already exists in BARI, and the
other has been authorized for BARC. The BARI construction cell, which also
supervises the USAID assisted project, would be strengthened for the project
construction activities by the appointment of two executive engineers, four
assistant engineers and four sub-assistant engineers, supervised by the
existing BARI superintending engineer (Project Director). These additional
staff would be obtained from GOB's Public Works Department (PWD) on deputation.
One executive engineer would handle contract administration work, while the
other would be responsible for materials, field supervision and final work
certification. One sub-assistant engineer would be located at each station to
supervise building contracts and assist the station managers in executing
minor civil works through force account or small local contractors. Land
development would be supervised by BARI agricultural engineers, one of whom
would be posted at each station for the period of the development work, and
who would be under the guidance of the land development expert (para 3.08).
BARI's construction cell would maintain the buildings.
4.04      The BARC construction cell would be headed by an executive engineer,
and would consist of two assistant engineers and two sub-assistant engineers.
These staff would be seconded from PWD for the construction period. To ensure
satisfactory maintenance of buildings BARC would engage a suitable engineering
organization to be responsible for building maintenance. Probably this would
be PWD. The BARC executive engineer would report directly to the Executive
Vice-Chairman. The appointment of the engineers in charge of project construc-
tion for both BARI and BARC was agreed as a condition of credit effectiveness.
Machinery Purchase and Maintenance
4.05      The various procurement packages, and the responsibility and target
dates for drawing up the specifications and tender documents, bid evaluation;
and establishing arrangements for contract supervision for both BARI and BARC,
are detailed in Table 13. BARC's role in procuring all imported equipment
under approved sub-projects, and procurement of its own equipment and mate-
rials, would require it to employ a procurement officer in its administrative
section. The employment of such a procurement officer was agreed as a condi-
tion of credit disbursement against research sub-projects. Spares would be
procured along with the original equipment, and those for BARI stations would
be stocked at the central workshops at Joydebpur for exclusive project use.
Each BARI station would have a basic workshop and essential tools to ensure
adequate maintenance of station machinery. It was agreed that conditions of
disbursement against BARI machinery and equipment purchases would be that:
(i) the approved posts of qualified mechanics at each of the four stations
had been filled, and (ii) suitable workshop equipment had been ordered.



- 24 -
BARC's Research Grant System
4.06      BARC would continue to solicit, review and select sub-projects suit-
able for its support, and supervise and evaluate them through its committee
system. BARC procedure for technical review of sub-project proposals has
recently been streamlined by the elimination of eight standing committees and
their replacement by five Technical Committees. 1/ Each Technical Committee
would be comprised of eminent local scientists in their fieLd, with the BARC
member director responsible for the relevant discipline, as secretary.
4.07      Formal approval of a sub-project for a BARC grant would be given by
the BARC Executive Committee following its review of the Technical Committee
evaluation. The Executive Committee is multidisciplinary and includes all
the five BARC member-directors. The advise of the BARC Senior Advisor, pro-
vided under USAID assistance would be available to guide sub-project selec-
tion. Under BARC statute the BARC Finance Committee is also' required to
approve such grants. To expedite the process of grant approval, the Executive
Vice Chairman intends that the Finance and Executive Committees would meet in
joint sessions as a grants board.
4.08      Criteria for a sub-project selection and terms and conditions for
operation of approved sub-projects were agreed with BARC at negotiations.
BARC also confirmed that it would be desirable to operate the entire research
grant system under the same set of. procedures, irrespective of the source of
finance. Principal features of the selection criteria and terms and condi-
tions of the grants are described below:
Selection of Research Sub-projects
(a) sub-projects would focus on problem areas of priority
in the agricultural research sector, as defined by the
BARC from time to time; 2/ would have clearly defined
objectives, and would have a high probability of
success within a reasonable time frame;
(b) relationship of the sub-projects to the long term
research program of the Institution should be outlined;
and the technology proposed to be developed would be
appropriate to the increasing level of technical skills
of the farmers and the extension workers;
(c) sub-projects would be permitted to seek financial
support for:
(i) all direct sub-project expenditures for which
separate, auditable accounts can be maintained;
1/   Soils and Irrigation, Crops and Forestry, Agricultural Engineering,
Agricultural Economics and Social Science and Livestock and Fisheries.
2/   These would be agreed between BARC and IDA.



- 25 -
(ii) specialized equipment costing more than 10% of the
Institution's annual operating budget, when the
equipment, though not tied to any specific research
sub-project, would enable the Institution to conduct
its total research programs more effectively;
(iii) grants for books and journals of demonstrable interest
to the research work of the Institute; the BARC would
however consider such requests in conjunction with
other similar requests and might require sharing of
books and journals; and
(iv) publication of research results;
(d) sub-projects costing below Tk 100,000, or those in which more
than 30% of the costs would be for salaries of staff, would
normally not be eligible for the BARC grants;
(e) the sponsoring Institution would have to demonstrate that it
had the basic research facilities and key investigators (on
its permanent staff) essential for implementation of the sub-
projects;
(f) a literature survey of related research and a review of
past and on-going related work in Bangladesh, and a
description of the potential benefits from the sub-project,
would be included in each sub-project proposal;
(g) the proposed experimental design and methods for collection,
compilation and analysis of data would be included in the
proposal;
(h) all equipment necessary for the sub-project would be listed
with broad specifications and names of potential suppliers; and
(i) all proposals would be made in the form prescribed by the
BARC for the purpose.
Terms and Conditions for BARC Grant Supported Sub-projects
(a) application received after the semi-annual closing dates
(1st August and 1st February) would normally be considered
for the following half-year; and applicants should expect to
hear of the BARC decision by 1st November and 1st May respec-
tively (actual dates may vary);
(b) the grant would be exclusively utilized for the approved
sub-project;
(c) a formal acceptance of the grant and the conditions would
be required before the first payment under grant;



- 26 -
(d) the receipts, if any, realized from the working of the
sub-project would be credited to BARC at the end of
each year;
(e) savings on any approved provision would not be usecl for
any other purpose, without the prior consent of the BARC;
(f) separate accounts would be maintained of the expenditure
incurred from the grant, and semi-annual accounts, with
full documentation, would be sent to BARC. The accounts
would be audited by the Audit Cell of BARC;
(g) annual progress reports and a detailed termination report,
with such number of copies as may be required by BARC,
would be provided to the BARC in accordance with mutually
agreed formats;
(h) BARC would be authorized to make any changes in the approved
technical program, or to terminate the grant, after reason-
able notice, in the event that it was not satisfied with the
progress of the investigation or repeated failure to comply
with the conditions of the grant;
(i) the equipment and apparatus, if any, purchased out of the
grant would be the property of the Institution; except
where BARC might determine that the need for the equip-
ment had diminished substantially, in which case BARC
would determine the disposal of such equipment in con-
sultation with the Institution;
(j) all imported equipment approved under a sub-project would
be purchased by BARC for the Institution, based on spe-
cifications agreed with the Institution;
(k) locally manufactured equipment and operating supplies
would be procured by the Institution using competitive
bidding or prudent shopping, and copies of bid evalua-
tions, contracts and invoices would be attached to the
semi-annual accounts;
(1) recruitment to all temporary posts under a grant would be
made by the Institution concerned; graduate students, working
for a higher degree, would be employable under a grant; and
preference could be given to staff temporarily employed by
the Institution on another BARC grant that had been terminated.
BARC shall have the right to be represented on all Selection
Boards. In exceptional cases, temporary staff could be hired
by BARC for the Institution, but their administration would
remain the responsibility of the Institution.



- 27 -
(m) BARC would be consulted prior to any changes in salaries
of staff employed under a grant;
(n) all materials, provided by BARC for a particular project
which have a continuing scientific or monetary value, e.g.,
breeding lines, or cultures, would be handed over to BARC
at the termination of the sub-project;
(o) BARC would take suitable steps to carry such results of
this research into practice as are of practical value to
the farmers;
(p) the financial assistance rendered by BARC would be acknow-
ledged if some account of the work for which the grant is
given is published;
(q) BARC would have a right to publish the results of the
investigations undertaken in its own journals before
they are published elsewhere;
(r) BARC would be informed of any discoveries of a patentable
or commercially exploitable nature, and no action would be
taken by the Institution to patent such discoveries with-
out the BARC's permission;
(s) recipients would be willing to accept and offer full
cooperation to supervision and review visits by or on
behalf of BARC; and
(t) any Honoraria to permanent scientists of the Institution to
supervise and direct a grant supported by BARC would not
normally exceed a sum equivalent to one month's salary of
the scientists per year. 1/
4.09      Development of a sound system of the research grants would depend
ultimately upon a satisfactory level of BARC staffing. Although its authorized
staffing (Table 10) is adequate, about 80% of its 18 scientific positions, in-
cluding four out of five member directors, were vacant at the time of appraisal
due to financial constraints and administrative delays. This had placed an
excessive burden on the few dedicated staff. Since then three more Member-
Directors have been appointed, and BARC has initiated the search for the
Member-Director for agricultural engineering.
Fellowships
4.10      The distribution, between the major institutes and BAU and between
the major areas of overseas fellowship, both for PhD degrees and career devel-
opment courses provided under the project, would be the responsibility of BARC.
1/   This condition would apply, but it would not be included in the
published statement regarding the grant scheme.



- 28 -
The BARC would select candidates in consultation with the sponsoring institu-
tions. Placement and fellowship administration, including arrangements for
thesis work within Bangladesh where feasible, would also be the responsibility
of BARC. For the MSc fellowships which would all be within Bangladesh, BARC
would advertise its willingness to finance fellowships in selected areas of
study. Selection of suitable candidates would be done by :BARC through its
relevant Technical Committee.
4.11      Basis for selection of candidates, and terms and conditions for
fellowships, agreed with GOB/BARC at negotiations, would be:
(i) candidates for degree programs would normally be
below 35 years of age;
(ii) the research area on which the trainee will work upon
completing the training program would be clearly
identified by the sponsoring Institution;
(iii) candidates must be willing to work for the sponsoring
Institution (or GOB) upon completion of overseas train-
ing, for at least five years;
(iv) for overseas programs preference will be given, where
candidates qualifications are equal, to the candidates
already in research posts at recognized local research
institutions 1/;
(v) MSc programs would be open to all qualified candidlates,
and BARC would openly advertise the availability of
financial support;
(vi) career development courses would be restricted to
research managers at recognized research institutions,
coordinators of BARC sponsored projects and BARC
scientific staff;
(vii) level of financial support available under various programs
would be determined by BARC; 2/
(viii) BARC would assist the selected candidates in identi-
fying suitable training opportunities, and in obtaining
admission; however, the final responsibility would be
that of the candidates;
1/   Distribution of project fellowships between institutions would be
decided by BARC, but about 50% are expected to be allocated to BARI.
2/   BARC will endeavor to provide for the travel of the trainee's immediate
family for training programs exceeding 2 years in duration.



- 29 -
(ix) BARC would have the right, after consultation with the
sponsoring institution, to terminate a training
program, at reasonable notice to the candidate, if in
the opinion of BARC, there are sufficient reasons to
doubt the ability of the candidate to successfully
complete the training program; and
(x)   candidates would furnish BARC with annual or termina-
tion reports, as the BARC shall reasonably request.
4.12      Development of research manpower would be expedited by the overseas
training programs; however, the role of the local universities, especially BAU,
would be crucial. Forecast of general and specialized research staff and
training needs for the 1980's would be included in the national research plan
(para 3.23). Operating linkages between the research Institutes and the BAU
would be improved through the thesis requirements of the project training
programs (para 3.26), through the BAU membership of the BARC and through BAU
participation in BARC research projects. However, the need for an active
interaction over curricula and training between the research community and the
BAU, which is under the Ministry of Education, will become greater as the
research effort expands. Assurances were obtained from GOB that, in recog-
nition of its role in manpower development, BARC would be represented on the
Academic Council of BAU, not later than December 31, 1979.
BARI - Research Programming
4.13      Research planning at BARI has recently been reorganized.  A three
year comprehensive research program for 1976-79 guides the present research
effort. Based on this, thirteen research programs have been designed, each
consisting of several projects which are allocated to the appropriate BARI
research division. The result is a series of multi-disciplinary teams, under
the direction of program coordinators, organized around each research prob-
lem. Technical assistance under the USAID financed project would further
strengthen these BARI initiatives, especially in the area of agricultural
economics through the recently established Economics Division. Assurances
were obtained from BARI that it would prepare a comprehensive research plan
for 1980-83, and provide it to IDA for comment, not later than March 31, 1979.
4.14      The staff of BARI regional research stations often only execute
centrally designed experiments and mechanically collect data for transmission
to the headquarter's scientists. They are rarely involved in the analysis of
the results of the entire program or even the analysis of their own experi-
ments, this contributes to their feeling of isolation. As the regional
station scientists are those most atuned, through their regular contact with
extension staff and local farmers, to the local needs, it is essential that
field scientists play an active role in the formulation of the overall re-
search program, and identify regionally important research problems. The
Director of BARI intends that regional scientists would be involved in re-
search program formulation through pre-season and post-season discussions at
headquarters; and that more frequent exchanges between headquarters and field
staff will be arranged, and the role of the field scientists in research
program formulation and evaluation would be made more significant.



- 30 -
C. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.15      Monitoring of the physical execution of project works would be the
responsibility of the Director of BARI and the Executive Vice-Chairman of BARC,
and would be based on quarterly progress reports prepared by their construc-
tion cells and procurement officers. Quarterly reports would include action
programs for the following quarter and would compare actual achievement with
targets. Format of these reports, which would also be forwarded to IDA every
quarter, were provided to BARI and BARC at negotiations (Item 10 of the project
file).
4.16      Improved staffing (para 4.09) would enable BARC to strengthen its
routine monitoring of research sub-project execution. Its efforts would be
facilitated through (i) annual reports to BARC from the sub-project scientists;
and (ii) annual field reviews of each research sub-project by a team nominated
by the relevant Technical Committee. These teams would consist of the appro-
priate BARC member-director and a scientist from outside the institution
executing the sub-project. The member-directors' scientific staff (Chart I)
would assist the team, which would:
(a) interview the senior investigator and the research staff
engaged in the project;
(b) inspect experimental work in progress and review data
collection and analysis; and
(c) discuss the progress made, the degree to which the aims
set have been or are likely to be accomplished, and con-
sider any changes needed in the plan of research.
Receipt of the monitoring report and the annual report from ithe subproject
scientists, would be a condition of release by BARC of the next installment of
approved grant funds for a sub-project.
4.17      An annual external review of the operation of the BARC's research
grant system, with a view to recommending any needed changes would be com-
missioned by BARC. About 6 months of an international expert's services
are provided under the project for the purpose. The research monitoring
expert (whose terms of reference are in the project file), assisted by a BARC
counterpart, would:
(a) examine the performance of each Technical Committee in
sub-project selection, assess the relevance of the sub-
projects to the total program and compare the merit: of
sub-projects accepted with those rejected;
(b) review the working of the internal monitoring system of
BARC particularly the steps taken when progress undler a
sub-project had not been satisfactory;



- 31 -
(c)  visit a sample of the grant recipients, to make on-site
assessments of progress of research, achievements and
constraints; and
(d)  recommend such changes as may be necessary in selection
or sub-project operating criteria.
4.18      Evaluation of the impact of the project would be conducted at
project completion by BARC as part of its responsibility to provide research
leadership. This evaluation effort would be assisted by BARC's annual report
to GOB of its assessment of the status, direction, achievements and limitations
of the national research efforts. The evaluation effort would be the respon-
sibility of the Executive Vice-Chairman of BARC, assisted by the five member-
directors, and the two economists. Assurances were obtained from BARC that it
would conduct its annual assessment and report to GOB not later than 31st
December each year.
4.19      Although some research results of immediate relevance to agricul-
tural practices may emerge during the project period, the major production
benefit of the project would be discernible only in the long term. Con-
sequently an evaluation of the project's economic benefits probably would
not be possible at project completion.
D. International Review Team
4.20      The agricultural research system in Bangaldesh should gain in
strength, as BARI becomes fully functional, as the other institutes improve
their capabilities under their own development projects and as BARC assumes
its assigned role to lead, coordinate, and monitor the total agricultural
research effort.  However, due to the dispersion of responsibilities for
research institutes between different ministries and the linkage of BARC to
the Ministry of Agriculture (para 2.23) problems in coordination and coopera-
tion are likely to continue. GOB is conscious of this problem and proposes
to organize an International Agricultural Research Review Team, to review the
organization and administration of the research system. The proposed review
would be conducted by a joint team of foreign and local research scientists
and managers, with a team leader of international stature. Prior to the
assembly of the review team in Bangladesh, the experts would prepare working
papers on selected topics. Directors of the major research institutes would
also visit other countries to study their research systems. GOB is making
arrangements to finance this review, and is agreeable that IDA should be
consulted on its terms of reference. Assurances were obtained from GOB
that this review would be completed by December 31, 1979. The draft terms
of reference which were provided to GOB and BARC at negotiations, are in the
project file (Item 4).



- 32 -
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      Evidence is that countries gain limited benefit from research done
elsewhere, even in regions with similar agro-climates, unless they have de-
veloped an applied and adaptive research capability of their own. The pro-
ject would assist GOB to strengthen its national agricultural research system
through improving its facilities and management. As a consequence of such
improvements research scientists are expected to be better motivated, experi-
mentation to be more meaningful, and because of better overall research coor-
dination the waste of scarce manpower resources minimized. Development of
the four regional research stations would improve research responsiveness to
local problems and encourage an active interaction of research and extension
staff for the transfer and diffusion of new knowledge.
5.02      In view of these factors, the economic benefits from the project
are expected to be considerable. However, attempts to quantify economic ex-
ante benefits from agricultural research can only be highly speculative in
view of the uncertainty inevitable in research. Historically, for this rea-
son, research endeavor has been justified on subjective judgements of the
type made above. However, many ex-post analyses of returns from research
have been made. Two approaches have generally been followed: studies of
specific commodity research programs, and studies based on aggregate produc-
tion function analysis. The studies on maize, sugarcane, wheat, and cotton
in developing countries of Latin America have made "conservaitive" estimates
of the economic rate of return ranging from 35-90%.  The aggregate produc-
tivity studies have related increases in production over a period of time
to changes in the conventional input use, with any production increase not
statistically explained by these changes in inputs being partially attri-
buted to the technology produced by research. The results oE these latter
studies in Mexico, India, and developing countries as a group, show results
lower though generally similar to the commodity study, and conclude that
investment in agricultural research has usually a high payoff, especially
in developing countries.
Risk
5.03      The principal risk of the project is that the results of research
financed directly through the research sub-project grant scheme or indirectly
through the provision of basic facilities and strengthening of staff, would
be inappropriate to the needs of farmers, or if appropriate, would not be con-
veyed to or used by farmers. There is no evidence that this risk is high.
The performance of BRRI over the last several years has demonstrated the
ability of Bangladesh agricultural scientists to develop mearLingful programs
when provided with adequate facilities, direction, and a modest proportion
of technical assistance. The project would assure the provision of all of
these. The acceptance by farmers of the high yielding rice varieties, where
conditions are suitable for their cultivation, the rapid growth in fertilizer
consumption, and the expansion of the acreage under wheat in Bangladesh de-
monstrates that the farmers of Bangladesh are prepared to adopt new technolo-
gies when there are clear economic benefits from doing so. Further, with the



- 33 -
assistance of IDA finance under Credit 729-BD GOB is reorganizing its exten-
sion services on the training and visit system. This reorganization should
ensure the two-way flow of information between farmers and extension and
research needed for the transference of research results and the identifi-
cation of priority research needs. Consequently, it is believed that the
risk of the investments to be made under this project failing to generate
satisfactory economic returns is insignificant.
VI. RECOMIENDATIONS
6.01      At negotiations the following main assurances were obtained:
From GOB that
(a) it would ensure that all major institutes involved in agricul-
tural research would participate in the BARC efforts for preparing
research inventories (para 3.22) and research plans (para 3.23);
(b) it would continue its practice of releasing approved project
funds quarterly to both BARC and BARI (para 3.34);
(c) by December 31, 1979, BARC would be represented on the
Academic Council of the Bangladesh Agricultural University,
Mymensingh (para. 4.12);
(d) it would organize an International Agricultural Research
Review Team, to recommend means of strengthening the organi-
zation and administration of agricultural research, under
TORs drafted in consultation with IDA (para 4.20);
From BARC and BARI that
(e) the designs and layouts of their buildings and stations would be
subject to IDA concurrence (para. 3.05 and 3.13);
(f) they would commission short term technical assistance
under terms and conditions agreed with IDA (para. 3.30);
From BARC that
(g) the draft research program in appropriate technology, would
be provided to IDA for comments by March 31, 1979 and for
soil and water management and farming systems by August 31,
1979 (para 3.15);



- 34 -
(h) for research sub-projects costing above US$30,000, IDA
comments would be obtained and suitably incorporated
prior to BARC funding (para 3.21); all commitments for
research sub-projects and training would be made before
December 31, 1981 (para 3.40); for their selection and
operation it would apply criteria and conditions agreed
with IDA (para 4.08); and, that the entire research
grant system should operate under the set of procedures,
irrespective of the source of finance (para 4.08);
(i) it would prepare a national agricultural research plan
and submit it for IDA review, not later than 31 December
1980;
(j) it would apply trainee selection criteria and operate the
training program under terms and conditions agreed with
IDA (para 3.27);
(k) it would appoint a qualified officer to head its accounts
section and fill all authorized posts by December 31, 1979
(para 3.31).
(1)  it would conduct for GOB an annual assessment of the
status, direction, achievements and limitations of the
national research efforts (para 4.18);
From BARI that
(m)  it would appoint a senior level officer to head its
accounts section and fill all authorized posts at
the four project stations by December 31, 1979 (para
3.31); and
(n) it would prepare a comprehensive three year research plan
for 1980-83 and submit the plan for IDA comment not iLater
than March 31, 1979 (para. 4.13).
6.02      The following conditions of credit effectiveness were agreed:
(a)  BARC had constituted two Technical Working Groups, to
develop research programs in soil and water management, and
in farming systems (para 3.15);
(b) GOB had released amounts agreed with IDA, as part of its
first year contribution to the project (para 3.34);
(c) The project proformas had been approved by GOB's National
Economic Council (para 3.34);
(d) the BARC and BARI engineers in charge their construction
cells had been appointed (para. 4.04).



- 35 -
6.03      The following conditions of disbursement were agreed against expen-
ditures dn:
(a) BARI station land development civil works that:
(i) soil survey and contour maps for the four stations
had been completed; (ii) the land development specialist
had been recruited; and (iii) one agricultural engineer
had been assigned to each project station (para 3.08);
(b) BARC research sub-projects that (i) the research monitoring
consultant had been selected and his contract signed (para
3.30); and (ii) the BARC's procurement officer had been
appointed (para 4.05);
(c) BARI machinery and equipment that (i) one qualified mechanic
had been recruited for each of the four research stations,
and (ii) workshop equipment had been ordered (para 4.05).
6.04      Based on the above assurances and conditions, the project is suitable
for an IDA credit of US$6 M to GOB on standard terms.



-36-
TABLE 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARI: Station Staffing, Buildings and Equipment
A. Research Staff
Jamalpur                Jessore               Hathazari  /            Rangarh
Sanctioned  Filled   Sanctioned  Filled   Sanctioned  Filled   Sanctioned  Filled
Principal Scientific Officer         1           1           1           1          1           1          1            1
Senior Scientific Officer            8           4          5            4          8           4          3            3
Scientific Officer                   8           4           5           4         10           3          4            4
Farm Superintendent                  1           -           1           1          1           -          -            -
Field Assistant & Other Staff    13             13         10            4         10           3          S            6
Other Staff (Category VIII)         19          10         15           12         28          17          13          11
B.  Buildings Available (ft )
No.                    No.                    No.                     No.
(Area)  Condition    (Area)  Condition    (Area)  Condiition    (Area)  Condition
Office Space                     1(500)    Fair         1(1000)  Good           1(2700)   Good         1(1500)   Good
Guest House                      -          -           1(500)   Fair          1(450)2/  Gocd         -          Good
Godown Space                     3(3500)   Fair         1(3500)  Good           2(750)    Good         1(800)    Good
Greenhouse or Shadehouse         -          -           -         -             1(300)    Pocr         -
Threshing Floor                  1(13,000) Fair         1(6000)  Fair           2(1000)   Poor         1(800)    Fair
Staff Housing:
PSO                        1          U/C'         - -                    2          Good        -           -
SSO/SO                    i2          U/C        12         U/C          12          U/C         1          U/C
Other Staff                4          Fair         6         Fair         -          -           4           Fair
C. Equipmnt-'
No.     Condition    No.    Condition         No.      Condition    No.        Condition
(Remaining Life)                                     (Life)
35 HP Wheel Tractor              1        Very Poor    1        Very Poor      1        Very IPoor    -
(-)                                           (-)
45 HP Wheel Tractor              1        Good          -       -              1        Good           1        Very Poor
(5000 hr)                                     (5 yea,rs)
25 HP Wheel Tractor              1        Poor
(1000 hr)
10 HP Power Tiller with          2        Fair          2       Very Poor      1        Very Poor
Attachment                             (3000 hr)                                     (-)
3 - Bottom Disc Plow             2        Fair          -       -              1        Good
(2 years)                                     (5 years)
14 - Disc Harrow                 2        Fair          -                      1        Fair
(2 years)                                     (3 years)
Wheat Thresher                   -        -             1       Good           -        -
1/   In addition there are 4 quarters which are structurally sound but unusable because doors, windows, etc.
have been pilfered.
2/   To be used as a residence, when the new guest house is built.
3/   U/C means under conatruction.
4/   All unrepairable equipment is to be auctioned off, to make space for new equipment.
5/   Including the staff of the horticulture division.
February 6, 1978.



-37-
TABLE 2
BABIGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
RARI Research Stations:  Noxinal Space Allocations
(Area ft2)
Facilitj                                                                    Remarks
A.  Staff Housing-
Principal Scientific Officer (PSC)    1500 (gross)            Same standards as currently in
Senior Scientific Officer (SSO)          1000 (gross)         use in the development of other
Scientific Officer (SO)                   1000 (gross)        BARI and BRRI Research Stations.
Farm Superintendent                       1000 (gross)
Junior Staff                               750 (gross)
Other Staff  2/                            450 (gross)
B.  Guest House                              1500 (gross)        Equivalent to 2 x 2 beds, with
a common room and simple dining
facilities.
C.  Laboratory                               3000 (gross)        Actual layout to be done in
consultation with BARI scientific
staff.
D.  Office-'
PSO &PA (240)                             250 (net)          This calculation is for Jamalpur's
SSO/SO  (17 x 120)                       2050 (net)          total requirement.  Actual gross
General Office                            500 (net)          areas vary with stations to allow
Sub-total(net)                         2800 (net)          for the use of all existing
add 60R                             1700 (net)          buildings.
Total (gross)                          4500 (gross)
E.  Dormitory/Lecture
Multipurpose room on the prin-
Bedrooms (4 x 280) -                     1ZOO (net)          ciple of a village hall.
Multipurpose Room (20 xc 30) =            600 (net)          Building to sleep 16 and to
Kitchen and Store                         120 (net)          cater for up to a total of 25
Multipurpose Room Store                    90 (net)          participants for lectures.
Sub-total (net)                        2010 (net)
add 70%                             1407 (net)
Total (gross)                          3400 (gross)
F.  Farm Buildings
Work Shop/Machine Shed                                       15 ft ht
Tractors                                  300 (gross)
Seed Drill                                125 (gross)
Corn Planter                              125 (gross)
Sprayer                                   125 (gross)
Trailers                                  270 (gross)
Vehicles                                  480 (gross)
Workshop                                  500 (gross)
Store                                     250 (gross)
Total                                 2175 (gross)
Godown                                   1450 (gross)        For 150 tons capacity (crops)
30 tons capacity (fertilizer
and chemicals)
Greenhouse-/                              450 (gross)
G. Site Development
Fencing                                                   Barbed wire fence on concrete
posts, and including the planting
of a suitable hedge.
Roads                                                    Brick surfaced farm roads, com-
plete with drainage and culverts,
to connect the main road with
offices, godowns and housing
complex; rest of the roads to
be dirt tracks only.
Electricity and Water Supply within site
1/  All existing accoemodation is to be used first, even if norms are not satisfied; at
Jessore, 4 unusable units should be rehabilitated.
2/  Upgrading of labor sheds is contemplated, but no new construction for labor, and
Category IX and X staff.
3/  SO's to share office space; at Hathazari, offices occupied by.HDB should be tranferred to
BARI and a new block built for BDB, closer to the HDB farms.
4/  At most stations, a shade-house structure exists and can be rehabilitated.
February 6, 1978.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARI: Station Building Program -/
(Units)
4'
Construction-
Unit         Jamalpur    Jessore    Hathazari    Ramgarh    Cost (Tk)
A.   Office                      ft (gross)    4,000         2,000         500          -          215 ft2
B.  Laboratory-/                 ft 2(gross)    3,000        3,000       3,000         1,500       215
C.  Guest House-/                ft (gross)    1,500         1,500       1,500         1,500       215
D.  Dormitory/LectureI             2
Hall                         ft (gross)    3,400         3,400       3,400          -          215
E.  Farm Buildings-/
(a)  Workshop/Machine          2
Shed                   ft2            1,500        1,500       2,100         2,100       185
(b)  Processing Shed        ft             1,000        1,500       1,000          -          240
(c)  Godown                 toe             -            -            100            100    1,500 Tk2ton
(d)  Greenhouse             ft               -             450       -              -         300 ft
2/
F.  Staff Housing-
(a)  PSO                    No.              _           _           _                 1      185"
(b)  SSO/SO                 No.                 6            4           7             6      185"
(c)  Junior Staff           No.                10           44 5/       10             8      175 "
(d)  Other Staff            No.                19           15          27             9      175
2/
G.  Site Development-
(a)  Fencing                ft             20,000      11,000      11,500        16,000         35 Tk/rft
(b)  Road (pucca)
including culverts    ft              1,000        2,000       2,000         2,000       300 Tk/rft
(c)  Electrification        Tk ('000)         300          200         250           300        -    "
(d)  Water                  Tk ('000)         300          285         300           425       _
H.  Total Base Cost-6            Tk ('000)      8,595        6,395       8,870         6,215                                     >
1/  After allowing for use of all existing facilities, rehabilitated where necessary.
2/  See Table 2 for space norms.
3/ Based on 100 ft2 for weighing area, 150 ft2 for oven, 150 ft2 for pathology, etc; actual layout by Architect
must be done in close consultation with station scientists.
4/  Including furnishings for all except staff housing; allowing for a lower finishing standard for field stations
compared to BARC Headquarters.                                       2
5/  Rehabilitation of 4 existing un-used 2 Room Quarters, @ 30 Tk/ft
6/ Excluding physical and price contingencies (see Table 12).
February 8, 1978.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARI: Land Development
Item                         Units    Jamalpur    Jessore    Hathazari    Ramgarh    Total Units    Unit Cost    Total Cost
(Tk)        ('000 Tk)
Levelling and Shaping           ac            21           60           30           60          171              830          140
Drainage                        rft        3,000        2,500       3,000            -        8,500              9.35           80
Tank Development             ('000 Tk)                    - _         100          100          200             1,000          200
Soil Conservation               ac            -          -             20          100          120               500           60
Deep Tubewell                   no             1            1            1           -             3          200,000          600
Lining of Channels              rft      10,000         5,500       9,000       10,000       34,500                65        2,245
Total Base Cost-/            ('000 Tk)       895          630          950          850                                      3,325
1/ Excluding physical and price contingencies (see Table 11).
February 8, 1978.



-40-
TABLE 5
Page 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARI: Cropping, Harvesting and Irrigation Equipment
Jarnalur      Jessore       Hathazari       Ramgarh      Total Units       Unit Cost       Total Cost
--------------------- (Quantities) -----------------------                    (Tk)          ('000 Tk)
A. Land Levelling Equipment
2.3 cu yd carry all scraper            1            -              -              -               1             100,000           100
Land plane                             1             1             1              _               3             100,000           300
Leveller                               1             1             1              1               4              25,000           100
B. Cropping and Harvest Machinery
65 HP wheel tractor                    1            1              1              _               3             250,000           750
45 HP wheel tractor                    1             1             _              2               4             160,000           640
10 HP power tiller with
attachment                      -             -              1             2               3              40,000           120
3 bottom mounted reversible
disc plow                            1            1              1              1               4             30,000           120
20 disc harrow                         1             1             1              1               4              40,000           160
14 disc harrow                         1             1             -              1               3              25,000            75
9 disc one-way                         1            1              1              -               3              30,000            90
Cultipacker                            1            1              1              -               3              15,000            45
9 tyne cultivator with separate
duck foot shovels                    2            1              1              1               5              10,000            50
Fetilizer - cum. seed drill            1             1             1              -               3              45,000           135
4 row corn planter (with separate
plate for soybean planting)          1            1              1              1               4             30,000            120
Ditch plow                             1             1             1              1               4              10,000            40
3 bottom ridger                        1            1              1              1               4              10,000            40
Border harrow                          1             1             1              1               4               7,000            28
Cage wheels (for 45 HP tractor)    2                 1             1              -               4               3,000            12
Paddy puddler                          2             1             1              -               4               3,000            12
Multi-crop thresher (1 ton)            1             1             1              -               3              50,000          1UO
Head thresher                          2             1             1              -               4              10,000            40
4 wheel trailer (5 ton)                1            1              1              -               3              35,000           105
2 wheel trailer (3 ton)                1            1              1              1               4              20,000            80
Tractor mounted sprayer                1             1             1              1               4              30,000           120
Spares                                                                                                            12.5%           433
C. Irrigation
Turbine pump (with motor and
accessories)                         1            1              1              -               3             60,000           180
Centrifugal pump (with motor
and accessories)                     -            -              1              2               3             15,000            45
Sprinkler set                          -            -              -              1               1            200,00            200
Total Base Cost (Levelling,    1 265            1,105            960           960                                             4,290
Harvesting and Irrigation
Equipment) (Tk '000)
February 8, 1978.



-41-                                         TABLE 5
Page 2
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARI: Other Equipment-
Jamalpur      Jessore      Hathazari      Ramgarh      Total Units       Unit Cost      Total Cost
---------------------- (Quantities) ------------------------              (Tk)         ('000 Tk)
D.  Workshop Equipment
6 ft lathe machine                    1            1             1             1              4            20,000             80
Table drilling machine                1            1             1             -              3             15,000            45
Bench grinder                         1            1             1             -              3              5,000            15
Arc/gas welding equipment             1            1             1             1              4             15,000            60
Hand drilling machine                 1            1             1             1              4              2,000             8
Double end wrench                     1            1             1             1              4              1,000             4
Adjustable wrench                     1            1             1             1              4              2,000             8
Socket wrench                         1            1             1             1              4              2,000             8
Other hand tools                      1            1             1             1              4              5,000            20
Compressor                            1            1             1             1              4             10,000            40
E.  Laboratory and Other
Equipment
Miscroscope (low power)               1            1             1             1              4             10,000            40
Electronic calculator                 1            1             1             1              4              4,000            16
Chemical balance (100 gm)             1            1             1             1              4             10,000            40
Top loading weighing machine
(I kg)                             1            1             1              1              4             5,000             20
Plot weighing machine                 1            1             1             1              4            15,uuO             60
Refrigerator                          1            1             1             1              4            12,000             48
Moisture meter                        1            1             1             1              4             10,000            40
Incubator                            1             1             1             1              4            15,000             60
Electric oven                         1            1             1             1              4              6,000            24
Meteorological Equipment              1            -             1             1              3             10,000            30
Soil testing kit                      1            1             1             1              4             5,000             20
Camera with slide projector           1            1             1             1              4             5,000             20
Dehumidifier                          1            1             1             -              3             20,000            60
Glassware/chemicals                   1            1             1             1              4            15,000             60
Water metering devices                1            1             1             1              4              5,000            20
Tensiometer                           2            2             2             3              9             2,000             18
Plane table with accessories          1            1             1             1              4              1,500             6
Soil loss & water stage
recorder                           -            -              -             5              5             5,000             25
Dumpy level & accessories             1            1             1             2              5              6,000            30
Seed cleaner                          1            1             1             -              3            10,000             30
Seed grader                           1            1             1             -              3            20,000             60
Seed dryer                            1            1             1             -              3            15,000             45
Typewriters                           1            1             1             2              5            12,000             60
F.   Vehicles
Pick up                               1            1             1             1              4           200,000            800
Motorcycle                            2            1             2             1              6            10,000             60
Total Base Cost (Machinery2/
and Equipment)(Tk '000)        j,lij        1,595         1,475         1,425                                           6,270
_/ Specifications for equipment, designs for channel lining and land development are included in the project file.
2/  Excluding physical and price contingencies. Table 12 includes an additional Tk 1.09 M for RARS  vehicles and equipment.
February 8, 1978



-42-
TABLE 6
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARC: Headquarters Complex-/
A.  Office of the Executive Vice-Chairman                        (Square Feet)
Executive Vice-Chairman (EVC)                                     440
P.A. to EVC                                                       160
Principal Scientific Officer                                      380
Superintendents (2 x 120)                                         240
Other Office Staff (2 x 50)                                       100
Sub-total                                                 1,320
B.  Office of the Member-Directors - (each Office) :2/
Member-Director                                                   400
P.A. to MD                                                        100
PSO/SSO/SO                                                        570
Total Each MD                                              1,070
Sub-total (6)                                              6,420
C.  Secretariat
Secretary (1 x 380)                                               380
Admin./Account/Purchase/Audit Officers (4 x 250)                1,000
Accountants/Statistician (5 x 120)                                600
Accounts/Office Assistances/Typists (28 x 50)                   1,400
Sub-total                                                 3,380
D. Library
Library                                                         1,500
Editor/Publications Officer                                       250
Asst. Librarian (2 x 120)                                         240
Documentation Office & Other Staff (4)                            320
Sub-total                                                  2,310
E.  Supporting Services
Conference/Meeting Room                                         1,000
Record Room/Stores                                                450
Guard Rooms                        2/                             200
Workshop/Equipment Room for AATC-                               1,000
Sub-total                                                  2,650
Total Area (net)  3/                                      16,080
Total Area (gross)-                                       25,700
F.  Cost                                    2                     ('000 Tk)
Building Cost 4/            @ 190 Tk/ft2 (gross)                4,885
Furniture Cost              @  30 Tk/ft2 (net)                    480
@ 220 Tk/ft  (net)                  5,365
Air-conditioning (for 2,500 ft )                                  300
G.  Total Base Cost-/ ('000 Tk)                                      5,665
1/  Development Concept:  First Stage:  Phase I of BARC Headquarters Compliex;
Second Stage: Phase II of BARC Headquarters Complex; Third Stage: Optimum
Site Development.
2/  Including Appropriate Agricultural Technology Cell (AATC).
3/ Add 60Z for walls, utilities, stairs, etc., which is a norm for office
buildings in Bangladesh.
4/  Excluding cost of architect, physical and price contingencies (see Tabile 12).
February 8, 1978.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURFAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARC: Research Grants
('000 Tk)
A.  Research Programs                          1975-78         Year 1         Year 2         Year 3         Total
1. On-going Project
Individual Projects                     7,200           1,400          1,500            800         10,900
Coordinated Projects-                   2,100           1,100            800            200          4,200
9,300          2,500          2,300           1,000        15,100
2. New Projects
Individual Projects                      -              1,500          2,000          2,000          5,500
Under Coordinated Programs
--Farming Systems                       -               -             2,000          3,000          5,000
Water Management                                       -             2,000          3,000          5,000
Post Harvest Technology                -                650            650            700          2,000
Agricultural Technology/
Ag. Engineering                      -                650            650            700          2,00(
Undefined 3/                           -                650            650            700          2,000
-             3,450          7,950         10,100         21,500
Total Financial Commitment              9,300           5,950         10,250         11,100         36,600
B. Research Funds Available
GOB 4/                                  9,000           2,500          2,300          1,000         14,80C
Other Donors 5/                           300             900            900          1,000          3,100
IDA Extension and Research Project       -              1,000          1,000          1,000          3,000
Support under this Project                 _            1,550          6,050          8,100         15,700
Total Funds Available                   9,300           5,950         10,250         11,100         36,600
1/  Pulses (Tk 1.6 M) started in July 1975; Soybean (Tk 2.0 M), July 1975; and winged bean (Tk 0.5 M), July 1977.
2/  Many individual sub-project proposals received in 1977 have been deferred till a coordinated project is designed.
3/  Including the development of the long-term research plan through an inventory of completed and on-going research   >
(300,000 Tk).                                                                                                             >
4/  To complete sub-projects initiated in 1975-78 under the BARC grant scheme.
5/  USAID has an on-going project which provides $200,000; other donor support is normally for specific research
projects.
February 10, 1978.



-44-
Table 8
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Training Reguirements
Field                                    PhD -MSc 2
Plant Breeding                           3                              3
Plant Introduction                       I                              -
Plant Physiology                         1                              1
Plant Pathology                          2                              2
Agronomy                                 3                              5
Agricultural Engineering                 1                              1
Horticulture                             2                              -
Soil and Water Management                3                              2
Agricultural Economics                   1                              1
Chemistry (Plant Physiology)             1
Entomology                               2                              1
Fishery Research                         1                              2
Animal Husbandry/Breeding                1                              1
Dairying                                 I                              -
Animal Nutrition                         1                              I
Poultry                                  1
Total:              25 3/                          20
1/ About 20% would be at BAU, others overseas.
Z/ All at BA-U, with thesis work at Research Institutes.
/ Allocation between research institutions would be decided by BARC.
January 27, 1978



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Project Training Cost
('000 Tk)
Unit                                                                  X Foreign
Training Program             No.   Cost       Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total           Excha,uge
A.  PhD Program (3 yr)
Local 1/                5    25/SMY       -        -         125       125       125        375
Overseas               20   205/SMY   1,235    2,880    4,115    2,880    1,235    12,345               100
B.  MSc Programs (1 yr)-    20    25/SMY                  250       250      -         -          500
C.  Career Development-       30   77.5/SMY    775        775       775      -         -        2,325         100
(6 months)
D. Local Training
& Seminars                    0.5/man    400       400       400       -         -        1,200
wk.
Total Base Cost (training)-/              2,410    4,305    5,665    3,005    1,360    16,745              85
1/ Mainly at BAU, Mymensingh, starting in 1980, after the present BARC sponsored scheme has been fully committed,
and the first year's effort evaluated. See Table 12.
2/ All local, starting in 1979, after the present BARC scheme is fully committed.
3/ Including short visits to attend international seminars.
4/  Excluding physical and price contingencies (see Table 12).
February 7, 1978.
td1
tw
tD



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARC: Incremental Operating Costs
('000 Tk)
1/                          Annual Cost      Total Annual
Staff                        Current     Full Development-/   Incremental Staff         Per Post         Cost (1981)
(1977)        (1981)                                    ('000 Tk)        ('000 Tk)
Executive Vice-Chairman         1                1                     -
Member/Directors                1                5                     4                   25              100.0
Secretary                       -                1                     1                   20               20.0
PSO/SSO/SO/Economist            2               12                    10                   12              120.0
Admin/Acc/Other Officers        6               11                     5                    7.5             37.0
Typists/Assistants             22               43                    11                    4               44.0
Other Staff     1/             31               36                     5                    2               10.0
Engineering Cell-               -                1                     1                   60               60.0
A.  Salaries                               391.0
B.  Allowance and Benefits (60%)           235.0
C.  Operating Overheads (70%)              439.0
D.  Total Incremental Annual                    2/
Operating Cost                     1065.0-
1/ Created only for the buid414rg construction program b-y obtainin- Egxecutive Engineer, 2 Assistant Engineers
and 4 Sub-Assistant Engineers on deputation from PWD.
2/  Engineering Cell starts functioning in Year 1; other incremental costs are phased over 3 years;
price contingencies are not included.
February 7, 1978.
.   .                                    .      .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~x



BA.NGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
BARI: Incremental Operating Costs
('000 Tk)
Present Situation (1976-77)                                    With Project (1980-81)
Operating
Costs       Scientist  Net Area          Operating                             4/
(Excluding  Man Years  Underl/Culti-  Cost Per        Additional  Additional-    Incremental Annual Cost
Station              Salaries)   (SilY)       vation (ac)    SMY  Acre          SIIY     Net Average  9p2rating6/Salaries7/Total
Jamalpur                 367         11            175        33   2.1           7           12 04/         250       155        405
Jessore                  115           4            55        29   2.1           7           1504/          315       155        470
Hathazari                 47           2            60-/      24   0.81/        11            65-/          380       240        620
Ramgarh                   80           6             6        13    -            3            90            220        65        285
Recommended Norm (1980-81)               33   2.1-1/      28           425           1,165       615     1,780
1/  Including non-research cropping activities which are being phased out as scientific staff increases.
2/  Excluding non-experimental tree/fruit crops.
3/  Mostly under non-irrigated crops, pulses; thus the low per acre operating cost.
4/  As a result of irrigation and land development under the project; and in the case of Jessore, due to additional transfer
of additional land.
5/  Crop wise operating cost, using project equipment, are estimated at 940 Tk/ac for pulses, 1965 for wheat, 2,265 for
vegetables and 4,260 for potatoes; because of the more even distribution of filled posts of scientific and non-scientific
staff, at Jamalpur and Jessore, three stations provide the norms.
6/ Higher of that calculated on SMY basis, and acreage basis, using norms given.
7/ Norm of Tk 22,000/SMY, based on Jamalpur station.
February 8, 1978.



-48-
TABLE 12
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Pro1act Cost
Year 1      Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Year 5      Total      % of Foreign Exchange        3 of Duties and Taxes
A. Civil Works-/
1. Buildings
a. bARC:  Headquarters Complex              1,415       Z,835       1,415                               5,665
b. BARI:  Station Development               7.520      15,035       7.520                             30.075
Subtotal                           8,935     17,870        8,935                             35,740
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                 890       1,785         895                              3,570
Price                        1.365       4,690       3,410                              9.465
Subtotal                          2.255      6.,475        4,305                             13035
Total Buildisgs                            11,190      24,345      13,240                             48,775                24                           22
2. Land Developoent                             1,495       1,495         335                              3,325
Cont ingenc ies
Physical (15%)                 225         225          55                                 505
Price                          240         410         135                                 785
Subtotal                             465         635         190                              1.290
Total Laod Development                      1,960       2,130          525                              4.615                10                           8
TOTAL CIVIL WORKS                          13,150      26,475      13.765                             53.390                23                           21
B. Machinering and Egoipmesti2                     3,910       2,820         630                              7,360
Cont ingencies
Physical (5%)                  195         145           30                                370
Price                          470         580         185                              1.235
Subtotal                             665         725         215                              1,605
TOTAL MACHINERING AND EQIPMNT               4,575       3.545          845                              8.965                64                          22
C.  Research -' and Training
Training                                     2,410      4,305        5,665       3,005       1,360    16,745                 85
Contingencies
Physical (10%)                 240         430         565          300         135      1,670
Price                          305         930       1,735       1.220          695     4.885
545      1,360       2,300        1,520         830      6.555
Sub Total                          2,955       5,665       7,965       4,525       2,190     23,300               85
Research Grants                              1.550       6,oSo       8,100         -             -    15,7Q0  -              10
TOTAL RESEARCH AND YiRAININQ                 4.505      11,712     16.065        4.525       2,190    39.000                 55
D. Inc-roental Operating Costa 5-
1. BARC: Salaries and Allowances                  270         445         626                              1,341                 -
Overheads                              190         315         439                                944,
Subtotal (BARC)                     4W           71       1,065                               2,285 _
2. BARI:  Salaries and Allowances                 205         410         615                              1,230                 -
Running Costs                          385         780       1.165                              2.330                40
Subtotal (BARI)                      590       1,190       1.780                              3.560
Sobtotal(BARC + BARI)              1,w        1r90        2 845                              5 845
Price Contingencies                 115         385          795                             1 DQ-
TOTAL INCRENENTAL OPERATING COSTS           1,165       2,335       3,640                              7 74n                 17
E. Technical Assiotance
1. Faon  Development (15 e=)                     715         715         165                              1,595               80
2. Sh-rt-Terq Rosearch Studies (15,ae)           715         715         165                              1,595               80
3. Research Monitoring (6 co)                    215         215         215                                645               80
Subtotal                           1,645       1,645         545                              3,835
Price Contingencies                  190         330         150                                670
TOTAL TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                   1.835       1.975         695                              4.505               80
F. Project Cost6/
Base Cost                                   20,995      36,135       27,055     3,005        1,360    88,55o
Contingencies
Physical                               1,550       2,585        1,545        300         135      6,115
Price                                  2,685       7,325        6 410      1,220         695    1j_
Subtotal Contingencies           4.,235       9,.91         7.95S      1,520         830    24.453_l
na  rPMA r IA0bi                              25,230      46,045       3,010       4.525       2,190   113-000                39                           12
1/ Table 6 foc BARC; Table 3 for BARI building and Table 4 for BARI land development.
/ FPor vehicles, 3 for aenber-director and I for short-ter=  "xpert. and  sseetial duplicating equipment for BARC (Tk 1.09 H) in
addition to BARI cachinery and equipment (Table 5.).
3/ See lTble 7, asseoing continued G0O  Support to ccepl.te sub-projects alreacy initiated.
h/ T bla 9.
2/ See Table lOior BARC and Table 11 for SARI.
9/ Price wontingencies 8 9% for 197d, 6% thereafter for civil works; and 7.5% for 197d am  1979, 7% thereafter for other itirs.
Year 1 is July 1978 to June 1979.
26 January 1978



o                o.0    100 e                                    00 c o0                     0  P ' '  ,,     ON          t".       OjO 0w             01      00  00 c  .P0
3 100,0    >I''                  e     0     .00            I'                                        ]       Xn.  n   0  00  >'             vmz      7 0  0r  01r
'2   010.        00110                 -,    01- C                                           0                            -. 0.  0             0' C100
'0       '-'   00 0 n0-'                                                                                   0 p          0'"     .0   "   '.           <      0 
'-oO 0o        00' o0                                0' n X'0                                            0         00                  ' -                    '.
0.01.         >100                           00                                        '0 n                        r         0o         01'        -           10   ' .1> u  .1> >E => j R >N 1> -zg   
'0    10000    '0.0                 00 n0 n                            0      0           10>      0      10          011       0 o0  0.                    0 _       0    tro> Z     D roX 
v<1' g        010                 0<    000 0o  n  c0                                   0 n00 N - o n  100. n          0      '.        n0    -r n         0   10   ' @
c         0   0 n0 n1 e n. nn      w0, D.                                                                                        10          0           0 g00 lg _      
0.00'c n0 2 210               0-                                                                                   ,,,,,,, I  r  >  00 :r F wr    
00             000                                                                                                                                              0  lfiOacnoooes9oW9oWrs re>rW9ne   
'110 00    0   000         n    1         00   '.'0                        O"1"                                             010n00nI10>n<0|
00p        10      00            0         00    '.0                                                       0                  0l      1000 N    1"0n0
rz~~~~~~~~ 0'''0                                                                     0'     '0.-                    0'   '-.        0'-o "02   
B ..              00            0         '.U         0             0      0   0       0 g            0:                     0           0o        0    :g3
0n r    '   0.     00                      00                       'z                                 '                                  1         10
10     0   0'        0
<<0                   0          10     ..1r           1             .               '.,0 "N0    'O                          '0
000         0        0.          '0    w00             'c           '0    '0 o       10      '.1-    10"                    1. 3                         w -"0           '
000 0:               .          0      0n000                               0         1'       0        10                    0       0 <      00                         00
0 0'1       0                           r' ""N                                                                                                                           I  W::wo         .N 
c000                                      0           0             00 e s  0        '0       w0 '01                         0         00       010     O                 nn
00.                          000 o      00 o     00       r     0       0<         00      101       100                  o0 100
1010                  "lE  oBE   '->    o"E  >    eI~  ""   '-'E                                                     n'~.  <0 
0      ~                  00       ,0 .0 00    <0                              0<        < 10                        1O
0.00                      0        10               C                                      w0  0r 0  0  10           00'< |
100J                    0         0 _   0                0       0     D     0 e   0            0                  <0
'.0,00  0  0  0        0                  0        0         0                    0                 <I'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D 
00-0                      0           0. 0, 0                                                                                    00               ON                 1
s -   >   9   o           <           v.        o                                .               S       >            l ei~~~2 00-'. 001
000                                                                                                                   00          00       '  10              
00                                                                                                                           <0I 6V



-50-
TABLE 14
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year and Semester                Cumulative Disbursements (US$M)
1979   2nd 1/
1980   1st                                    0.65
2nd                                    1.5
1981   1st                                    2.7
2nd                                    3.7
1982   1st-/                                  4.6
2nd                                    5.5
1983   1st                                    5.7
2nd                                    5.8
1984   1st                                    5.9
2nd 2                                  6.0
1/ Estimated date of effectiveness, 1st October 1978.
2/ Estimated closing date 30th June, 1984.
3/ All committments for research sub-projects and training
to be completed by 31 December, 1981.



*         BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART FOR
BANGLADESH AGRJCULTRUAL RESEARCH COUNCIL
CHAIRMAN
MINISTER FOR AGRICULTURE
V ICE-CHAIRMEN
t SECRETARY, MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE
2. EXECUTIVE VICE-CHAIRMAN, BARC
[MEMBER-DIRECTOR                MEMBER-"                    MEMBER- -             MEMBER-DIRECTOR            MEMBER-DIRECTOR
CROPS AND                 DIRECTOR                    DIRECTOR               LIVESTOCK AND               AGR ICULTURAL                EXECUTIVE;y
FORESTRY                  SOILS AND                AGRICULTURAL                 FISHERIES              ECONOMICSANODI                  ENGINEER
IRRIGATION                ENGINEERING                                         SOCIAL SCIENCE
P50                550~~~~ss     50soSOA                                                    ag                 SOIAg-          2AstI
;(Soils)   Irrigion      (AV. Eng_.)                P                  r      E     m I                                                           inrs
I-.
SECRETARYVI
PSO: Principal Scientific Officer
SSO: Senior Scientific Officer
SO;  Scientific Officer
10 Sections
J/ Thes posts are presently vacant                                    Administration
/ This position wili be created for the supervision of              -Accounts
construction of the BARC office building                        - Stores & Purchase
-Publications
-Foreign Aid I
Note:                                                               -Herbarium1
-Library &
- A Technical Committee, conprised of eminent locai scientists,       Documentation                                                   World Bank - 18516
responsible for evaluating the technical merit of proposals for    Services
grants, is attached to each Member Director.                       Sratiticale
-  All Member Directors, the Secretary, GOB's Director of Agriculture
and BAU Coordinator for Research constitute an Executive
Committee, headed by the Executive Vice Chairman.



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Board of Governors
I    
Policy Formulation
Direcor
Assoiate DIr6                      Assocbt a
Trainin  Co=mun;                     Diretor                                             *                                                        Asso i te Director
cation and Special                  flesearch                                                                                                     Support Services
Projects                      Programmes.l 
SPecial Projects/                  or      e                         P
Programmes.                     Coodnat1                            P nt                           Agronomy                     Superintending                      Support
Prograrnnnes  |         ~~~Teams of            .         Breeding                                                         Enginmre                          Serwvice
Scientists from
l                ~~~~~Progr m Performing                                                                                                                                                                                         I
T ainn  nd Conmmv-                Dvin;                                                          Aglutr                         Campus, Form                           _                                                                    W
7nication                                                     StBI Science       _    _         Engineering                 Development, Main-             -Library & Publication
tennce.                    Administration
-Pur ha inrg
| orticulure-                 Agril Economics
| PlbntPathology    }~-|          Entomology
ReinlStations
|end Teting Stations.
World Bank - 18532
IJ This coll would ba strengthend for the project construetion.
2 Responsibility for Procurenent of BARI equipment.
ir
N1



BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
ORGANOGRAM OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH RESPONSIBILITIES
|GOB                
Mi,,tny of C|M  & Forety                                       Natonal Scien  Coe nMillMiisty of L,entck  3Fihri
BRRI                                                BARI 
IBanladesh Ric. Resertdh                            lAgrficuhral Re.eherh                                                                                                   Rit trch                    Lieirch
Inaitutel    ..utanonousu                          Inntitatt'   .etonomous                Fo-ty                                                                             Ra*rd                        R a
respo"shbln for Rica.                               rpontible to, othtr erpot             Rv-hd                 AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH COUNCIL
Ass,ttOd by  Ford F-ondetin                         eocatpting Isa. eager j-ot            Insitate           hms presenth,ly imted respo-bilitlo" far
Aubttratis                               eb     tt   gj                      Ausieed by.         renewing tnd rA c rnnt nding In.tatite pAmgittS Aeted by:                                 Attited bv
IDA                                     Asisted by: USAID                       SIDA              wrd Iti.9ng tont foud Iot mdividwl progrettit                 DANIDA                        0DM
ItRRI fTrsi-ngfl                                    Cl   tTrai-q)                                 wid trl-
CIEDA                                               SetDArl
Uoydebpur M.in Station)                             IJoydebpur Main Stao_j)
4 Sub-sttins Aswned by IDA                                4 Ragbnal Stattions
Other Mniries
Jt." Reseerd1a                 StUger R.a.edi                                                     Irigati.n
Ina|tu te                      InSttit W.                     Tea Reward                        ReEach
Undr:                        Under: Sta                        Inntitute                        Statio..
Mininry of                      Production                      Under Tea                      Under: Wa.e
IndulVy                       Corporation                        Board                        Onealorne,nt
Aasitd bV                       Anitted by:                     Aistted bV                     Al th-oity
aceasteoby:                       ~~~~~~~~~ADS                   Austrahe                          ODM
| Raish hl l_ -t | Hethstri                                              |-                1              U$skAaotDd  bv _| IDA  ODM
Agriata.Iral                   Ft. Control                       ISnaitote ol
ZUnrity oif                      Insttute                    Nuclear Agriculture
U.. IlXr WI,I  
Eduactioti                                              Under  Ato-i
AsatEduc by-hnDA       Under: Atomic                            Energy
Ford Fondatbn. etc                      Enrygv                         Conmaaion                                            C
1/ M mbt,hp ineludits the Mtdicit    CouncCl-Inna c            Aasioad byC  SIDA
I/ MenbershiP inclUdes the Medital Renasrh Council, Sciantific mdladcs.WaiR- hC-i  W h.w.bdm
end  Research Council end other span bodies.                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~World Bank - 18533



-54-
ANNEX 1
Page 1
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Agricultural Research Programs in Bangladesh
1.        In Bangladesh almost all research is either applied or adaptive
in nature; there being little emphasis on the more fundamental scientific
aspects of the problems studied. This bias is appropriate in a developing
country where innovations, frequently developed overseas, must be adapted
quickly to local conditions.
2.        Although most research is commodity oriented, individual institutes
are organized to provide a multi-disciplinary approach. For example, the in-
ternal organization of BARI allows for a team approach on each crop for which
the institute is responsible. So far the major research emphasis has been on
crop improvement, by breeding and selecting new varieties, but useful results
have also emerged from experiments on crop agronomy and fertilizer require-
ments. The latter trials acted as demonstrations for farmers, and helped
increase fertilizer consumption three-fold over FY66-76.
Rice
3.        Rice is the most important crop in Bangladesh covering 80% of the
cultivated area, and justifiably receives maximum attention in the research
program. The center of excellence for rice research is BRRI where the major
thrust has been towards the provision of new high yielding varieties (HYV)
which will be acceptable to the farmer. A stream of varieties has been
released culminating in the highly successful BR3 (aman and boro) and BR4
(aman) varieties which have performed well in international as well as na-
tional trials. Future breeding work will concentrate on the production of
dwarf varieties resistant to pests, diseases, salinity and, by hybridization
with deep-water varieties, to flooding also. Breeding has concentrated on
varieties for the aman and boro seasons and no variety is as yet entirely
suitable for aus planting, where lack of moisture often prevents planting on
optimum dates and variations between wet and dry conditions reduce the pro-
duction of the present varieties. To breed aus varieties research will be
needed on rooting depth, drought tolerance, and rapidity of germination, and
the expected new variety must mature early enough to enable the aman crop to
be planted.
4.        A separate small breeding program is being conducted at BAU and
irridiation techniques are being used at INA to produce early and high-protein
mutants. The variety IRATOM resulted from this latter program. The linkages
between these breeding projects need to strengthened.



-55-
ANNEX 1
Page 2
5.        The new HYV's require adequate cultivation practices and fertilizer
dressings if their yield potentials are to be realized. The general environ-
mental adaptability of the new varieties has been tested and general recommen-
dations for fertilizer application developed. Work at regional stations to
adapt these to the local requirements is now required.
6.        Research is now planned on the long-term effects of continuous fer-
tilizer application on rice and other crops; made necessary because of the
suspicion that continued application of urea is having a detrimental effect
on crop yield increments. Programs on comparisons of simple fertilizers with
the compound forms now becoming available in Bangladesh, on methods of
fertilizer application and on the residual effects of fertilizer are expected
to produce results of value to the farmer. To achieve greater efficiency in the
use of high cost inputs experiments on point placement of fertilizer, fertilizer
efficiency and management practices are needed. Results from experiments on
transplanting date, seeding rates and weed control have implications for other
crops in the rice rotation and need to be studied as part of a cropping system
program.
Wheat
7.        The successful introduction of the wheat crop into Bangladesh farm-
ing is a result of the efforts of agricultural scientists and extension workers.
The intensive screening of introduced varieties and the work on adaptation of
management practices to local conditions was initiated by BARI. Average
planted to wheat increased from 20,000 ha in 1965-66 to about 150,000 ha in
1976-77 and it is projected to ultimately reach 3 M ha. The future potential
for wheat lies in the fact that it needs only one-third as much water as rice,
and a larger area could therefore be cropped with the water available. Wheat
could also be grown on residual moisture alone when drought resistant varie-
ties are available. This would bring into production thousands of acres which
at present lie fallow during the winter months.
8.        Under Bangladesh conditions the yield from HYV is 1,800-1,900 kg/ha
in comparison to 660-700 kg/ha for the local varieties, justifying the con-
tinued introduction of HYV. However, a breeding and selection program for
locally produced varieties to be grown under both irrigated and dryland
conditions has been started, based largely on segregating material received
from CIMMYT. Later stages of the process will require regional selection
programs, especially for disease resistance, and regional yield trials.
9.        Preliminary research has been completed on sowing dates, cultural
practices and fertilizer responses enabling recommendations to be made for
both irrigated and non-irrigated conditions. The varieties Sonalika, Norteno,
Inia 66, Mexipak 65, Tanori 71 and Sonora 64 have been selected for cultiva-
tion in Bangladesh.



-56-
ANNEX 1
Page 3
10.       Plans have been prepared for a study of the production technology
needed, which will include work on the fertilizer requirements of drought
resistant and HYV, sowing methods, and weed and insect control. Research on
interactions between fertilizer, irrigation practices and location will be
required on a regional basis. The need to economize on higlh cost inputs
justifies the planned efforts on the control of fertilizer Losses by leaching
and the use of top and split dressings in place of a single application. The
work on wheat/legume cropping mixtures is also most relevant (para 51) to the
problem of producing wheat with reduced applications of nitr.ogen fertilizer as
it is an attempt to capitalize on the nitrogen fixing ability of legume root
nodules. Although present yields are satisfactory in comparison to neighbor-
ing countries (Table 1), rust diseases of wheat are a potential threat to
wheat production, which increases as the area devoted to wheat becomes larger
and more work on the rust races is essential.
Other Cereals
11.       Cereals other than rice and wheat have a place in the farming system
as many can be grown on residual moisture, and barley is a potential crop for
saline areas. Research on barley, sorghum, maize, finger millet, pearl millet
and Japanese millet, begun recently, and has hardly progressed past the plant -
introduction and variety screening stages. New varieties of maize and sorghum
have been selected which outyield the local varieties by factors of five and
three respectively. A limited number of agronomic trials have been conducted
on fertilizer use and sowing time.
Oil Seed Crops
12.       The main oilseed crops of Bangladesh are mustard, rape, sesamum
and groundnuts. Attempts are now being made to introduce and adapt soybeans
to the farming system. Due to the low yields obtained from these crops,
vegetable oils are in short supply and 60% of the country's needs are
imported.
13.       Local varieties of mustard and rape have been hybridized and a
breeding program initiated for the production of early maturing high yielding
varieties. The farmers have also been provided with a package of recommenda-
tions covering planting dates, sowing methods and fertilizer requirements,
which was based on results from experiments at BARI and the regional stations.
The average yield of groundnuts is only 1,400 kg/ha but in some instances
yields as high as 3,250 kg/ha have been obtained. A survey of farmers would
be justified to try to elucidate the reasons for this wide yield variation.
14.       A coordinated research project on soybean is receiving financial
support from BARC. BAU is the sponsoring and coordinating agency but
research is conducted at BARI, BAU, INA, SRI, the Rajshahi University and the
Bangladesh Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. The aims are to
provide varieties and suitable inoculum, to develop cultivation practices and
processes for using soybeans and to undertake nutritional studies. Experiments
are in progress on varieties, fertilizers, irradiation breeding, rotations and



-57-
ANNEX 1
Page 4
soybeans milk production. Short duration varieties have been identified
and experimental results have shown that moisture stress at flowering may
reduce yields by 60%. Methods of planting, spacing distances, sowing dates
and fertilizer rates have been worked out and results have proved that soy-
beans can be grown as an intercrop with sugarcane. It is possible to inte-
grate the soybeans and rice crops so that nitrogen fixation by the soybean
crop could provide residual nitrogen for the rice crop. Thus, reducing its
fertilizer needs. This aspect of soybean cultivation should receive more
attention in future.
Pulses
15.       Pulses are traditionally an important source of protein in the diet
in Bangladesh, but production has been static. Investigations have started on
lentil, gram, pigeon pea and mung. Plans have been made for hybridization and
breeding programs involving local and exotic types; supported by research on
pests and diseases and production techniques.
16.       BAU is the sponsoring agency for a coordinated project on pulses
being supported financially by BARC and involving scientists at BAU, BARI and
INA. The main objective is to improve production through the introduction
of new varieties and adaption of suitable farming methods. The project is
new and early experiments were ruined by hail, pests and diseases, but
research has now begun on nodulation and its interaction with fertilizers
and on means of borer control.
Jute
17.       Jute provides about 80% of the export revenue of Bangladesh and is
the raw material for most of its industry. Research on the crop is needed
to increase yields and to develop new cropping patterns. Present research
concentrates on breeding new varieties and developing breeding methods and
technology. The work so far has resulted in the release of two outstanding
varieties CLV-1 and CLE-3. In addition a short-day tolerant variety has been
produced which can be planted early and therefore harvested before the annual
floods. INA has produced the varieties C-36 and C-38, with improved earliness
as a result of mutations produced by irradiation.
Sugarcane
18.       Despite lack of basic field and laboratory facilities, breeding
research at SRI has resulted in the variety BS-96 which in some trials has
produced by a yield of cane 100% above the control. It is also disease
resistant and has a wide environmental adaptibility. Research is also in
progress at SRI on crop agronomy, pest control, fertilizer use, harvesting
methods and at BARI on intercropping sugarcane with wheat, potatoes, soybeans
and vegetables.



-58-
ANNEX 1
Page 5
Potatoes and Vegetables
19.       The average calorie intake in Bangladesh is so low that there is
widespread malnutrition, but the diet is also deficient in vitamin C, A,
riboflavin, iron and protein. An increase in the production of potatoes,
pulses and vegetables could help rectify the situation.
20.       The research on potatoes at BARI is of recent origin and consists
mainly of variety trials on exotic and indigenous varieties. Some of the
introduced HYV have raised yields per ha by 60% and total production has
increased by 180% over the last three years, mainly as a result of this re-
search. It was realized however that the quality of potato seed degenerates
rapidly over generations and plans have been made to study thie rate of degen-
eration under Bangladesh conditions. Work will also be intensified on fer-
tilizer requirements, cultural practices (earthing up), planting time, and
the economics of early lifting. It has been possible to sketch out general
fertilizer requirements but more work is now needed to adapt these recommenda-
tions to the regions. In future more work will be needed on aphid and disease
control, problems of storage and nematode damage.
21.       The vegetable research program began with extensive plant introduc-
tions, which resulted in 196 varieties of a range of vegetables being tested,
and 48 selected and later recommended for farmers use. The experiments have
been with tomatoes, (wilt resistance, fertilizer requirements), onions (plant-
ing lime, fertilizer requirements), cauliflower (seed production), carrots
and egg-plant. In future there will be increased effort on cold storage for
carrots in order to extend their seasonal availability and relay cropping with
different vegetables so as to increase cropping intensity.
22.       BARC finances a coordinated vegetable project at BAU, BARI, BARD and
the Horticulture Development Board. The aims are to establish a genebank, to
conduct variety trials and develop cropping patterns, to develop summer growing
varieties of tomato, cabbage and egg-plant and to produce seed. The genebank
has been established and summer trials commenced with Japanese varieties of
cabbage, tomatoes and radish. As a result varieties have been identified and
planting dates recommended so that damage from summer rains can be avoided.
Winter trials were conducted with winged bean, brussel sprouts, and sweet
potato, in addition to cabbage and tomato. Improved varieties have been re-
commended and areas in which brussel sprouts and sweet potatoes can be grown
have been demarcated.
Fruits and Nuts
23.       Coconut is a potential source of oil but the results from research
on coconuts have been disappointing, due mainly to the inadequacies of the
experimental site. Bananas, pineapple and papaya are commonly grown fruits in
Bangladesh. In future the on-going work on fertilizer rates, iintercropping



-59-
ANNEX 1
Page 6
and clonal selection will be augmented by experiments on hormone control of
harvesting in pineapple, bisexuality in papaya and perennial cropping of
banana plants. Banana and pineapple are also being tested for use on soil
conservation terraces.
24.       The yield per unit area of citrus is low and a survey of management
practices is now underway to identify limiting factors. Prior to this, root-
stock, fertilizer, spacing and shading experiments were conducted on citrus
which resulted in the introduction of mandarin and malta oranges and improved
budding and propagation techniques.
Tea
25.       The tea produced in Bangladesh produces a dark colored liquor, and
it is used for blending. TRI is solely responsible for tea research and a
diverse series of experiments have been established there. Research is now
needed on intensive cultural methods and the production of high yielding
clones.
Miscellaneous Crops
26.       Small programs at BARI on flax, sunhemp and tobacco, are sufficient
to enable a watching brief on these crops to be maintained. The experiments
with cotton have concentrated on fertilizer requirements, sowing dates and
plant spacing. Numerous cotton varieties have been collected and a breeding
program is in progress based on hydribization of local and American varieties.
Research is also being conducted on the control of insect pests and techniques
of intercropping with legumes.
Forestry
27.       Forests occupy 9.3% of the land area of Bangladesh and provide
employment for 600,000 people. The research at FRI is competently executed
and involves working on forest products as well as forest management. The
field work extends to silviculture, protection, ecology, botany and the
economics of the forestry operation. BARC has financed a project to study
fluting of teak trees and to conduct a survey of forest soils.
*      28.        Because of its dense population and pressure on land for food pro-
duction, forests are being over-exploited for fuel. Research is needed on
the introduction of quick growing fuel and polewood trees.
Livestock
29.       The immediate need is for research on developing year round sources
of fodder, methods of forage utilization and defining the feed requirements of
draft animals. Investigations have been started on the possible use of water
hyacinth as fresh and ensiled feed.



-60-
ANNEX 1
Page -7
30.       At BAU there is a limited amount of research in progress on breeding
goats and poultry, crossbreeding cattle, diseases of cattle, poultry and goats
and parasitology of ruminants. Research on calf raising techniques has shown
that a mixture of skimmed milk, and shark-liver-oil is a possible replacement
for whole milk. Many of the BAU staff have received training in aminal
sciences and represent an underused resource which could be mobilied to work
on future animal production problems.
31.       The Livestock Research Center is now primarily concerned with the
production of veterinary medicine and human vaccines. There is little
research in progress.
Fisheries
32.       In Bangladesh the daily consumption of protein is only 7.9 grams as
compared to an estimated requirement of 25 grams. Fish protein accounts for
80% of this. The fisheries research is confined to the inland waters.
Investigations are in progress on the induction of spawning in carp, the
management of ponds to increase productivity (control of diseases, parasites,
water-weeds and levels of toxic pesticides) and the hilsa fish anadromous.
In order to reduce the protein gap more research on esturary fisheries and
fish culture in paddy fields is required.



BANGLADESH
Agricultural Research Project
Yield of Main Crops
(kg/ha)
------------------------------- Bangladesh ----------------------------___-
1969/70   1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77              Burma   India   Indonesia   Pakistan
Rice (Paddy)                      1,740      1,680      1,600      1,570      1,810      1,720      1,860      1,780        1,850   1,750       2,600        2,250
Aus                               870        910        790        780        910        910        960      9,530
Aman                            1,170      1,040      1,100        990      1,190      1,110      1,240      1,210
Boro                            2,190      2,270      2,090      2,140      2,150      1,970      2,020      1,960
Wheat                               860        880        910        750        890        925      1,460      1,620          -      1,450        -           1,350
Gram & Pulses                       800        800        750        712        740        730        740        700           575      700       _             560
Edible Oil Seeds
Rape & Mustard                    610        610        470        550        560        590        580        590         1,000     575        -             570
Groundnut                       1,600      1,480      1,360      1,290      1,350      1,200      1,420      1,110           755     815      1,280         1,415
Jute                              1,310      1,350      1,110      1,320      1,330      1,230      1,420      1,380           854   1,275       1,445        1,000
Potatoes                         10,260    10,170       9,800      9,890      9,080      9,479      9,430      9,530          -      11,625       -          11,225
Sugarcane                        46,620    47,730    40,880    41,810    43,800    44,020    45,120    45,110
Tea                                 680        700        220        530        610        680        680        810
Tabacco                             920        870        850        814        880        880        920        930         1,120      940        445        1,463
Source: Bureau of Agricultural Statistics, Ministry of Agriculture for Bangladesh.
FAO Yearbook for others.
March 2, 1978.



-62-
ANNEX 2
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
List of Material on Project File
Item                        Topic
1.        Draft TORs of the farm development expert.
2.        Buildings Design Criteria.
3.        Draft TORs for research monitoring expert.
4.        Draft TORs for the International Agricultural Research Review Team
5.        List of BARC supported on-going sub-projects.
6.        Draft specifications for BARI Machinery and Equipment.
7.        Detailed irrigation and machinery estimates.
8.        BARI 1976-79 research program 1/.
9.        Detailed station layout and land development maps 1/.
10.       Quarterly Progress Report
1/   Filed with South Asia Information Center as Document No. 142,637.



89-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ go.                 :           :t            BANGLA'DESH            z:;09t2-               F9W  47
X    @ -ZM ikt <.uX  :d       0 .  :             ; =0:         i:X AGRICULURAL RtSEARH PROJEC                               =00  
0 y ) 0 ~~~~~~~~Itnt N                      G) -A                                           B0 t  St  ARI REG"     hEREAACH TAONS 
/  Aebisc^<  , nj\&t    u   ,i;4   t t   0   .   y 0 $         *    EN~~~ARI sue-srATioNsSKliPAL RESEARCH STATONS  
(Thaleurstott xv/ SDoX   >e   W          0         0 0 0  i  69AR KHSDUARTERS 
!   4 f  A    ? >  X   9  G  i   ;                        ;; L       ;  i t. q ~~~~~~~~~~~~F fACILITIES EENG DEVELOPED UNER THE9 PRJC
I  i  Sf~~~ \b_XS .g_ <~~~~~~~!-/LX X X T Xt i; 0 0YME S NG
1l X   <  X              W>S  >             :-  :iX               ; 0:              ;---=^m.'i:-rM>ph-  
'~~~~~ ~                       0                        kp>-1       g 2    2   0    5"   t                                                         1
f-    ,. s N'7 D  I  A
W                          grf                                9,.                                42      _ ''v}~~~~~~~~~~~~



