FILE Copy                                          Doment of
vr X               ~~The World Bank
FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2280a-BD
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
May 30, 1978
This doc_unt hss a resricted ditibon and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnnce of
their official duties. t contents may not  herwise be diselosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
The Bangladesh Taka is officially valued at
26.70 to the Pound Sterling. The Pound now floats rela-
tive to the US Dollar and consequently the Taka, US
Dollar rate is subject to change.  The rate below has
been used throughout this report.
US$1          -    Tk 15.25
Tk I          -    0.0655
Tk 1 million  -    65,500
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 acre (ac)                -    0.405 hectare (ha)
1 square mile (sq mi)      -    640 ac (259 ha)
1 maund (md)               -    82.27 lbs (37.3 kg)
1 metric ton (ton)         -    26.8 md
ABBREVIATIONS
BARC  -   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council
BARI  -   Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute
BAU   -   Bangladesh Agricultural University
BRRI  -   Bangladesh Rice Research Institute
FRI   -   Forestry Research Institute
GOB   -   Government of Bangladesh
HYV   -   High Yielding Varieties
IRRI  -   International Rice Research Institute
JRI   -   Jute Research Institute
M     -   Million
SRI   -   Sugar Research Institute
TWG   -   Technical Working Group
USAID -   US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Development Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        People's Republic of Bangladesh
Amount:          US$6 Million equivalent
Terms:            Standard
Relending Terms: The proceeds of the Credit to be made available
by way of grants to the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Council (BARC) and Bangladesh Agricul-
tural Research Institute (BARI).
Purpose:         To help strengthen agricultural research, specif-
ically the research facilities, management and
scientific manpower of the Bangladesh Agricultural
Research Institute (BARI) and the planning, coor-
dinating and monitoring functions of the Bangladesh
Agricultural Research Council (BARC). The credit
will finance: (a) land development, physical
facilities, machinery and equipment at four BARI
regional research stations (Jamalpur, Jessore,
Hathazari and Ramgarh) and an office complex at
BARC's headquarters in Dacca; (b) research sub-
projects at various research institutes and
universities, to be administered by BARC;
(c) training of scientific and extension staff;
(d) short-term technical assistance for land
development, studies and subproject monitoring
and evaluation; and (e) incremental operating
costs for BARC.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Costs:                           Local    Foreign    Total    % Foreign
------- US$ million -----    Exchange
Items
Civil Works
BARI Station Buildings        1.5      )O5          2.0          24
Land Development            0.2      )            0.2          10
BARC Headquarters             0.3       0.1         0.4          24
Sub-total                   2.0       0.6         2.6          23
Machinery and Equipment       0.2       0.3         0.5           64
Research Sub-projects         0.9       0.1         1.0          10
Manpower Development          0.2       0.9         1.1          85
Incremental Operating
Costs                       0.3       0.1         0.4          17
Technical Assistance           -        0.2         0.2          80
Base Cost Estimates           3.6       2.2         5.8          38
Physical Contingencies        0.3       0.1         0.4
Price Contingencies           0.7       0.5         1.2           -
Total Project Cost       4.6       2.8         7.4          38
Financing Plan:
Bangladesh
Government         IDA        Total
------------US$ Millions---------
1.4             6.0         7.4
Rate of Return: Not applicable
Estimated
Disbursements:
IDA FY   FY80    FY81    FY82    FY83         FY84
------------------ US$ Million ----------------
Annual                  1.5      2.2      1.8     0.3       0.2
Cumulative              1.5      3.7     5.5      5.8       6.0
Appraisal
Report:        Bangladesh - Agricultural Research Project April _, 1978,
Report No. 1974-BD.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF BANGLADESH FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit to the People's Republic of Bangladesh for the equivalent of US$6
million, on standard IDA terms, to help finance an agricultural research
project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A Basic Economic Report on Bangladesh, entitled "Bangladesh:
Development in a Rural Economy" (Report No. 455-BD, of September 15, 1974)
was distributed to the Executive Directors on October 1, 1974. An economic
mission visited the country in November 1977 and its report entitled
"Bangladesh: Current Economic Trends" (Report No. 1931-BD, dated April 10,
1978) was distributed April 13, 1978. The basic conclusions of this most
recent mission are summarized below.
Background
3.        When Bangladesh became independent seven years ago, the newly formed
Government inherited a shattered economy: the country had lost much of its
academic and business elite - and much of the physical infrastructure had been
demolished. Agricultural and industrial production and trade had come to a
standstill. Attempts to revive the economy and put it on a growth path were
complicated by the necessity to fashion a national government out of provin-
cial administration; to establish development institutions serving agriculture,
industry, trade, and banking; and to reorient agriculture and industry after
the loss of the West Pakistan market.
4.        Despite the destruction and disorientation prevailing immediately
after independence, some economic improvements have occurred. GDP has in-
creased annually by an average of 5.7% between FY73 and FY78 and since annual
population growth is about 2.8%, this represents an annual growth of per
capita GDP of nearly 3%. The output of foodgrains has shown an annual average
increase of 4.5% during this period, but has nevertheless necessitated an
average of 1.8 million tons of foodgrain imports per year. The growth of
output of jute - Bangladesh's major export -- has been disappointing, however:
this has declined by an annual average of 4.0%. Hence, despite a rapid growth
of non-traditional exports in recent years, export earnings have increased by
only 5.6% annually, while imports have risen by an annual average of 7.4%,
resulting in an average external resource gap amounting to 8.5% of GDP during
FY74-78 and 10.2% in FY78.



-2-
5.        While the GFP growth rate over these five years has been relatively
high, a comparison of key indicators shows that what has happened is that the
economy has recovered from its post-independence low point, but that it has
yet to reach the levels of FY70 - the year before independence. Per capita
GDP was then higher in real terms than in FY78. The ratio of savings to GDP
which stood at 7.1% averaged 2.0% during FY74-78 and had recovered to only
3.1% in FY78. The investment ratio returned in FY78 to 13.3% slightly above
the FY70 level, after lower figures in intervening years. The volume of out-
put of jute manufactures as well as a number of industrial products show a
marked fall. The volume of exports of jute and jute goods is also much less
than before independence. The output of rice has fallen in per capita terms
and yield per acre has remained low. Thus, the encouraging trends of recent
years should be viewed as having only laid the basis for development. The
dimensions of the problems remaining are clearly seen at the social level.
Many Bangladeshis continue to have inadequate food, clothing, and shelter.
Levels of nutrition have declined and the number of landless and unemployed
has increased. Even primary education is still the luxury of a few. Many
have little or no access to safe drinking water and preventive or curative
medicine. The life expectancy at birth is estimated to be only 45 years.
6.        As a first effort to begin to build on the foundation laid in the
last five years, the Government has clarified its priorities -- the control
of the rapid growth of population and a substantial increase in the output
of foodgrain. In 1975, the Government initiated a stabilization program in
conjunction with the IMF which helped reduce drastically the rate of infla-
tion, improve the competitiveness of exports, and increase revenues. Concern
with monetary stability is a continuing -- and encouraging --feature of gov-
ernment policy. In recent years, steps have been taken to improve the
operational efficiency of the jute manufacturing sector. For the first time,
in FY78, steps have been taken to provide an incentive price for foodgrains
through appropriate procurement policies.
7.        Action has been taken over the last few years to reduce the levels
of producer and consumer subsidies and to improve the working of public
sector corporations. The beneficial results of these reforms are not always
readily apparent, and in a number of cases will take considerable time to
show. However, the Government has made a start on some of the issues that
hamper the growth of savings and investment. The Government is preparing
a Two Year Plan (FY79-80), as a prelude to a formal Five Year Plan (FY81-85).
It expects to implement many of the policy reforms needed to improve growth
and equity in the course of these Plans.
8.         The Two Year Plan offers the Government a good starting point for
introducing economic reforms. Specifically, the Plan should focus on such
issues as pricing policy, improvement in levels of domestic savings, expan-
sion of export earnings, and greater efficiency in project preparation and
implementation. The scope of private sector participation in the economy
should be clarified, and the management of the public sector improved.



-3-
Current Economic Situation
9.        Economic growth in Bangladesh in FY78 has been influenced to a large
extent by good performance in agriculture and industry. Aided by good prices
in the previous season, favorable weather, and the expectation of a further
strengthening of demand in FY78, farmers have responded by increasing the
acreage sown to jute and rice, and demonstrated a willingness to invest
in modern agricultural inputs. Foodgrain output reached 13.4 million tons,
the highest level since independence. Jute production, although somewhat
less than foreseen earlier due to untimely rainfall, was 17% higher than
in FY77.
10.       A strong upturn in industrial output has occurred because of a
revival in consumer demand, an improvement in investment, and more liberal
availability of imported raw materials. Capacity utilization in industry
is being stimulated by an increase in demand for jute goods and cotton
textiles, and an intensification of construction activity.
11.       The volume of exports has continued to show improvement as a result
of better market conditions for raw jute and jute goods. However, because
stocks were run down to uncomfortably low levels in FY77 the quantity of
jute effectively available for domestic and export use rose less than output.
Since there was a concurrent world shortage of jute, due to poor crops in
other producing areas, Bangladesh benefitted from higher export prices. The
performance of minor and non-traditional exports has been less bright than
last year due to competition from other exporters and slower growth in output.
12.       The Government has continued to adhere to prudent monetary and
fiscal policies.  Planned monetary expansion in FY78 was linked to the
prospective rate of economic growth and the budget, when presented, made
no provision for deficit financing.  However, during the year, some unfore-
seen expenditure was undertaken:  the Government thought it was necessary
to purchase 296,000 tons of foodgrain in order to ensure adequate supplies
early in the year, at a cost of $53 million.  There were other unexpected
increases, such as a rise in the fertilizer subsidy caused by sales which
exceeded forecasts. Thus, there will be a budget deficit, of about Tk 1,250
million (10% of current revenue), even though revenue collections, which were
sluggish at the beginning of the year, are now expected to reach the level
estimated in the budget.
13.       Imports rose by 50% in FY78, reflecting the increased tempo of
economic activity. The volume of imports of foodgrains, raw cotton, fertil-
izer and cement has risen substantially. Imports of edible oil and minor
consumer products have also been expanding. The biggest single factor (about
20% of the total) has been the increase in the volume of foodgrain imports.
These imports were required -- despite the record foodgrain crop -- to enable
the Government to begin moving towards the official foodgrain stock target of
one million tons. This is desired both for maintaining food security and for
facilitating open market operations to sustain the market price of foodgrain
within a desired price range.



- 4 -
14.       In sum, the overall rate of economic growth for FY78 is expected to
be about 8%; this derives from a projected growth rate of over 8% in agricul-
ture, 8% in industry and about 7% in other sectors. Although the improved
supply position for foodgrains, combined with an increase in the volume of
imports, has helped to contain inflationary pressure, the overall budget
deficit suggests a rate of inflation of about 12% as compared to 11% last
year.
Major Developments and Policy Issues
15.       Foodgrain.  This year's record harvest was the result of a combination
of good weather and improved production policies. Incentives for expanding the
output of rice consisted of a higher procurement volume and price, which for the
first time were announced to the farmers well in advance of the planting season.
To facilitate procurement, many new purchasing centers were opened, staff cadres
strengthened, the number of grain dealers expanded, quality requirements made
more flexible, and the number of bank branches and payment points enlarged.
At the production level, input packages consisting of fertilizer kits and an
expanded credit program of Tk 1,000 million of which about Tk 400 million was
actually disbursed, were introduced as an experiment. While these supporting
measures for increasing foodgrain output have been generally in the right
direction, attention needs to be paid to the longer term impact of some parts
of the program. Repayment of agricultural loans under the expanded credit
program has been very slow and irregular. Failure to ensure credit discipline
could in the long run jeopardize the Government's plans for channeling credit
to agriculture and fostering the application of inputs in the desired mix.
There is evidence that the expanded credit program has also led to some dis-
ruption of extension activities.
16.       Further steps have been taken in FY78 to reform the ration system
and to achieve a reduction in ration offtakes. The prices of rationed rice
and wheat were increased by 11 and 14% respectively; those enjoying a monthly
income of Tk 1,600 a month are to be shifted from the ration shops to
"Essential Supply Shops" where the price would be between the ration and the
market prices; and the number of ration cards is to be reduced to a maximum
of 6 per household. The composition of the ration was also changed so that
2 units of the more nutritious but cheaper wheat are now distributed for every
1 unit of rice to some categories of consumers. The Government has indicated
that its ultimate objective is to restrict access to the ration to vulnerable
groups in urban and rural areas. As now structured, however, the ration
system still bypasses a large segment of the poor and landless and more
intensified efforts to reach these are, therefore, in order.
17.       Jute.  Responding to last year's favorable jute-rice price ratio
and the early announcement of a higher procurement price, the area sown to
jute increased by 29% to 1.8 million acres in FY78 and, despite bad weather,
output rose from 4.7 million bales in FY77 to 5.5 million bales. An important
factor was the increase in the area under the Intensive Jute Cultivation
Scheme to 500,000 acres. Meanwhile, the effect of the decrease in the area
available for rice production during the aus season was compensated by an



increase in productivity. Demand for raw jute -- both for export and supply
to domestic jute mills -- was buoyant. As a result of the very low level
of stocks carried over from the previous year, demand could not be met, and
prices rose throughout the marketing season by over 40x. The improvement
in price helped to raise farm incomes substantially, especially during the
months immediately following the harvest season, when prices traditionally
are depressed. The acreage sown to jute and output is expected to rise
further in FY79. The improved supply position should also help to maintain
the international price of jute goods at competitive levels. The Government
intends to increase jute output over the next few years -- relying to an
increasing extent on the Intensive Jute Cultivation Scheme -- on the expec-
tation of an improvement in world demand for raw jute and especially of jute
goods. Since the current world shortage is likely to persist for some time,
Bangladesh should benefit from these efforts to expand output over the short
run.
18.       The jute goods sector still requires further rehabilitation.  The
sector benefitted from the improvement in international demand in FY78 which
led to a 35% increase in export value. A reduction in the wastage rate from
11% to 8% in FY78 has been a major achievement. Despite this and the improve-
ment in price, however, the industry's losses are expected to be about Tk 500
million (Tk 525 million in FY77). These losses are now being financed  by a
differential scale of subsidies applied to categories of jute exports, based
on the f.o.b. export value. The weighted subsidy, which amounts to 15.7% of
the value of exports, is intended to help improve the overall liquidity of the
industry, but not to bail out ailing jute mills whose unit losses exceed this
percentage. This new method of paying the subsidy could be of help to the
Government in separating the financially viable mills from those that are not.
Even with improvements in efficiency, and investments in rehabilitation, some
mills will continue to be a financial liability. The need is to determine how
to produce in the most efficient manner the quantity of jute goods that the
market will absorb at remunerative prices, and then to restructure the industry
accordingly.
19.       Public Enterprises.  The general upturn in economic activity in
FY78 has led to a substantial increase in utilization in public enterprises
particularly in cotton textiles, newsprint, paper, jute and steel. The
combined losses of public enterprises are expected to decline -- both because
of the effect of higher capacity utilization and the decision to price cotton
textiles at a level that reflects the enhanced cost of raw cotton. The
basic problems which afflict the working of public enterprises, however,
continue; they relate primarily to the excessive centralization and control
exercised by ministries over the day-to-day commercial operations of enter-
prises. Some progress has been made in alleviating the most difficult
problems, but the approach has been essentially an ad hoc one. Any marked
improvement in the performance of public enterprises must be predicated on
greater functional autonomy particularly in the determination of input and
output prices and the incentives offered to personnel. A number of supple-
mentary measures, including the decision to sell off any enterprises that
have continually been incurring losses, may also be necessary.



- 6 -
20.       Resource Mobilization.  Inadequate mobilization of domestic resources
remains one of Bangladesh's key problems. As pointed out, domestic savings
finance only a small proportion of total investment and unless savings, par-
ticularly those of the public sector, are raised, it will be difficult to step
up the pace of development in Bangladesh. Under present conditions, the
revenue gap tends to widen as development expenditures rise. Budget perfor-
mance in FY78 provides an illustration. Preliminary estimates of the outturn
for the year indicate that both revenue and current expenditures have been
increasing sharply leaving the current surplus roughly as budgeted at Tk 2.6
billion (Tk 1.7 billion in FY77). Development expenditures, however, have
been increasing by much more and despite an increase in aid disbursements,
which are likely to cover 62% of development expenditures, an uncovered gap
in now expected of about Tk 1.25 billion, the equivalent of 10% of current
revenue and about 10% of the money supply. It should be pointed out that
this unfavorable financial result is expected in spite of the increase in
the foodgrain ration price and the decline in the subsidies extended to
nationalized enterprises.
21.       More stringent action than undertaken thus far is clearly needed
to put public finance on a sound footing. On the revenue side, measures to
lessen tax evasion, improve tax administration and reduce exemptions and
loopholes offer most scope for increasing resources in the short run. On
the expenditure side, an examination is urgently required of the cost effec-
tiveness of production and consumption subsidies. Further efforts are also
needed to reduce the losses of public enterprises, a major cause of which is
the failure to allow input price increases to be passed on to consumers.
There is no doubt that a combination of such revenue and expenditure measures,
in spite of Bangladesh's poverty, could lead to substantial improvement in
domestic resource mobilization. Some modest steps already been taken --
improvement in the administration of the income tax, improvements in the
pricing policy of the textile industry, and the recent increase of the ration
price for foodgrains -- and further measures are under active consideration
by the Government. Of course it will be difficult to implement these measures
when the Government is at the same time successful in carrying out its devel-
opment programs. Consumption levels in Bangaldesh are extremely low and an
increase of incomes arising from accelerated GDP growth is a necessary condi-
tion for the implementation of any set of policies designed to raise the rate
of savings.
22.       Project Implementation.  A number of steps to improve the Government's
capacity to implement projects were taken during 1977. The Project Implementa-
tion Bureau's staff was strengthened, and its ability to monitor progress
improved. Project entities were assigned much greater functional autonomy --
especially with respect to the authorization of expenditures. For FY78 the
complex procedures for the allocation of funds to projects were simplified,
and the Government is trying to speed up the approval of projects in the
pipeline, and to weed out existing projects that do not promise early com-
pletion. These measures are welcome. At the same time, it is important to
focus on other major problems which have slowed down project implementation
in the past. Greater fungibility in the use of funds appropriate for devel-
opment monies should be introduced, so that fast moving projects can employ



the funds of those that have stalled. Delays resulting from breakdowns in
machinery, shortages of supplies, absenteeism, and bad planning of sequences
of activity, must be avoided. Donors could help by ensuring that project
resources are supplemented by the provision of a higher proportion of local
currency cost in external assistance in order to ensure that the implementation
of projects is sustained in the face of acute stringency of local resources.
23.       External Capital Requirements.  Even with significant improvement
in its domestic resource mobilization, Bangladesh will continue to need
substantial external assistance to support its development efforts. In the
short run, such support is even becoming more important in view of the fact
that the pace of development expenditures has begun to accelerate. Roughly
it is estimated that aid disbursements, which amounted to $750 million in
FY78 should rise to $880 million in FY79. These would comprise $180 million
of food, $400 million of commodities and $300 million of project aid. Since
Bangladesh would commence the year with a pipeline of aid amounting to $1,952
million, it should be possible disburse about $625 million from that pipeline.
Hence, about $255 million of disbursements from new aid would be necessary.
To yield disbursements at this level in FY79 and to build up the pipeline for
FY80, it is estimated that commitments in FY79 will need to be approximately
$1,100 million. If these projections materialize, the aid pipeline at the
end of FY80 will be about $2,170 million. It is important to stress the
widening gap in external resources which must be met by external assistance
at least for the time being, if economic growth and execution of the develop-
ment plan are not to be slowed down for lack of financial resources. At the
same time the Government must strive to increase exports and be prudent in the
use of foreign exchange, as well as make efforts to increase domestic resource
mobilization.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BANGLADESH
24.       Bangladesh became a member of the Bank and IDA in August 1972.  Ini-
tially, Bank Group operations in Bangladesh concentrated on the reactivation
of uncompleted projects, financed under credits made originally to Pakistan,
before 1971. Eleven such credits, amounting to US$148.2 million (including
US$44.1 million for the repayment of amounts that had been disbursed under
the corresponding previous credits to Pakistan, and net of cancellations) were
made to Bangladesh. In addition, as of April 30, 1978, 24 new credits, ex-
cluding the consolidation credit of US$31 million referred to in paragraph 25,
have been made, totalling US$720.7 million. Of these, US$425 million have
been for six program credits. The project credits have emphasized agricul-
tural development, but also included amounts for population, telecommunica-
tions, transport and industry. On June 18, 1976 Bangladesh became the 105th
member of the IFC, but no IFC investments have been approved as yet.
25.       Agreement has been reached between Bangladesh and most of the bi-
lateral and multilateral donors, concerning the assumption by Bangladesh of
portions of the debt contracted by Pakistan, before Bangladesh became inde-
pendent. This will lead to some increase in debt service and, while the debt



service ratio is not expected to exceed 20% over the next ten years, it may
do so by the mid-1980s, unless careful debt management policies are pursued,
and aid provided on appropriately concessional terms.   With respect to the
Bank Group, Bangladesh agreed to accept liability for portions of IDA credits
extended for projects visibly located in Bangladesh, and completed before inde-
pendence. Based on this agreement, a consolidation loan of about US$54.9 mil-
lion, and a consolidation credit of about US$31.0 million were signed on
February 14, 1975. The Bank Group's share of Bangladesh's outstanding exter-
nal debt is not expected to rise significantly (over the next few years), from
the present level of about 22%.
26.       Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits and the Bank
loan made to Bangladesh as of April 30, 1978, and notes on the execution
of ongoing projects. While disbursement of the program credits has proceeded
satisfactorily, project credit disbursements have lagged far behind expecta-
tions, owing inter alia to delays in the release of local funds, clearance
of contracts, employment of consultants, and appointment of staff. The Gov-
ernment has taken some steps to eliminate bottlenecks and the results are
beginning to be reflected in improvements in project implementation and dis-
bursement performance. However, serious implementation constraints remain,
because of shortage of qualified staff, over-centralized bureaucratic proce-
dures and organizational deficiencies. Progress is being made on these issues.
For example, at the Government's request, IDA is providing assistance'to im-
prove organization and procedures, especially in the ministries and agencies
dealing with agriculture and water resources. Further, the Government has
taken actions including improved procedures for recruitment of civil servants
and increased emphasis on training - which are important not only as steps
towards gradually improving the quality of public administration, but also as
evidence of its awareness of the problem and concern to do something about it.
On the organizational side, the Government is in the process of establishing
planning cells in the main ministries and agencies, and in strengthening the
Planning Ministry. In this connection, IDA is providing assistance both under
specific projects and under the Technical Assistance Credits (409-BD and 622-BD).
27.       Of the 18 new project credits totalling US$295.7 million, 11 credits
totalling US$210.5 million have been directed towards agriculture and rural
development (excluding subprojects of the Technical Assistance credits devoted
to this sector). Their basic objective is to support the delivery of inputs,
including assured water, through quick yielding projects with low capital
intensity. While the pace of implementation has been disappointing so far,
the fundamental importance of improving agricultural productivity means that
projects geared to the rural sector should remain the cornerstone of future
IDA lending. However, in the shorter term, the rate of planned lending for
agriculture will be a function of progress in improving the currently limited
absorptive capacity of the project executing agencies. At the same time,
greater efforts in institution building are being made through closer super-
vision and technical assistance where necessary. Some progress has already
been made in correcting problems in ongoing projects. Over the next year,
projects for drainage and flood control and fisheries are expected to be ready
for consideration.



- 9 -
28.       Industry has been the major beneficiary of the six program credits
to date. For the reasons given in paragraphs 23-29 of my Report and Recom-
mendation on the Sixth Imports Program Credit (P-2155-BD, dated November 8,
1977), program lending to Bangladesh will continue to be required while efforts
are made to correct basic structural weaknesses in the economy. Nevertheless,
the share of program lending in total lending on a year to year basis is
planned to decline gradually during the next few years. The industrial sector
has also benefitted from DFC and small industry projects and a fertilizer pro-
duction project. IFC is currently in the process of identifying suitable
investment opportunities.
29.       The enormity of Bangladesh's population problem gives this sector
an extremely high priority, limited only by its absorptive capacity. The
first IDA-supported population project is now making encouraging progress,
and a second population project was appraised in April/May 1978. Improved
availability of trained manpower is also crucial. Past lending in this field
has emphasized agricultural and technical training, and future operations,
while maintaining a similar basic emphasis, are expected to include assist-
ance for vocational and management education as well.
30.       Given Bangladesh's immense needs, specific efforts to identify
projects in agriculture, transport, industry, energy and power, and telecom-
munications are now. under way. In this connection, particular emphasis will
be placed upon those possible projects which provide infrastructure for the
rural sector, which process or provide outlets for its products, or which
reduce the strain on Bangladesh's foreign exchange resources. Such projects
could make a significant contribution towards supporting Bangladesh's devel-
opment efforts. In view of Bangladesh's difficult foreign exchange position,
IDA credits should cover all foreign exchange costs. However, all external
lenders are inhibited from achieving the levels of resource transfers appro-
priate to Bangladesh's economic circumstances by difficulties in the prepara-
tion and implementation of development projects. The Government's capacity
to carry out projects is constrained, inter-alia, by a low domestic savings
rate. In these circumstances, and in order to direct IDA lending to those
sectors - such as agricultural and rural development - where the percentage
of foreign exchange costs is relatively low, the financing of local currency
expenditures is also justified.
31.       In addition to lending, economic and sector work provides the basis
for continuing dialogue between the Bank Group and the Government on develop-
ment strategy, and for the coordination of external assistance within the
framework of the Bangladesh Aid Group. Recent activities in this area have
concentrated on food policy, industrial investment strategy, and increased
domestic resource mobilization.
32.       The scope and complexity of Bangladesh's development problems will
continue to strain the physical, human, and financial resources of an already
overburdened development administration. Since substantial improvements will
take many years, external assistance agencies, including the Bank Group, will
have to tailor their requirements in terms of project design, preparation
and implementation to the administrative realities. They will also have to



- 10 -
contemplate higher amounts of technical assistance and supervision than is
the case in many other countries. Nevertheless, there are opportunities
for making significant progress in improving economic conditions for the
people of Bangladesh. But progress is bound to be slow and will require
painstaking efforts, they are nonetheless worth making.
PART III - AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
Background
33.       Agriculture, the most important sector of the Bangladesh economy,
accounts for 55% of the gross national product, 85% of all employment and
80% of the country's exports. However, because of its predominant role and
vulnerability to natural disasters, the overall rate of economic growth has
been erratic, ranging from less than 1% to about 8% per annum. In 1977/78,
owing mainly to favorable weather and improved production policies, foodgrain
output reached about 13.4 million tons, the highest since independence.  How-
ever, per capita availability, despite imports of 1.8 million tons annually,
was still 10% below pre-independence levels. Although jute production (5.5
million bales) increased by 17% over the previous year, it was still below
the 1970 peak of 7.2 million bales. Production of gram, pulses, oilseeds and
sugarcane are only 75-80% of pre-independence levels, while potatoes, tea and
tobacco have not increased above 1970 levels.
34.       Taking into account the recent development of high yielding
varieties (HYV) potentially suitable for Bangladesh under both irrigated and
rainfed conditions, Bangladesh's climate, which is suitable for year-round
cropping, highly fertile soils, and abundant groundwater potential, the
Government's agricultural development strategy is (a) to increase the area
under irrigation; (b) to improve the availability to farmers of key inputs
such as quality seeds, fertilizers and pesticides; (c) to strengthen exten-
sion, credit, and other farmer support services; and (d) to ensure incentive
prices to producers. The implementation of this strategy depends inter alia
upon the continuous availability of varieties of seed, optimal input packages
and cultural practices suitable for the varied local conditions. While ade-
quate plant varieties and information about practices for the major crops are
available to support the Government's immediate development efforts, there are
numerous situations, even for the major crops, for which applied research needs
strengthening. For example, regional studies of optimal rates and application
method. for irrigation water and fertilizer application under different soil
types could have large benefits. Similarly, rust diseases of wheat, which
are a Dotential threat to wheat yields, require immediate research efforts.
To ensure the continuing availability of optimal packages, an effective
national research system is essential.
35.       Although a nucleus research laboratory was established in 1909,
agricultural research in Bangladesh is still in its infancy. Its
development was interrupted first in 1962, when most research buildings and
ites were appropriated for other purposes by the then Government of Pakistan,



- 11 -
and again in 1971/72, when the parent institutions located in Pakistan be-
came separated from the facilities situated in Bangladesh. Consequently,
effective agricultural research was virtually impossible between 1962 and
1973. Since then, however, efforts to rehabilitate the agricultural research
system have yielded significant institutional and scientific results, although
the development of a mature and effective national research system will take
considerable time.
Institutions
36.       In 1973, following the reports of two international research teams,
the Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council (BARC) was established with
responsibility for drawing up research priorities, advising on the allocation
of resources, coordinating the activities of the various research institutes,
evaluating research programs and facilities, and preparing manpower develop-
ment plans. BARC is autonomous and its Board is headed by the Advisor for
Agriculture.   Its members are selected from among the civil service,
Directors of Research Institutes, University Vice-Chancellors and eminent
scientists. Decisions are made by a small Executive Committee, headed by an
Executive Vice-Chairman which, since 1977, has been a full time appointment.
Since 1976, BARC has administered a research grant scheme to direct research
efforts into priority areas. All institutions involved in agricultural
research are eligible for these grants. By 1977, thirty five projects in
fifteen different institutions had received grants totalling Tk 14.5 million,
typically for three-year projects, most of which are still under execution.
For projects requiring the involvement of more than one institution, BARC has
set up, financed and monitored Coordinated Research Projects. Three such
projects, in Soybean, Vegetables and Pulses, are now in operation. BARC
has completed an inventory of scientific staff, initiated a local fellowship
program for MSc and PhD students, fostered greater scientific interaction
between researchers through its technical committees, helped integrate the
Agricultural University with the research community and encouraged, through
financial support, local scientific publications.
37.       The Bangladesh Rice Research Institute (BRRI) was established in
1973 at Joydebpur, 30 miles north of Dacca. BRRI, with a Board of Governors
headed by the Advisor for Agriculture, has a total scientific staff of about
75 and five sub-stations. With the assistance of early and continuing support
from the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), the Ford Foundation,
USAID and other external agencies, especially for training personnel and
developing the Joydebpur site, BRRI has become an important and effective
research institution. Four of its sub-stations are being developed under
the IDA financed Cereal Seeds Project (Credit 410-BD).
38.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Institute (BARI), the parent
institution from which most existing research institutes, including BRRI,
have emerged, became an autonomous institute in 1976. With its own Board of
Governors, also headed by the Advisor for Agriculture, BARI is responsible for
research on crops other than those covered by the specialist institutes, (i.e.
excluding tea, jute, sugar and rice). It has a scientific staff of approxi-
mately 200 in nine research divisions and, in addition to the central station



- 12 -
also at Joydebpur, has 17 regional research stations and sub-stations ranging
in size from 20 to 500 acres. These stations are situated in different agro-
ecological zones and, when fully developed, will enable location-oriented
r1search and experimental verification to be undertaken on a regional basis.
Until USAID financed a project in 1975 to develop the central station at
Joydebpur, little research was possible. By 1976, field experimentation
had recommenced and work re-started to complete the laboratories, offices
and staff quarters and to develop one of BARI's four regional stations. The
USAID assisted project also includes 21 man years of long term and 12 man
months of short term technical assistance for research and management and
about 30 fellowships. The internationally recruited team is expected to
assemble in Bangladesh in August 1978. A detailed three-year research pro-
gram was recently prepared and is being implemented where facilities permit.
Recruitment of young scientific staff and their training at international
institutes is underway. To date, however, BARI has not yet become an effec-
tive research institute and faces severe constraints funds, facilities and
staff impeding its efforts to implement its research programs.
39.       Five other semi-autonomous specialized research institutes have been
established. The Jute Research Institute (JRI), located near Dacca, consists
of an Agricultural Research Wing and a Technological Research Wing, the latter
concerned with research on industrial processes. The Agricultural Research
Wing consists of six divisions with a staff of 35, four with PhD degrees.
Four sub-stations, ranging in size from 15 to 50 acres, are located throughout
the jute growing area. Assistance is being supplied by the Asian Development
Bank. The Sugar Research Institute (SRI), established in 1951, suffered badly
from damage and theft during the war of 1971 but has been rehabilitated since
then and, with only six scientific staff, is undertaking good research work.
In addition, the Tea, Fisheries, Forestry, and Livestock Research Institutes
are being developed with bilateral assistance from the UK, Denmark, Sweden,
and Germany, respectively.
40.       Almost all recently appointed research scientists have been recruited
from the Bangladesh Agricultural University (BAU), established in 1961-62 at
Mymensingh, with financial support from IDA and USAID. The University is
organized into six faculties: Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Agricul-
tural Economics, Animal Husbandry, Veterinary Science and Fisheries. A 600
acre field station is attached to the campus. Its staff of 300 includes 78
with PhD degrees, and about 3,000 students are currently enrolled, 150 of whom
are studying for advanced degrees.
Achievements and Potential
41.       BRRI has been successful in screening, selecting and breeding new
rice HYVs, which have performed well, and their use by farmers continues to
expand. In 1977, HYVs accounted for about 20% of total rice acreage and about
40% of total rice production. Extensive work on rice nutrition has contrib-
uted to a three-fold increase in fertilizer use over 1965-1975. BARI's main
effort, on the other hand, has been devoted to wheat, once a minor crop but
now, owing to the selection of suitable varieties, expanding very rapidly.



- 13 -
BARI has programs for grain legumes, pulses, oilseeds, tobacco, cotton, pota-
toes and horticultural crops. Experiments are concerned mainly with variety
evaluation, fertilizer requirements, water management, cropping systems and
crop agronomy. JRI's activities have concentrated on breeding improved jute
varieties, seed multiplication, disease and pest control, agronomic practices
and improving retting methods. New jute HYVs, suitable for early sowing, have
been developed, enabling farmers to harvest before floods arrive. In sugar-
cane, SRI has developed a promising new variety (BS96), which in some trials
has resulted in a 100% increase in yield over traditional varieties.
42.       These achievements, while representing significant progress from
the situation prevailing before 1973, are nevertheless modest and much needs
to be done. While rice will probably remain the major foograin in Bangladesh
and is already being given priority through BRRI, the potential for increased
production of other crops, particularly wheat, but also pulses, oilseeds,
groundnut, sugarcane, potatoes and other vegetables, is considerable and
of great importance in the context of nutritional deficiency in vitamins,
proteins and fats.
Problems and Constraints
43.       Large potential benefits remain unexploited because of severe
constraints affecting the operations of most research institutes and BARC,
ranging from insufficient funding, lack of facilities and equipment and
shortages of adequately trained scientific staff to poor research management
and lack of coordination and direction. Investments in agricultural research
to date have fallen far short of the sub-sector's need and importance for
three main reasons: (a) the urgent reconstruction and rehabilitation needs
of the economy immediately following independence; (b) the relatively long
run and uncertain (but potentially large) benefits accruing from most agricul-
tural research investments; and (c) the lack of direction and weakness in
management in most institutes since separation from the parent bodies follow-
ing independence. Compared with incremental investments of $80 million over
ten years (1973-1983) recommended by the IDA Land and Water Resources Sector
Study (Report No. PS-13 dated December 1, 1972) actual expenditures on agri-
cultural research during the first five years (1973-78) of this period have
totalled only $20 million. Of the total agricultural research expenditure of
about $6.5 M in FY77, BARI and BRRI accounted for about a third each and Jute
(15%), Foresty (7%), Fisheries (7%), SRI (4%) and BARC (4%) for the remainder,
with about 80% of the total expenditure being for capital improvement. Most
capital and operating expenditures of the Institutes are financed directly by
the Government, but about 15% of the operating expenditures come through BARC
research sub-project grants. Excepting BRRI, operating funds were until
recently only sufficient to pay for salaries and, even now, research activi-
ties have been curtailed, especially at BARI's regional stations, owing to
lack of funds. Existing facilities at BARI's field stations are grossly
inadequate for effective research. Office buildings where they exist are
inadequate; machinery is old and inoperative; facilities for housing are
virtually nonexistent, forcing married scientists to live away from their
families; irrigation facilities are poor; and basic research and laboratory



- 14 -
equipment like weigh scales, microscopes and ovens are not availale.  Land
for experimentation is sufficient, although it needs development, and lack
of fencing and resulting pilferage often make experimental work impossible.
44.       BAU, which produces most of the trained scientific staff, is able
because of funding constraints to allocate only 5% of its financial resources
to research, mostly for MSc level thesis work. Few departments have been able
to develop research programs of sufficient depth to permit meaningful thesis
work; in addition, loss of qualified staff to higher paid posts abroad has
reduced the number of supervisors available to guide thesis work and funds
available for research fellowships have been inadequate to attract the best
candidates. In all institutes, except BRRI, there is a general lack of
trained scientific staff, although some bilateral agencies have recently
provided training facilities for the staff of particular institutes. However,
BARI has been particularly neglected in this respect. USAID has recently made
funds available for nine PhD degree courses but this number is insufficient
for such a large institute. Although BARI, in a recent recruitment drive, has
been able to attract some high quality locally trained young scientists and
obtained commitments from Bangladesh scientists currently training overseas,
BARI research capability remains weak.
45.       The inadequacy of the facilities, funds and staff at most of the
institutes has pushed research coordination and direction into the background.
Consequently, BARC faces great difficulty in fulfilling its role to direct and
coordinate research into neglected areas of high national priority, to prepare
a national research plan, to advise the Government on priorities and to forge
active linkages between institutes, the extension system, universities and
policy makers. Although four out of five Member-Directors have now been
appointed most of BARC's authorized scientific staff positions are still
vacant, impairing its capability to offer advice on national research issues.
In addition, BARC's modest program to provide supplementary research funds
to fill gaps in research, mainly of a multidisciplinary nature, has had to
be curtailed. In FY77, 31 sub-project proposals approved by its Technical
Committee were turned down for lack of funds.
46.       Agricultural research in Bangladesh involves twelve Institutes
and nine ministries. BARC itself is linked to the Ministry of Agriculture,
which is responsible for only three research institutes (BRRI, BARI and FRI).
Although there is wide acceptance amongst the Institutes of the concept of
BARC as an apex institution for planning, coordination and monitoring, the
wide dispersion of BARC and Institutes between various ministries creates
admini-trative and political impediments to the fulfillment of this role and
the eventual development of an effective research system. In the face of
this problem, the Government's policy is to build up BARC role gradually to
its ultimate role: by strengthening its staff, technical competence and
funds; by fostering more active consultation between BARC and the Government
regarding the entire research system; and by d:irecting BARC attention ini-
tially to the Institutes attached to the Ministry of Agriculture.



- 15 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Genesis and Objectives
47.       The Land and Water Resources Sector Study recommended inter alia an
$80 million ten-year research program, the main objective of which was to
strengthen the existing agricultural research institutes. As noted earlier
in this report, the resumption of agricultural research activities in 1973
produced early results, in the production of high yielding varieties of rice.
The Government therefore began to focus attention on other crops and, in
January 1977, requested the Association to propose an action program aimed
at ensuring the coherent development and effective coordination of agricul-
tural research. The proposed project, prepared by the Government with the
assistance of IDA's Dacca office and appraised in November/December 1977,
constitutes the first phase of this action program. Its objectives are:
(a) to strengthen BARC's role in the planning, coordination and monitoring
of agricultural research; (b) to improve BARI regional research facilities
for local adaptive trials; (c) to finance some high priority research sub-
projects; and (d) to develop the basis in terms of manpower and planning
for a larger national research effort in the future.
Project Components
48.       Towards achieving these objectives, the proposed project consists
of the following components:
(a) Buildings and Land Development at four BARI regional research
stations, comprising office and residential facilities; go-
downs and workshop space; and farm development, including
land levelling and irrigation facilities; and, at BARC head-
quarters near Dacca, a modest 16,000 square foot office
building with special facilities for organizing scientific
seminars and layouts allowing for subsequent expansion.
(b) Machinery and Equipment at the four BARI stations, to ensure
full research capability under diverse cropping patterns, com-
prising tractors and associated implements necessary for land
levelling, for controlled experimentation, and for the small
lots handled at research stations. Basic laboratory and work-
shop facilities and essential vehicles would also be included.
(c) Research Sub-projects. All research institutions would be
eligible to submit research proposals for financing under
grants to be made by BARC with funds provided under the
project. Most proposals received from the agricultural
research institutions will tend to reflect their commodity
orientation. However, many of the problems facing farmers
in Bangladesh, for example the management of irrigation
water, are common to a range of commodities and while some
are being researched others are ignored since responsibility



- 16 -
cannot be assigned to a single institution.   Clearly there
is a need for a coordinated approach and BARC would pay
particular attention to sponsoring coordinated research
programs aimed at the solution of general problems within
the frame of which individual sub-projects would be carried
out by different institutions. BARC would have primary
responsibility for development of these coordinated programs
but would work closely with the institutions in their design.
In allocating project funds for research sub-projects, BARC
would give particular priority to such coordinated work.
BARC would seek to develop coordinated efforts in cropping
systems research, soil and water management, appropriate
agricultural technology, economics and crop protection and
would use short-term technical assistance provided under
the project for this purpose. Agreement was reached that
BARC would provide to IDA for review its proposed research
programs in appropriate technology by March 31, 1979, and
in soil and water management and farming systems by August 31,
1979, (Section 2.05(b) of the draft BARC Project Agreement).
Sub-projects financed by BARC would provide for all direct
costs and those costing above US$30,000 equivalent would be
subject to prior IDA review (Section 2.06(b) of the draft
BARC Project Agreement). About 70 sub-projects are likely
to be financed. Areas suitable for BARC funding, criteria
for sub-project selection, and terms and conditions have
been agreed with IDA.
(d)  Research Inventory and Plans.  BARC would encourage the
institutes, by providing funds where necessary, to (i) compile
an inventory of completed and ongoing agricultural research
and (ii) prepare a three year draft research program (1980-82).
BARC would then consolidate these inventories and research
proposals into a long-term national agricultural research plan,
and provide it for IDA review not later than December 31, 1980.
(Section 2.13 of the draft BARC Project Agreement).
(e)  Manpower Development.  The project would finance the training
of research scientists for PhD and for MSc degree programs,
short-term career development courses, local training for
extension staff and subject matter specialists, and local
seminars and study tours for research scientists. Most PhD
training would be overseas but all MSc training would be
within Bangladesh. Career development courses would focus on
specialized techniques and research management and include
attendance at international seminars. BARC would organize
the local seminars and finance local training programs
organized by research institutes for extension staff.
Criteria for selection of candidates for training were
agreed with IDA.



- 17 -
(f)  Technical Assistance, mostly short-term and costing about
$7,000 per man month, would be arranged as follows: for
BARI - 15 man-months for designing and supervising farm
development; and for BARC - about 15 man-months to help
prepare national programs of coordinated research, ini-
tially in soil and water management and farming systems
and assist with the national research plan; and 6 man-
months to help monitor the effectiveness of BARC's research
grant system. In addition, BARC agreed to employ experts
whose qualifications, experience and terms of reference are
satisfactory to IDA (Section 2.04 of the BARC draft Project
Agreement).
(g)  Incremental Operating Costs.  Both BARC and the four BARI
stations would be fully staffed by December 31, 1979 in
accordance with a plan acceptable to IDA (Section 2.08
of the draft BARC Project Agreement and Section 2.06 of
the draft BARI Project Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
49.       Total project costs are estimated at US$7.4 million (including $0.9
million in taxes and duties) with a foreign exchange component of US$2.8
million.  Estimates, based on December 1977 prices, include a physical con-
tingency of 5% for machinery and equipment, 10% for civil works and 15% for
land development.  Price contingencies have been applied to all civil works
at 9% for 1978 and 1979, and 8% thereafter; and for other costs at 7.5% for
1978 and 7% thereafter. The proposed credit of US$6 million would finance
about 90% of project costs, net of duties and taxes, and would cover all
foreign exchange costs (Tk 42.6 million or US$2.8 million) and about 70%
of local costs (Tk 70.4 million or US$4.5 million).
Procurement
50.       Civil works (US$2.7 million) would be located at five sites and
spread out over three years. Designs would be simple and construction
techniques labor intensive. Such contracts would not be suitable for inter-
national competitive bidding and would be awarded through local competitive
bidding, using procedures satisfactory to IDA. (Schedule 1 to the draft
Project Agreements). Imported construction materials, such as cement and
steel bars ($0.5 million) would be supplied by contractors since individual
requirements would be too small to justify separate procurement. To ensure
full quality control, bricks would be procured by BARC and BARI through
locally advertised competitive bidding. Land development (US$0.3 M) would
be by force account, supervised by station managers using station staff
for land levelling and small local contractors for minor works like channel
lining. Agricultural machinery and equipment (US$0.6 M) would be bulked for
all BARI stations and procured through international competitive bidding.
However, prudent shopping, up to a maximum US$100,000 would be permitted for
specialized BARI equipment for research, where total cost for each type of



- 18 -
equipment is less than US$10,000. The small number of vehicles (US$0.l
million) would be procured after locally advertised competitive bidding.
Research grants (US$1.0 million) would be made to various research insti-
tutes using criteria agreed with IDA (Section 2.06(a) of the draft BARC
Project Agreement). Specialized research equipment required under these
grants would be procured through prudent shopping. Training (US$1.5 million)
and technical assistance services (US$0.25 million) would be on terms and
conditions agreed with IDA. The remainder of the project costs would be for
incremental operating costs (US$0.45 million).
Disbursement
51.       As shown in Schedule 1 of the draft DCA, the proposed credit would
finance: (a) 100% of foreign expenditures or 100% of local expenditures ex-
factory or 70% of total expenditures for machinery, equipment, vehicles and
related spares ($0.7 million); (b) 75% of total expenditures for civil works
executed through contractors ($2.3 million); (c) 100% of expenditures for
technical assistance, training, and special studies ($1.6 million); (d) 100%
of expenditure on agricultural research sub-projects approved by BARC except-
ing equipment included under (a) above ($0.7 million); (e) 90% of BARC operat-
ing costs in excess of its actual 1977/78 expenditures ($0.1 million); and
$0.6 unallocated for contingencies. Disbursement requests would be supported
by full documentation, prepared by BARC and BARI, except for BARC approved re-
search subprojects and BARC operating costs for which disbursement would be
made on the basis of certified statements of expenditure. BARC's audit wing,
which would audit sub-project accounts submitted by the institutes, would be
strengthened through enhanced staffing; annual internal audit reports would
be available to IDA for inspection. Assurances have been obtained from both
BARI and BARC that they would maintain separate project accounts, including
the research sub-project accounts, which would be audited annually by inde-
pendent auditors acceptable to IDA; the audited accounts would be sent to
IDA within six months of the close of the fiscal year (Section 3.02 of the
draft Project Agreements). Both BARC and BARI are strengthening their finance
and accounting sections to cope with the increased work load due to greater
research activity at dispersed locations. It was agreed that by December 31,
1979 BARC and BARI would each appoint a senior level officer to head their
accounts sections (Section 2.06 of BARI and 2.08 of BARC Project Agreements).
Disbursements would extend over six years, although 90% are expected to be
made in the first four years, when civil works and would be carried out and
equipment procured. No commitments eligible for disbursement under the re-
search component of the project administerd by BARC would be permitted beyond
December 31, 1981 (Section 2.06(a) of the draft BARC Project Agreement).
Organization and Management
52.       The Bangladesh Agricultural Research Council, which includes the
Directors of all agricultural research institutes and representatives of the
Planning Commission, will guide and direct the preparation of a national
research plan and ensure coordination between institutes and donors (Schedule
2 part C of the draft DCA). Physical construction would be the responsibility



- 19 -
of BARC and BARI through two small construction cells. A construction cell
already exists in BARI and BARC has authorized the establishment of such a
cell.
53.       BARC's committee system for selecting and monitoring subprojects
would continue with appropriate changes in its administrative arrangements
to ensure prompt action on sub-project proposals. All stages of selection,
supervision and evaluation of sub-projects would be the responsibility of the
same BARC Technical Committee. Formal approval of subproject financing would
be given by BARC's Executive Committee, which is multi-disciplinary in its
composition. The criteria for subproject selection, supervision and evalua-
tion were agreed with IDA.
54.       The role of local agricultural universities in developing scientific
manpower for research will be crucial. BARC will therefore prepare a long-
term manpower development plan and encourage active linkage between Institutes
and the Universities. Formal coordination would be improved by BARC represen-
tation on the academic council of the BAU and agreement was reached with the
government to this effect (Section 3.04 of the draft DCA).
55.       Sub-project execution would be monitored through annual inspection
visits by monitoring teams nominated by the relevant BARC Technical Committee.
Their reports would form the basis for the subsequent release of sub-project
funds by BARC. In addition, an external review of the BARC grant system would
be conducted annually by the research monitoring consultant, who would submit
his report to GOB and IDA. BARC would begin to make annual assessments of the
overall national research effort. Upon completion of the project, and not
later than 12 months after the Closing Date, BARC and BARI would conduct a
joint review to identify its impact on BARI's research effectiveness (Section
3.06 of the draft DCA).
56.       As part of the preparatory work for a larger research effort in the
future, it has been agreed that the Government would organize an International
Agricultural Research Review Team consisting of foreign and national scien-
tific staff and managers to study the organization and administration of the
national research system, under terms of reference which will be reviewed
by IDA (Section 3.05 of the draft DCA).
Benefits and Justification
57.       Recent evidence has shown that countries gain little benefit from
research done elsewhere, even in regions with similar agro-climates, unless
they have developed an applied and adaptive research capability of their
own and established a national research system fully equipped and respon-
sive to local problems and supported by an effective system of extension for
the transfer and diffusion of knowledge. The proposed project would help
strengthen Bangladesh's agricultural research system through improved facil-
ities and management. The ability of research institutes to attract qualified
research scientists would be enhanced by the improved physical facilities and



- 20 -
equipment provided, experimentation would be more meaningful, and overall
research coordination would avoid wasteful duplication of effort.
58.       In view of these factors, the economic benefits from the project
-re expected to be considerable. However, attempts to quantify economic ex-
ante benefits from agricultural research can only be highly speculative.
Historically, research has been justified on subjective judgments of the
type made above. However, many ex-post analyses of returns from research
have been made. Two approaches have generally been followed: studies of
specific commodity research programs and studies based on aggregate produc-
tion function analysis. Studies on maize, sugarcane, wheat, and cotton
in developing countries of Latin America have made "conservative" estimates
of the economic rate of return ranging from 35-90%. Studies of aggregate
productivity have related increases in production over a period of time
to changes in input use, with any production increase not statistically
explained by,these changes in inputs being partially attributed to the
technology produced by research. The results of these latter studies in
Mexico, India, and developing countries as a group, show results lower
than, though generally similar to, the commodity studies, and conclude that
investment in agricultural research usually has a high payoff, especially
in developing countries.
Risk
59.       The principal risk of the project is that the results of research
financed directly through the research sub-project grant scheme or indirectly
through the provision of basic facilities and strengthening of staff, would
be inappropriate to the needs of farmers, or if appropriate, would not be
conveyed to or used by farmers.  There is no evidence that this risk is high.
The performance of BRRI over the last several years has demonstrated the
ability of Bangladesh agricultural scientists to develop meaningful programs
when provided with adequate facilities, direction, and a modest amount of
technical assistance. The project would focus on the provision of all of
these. The acceptance by farmers of the high yielding rice varieties,
where conditions are suitable for their cultivation, the rapid growth in
fertilizer consumption, and the expansion of the acreage under wheat in
Bangladesh demonstrate that the farmers of Bangladesh are prepared to adopt
new technologies when there are clear economic benefits from doing so.
Further, with the assistance of IDA finance under Credit 729-BD, the Govern-
ment is reorganizing its extension services on the "training and the visit"
system.  This reorganization should improve the two-way flow of information
between farmers and extension and research needed for the transference of
research results and the identification of priority research needs. Conse-
quently, it is believed that the risk of the investments to be made under this
project failing to generate satisfactory economic returns are insignificant.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Developipent Credit Agreement between the People's Republic
of Bangladesh and the Association, the draft Project Agreements Detween the



- 21 -
Association and BARC and BARI respectively, and the Recommendation of the
Committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agree-
ment are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Additional conditions of effectiveness of the proposed credit
are: (a) that the Government has approved the Project Proforma for the proj-
ect; (b) that the Government has made available to BARC and BARI amounts
agreed with the Association to meet the first quarter financing requirements
of BARC and BARI; (c) that BARI and BARC have appointed engineers to be in
charge of their construction cells; and (d) that two technical working groups
for defining the research programs have been established (Section 4.01 of the
draft DCA). Special conditions of disbursement require (paragraph 4 of
Schedule 1 to the draft DCA):
(a) with respect to expenditures for civil works for BARI
research stations, that BARI has (i) completed the soil
survey and contour maps; (ii) appointed a land development
expert and (iii) assigned one agricultural engineer counter-
part to each research station;
(b)  with respect to expenditures for research sub-projects
administered by BARC, that BARC has appointed (i) a research
monitoring expert and (ii) a procurement officer; and
(c)  with respect to expenditures for equipment, machinery,
and vehicles for BARI research stations, that BARI has
(i) appointed a qualified mechanic in each station and
(ii) awarded all contracts for workshop equipment.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President



- 22 -
ANNEX I
BANGLADESH          - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND AREA (THOU KM2)                  -------------------------------
TOTAL       144.0 ---                           BANGLADESH                           REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL       144.0                                        MOST RECENT
AGRIC.       97.1                       1960      1Ic0   ESTIMATE             BURMA          THAILAND        MALAYSIA***
GNP PER CAPITA (USS)                       50.0*      80.0*    110.0 */a            70.0*      210.0*      440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
_ _----_   ---_ _------ -----__----- 
POPULATION (MID-YR. MILLION)            53.9       70.8       80.4/a              27.0        36.3        10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       374.0       92.0      5580/a               40.0        71.o        33.o
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND        566.0       30.0      H28.0EM             253.0       263.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)          49.8       50.3       49.5                41.3        44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)           27.2       22.9       28.1                19.3        13.7        12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)           ..      140.0      130.0                  ..        80.0        40.8/a
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)        38.7       43.3       35.8                47.5        55.5        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.5        3.1         ..                 2.7         3.2         2.6/a
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                  2.7        2.8**      2.1**               2.2         3.1         2.9
URBAN                                             6.2        7.4                 3.7         4.9         3.2
URBAN PDPULATION (% OF TOTAL)            4.8        6.4        8.8                19.9        15.0        26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                        44.7         ..       45.2               40.0         45.1        44*7/a
15 TO 64 YEARS                        50.1/a       ,        49.1 /b            57.0         51.8        52.175
65 YEARS AND OVER                      5.21T       ..        5.77F               3.0         3.1         3.27-a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                     1.0         .         1.0                 0.8         0.9         0.9/a
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                I 6/b       ..        1.4/C               1.1/a       1.1/a       1.6 5
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)            ..         .       133.0/a                ..      470.0        222.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)              .          ..         4. 77T-S it                   10.'         s.o
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)         19400.0  24500.0  26200.0                10920.0    16700.0 lb  2900-0/a
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)           87.0      86.0      78.0                 70.0        79.0        43.a1of
UNEMPLOYED (X OF LABOR FORCE)             .          .        15.0/d                ..          .S .0 7i,b
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
X OF PRIVATE INCOME REC D BY-
HIGHEST  5% OF HOUSEHOLDS             18.3 Ic   .6.7 /a       .                   .,        22.0 /c    28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             44.5 5    42.3 7        .                   ..        51.1 7     56.o
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS              6.9 7E    7.9 7a       .                    ,         5.6 75      3.5
LOWEST  40% Op HOUSEHOLDS             17.9       19.6 7       .                   ..        14.3 7C    11-2
DISTRIBUTIUN OF LAND OWNERSHIP
_  -----_ _---_ _ ---_ _ ---_-------
X OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS               .-      34.0 /b       .-
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS            ..        1.0  E       . *-
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN             10000.0/d 7600.0tc         ..             8970.0       7970.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    110000.0: X72030.0E 68390.00/                 7540.0 /b  6650.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          11000.0     8120.0m  7120.0               1200.0 -    890.0        270.0/a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (x OF REQUIREMENTS)            .        B es.0/e    92.0              101.0       103.0       11o.o /c
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)                      ..            40.0                49.0         52.0        49.o 7-
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE            ..         ..         ..               13.0/C       17.0/d      20.0 /-
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4               ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..         5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                        42.0 /f   so.o /f   71.0                111.0         81.0        89.0/a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                       8.0 71   15.0 7T   25.0                  21.0        16.0        34. 07-
YEARS OF SC-aOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)              10.0       10.0       10.0               10.0         12.0        13.0/a
VOCATIONA_ ENROLLMENT
\I OF SECONDARY)                        ..        1.0         ,,                 0.8        14.0 /e      3.o/a
ADULT LITEPACY RATE (K)                   ..         .        23.0                  .         79.0        55.0
HOUSI NG
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                  .2 .-                 .-                   -                     23a
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHnUT
PIPED WATER (x)                                             * * .  .                                    65.0 /ad
'_-SS TO ELECTRICITY
(A OF ALL DWELLINGS)                          ..        ..              .          .          ..        43.0 /a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                      ..         ..         ..                  ..          ..        30.o /a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)             ..        6.0                          15.0        78.0         41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU POP)              .        0.4        0.4/f               1.0         5.0         27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)             4.0       20.0       22.0                22.0       124.0        382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)                  .-        0.1        0.2                 0.6         1.0         4.0
----------------------------------------------                         ---------------------------------------
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



- 23 -
ANNEX I
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to amy year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 between 1968 end 1970, and for Most Recen.t REtimaste between
1973 ad 1975.
GNP par capita date are haeed on the World lank Atlae methodology (1974-76 baste).
00 The 1970-75 population growth rate is abnormaly low due to the affecte  of the ea  of indepondence and mass PoPulation movmets ecrosa  the
borders during that period. Presen.tly, the -vraga population growth rtet to aetianated at 2.87. Por nna.
*0 SelIcrion of Malaysia as en  bjective coutry is base.d on Ma laysia's.. sccess in osintoining a high rate of ecn cgrowth and odqoats  1ovel
of _ wefare .cncrrent,y           - syu.,..reOioA  its ecnoic  tocue
MBAJ&t5BU      1960    Is  Age group 15-39 end 60 and over respectively;             /b  Ratio 6f population under 15 and 60 end over to total labor force;
Ic  1963-64;    Id  Regiatared not all precticing in the coun.try;    /0  GOvermet hosPital eetabli,h-tenc  only;
77  Approimiate enrollment as percentage of population in 6-li and 11-15 age groups repectively.
1970    (a1966-67;    Lb  1967-68;    /c  Registered not all Practicing in rho country;    Id  Gov-ro-et hospital sarehliahvontc
only;      s  Average 1969-71;    /f  Approximate a-rollanst as Percentage of popalation in h-li and 11-15 age groaps
reapectively.
MOST RECENT ESTIMATE;    /a  1976;    /b  Age group 15-59 end 60 and over respectively;                 /c  Ratio of POPu1ation under 15 and 60
and oven To total labor force;    Id  Mainly unaployad workers seeking their first Job;    Is  Including
midwives;    /f  1977;    /I  Percent of female population.
gUgIeA         1970    I   Ratio of population onder 15 and 65 and over to total lahor foce-;    lb  Peronno-In giver-nset aervi-a  only;
/c 1964-66.
THAILAND       1970    I   Ratio of population, under 11 and 65 and  -ovr to econnmicaIly active popolatioc age 11 years and ovor;    /b  Econmnically
active population age 11 yearn and aver;    Ic  Rora1 only;    Id  1964-66;    /e  Public schools, which inclodas
technical education at the pont-secondary level.
MAI.AYSI.A      1970    Ia  West Malaysia;    lb  Registered aPplican.ts for work;    /c  1964-66;    /d  Piped cano- inside.
R11, Octoher 6, 1977
DHErNITIONS OF SOCIAL INDSICATORS
Land Aces (thou H0)                                                                          PoPulation eon nursing Parson - popuIatim, divded by n,eohr Of practicing
Total-  Total surface area comprising   ed are  and inland waters,-1 malesd female graduate nurses,  crai-ed  or  oerttfiad" nuee, and
eerie. -. Mot resent estimate of  ancutra         -ra ased tempora.rily or perna-              sailiary personne  with training oranrins
meetly for trap., pastursa, marker I kitchen garden or to Its Osille.                      Pop.lation pen hospital bed - Population divided by saber of hospital beds
availble in pblin and private general and specialisad hospital and
GINP men osPita (lUS$  - GN0 Per copits setimetes at current market prices,                    rehobilita tion centers; enclod as nursing hoome  and eanabliabejent  ion
c e.lnuled by aS  conv-rsoln uthod as World Bank Atlas (1973-75 basis);                      cue todia1 and preventive c.ar.
1960; 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 Pen tsnite supply of taoie %7 oi Csurmetl -qCapted iro energy
equivalen-t of eat food soPplims avilable in country pen capita per day;
Populanlis end vital  tnstlatic,                                                               available coPplies capriss dooa.tic production, imPorts less seports , and
Posulatim   iLd~-ya nillionl   is of J.1uy first:  if not  -vilablo, average                   thanges in stock; net sappl iea setlda animal feed, oseds, quantities used
of two end-year eatim-tes; 1160, 1970 end 1975 data,                                         in fond proce.iss le oad loses in distributIon; requirements ware estimated
by FAO based an physiological needs for norma actinty and haslth ronald-
inslaio  damity-tper surbe-Mid-year population pen square kil-stan                         ering snviro,atal" tapenature, body weights, age and sem dianribstions  on
(100 hentarsa 1 of total area,                                       ~~~~population, Ind allowing 157. ior wasto at hoosehold leve.
PomolatiOn denairy-_pen knae     o  sOnic  land - Caputed as above for                       Per csapita suppl of protein (are   par day) - Nortein content of par capita
aginultra  lan  onl..                                                                      nottsupply.of food per day;. nt suPPly of food is defined as above; require-
neaf or all   artries estabelished by USDA Econic Research Services
Vital anacianis                                                                                pro-ida for a minuse  a11iceen   of hO grasa of renal prortei Per day,ar
Cruds birth rate Par thonased. averge -iAnmul live births per thousand of                      20 gras. of animal and pulse protoin, of which IS gras should be animal
sid-yasr papslstioo; nan-year aritheati  errae -eding in 1960 and 1970,                      prosaic; these standards are 1m,r than those of 75 gras Of total prntein
and fieyeravrg   ending in 1975 for meat recent estimate,                                    and 23 grna of anima  prutnin a.soa oversee for the wand, proposed by FAO
Crude death rate par thosaopd,. avrage - Ao-Iua deaths pen thouaend of mid-year                in the Third World Food Survy.
population; ten-year enitbwtic averges ending in 1960 sod 1970 and fiva-                   PerE captafprotein sore ly frost animal and Pulse - Protslr supply of food
yea.r avrage ending in 1975 for menu reet sestimte,                                           derived  r   animal  and pulses in, Bra  per day.
Inso  mrtality race 1/thoul - oAat.al deaths of infant  under on.e-pa  of age             Death rate lIthon) ace  1-4 - Annua  deanha Per thousan d in ago group 1-4
iper nnadliebirths.                                                                          years, to children in this age group; suggested as an indictotr of
Lif emectn   at birth irr-l - Average ousher Of years of Site rnising asalntr,ition.
birth; usually fiv-yea  averagea ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for develop-
leg noetri- .                                                                              idocation
Gros  renr_dutios rate - Average saber of lion doughtereu -r wIll hear                       Adluated enrollment ratio - prmar school - enrollment of all ages as per-
in her soea  reproductive perio  if she enpenience  presen.t age-specific                     etogs of prinary scolaeppltion; inc ludes children aged b-Il years
fertility rates; osully fio-y-a  averges ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975                       but adjostnd for diff.rent lengths of primary eductiton; for c-ounrie  with
for develping counties.                                                                      unvrabdcto,nrluc   a.ene   57  ic   a    uisaohl
Poatocrowd  rart(.   -totalI - Cepopond annual growth retm  of mid-yea-o  aboethe officia  schooae
poplation for 1950-60, 1960-70 and 1970-75.                                                Adlosted ourollmet ratio -secndar  school - Conputad as above; -enodar
Pomla-tio growh rate(7.) -rban - Cmeputd like growth rate of total                             oducetion requires at least four years of approvd primary imetroction;
Ppopultion; different dafinition   of orbsn area  ma yaffct conporability of                 Prvidee general1, voctioa  or 1.  teac her trelning inetructiona for pupIls
data amog cansnis                                                                             f 12 t  17y   It f age; c...pnrcecuse   r                      gnrlly secluded.
Urban population (. of total) - Patio of urban to total population; difforeut                 .ars Oftnohooli~'r _ roide  (firt an  seod levele  -  otal yer  of
defleitloos of urban areas may sflert  -psrabilty on date among conre,shoig t secondary le-1,  octIona  in truction may he partially o
-  1I.-c-le                                                            .-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~cplenely enclded
see acutr   nrent, -toreoAuy%ears),. our,ing-ag  (15-64 years),                             Vocational enrllen  (I of uncondary) - focational inotitutions isclude
an  rtirod (65 years  n   ve)a  perenaos ofmd-year population.                             technical, indootrial or oth-r progras which operate independently or aso
Agofdependency ratio  - ictic of population under 15 end AS and ov-  to those                  de P.ra,   to  acnuyinttco
of ages 15 through hA.                                              idult lite~~~~~~~racy roto)  - i     teac!dac  (ohio to read and write)  paspr-
Econinc dPepedec  rto - Ratic of population under 15 and 65 and  -vr to                         cetg   f total adult popultion agad1   er n vn
the labor forr Is age group of 1-h4 years.
Famil elarion -aceerore b,osulti_e. thou) - Cumulative ouber of acceptors           Aou..inu
of birth-nomtrol devicas ander ...ePic.- Of national family ploncico program               Feron pa   c   (ra) -Arragn nanho  of peoraone per noo  in ono-pied
sinn  inception                                                                               cnntionoI d-ellinge in urhnb aose  dsllings emc lode  o-emsn
Pasilyplannng -  sere C of mrriedwean)    Percntage   of mrnid war  of          -tnct-ree acd 1onoccopied parco
chil-beaiee  ge (5-4  yeas) wo oabhlth- -onro  drvices to al -mried             ic-Peo   ulio    ihutppdcin(.   - Occpied  --,onional dwellings
w  toe in smage group.                                                                    iurcatre        uaora     tbo   niro   usd  ppdptrfclte
00p tteigt of all oncupisd dwellings.,   -ti.Ppd trf-li.
HEpinymat                                                                                     Acce        ttoertrcr  (7. of all dell Igs  -Conventional dwellings with
Total labor force (thosad) - E-0oei-a11Y active penon, includIng arced                           lrrIc-     yl ivn    urtr   spercent of total dulings in obrh  onad
foro- end unemploye eho  Ie ding houewi-r, students, etc.; definitions                       rura  area.
Lis  -einos rostriss are sot cnperable.                                                      uRal Awllinne connected to oloctnicity il  - Cepn-d ass               f- e  ruro
Lbor force in aerinulture CC) - Agri-1lt-r1 labo.r force (t  fring, nfretry,                   dwlineoly.
hooingandfisin) as pernentage of totalbe  force.
hnateload% !ft of lbor fares) -nployed arel.usually defined aspersona who.oumt
ar -beed willing to tak  aJob, out of aJob On a given day, remined out                 Radio receivters(er hupp            1   yo   frclesinrdobodat
of ajob,and  eekng wrk Orasec iind  inimn priodnot  e-sding onn             to gf..er-1 public prr thoonand of Population; erIodes unlicensed receivers
wash; may sot herprable betee  coutries due no different definition_conosudi   rr   hnreetaino.ai   rswsi   fet
ofuepoe   n   orof          f data,--e.g.,epomn   fieo ltt,sml                                dat  fortintent ynor  my.   n.ot hr cotp-rab   sinc mdoasts contie  abolishe
sureys  cpasory unpoyeta Co-urance.                                                         licenatog
c                                                    1::I~~~~~~~~~~~~e tssnr Ir lentthou pop) -P Passenger car  conpis.. ..... ..ars seating
Inca  ditriutin  -Percentage of private inc-   (both in noah end kind)                    lests  eight peron; enclodes ambulances, hearse  end military
received by nicheac 37, richest 20%., poorest 207.. and poorest 407. of house-                vhbicle..
helds.                                                              ile~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ctricicy (kwh/yr Per ap   - Annua  co-ption of industrial, nasrcia1,
pubift and Private o1-cririrv  in kilowatt hours Per nopits, ge-eall
Di.tribatlon of land   -.srhip -ecnaeyof land oned by wealIthiest 117.                          base.d on production data, withoot allowance forI . lses in grids but allo--
end Poorest 107. of land arena,                                                               log for import.soad soports of electricity.
Health and N.trition                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~Newprn  (in/Iyr per tsp)  - Per topics annol conseption  in kcciagr-
Health - en    putrition                                                                        ea..-i    iiedb  tintd ir_ domesic p-oducttc  plot net imports Of newsrint.
pbysiciaaqualified iron a sIpe din1 n-h-1 at university level.



- 24 -                                                            ANNEX I
(Amounts i  millions of U.S5. doflara)
Actual                   Estimated                   1960-       1965-       1975-        1976A       94w.1967
AV.T9 676   192/3194/5                 1975/76   1976/77                1965        1970        1977         1679174517/7
NATTONA.L ACCO1iUTS 
In  oo,zat  172->i3 Pice &Excang  Ptes                    Average Annual Growth Rates            As Percent of GDT
1r s, flcmectic Product             6,012      5,83~3    6,514            7,295       7,561                4.7         3.3         6,7         95.5 10.         100
iainc t'rue. Terms ofTae()             89          -      -117             -145      -_148                                                      1.5     -1.8    -2.0
Gross Doestic Iucome           6,101-    STfl       r7T7             7i15        7,413                5.6         2.5         6.2       TM        T5       100.0
Onport (incl. NFo)                    879        747       703              646         500               20.6         6.8       -7.4         14.4      11.0      6.7
Exports   (import capacitfl  598       369       197               200        210               12.3       -14.6      -12.6           9.8      3.1       2.8
hesource Gap                          281        378      73r6              446         290                                                    4,.-6    -7.9      3.9
Consumption Expenditures            5,666    5,817    6,403               7,062       7,230                5.7         3.6         5,6         92.9   100.1    97.6
Investment    ' (iocl. stocks)         714       394       499              534         473               13.3         8.8         6.7         12.9      7.8      7.4
DSomsstic Savings                     433         16        -6                88        183                4.3        10.0        81,0          6.8    -0.1       2.4
National Savings                      416         32        10               110        200                8.7        20.5        57.0          7.1      0.2       2.6
MERCHANDISE TRADE                              Anlnual Data at Current Prices                                                                 As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                         .        100       135              213         268...                                    25.7           .      16.8     28.6
Intermediate goods femL.fuels)       .         176       386              336         250                                       12 .  .s              30.4    26.7
Fesand relsted materiass
of which:  Petrolewm               .          23       155              126         144                  .                   495 8                  10.0     15.4
Consumption goods                    -         428       726              541         2 75...                                   -6.6        ....     &&       23.2.
Total1 Mereh. Imports (eif)         547        72 7    1,402            1,266         9378.                                                          100.0   100.0
Excportsq
P'riniary products ~mml. fuels)      ..        145       119              156         168                 2.           .           9                 40.9      42.0
Fuels and related roster [als
of which: Petroleum
Manufactured goods                    .        195       239              225         24?                 5..                      .i                 59.1    58.0
Total Merch, Exports (fob)          481       3T40      _358              381         40(w                                        3.8        -      Th60   100.0
Tourism and Border Traae
Merciandise Trade indices                         Average 1972-Z73   100
Export Price Index                   61        100       133              109         11ll                             .         2.4
import Price Index                   52       100        215              195         189                  ..                   16.3
Term,s of Trade Index               11s       100         62               56          59...                                   -11.7
Exports Volume Index                148        100        ao              106         123                  ..                    3,9
VALUJE ADDED BY SECTOR               Annual Data at 1972- 73Prices and Excisange Rates                  Average Annual Growth Rates           As Percent of Total
Agriculture                       3,542    3,403      3,712             4,078      4,140                                                      594,  s  59      57
industry and Mining                 420       412       466               527        567                 4.8                                   7       7        8
Service                           2.050    1,848    2L14                2.333      2,504                                         7 82        h34      34       3
Total                             6,012    5,663    6,324               6,938      7,211                                         6.1         100    100       100
PUBLIC FINANCE                                                                                                                                  As Percent of GDP
~Central Government)
Cuirrent Receipts                   317       280       469               775        877                                .        42         5.3      7.2     11.2
Currentar Expendiurs                36        364       419               600        686                ~.                      16'.8       6.1    6.4        8.7
&sdgetary Savings         ~~~~-48    -84        -50             -175       1i91                                                   -0.8    0.8        2.5
Other Public Sector                   .         .         ...                          *,.
Puilic Sector Investment            421       239       248B              295        3 50 '.                                   10.3         7.0    3.8       4.9
us   million (1
CURRF.NT EXPEENDITURE DETAILS                   Actual                     Estimated               DETAIL ON5                              At Av.    1972/73 P and ER
As '4 Tctal Current Exend.)         1969/ 70  17/3        9475        9576  1976/77              PUJBLIC SECTOirtPlnR                                       fToa
Education                              .        14.8       15.5        13.6      13.3            INVESTMENT PROGRAM                     (1973/ 74   - 1977/ 78
OIther Social Services                 .         4.0        4.2         4.4       4.2            Social Sectors                              758          15.2
Agriculture  and                                                                                 Agriculture                               1,302         26.4
Other EonMaic Seevice-.                        11.2       7.2         6.8        6,7           Industry and Hieing                       1,024          20.7
Admoinistration and Defense            .        67.4      68.1         68.8      68.9            Power                                       529         10.7
Itter                                            2.7        5.0         6.4       6.9            Transport and communications                802         16.3
Total Current Fxpenditures                     jf 0'5.    T5-0Th     T0_Th      100.0            Other                                       524         10.6
_________________________________________________________________________ Total Expenditures                        4,940        130.0
SELECTED INCICATIBS                                    i960-        1965-       1973-              FINANCING
(Calcula~ted from 5-year averaged data)                1965        1970         1976                  Domestic Borrowing                      784         15.9
Average 00CR                                             ..         3.74        0.89                  Public Soctor Savings                 2,022         40.9
Trsport Elasticity                                      ..         1.29         1.11                  Program aid counterpart              1,009          20.4
RRrginal Dkomestic Savings Sate                         .          0.22         0,05                  Foreign Project Aid                  1Jf25          22.6
Marginial National Savinigs Rate                        .          0.35         0.05                  Total Financing                      4,940         100.0
LABOR FORCE ANDO                                   Total Labor Force                                    Value Added Per Worker (1972-  73 Prices &Ex5c. Rates)
DITIUTFJ  PRE  WORKER               In Millions          * of Totali           1961 - 73           In [U.S.Dollars      Percent of Averuge          19 70 - 73
1960/il    1972/73 1960/61   1972/73  Growlts Bate              1969/70   19 72 /73    1969/70   19 72./73   Growth Rate
Agriculture                ~~~~~~16.1   20.5       85        78          2.0..                         166          .          76
Industry                             1.0          1.8        5         7          5.0                ..          29          .,        105
Service                               1.8         3.9       -10       15          6.7                           484                    222
Total                     ~~~~~        ~~~18.9  26.2  100 0    0o        2.8               248         21         10         10
toot applicable                nil or negligible
not available                 .- ls  than half the s,sallest unit shown
Note; Yiguree are on fIscal year basis (July l-Jun. 30). Data prior to 1972/ 73 pertain to erstwhile East Fakistan
/1     Thes  are  rigi-al plan targets.



-  2 5  -                                                                          AIE 
25~~~~~~~~~~~- ~~~~~~ANNEX I
BALANCE OP PAYSEPTS.   TRAL  ASSISTAC  AND DIST
(amooto in cillione of US. dollar,  t curr nt priced)
Actual                        imeca~E.   -d   Lo~tad              Aflfg* AnnualGrouh Sate
9        1972/73   1973174   1974/7$                       1976 77 Ur1i777                         1977  - 1978
SUK11ARY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Eoporct  (itl. NFS)                           515       369        339        358             3)1         400           425                          5.9
lePorts (cl.  NFS)                          -639       -747       -958    -1 402            -1.290       -937        -1.274                          7.4
Ro..urco Balance (X-M)                      -124       -378       -619    -1.044              -909       -537          -849                          8.2
Intoroo t (cot)
Direct lovooteant I-no    I
Worker,' Rt.itta.eo         I                            45         10          7                1         25            15 3
Corront Trao.fero (oat)    I
Walance 00 Correct Accounts                              33       -       -1 037                          5ir                                        6.2
Private Dicect Ievsttent                                 -
Official Capital Grants                                 492        204        397              236        258           340                         13.6
Public SaLT Lo.ns
hDib-u-tece                                  .          76        297       527               578        314           476                         16 0
-Repaeytt                                               _          10       -25                t8       -21            -31
Not Disbursemtt                                          76        287       502               Soo        293                                       13.3
Other H4LT Loans
Di.b -rse.ent.
-Rpaynooto
Not Disboroseoets
Capital Trsnoaotiao ....i. n i                         -205         78       334              122          33            R1
Chbnge to Net Ro.orvo-  ( -- in.r.as.)                  -20         40      -196               SO         -72           -32                             Acttal                     E tit_ed
Dross Rese. s  (cod period)                             107         67       263              213         285           317                 1971/72   1972/73   1974/75        1975/76   1976/77
GRANT AND LOAN C0HHITMENTS
Official Crants 4 Croot-Like                            514        150       369              380        D?T AED RDDT REYICE
Public Debt Out     D & Siebreed       36       187        998         1.809      2.245
PublLc MSLT L.an,                                                                                          Interest on Public Debt              -         -          10            20         26
IBRD                                                   -            -      -                -            Repaymente on Public Debt           -          -          25            67         21
EDA                                                    68          74     150              187           Total Public Debt Service           -          -          35            87         47
Other  alItilotcral                                    11          17       87               22          Otber Debt Service (net)
Covereents                                            204         329     678               332          Total Debt Service (cet)
Suppliers                                              55          47      17               -
FLnancial loetitationn                                              -      -                  9       Burden on Eveport Erning. (S)
Bonds
Public Loans cc i.                          _          -            -      -                .            Public Debt SB-ic.                                       9.8          22.8      11.8
Total Public MSLT Loose                                 338         467     932               550          Total Debt Srnic.
ThOSEirect 7cn  t. Incc*.                      .
Alla.  Deb t fUc.ecadi, or Juan  30. 1976                              v
EXTERNAL DEBT                                            iebureed Onlt            Percent                  Averae TeD  of Public Drbt
World Bock                                                 -A                                                    Te 3e    P
IDA                                                        380                  21.0                       Int. an I Prior Year ROAD           ..         ..        2.3           2.0       1.4
Ocher Moltilnt-l                                            25                  6.1 A4 ort. ae I Prior Year DOLD                                          ,         5.7           6.7       1.2
C- ernnen                                                1,250                  69.1
Soppliers                                                   90                   5.0             .        58  Debt Put  6 Diahuee
Ficancial Institutions                                       9                   0.5                          an 2 Public Debc OD             -          -         5.5           3.0        2.4
Public  rbt                                                                                                        Public Debt Service         -          -          -            1.0        7.C
T-bli P.bli. nL Debt
Total Public hSLT Rokt                                   1,09                 100.0                    IDA Debt Out. & Diabuceed
h T  1  f Public Debt OaD        -         8.6      25.5          21.0       27.7
Otbhr skIT D.7btn                                                                                             * 2 Public Debt Servic           -          -         3.1           2.5        6.4
not applicable                        e   stuff estisota
ot availabl                           -   nil or  etgligible
not available separately but         --   lose thbn half the seallent
iceladad in total                         ont ahoun
hsy 1977



- 26 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                        Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                      Amount  Undisbursed
(net of
cancellations)
Eight Credits Fully Disbursed                                   329.1        -
339        1972      Cyclone Area Reconstruction (replaces
Credit No. 228-PAK of 1971)              25.0       6.4
340         1972     Chandpur Irrigation II (replaces
Credit No. 184-PAK of 1970)              13.0       3.3
341         1972     Tubewells (replaces Credit No.
208-PAK of 1970)                         14.0       2.1
343         1972     Telecommunications (replaces part
of Credit No. 145-PAK of 1969)            7.3       0.5
367        1973      Chittagong Water Supply (replaces
Credit No. 42-PAK of 1963)                7.0       0.7
368        1973      Dacca Water Supply and Sewerage
replaces Credit No. 41-PAK of
1963)                                    13.2       0.5
407         1973     Education (replaces Credit Nos.
49-PAK and 87-PAK of 1964 and
1966)                                    21.0       6.6
408         1973     Highways (replaces Credit No. 53-PAK
of 1964)                                 25.0      11.3
409         1973     Technical Assistance                         4.0       1.1
410         1973     Cereal Seeds                                 7.5      5.5
424         1973     Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation    8.7          1.9
487         1974     Second Telecommunications                   20.0      14.6
527        1975      Ashuganj Fertilizer                         33.0     19.3
533         1975     Population                                  15.0     13.1
542         1975     Barisal Irrigation                          27.0     24.8
605        1976      Karnafuli Irrigation                        22.0     17.4



- 27 -
ANNEX II
BANGLADESH
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
As of April 30, 1978
A.   IDA Credits to Bangladesh (CON'D)
US$ Million Net of
Credit                                                       Exchange Adjustment
Number     Year                  Purpose                     Amount  Undisbursed
621         1976     Agricultural and Rural Training          12.0        11.5
622         1976     Technical Assistance II                   7.5         6.7
631        1976      Rural Development                        16.0        15.8
632         1976     Bangladesh Shilpa Bank                   25.0        23.7
676        1977      Imports Program V                        75.0        28.7
724        1977      Shallow Tubewells                        16.0        16.0
725        1977      Muhuri Irrigation                        21.0        21.0
729        1977      Extension and Research                   10.0        10.0
735        1977      Inland Water Transport II                 5.0         5.0
752        1977      Imports Program VI                       75.0        74.4
765        1978      Jute                                     21.0        21.0
787        1978      Foodgrain Storage II                     25.0        25.0*
SUBTOTAL                  900.3       389.8
Principal Repayment                                0.4
Effective Credits held by Association            899.9
B.   IBRD Loans to Bangladesh
1087       1975      Consolidation Loan                       54.9         0
TOTAL                  954.8       389.8
*   Not yet effective



- 28 -
ANNEX II
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION -
Cr. No. 339    Cyclone Area Reconstruction Project:  US$25.0 Million Credit
of October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1979
Project performance has improved and, although still 2-1/2 years
behind schedule, it is no longer falling further behind. Following reevalua-
tion of the design, the cyclone shelter program is now moving ahead with
about 90 shelters out of a, total of 236 to be completed. 120 shelters are
currently under construction and 37 to commence shortly. Construction of
all shelters should be completed end-1978. Shelter costs have increased
considerably from Tk 51 million at appraisal to about Tk 220 million at com-
pletion. Four of the five primary roads are now finished with the fifth road
scheduled for completion in late 1978. The IDA financed portion of the feeder
road program is nearing completion. The telecommunications sub-project is
behind schedule but was to be completed by December 1978. The fisheries sub-
project, including distribution of boats to groups of local fishermen has
been completed. Work on the repair or new construction of inland water
transport terminals is almost completed.
Cr. No. 340    Chandpur Irrigation II Project:  US$13.0 Million Credit of
October 18, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973;
Closing Date: April 30, 1978
The project should be completed by December 1978. Delays have been
due to major flooding, labor problems, shortages of materials, equipment,
breakdowns, ineffective management, and delays in provision of local funds.
While problems remain, substantial progress has been made recently both in
physical construction and agricultural extension. The main regulator is now
operational, although utilization of the irrigation works will be delayed
due to land acquisition problems (now resolved) which interfered with work
on irrigation channels. A four month extension of the Closing Date has been
agreed to allow additional time for project audits and proposals for the
recovery of water charges to be prepared. A further extension of the Closing
Date will be considered when these have been received.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 341    Tubewells Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
November 6, 1972; Effective Date: January 13, 1973;
Closing Date: March 31, 1979
Because of a slow start, project implementation is about 18 months
behind schedule. Completion of the Project is expected within a year. About
90% of the wells under contract have now been drilled, and verticality prob-
lems have largely been corrected by the contractors. BADC has decided to
recontract for 281 wells not yet drilled. Pumphouse construction and engine/
pump installation is proceeding satisfactorily. The agricultural development
component of the project, also behind schedule, has been incorporated in the
Extension and Research Project. Project audits are not being received in a
timely fashion. Arrangements for extending consultants' services have been
agreed. The Closing Date has been extended to March 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 343    Telecommunications Project;  US$7.3 Million Credit of
November 15, 1972; Effective Date: January 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1978
The Project was originally financed as part of Credit No. 145-PAK
of 1970, and goods valued at US$2.2 million had been received prior to sus-
pension of disbursements. Two of the four microwave systems have been com-
missioned and the third is expected to be brought into service by June 1978.
The fourth microwave system, equipment for which was ordered together with
the microwave systems under Credit 487-BD, is expected to be commissioned by
June 1979, completing the project four years behind schedule. The Closing
Date has been extended from December 31, 1975 to June 30, 1978 and has been
extended again to December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 367    Chittagong Water Supply Project; US$7.0 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973
Closing Date: October 31, 1978
After very little movement during the first two years because of
organizational and procurement difficulties, the progress of work in the
past three years has been satisfactory and disbursements on the project are
expected to be completed by November 1978, some three years behind the
schedule established in 1973. WASA has been in default of the financial
covenant (Section 4.03 (a) of the Credit Agreement dated April 9, 1973),
which stipulates that rates are to provide sufficient revenue to: (i)
cover operating expense, depreciation and interest; (ii) to meet repay-
ment of long-term debt to the extent that such repayments exceed deprecia-
tion charges; and (iii) finance normal extensions of the systems and pro-
vide a reasonable portion of the cost of future major extensions. GOB
approval of a tariff increase was given on November 3, 1977. This will
increase annual revenue by about Tk 3.8 million and should, with other
measures being taken, provide Chittagong WASA with sufficient revenue to
enable it to meet the earnings covenant for FY78. A fourth extension of
the Closing Date to October 31, 1978 was recently agreed.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 368    Dacca Water and Sewerage Project; US$13.2 Million Credit of
April 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 7, 1973, Closing Date:
October 31, 1978
Project progress and the Dacca WASA's financial problems are similar
to those of Chittagong under Credit 367-BD above.
Cr. No. 407    Education Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30,
1978
This project was originally financed by Credits 49-PAK and 98-PAK
and by December 1971, when disbursements were suspended, US$7.7 million had
been disbursed. Progress on the Agricultural University portion of the
project is about 60% complete but 30 months behind schedule due to initial
difficulties in reaching agreement with the consultant architects on a revised
contract and shortages of building materials and delays in the preparation of
equipment lists and furniture designs. However, significant progress has been
made beginning in late 1976. The academic buildings now under construction
are expected to be completed by June 1978 and the remaining works by December
1979. About 60% of the equipment and books have been procured. The University
has taken steps to improve the relevance of its agricultural training and re-
search programs to Bangladesh's practical problems in agricultural and rural
development but further progress in this direction is needed. The technical
education portion of the project is 95% complete but about 30 months behind
schedule due to past delays, but is expected to be completed by June, 1978.
The graduates are facing severe problems of unemployment and a committee has
been established to revise the curriculum to make it more relevant to job
requirements.
Cr. No. 408    Highways Project; US$25.0 Million of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: September 27, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
Several project elements are now nearing completion, including the
Sitalakhya Bridge, ferry improvements and the Keane Bridge which was officially
opened in June 1977. However, the Feni bypass is still seriously behind
schedule and completion is unlikely before mid-1979. Construction of the
Roads and Highways Directorate building has commenced. An action program
calling for a review of project progress against agreed targets was estab-
lishj for purposes of approving an extension of the Closing Date to
December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 409    Technical Assistance Project; US$4.0 Million Credit of
June 29, 1973; Effective Date: August 20, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978
Contracts have been signed with consultants for thirteen sub-
projects amounting to about US$3.9 million. Completed studies have played
a key role in the preparation of projects for IDA financing. Due to delays



- 31 -
ANNEX II
in initial commitment of credit funds, disbursements are 2 to 3 years behind
initial estimates. The Closing Date for this Credit was extended initially
by two years, to December 31, 1977 and a second extension, to December 31,
1978 was agreed recently to permit full disbursement of the credit.
Cr. No. 410    Cereal Seeds Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of June 29, 1973;
Effective Date: January 30, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1979
The improving trend of the project is continuing and BADC is now
evaluating tenders for processing plants. BADC Seed Farms show considerable
progress both in deveopment and standard of husbandry. Contract Grower Scheme
in particular has been very successful in producing quality seeds and in
winning farmers' acceptance of the idea. About 3,000 tons of paddy seed
and about 2,600 tons of wheat seed are likely to be produced in 1977-78.
This seed is now finding increased acceptance among farmers and even though
the seed is being sold at 30% premium over grain price, quite often the
demand for these seeds outstrips supply. BRRI development activities at
headquarters and two substations are proceeding on schedule but are behind
in the two other substations (Rajshahi and Charchandia). Government has
promised to accelerate their development. The SCA is now fully staffed but
its activities had been slowed down because of a budget cut. Government
undertook to remedy the situation. Due to initial delays in the project,
closing date has been extended to December 31, 1979.
Cr. No. 424    Inland Water Transport Rehabilitation Project; US$8.7 Million
Credit of August 10, 1973, as amended by Amending Agreement
of October 17, 1975; Original Credit Effective Date:
September 27, 1973; Supplementary_Credit Effective Date:
March 19, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
Procurement of spare parts and equipment under the original credit
is almost fully committed with 90% of available funds disbursed under the
Supplementary Credit, two used lighterage tankers have been procured and are
based in Chittagong. Pipes connecting the new pontoon berth oil mooring to
the ERL refinery have been laid, and the berth is being utilized for unloading
of crude oil. One tanker ("Banglar Kheya") which was the damaged last July
during the monsoon has been repaired. The "Banglar Alo" hull damage has yet
to be repaired, and it is unable to carry its full quota of crude oil as a
result. Since January 1978 the two tankers have lightered crude oil from
the Norwegian aid mother tanker, "Banglar Noor", (93,026 dwt) moored off
Kurubdia Island to ERL in Chittagong. BSC is reviewing desirable technical
assistance to improve tanker operation and maintenance, and firm proposals
to extend the closing date to December 31, 1979 are expected from GOB. This
extended period would be required to enable two possible periods of assistance
with the interim period on a "try-it-alone" basis. There are funds available
within the Credit to finance technical assistance due to savings effected by
some agencies having used their own resources for project items to conserve
foreign exchange. Up to April 30, 1978, the total amount disbursed was
US$6.83 million (78% of the Credit).



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 487    Second Telecommunications Project; US$20.0 Million Credit of
June 26, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1974; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979
Procurement action has been completed or is in an advanced stage
on all items except for the trunk automatic exchanges and the international
telephone exchange. Physical progress of the project is about two years
behind schedule due to earlier delays in building construction and reduced
supplies from the domestic switching factory. About 65% of the target
45,000 lines have been commissioned by December 1977. The current forecast
for physical works under the project is to be completed by December 1980,
2-1/2 years behind schedule. In compliance with the covenants, the T&T Board
was established in July 1976 through an ordinance. The ordinance also pro-
vided for other credit covenants, namely for T&T to have control over its
funds and take over the T&T accounts currently maintained by Comptroller and
Accountant General, and for introduction of a commercial accounting system
within T&T. Executive orders of the Government have still to be issued.
Cr. No. 527    Ashuganj Fertilizer Project; US$33 Million Credit of
February 11, 1975; Effective Date: December 19, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by the Asian Development Bank, KfW,
and the Governments of Iran, Switzerland, UK and US, providing a total of
US$109 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit. Site preparation
work including the necessary dredging and filling was completed on schedule.
However, based on the soils analyses undertaken by two specialist consulting
firms, further preparation of the site was undertaken to protect the plant
against earthquake risks. Currently the project is about two years behind
schedule due primarily to the additional site preparation and initial slow
progress in (a) placing orders for time-critical items and (b) planning for
construction. Process engineering and procurement have progressed sub-
stantially and the Project is now entering the construction phase. The soil
compaction work has been completed except for some final testing and the
site is available for continuation start. Contracting arrangements for the
critical compensatory foundation works of the Project have been finalized
and the contractor has already begun work at the site. Due to delays in
the start, construction equipments are needed to be stored at Vendors' ware-
houses. Revised estimates indicate that due to the need for additional site
work, the delays and to currency fluctuations, costs will be substantially
higher than lender funds currently available.  Arrangements are being made
by the Government and various cofinanciers to raise the additional funds
required to complete the Project.
Cr. No. 533    Population Project:  US$15 Million Credit of February 11,
1975; Effective Date: September 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982
The project is being cofinanced by six co-lenders providing a
total of about US$25 million equivalent in addition to the IDA credit.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Notwithstanding the delay in declaring the Credit effective, the Government
has made substantial progress in project implementation. The organizational
structure of the Population Control and Family Planning Division (body respon-
sible for the population program) has been defined and its headquarters staff
has been placed in position; most field staff is being recruited. Population
programs in five non-health ministries are underway. The Building, Planning
and Design Unit of the Ministry of Health, with the assistance of consultants,
has completed a master plan for the project's construction program and con-
tracts for construction of project buildings are being awarded. Preliminary
drafts of a study on Population legislation and a management study for the
Ministry of Health, Population Control and Family Planning have been completed.
Most of the required consultants and advisors for other parts of the project
have been appointed.
Cr. No. 542    Barisal Irrigation Project; US$27 Million of April 29, 1975;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: Decem-
ber 31, 1980
Construction work restarted at the end of the monsoon season.
Contracts have been awarded for 6 sluice gate structures and 7 sluice gate
pump houses. Tender documents for 120 primary pumps and 1,500 low lift
pumps were prepared, approved by IDA, and are being advertised. A tender
for 300 steel sluice gates was issued and the bids evaluated. Some problems
over final bid prices have necessitated Water Development Board to re-examine
tender bids before final award of contract. The Project authority has now
been allocated sufficient Taka funds for financing its present program.
Cr. No. 591    Fourth Imports Program; US$100 Million of November 25, 1975;
Effective Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
This credit was fully disbursed in December, 1977.
Cr. No. 605    Karnafuli Irrigation Project; US$22 Million of January 28, 1976;
Effective Date: February 24, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
The project is behind schedule due to initial delays in hiring proj-
ect consultants. The consultants for the irrigation portion of the project
began work in September 1976, but their effectiveness was limited by delays
in procurement of vehicles and equipment and in the assignment of local
consultants to assist in the design work. Work is now underway to prepare
construction contract documents and to facilitate equipment procurement. The
fisheries component of the project made virtually no progress until recently.
Key staff have now been appointed and a contract with a fisheries consulting
firm has been signed.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 621    Agricultural and Rural Training Project; US$12.0 Million
of March 25, 1976; Effective Date: June 30, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
Progress on preparation for construction is about five months ahead
of schedule. All sites have been selected and acquired. Progress has also
been achieved in the preparation of sketch plans for project buildings and the
Government has been working on revised, more economical plans for the Bogra
Rural Development Academy. About 75% of civil works contracts have been
awarded. Construction has commenced and is expected to be completed by mid-
1978. The inservice training program supported under project has been delayed
due to delays in allocation of local funds; delays are also being experienced
in hiring consultants for the project.
Cr. No. 622    Second Technical Assistance Project; US$7.5 Million of
April 8, 1976; Effective Date April 14, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Five subprojects have been approved amounting to about $4 million.
Other subprojects are under consideration.
Cr. No. 631    Rural Development Project; US$16.0 million of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: August 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
The physical progress of major components has been mixed and there
have been reports of some poor quality civil works which may required costly
remedial measures. Progress is not reflected by the low level of disburse-
ments which is expected to improve substantially in the near future as
applications for reimbursement for past expenditure are assembled. However,
the project is facing institutional and coordination problems. In particular,
the cooperative model employed has not been fully effective in increasing
the flow of production inputs to farmers and interdepartmental coordination
difficulties have hampered effective project execution. Discussions between
the Government and IDA on remedial measures are underway.
Cr. No. 632    Bangladesh Shilpa Bank Project; US$25.0 Million of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: November 8, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981
As of April 30, 1977, IDA had committed $7.7 million and $1.2
million had been disbursed. It is anticipated that the Credit will be fully
committed by December 1980 and that disbursements will be completed by the
Closing Date.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 676    Fifth Imports Program; US$75 Million of January 25, 1977
Effective Date: February 24, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
As of April 30, 1977, disbursements were US$46.3 million. In
addition about US$9.0 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 724    Shallow Tubewells; US$16 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: December 9, 1977; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Tender documents for engines and pump sets for all 10,000 wells
have been agreed. A consultant for workshop management has been designated
and the preparation of tender documents for workshop tools and machinery
is at an advanced stage. The preparation of Thana Irrigation Maps is
expected to be completed by March, 1978.
Cr. No. 725    Muhuri Irrigation; US$21.0 Million of July 1, 1977; Effective
Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1983
Delays have occurred in obtaining Government approval of the project
budget, establishing the project fund, completing arrangements for hiring the
engineering consultants, and signing a contract with the Contractor who will
construct the Feni Regulator.
Cr. No. 729    Extension and Research Project; US$10 Million of July 1, 1977;
Effective Date: January 6, 1978; Closing Date: April 30, 1981
Major staff positions in the Project Implementation Unit had been
filled. The Government has selected (in January 1978) two local architectural/
engineering firms, negotiated their contracts and issued Letters of Intent in
order to enable the consultants to commence work. It is expected that alter-
nate preliminary designs will be completed in June 1978 enabling the Government
and IDA to select the most appropriate least cost for each building type.
Extension staff have not yet been given orders not to carry out non-extension
duties.
Cr. No 735      Inland Water Transport II Project; US$5.0 Million Credit of
September 30, 1977; Effective Date: March 10, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980; Credit not yet effective.
Lists of spare parts for BIWTA vessels and navigation aids, and
for BIWTC cargo vessels have already been prepared and BIWTC lists for spare
parts for hydrographic equipment and specifications for new mobile cranes
are under preparation. The Ministry and the two agencies (BIWTA and BIWTC)
received more than 20 detailed proposals for their technical assistance
components of the Project. All expect to be able to finalize short lists
by end-March 1978. Final selection is expected to be completed by May 1978.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Cr. No. 752    Sixth Imports Prografn; US$75 Million of November 30, 1977;
Effective Date:  January 13, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979
As of May 22, 1978 disbursements were $604,000.  In addition, about
$13.5 million of letters of credit are outstanding.
Cr. No. 765    Jute Project; US$21 Million of February 8, 1978; Closing
Date:  June 30, 1983; Effective Date:  April 17, 1978
Cr. No. 787    Foodgrain Storage II Project; US$25 million of April 12, 1978;
Closing Date: July 12, 1978; Credit not yet effective.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
BANGLADESH
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I:      Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare project:
January 1977 - September 1977
(b) Agency which prepared project:
GOB (BARC and BARI staff), with assistance of
IDA (Dacca Office)
(c) Project first presented to IDA:
Preparation Report - July 1977
(d) First IDA mission to review project:
September 1977
(e) Departure of appraisal mission:
November 10, 1977
(f) Completion of negotiations:
May 4, 1978
(g) Planned date of effectiveness:
September 30, 1978.
Section II:    Special IDA Implementation Actions
To expedite project implementation, IDA approved on March 14, 1978
a subproject allocation of $180,000 under the Second Technical Assistance
Credit (622-BD) for the services of a local architect/engineering firm to
prepare designs and tender documents for the civil works component of the
project.



- 38 -
ANNEX III
Section III:   Special Conditions
Assurances have been obtained from the Government that:
(a) by December 31, 1979, a representative of BARC would
be appointed as a member of the Academic Council of
the Bangladesh Agricultural University, Mymensingh
(paragraph 54);
(b) by December 31, 1979, the findings of a joint team of
international and local research scientists and managers
to study the organization and administration of agricul-
tural research in Bangladesh would be submitted to IDA
for review (paragraph 55);
(c) by March 31, 1979 and by August 31, 1979, BARC would
prepare draft research programs in appropriate tech-
nology and in soil and water management and farming
systems respectively for IDA review and comments
(paragraph 48);
(d) by December 31, 1979, BARC and BARI would each employ
a qualified officer to head its accounting section
and other additional staff required for the project
in accordance with the plan acceptable to IDA (para-
graph 51); and
(e) by December 31, 1980, BARI would furnish to IDA for
review a comprehensive research plan for the years
1980-82 (paragraph 48).



