CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 828 BD
Project Agreement
(Agricultural Research Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE
Dated June 16, 1978


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 828 BD
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 16, 1978, between INTERNATIONAL DEVEL-
OPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE (hereinafter called
BARI).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the People's Republic of Bangladesh (hereinafter
called the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has
agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various
currencies equivalent to six million dollars ($6,000,000), on
the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that BARI agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth;
and
WHEREAS BARI, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BARI shall carry out Parts A and F (2) of the
Project described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agree-
ment with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricul-
tural practices.
Section 2.02. BARI shall furnish to the Association for
approval its proposed designs and floor plans for the buildings to
be constructed under Part A of the Project before undertaking any
such construction.


﻿-2-
Section 2.03. BARC shall furnish to the Borrower, not later
than December 31 of each year, BARC's annual assessment of the
achievements and future direction of agricultural research in the
Borrower's territory.
Section 2.04. For the purposes of Part F (1) of the Project,
BARC shall employ experts whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 2.05. (a) For the purposes of Parts C (2) and C (3)
of the Project, BARC shall establish and maintain two technical
working groups whose membership composition and organization shall
be furnished to the Association.
(b) BARC shall furnish to the Association for review: (i)
its proposed research program referred to in Part C (1) of the
Project, not later than March 31, 1979 or such other date as shall
be agreed with the Association; and (ii) its proposed research
programs referred to in Parts C (2) and C (3) of the Project not
later than August 31, 1979 or such other date as shall be agreed
with the Association.
Section 2.06. BARC shall:
(a) approve (i) the research sub-projects referred to in
Part C of the Project; and (ii) the overseas training program
referred to in Part E (1) of the Project, not later than Decem-
ber 31, 1981 or such other date as shall be agreed with the
Association, in accordance with such criteria and on such terms
and conditions as shall be agreed with the Association; and
(b) furnish to the Association for review all research
sub-projects under Part C of the Project estimated to cost more
than $30,000 equivalent, or such other amount as shall be mutually
agreed between the Association and BARC, prior to BARC's approval
under paragraph (a) of this Section.
Section 2.07. In order to assist BARC to design the building
included in Part B (1) of the Project, BARC shall employ archi-
tects whose qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of
employment shall be acceptable to the Association.
Section 2.08. BARC shall, not later than December 31, 1979 or
such other date as shall be agreed with the Association, employ


﻿(i) a qualified officer to head its accounts section; and (ii)
such additional staff as shall be required for the purposes of the
Project, in accordance with a plan satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
Section 2.09. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works required by BARC
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.10. (a) BARC undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the
Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition, transporta-
tion and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and
for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency
freely usable by BARC to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree, BARC
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.11. (a) BARC shall furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) BARC: (i) shall maintain records and procedures adequate
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including its
cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to identify the
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and
to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's accredited representatives to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association
at regular intervals all such information as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditures
of such proceeds and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿-4-
(c) BARC shall enable the Association's representatives to
examine all installations, sites, works, buildings, property and
equipment of BARC and any relevant records and documents.
Section 2.12. (a) BARC shall at the request of the Associa-
tion, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the
Credit.
(b) BARC shall promptly inform the Assuciation of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of
the Credit, or the performance by BARC of its obligations under:
this Agreement.
Section 2.13. BARC shall, not later than December 31, 1980
or such other date as shall be agreed with the Association,
furnish to the Association for review the plan referred to in Part
D (2) of the Project, such plan to (a) cover major commodities and
problem areas and (b) determine research priorities, resource
requirements and potential benefits.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. BARC shall maintain records adequate to reflect
in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. BARC shall: (i) establish separate accounts for
the purposes of Parts B, C, D, E and F (1) of the Project; (ii)
have such accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (iii) furnish
to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified
copies of the said accounts for such year as so audited and (B)
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iv) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning the said accounts and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BARC thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) a date 15 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accor-
dance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BARC of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have des-
ignated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America


﻿-6-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the Listrict of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ W. David Hopper
Regional Vice President
SoLth Asia
BANGLADESH AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH.INSTITUTE
By /s/ Abidur Rahman
Authorized Representative


﻿-7-
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement
A.   General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.4 hereof, equipment and machin-
ery shall be procured in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under
World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in March
1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of interna-
tional competitive bidding as described in Part A of the Guide-
lines. The requirements for equipment and machinery shall be
grouped so as to permit bulk procurement consistent with appro-
priate technical and procurement practices.
2.   Contracts for civil works Shall be let on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with proce-
dures satisfactory to the Association.
3.   Bricks and vehicles shall be procured on the basis of compet-
itive bidding advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
4.   Equipment items required under Part C of the Project may be
procured through international or local shopping.
5.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, BARC shall prepare and forward to the
Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender documents relating thereto, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods in question. BARC shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods
remain to be procured on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
6.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state


﻿-8-
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to BARC of inland freight and
other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the
place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of equipment and machinery subject to
international competitive bidding, goods manufactured in the
People's Republic of Bangladesh may be granted a margin of prefer-
ence in accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the People's Republic of Bangladesh if the bidder
shall have established to the satisfaction of
BARC and the Association that the manufacturing
cost of such goods includes a value added in the
People's Republic of Bangladesh equal to at least
20% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the People's Republic of Bangladesh.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.


﻿-9-
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i): the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   With respect to (i) all contracts for civil works estimated
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more and (ii) all contracts
for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, BARC shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, BARC
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform BARC
and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.


﻿- 10 -
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph and estimated to cost the equivalent of $10,000 or more,
BARC shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform BARC and state the reasons for
such determination.
3.   The Association may, on such conditions as it shall deter-
mine, permit withdrawals by BARC from the Credit Account in
respect of expenditures (a) for research sub-projects approved
by BARC under Part C of the Project and (b) under contracts not
exceeding $10,000 equivalent, for which sufficient evidence of
expenditure has not been furnished to the Association at the time
of withdrawal but shall be furnished to the Association at the
Association's request.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension of
the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or issuing
any change order under such contract (except in cases of extreme
urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by more
than 10% of the original price, BARC shall inform the Association
of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or change order
and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it determines that
the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of this
Agreement, shall promptly inform BARC an6i state the reasons for
its determination.


