Document of
The World Bank    FILE Copy
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2880b-CR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
COSTA RICA
April 22, 1980
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Units                          =         Colon (t)
US$1                                    =            8.60
¢ 1 million                             =         US$116,300
Weights and Measures:
Metric                                            British/US equivalents
1 meter (m)                             -         3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (kn)                        -         0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km )                =         0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (ton)                      =         0.98 long ton/1.1 US short ton
Fiscal Year
January 1 to December 31
Abbreviation and Acronyms
AADT          -    Annual Average Daily Traffic
B/C           -    Benefit/Cost
CABEI         -    Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM          -    Central American Common Market
CODESA        -    Corporacion de Desarrollo, S.A.
CRIO          -    Co-intry Road Improvement Office
DGE           -    General Directorate of Equipment
DGEE          -    General Directorate of Studies and Evaluation
DGP           -    General Directorate of Planning
DGV           -    General Directorate of Highways
DOP           -    Division of Public Works
ER            -    Economic Return
ETCAA         -    Estudio de Terminales de Carga, Almacenes y Aduanas
FECOSA        -    Ferr>carriles de Costa Rica, S.A.
HACIENDA      -    Ministry of Finance
ICAP          -    Central American Institute of Public Administration
IDB           -    Inter-American Development Bank
IFAM          -    Institute for Promotion and Assistance to Municipalities
INA           -    National Institute of Apprenticeship
INCOP         -    Instituto Costarricense de Puertos del Pacifico
JAPDEVA       -    Junta de Administracion Portuaria y Desarrollo Economico
de la Vertiente Atlantica
LACSA         -    Lineas Aereas Costarricenses, S.A.
MOPT          -    Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
NPV           -    Net Present Value
OFIPLAN       -    National Planning and Economic Policy Office
RECOPE        -    Refinerias Costarricenses de Petroleo
SANSA         -    Servicios Aereos Nacionales, S.A.
SIEGA         -    Central American Transport Planning Committee
TPU           -    Training Production Unit
USFHA         -    US Federal Highway Administration



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.    THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .....................................                  1
A.    General .............................................                 I
B.    The Transport System ................................                 2
C.    Planning, Coordination and Financing ....              ............   6
II.    THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ...................................                   8
A.    The Highway Network .................................                 8
B.    Highway Administration ..............................                9
C.    Highway Planning ....................................   10
D.    Highway Financing ...................................   11
E.    Highway Engineering .................................   12
F.    Highway Construction ................................   12
G.    Highway Maintenance .................................    13
H.    Highway Personnel Training ..........................   14
III.    ROAD TRANSPORT ...........................................   15
A.    Development and Traffic .............................   15
B.    The Vehicle Fleet  ...................................   15
C.    Organization and Operation of the Industry ....             ......   16
D.    Transport Regulation,  Including Control of Weights
and Dimensions  . ...................................    17
IV.    PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR                  18
A.   Past Assistance .         ....................................    18
B.   Projects Under Way .........           .........................   19
V.    THE PROJECT       .............................................           21
A.    Objectives, Overall Framework and General
Description ........          ..............................      21
B.    Project Components and Requirements ....              ............    24
C.    Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement  .... .....    31
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Costa Rica during October 1979. The mission comprised Messrs. J. M. Veniard
(Senior Economist), S. Miquel (Engineer), G. Morra (Training Specialist),
T. Watanatada (Economist), C. Powers (Consultant) and K. Ohbi (Consultant).
The report has been edited by Miss V. R. Foster.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring       ..............   34
E.   Project  Risks   ......................................  36
VI.   ECONOMIC EVALUATION .....................................   37
A.   Road Rehabilitation and Improvement Program ........   37
B.   Road Maintenance Program ...........................   39
VII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ......... ..........   40
TABLES
1.1  Summary of Freight and Passenger Traffic by Mode ........   43
1.2  Development of the Highway Network ........... ...........   44
1.3  Transport Infrastructure Investment by Mode in Comparison
with Total Public Sector Infrastructure Investment  ....   45
2.1  Proposed Highway Network 1982 ..........................   46
2.2  Estimates of Highway Expenditures and Road Users'
Contribution  ........ .............  .....................  47
2.3  Road Investments and Maintenance Expenditures Budget  ....   48
2.4  Investments and Expenditures of Ministry of Public Works
and  Transport   .................... .....................  49
2.5  Minimum Design Standards for Road Rehabilitation
and  Improvements    ................... ...................  50
3.1  Vehicle Fuel Consumption .............. .. ................   51
3.2  Vehicle Registration .................. ..................   52
5.1  Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Program (2 pages)   53-54
5.2  Five-Year Program for Road Rehabilitation, Maintenance,
Personnel Training and Technical Assistance ...........   55
5.3  Summary Description of the Ten Roads Included in the
First  Year  Program  ...... ............ ..................  56
5.4  Equipment Requirements for the National Network .........   57
5.5  Equipment Requirements for the Cantonal Network .........   58
5.6  Tentative List of Equipment to be Procured ..............   59
5.7  Summary of Required Expenditures for Workshops and
Spare  Parts    ..................... ......................  60
5.8  Schedule of Estimated Disbursement ........... ...........   61
5.9  Schedule of Implementation ............. .. ...............   62
6.1  Rehabilitation and Improvement Components for Year 1981
Traffic Flows (AADT) ............... .. .................   63
6.2  Summary of Representative Vehicle Operating Costs .......   64
6.3  Summary of Economic Evaluation of Maintenance Program and
Rehabilitation and Improvement Project ................   65



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
ANNEXES
l.  Proposed New Road Network Classification ....    .............   66
2.  Outline Terms of Reference for the Road Rehabilitation
Planning  Section   .......................................  67
3.  Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical Assistance
on  Road  Maintenance   ....................................  70
4.  Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance for the
Training Program of Road Maintenance Personnel .........   74
5.  Highway Network Analysis Model ...........................   90
6.  Road  Maintenance  Model   ...................................  92
7.  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File   106
CHARTS
World Bank 20505 - Organization Chart of the Ministry of
Public Works and Transport
World Bank 20506 - Organization Chart of the General
Directorate of Highways
MAP      IBRD 14807 - Costa Rica - Fifth Highway Project






I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   General
1.01      Costa Rica has an area of 51,000 km  and a population of 2.1 million;
during the last decade, the population has grown at a rate of about 2.5% per
annum. The country's main cities and over half of its population are in the
elevated and climatically equable Central Valley, where most of the emerging
industrial activity is located and the bulk of the country's coffee is produced.
The mountainous terrain surrounding the Central Valley has created a communica-
tions problem with the rest of the country, where, in a hot and generally
humid climate, the important banana crop is grown. The tropical areas have
potential for timber and cattle production, as yet largely untapped, partly
because of inadequate access.
1.02      Between 1970 and 1977, GNP grew at about 5.7% per year in real terms,
or 3.2% per capita. GNP per capita, which was estimated at US$1,540 in 1978,
is the highest and the most evenly distributed in Central America. One-fifth
of the GDP originates in agriculture, one-fourth in manufacturing and construc-
tion and the rest in transport, trade and other private and Government serv-
ices. In value terms, coffee and bananas are the main export products; next
in importance are beef, sugar, textiles and cacao. In volume terms, bananas
are the most important, followed by coffee and sugar.
1.03      Transport plays an important role in the economy of Costa Rica be-
cause of the country's heavy reliance on export crops and the growing volumes
of imported basic raw materials and manufactured goods. Increase of regional
trade and the opening up of new lands for productive use are becoming more
important. The country, however, has topographical and climatic features
which make the provision of transport facilities both difficult and costly.
1.04      Costa Rica relies for its transportation needs on an extensive road
network; two main ports, one on the Pacific Coast and one on the Atlantic;
two main railways connecting these ports with the Central Valley and the
country's capital, San Jose; and an international airport. Until relatively
recently, these two railways, the Atlantic one in particular, provided the
only means of transportation to their areas of influence, which included the
largest banana growing areas of the country. However, over the last two
decades, highways have become the main form of land transport, partly because
of the need to serve extensive areas not reached by the railways but, more
importantly, because highway transport is more appropriate for the generally
short hauls involved as well as the absence of large volumes of bulk traffic
(except bananas) suitable for rail transport. In 1978, road transport
carried about 88% of all ton-km generated in the country and about 98% of all
pass-km, while the railways carried about 8% of the ton-km and 1% of the
pass-km. The remaining traffic was moved by air transport, coastal shipping
and pipelines. Pipeline traffic accounts for 3% of all ton-km generated in
the country (Table 1.1).



-2-
B.   The Transport System
(i) Highways and Road Transport
1.05      The road network (Map IBRD 14807), which is relatively dense in the
Central Valley and other populated areas of the country, provides access to
all major producing areas. Primary links under construction will provide
connections with major producing areas heretofore without adequate highway
access: (i) the banana-growing Guapiles region, through the Bank-financed
San Jose-Siquirres-Puerto Viejo Highway; and (ii) the Puntarenas province,
through the Costanera Highway financed by CABEI (Central American Bank for
Economic Integration). The completion of these two major projects will mark
the end of Government emphasis on primary highway construction. Emphasis on
construction in recent years coincided with inadequate attention to maintenance
and improvement of existing roads, many of which are in poor condition or in
need of rehabilitation. The shift toward maintenance and improvement is
embodied in the comprehensive five-year (1981-1985) Road Maintenance, Rehabili-
tation and Improvement Program recently adopted by the Government.
1.06      Government investments in the highway subsector averaged US$20 mil-
lion p.a. in current prices over the 1968-1978 period, gradually extending and
improving the network to its present length of about 22,800 km. Only about
1,600 km, of which some 1,300 km are paved (Table 1.2), make up the national
system. The condition of some 21,000 km of secondary and feeder roads is not
satisfactory. These subjects are discussed in full in Chapter II.
1.07      Roads are concentrated mostly in the Central Valley area of the
country and along the axis formed by the Pan-American Highway, which runs
in a NW-SE direction from the border of Nicaragua to Panama. The highway
network of Costa Rica covers most popMlated areas of the country adequately,
presenting a total density (0.4 km/km ) higher than that of other countries
in the region. 1/ Rapid economic expansion and the availability of an exten-
sive highway network have strongly stimulated the development of the vehicle
fleet, which grew at 11.8% yearly over the period 1972-1977. Chapter III
reviews road freight and passenger transport.
(ii)   Ports
1.08      The two main ports of Costa Rica are Limon on the Atlantic and
Puntarenas on the Pacific coast. The poor physical condition of these two
ports and their limited capacity and operating restrictions prompted the
Government, in the mid-1970s, to embark on an ambitious program to improve the
port of Limon and to develop two new ports, one at Caldera near Puntarenas on
the Pacific Ocean and the other at Moin near Limon on the Atlantic Ocean.
Both projects on the Atlantic Ocean are now under construction and are scheduled
to start operations in 1981. Limon is the larger of the two currently active
ports, handling 1.2 million tons of cargo (excluding petroleum) in 1978, of
which 700,000 tons were bananas for export. Petroleum imports registered at
Limon amounted to 430,000 tons in 1978, but, actually, are already being
1/   Panama 0.1; Nicaragua 0.1; Guatemala 0.2.



- 3 -
handled at one of the new berths in Moin. Puntarenas, which is closer to
San Jose, concentrates on general cargo imports and some specialized exports
such as sugar and fertilizers.  It handled a total of 0.6 r11ion tons oF
cargo in 1978 (excluding petroleum). Main exports handled at the ports
include bananas (700,000 tons), sugar (70,000 tons), coffee (80,000 tons),
fertilizers (60,000 tons), packed meat (35,000 tons) and other agricultural
products (60,000 tons).
1.09      The new installation at Caldera would replace the badly deteriorated
pier at Puntarenas, which would be abandoned. The new port, located some
15 km to the south, would cost, when completed, some US$52.0 million, financed
in part by the Eximbank of Japan and the Venezuelan Investment Fund. The
project is scheduled for completion by end-1980. It includes a three-berth
general cargo facility with installations for handling containers and a grain
silo. The priority of these investments was confirmed by the Central American
Transport Study (CABEI, 1976); engineering was carried out with the assistance
of the Overseas Technical Cooperation Agency of Japan. The new port of
Caldera would have sufficient capacity to handle forecast traffic to the end
of the 1980s. The administration of the Caldera port would be taken over
by the Puntarenas Port Administration (INCOP), which would move its offices
and personnel to Caldera.
1.10      Additional capacity on the Atlantic side would be provided by the
new installations at Moin, complemented by the construction of a breakwater
and two new specialized berths at the existing port of Limon. The improvement
works at Limon would alleviate serious congestion and operational restrictions
due to lack of protection from ocean swells. The two new berths, one for
roll-on/roll-off traffic and the other for containers, would complement the
existing six Limon berths at the port, of which three, on an obsolete metallic
pier for loading bananas, would be abandoned and demolished, the banana
operations being transferred to Moin (para 1.11). The studies and construc-
tion have been undertaken by German firms, and a consortium of private banks
provides financing in the amount of US$52.0 million, covering the total cost
of the project. These facilities would be completed by the end of 1980.
1.11      The new installations at Moin, also proposed in a study by a consor-
tium of German firms headed by Rhein Ruhr GmbH under a German Government grant,
consist of three berths for specialized traffic. One would serve the oil
tankers supplying the RECOPE 1/ refinery and the existing pipeline to San Jose,
which starts at Moin. This berth has, in addition, the capacity to handle
roll-on/roll-off traffic. The two other berths would handle the banana traffic.
The electrified railway line from Rio Frio to Moin would eventually end at
these berths. The development of this port of Moin was initiated by RECOPE
with support from SEALAND shipping and the banana export companies. Construc-
tion, under the responsibility of the Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(MOPT), is scheduled for completion by the end of 1980. Estimated total cost
would be US$40.0 million, financed by RECOPE and private foreign banks. The
administration of the Moin port is being carried out by a subsidiary of
RECOPE, Portuaria Moin S.A. However, once the construction work is completed,
it is expected that JAPDEVA would set up a single port authority to administer
the ports of Limon and Moin.
1/   Costa Rica Petroleum Refinery Co.



- 4 -
1.12      The rapid expansion and heavy investments in the port sector of
Costa Rica, after many years of neglect, constitute an understandable reaction
to the high cost and restrictions imposed on maritime transport by the old
port facilities in a country largely dependent on foreign trade and exports.
The investments undertaken over the last six years are technically well
conceived and carried out, although it might have been possible to phase them
over a longer period without incurring congestion. MOPT's General Directorate
of Planning (DGP), with the assistance of consultants SYSTAN, Inc., US (under
Loan 1187-CR technical assistance), conducted a review of the total port
capacity, particularly on the Atlantic side (November 1978). This study
concluded that port capacity in the Limon-Moin complex would be sufficient
up to 1995; initial excess capacity might be provided on the break bulk piers
at Limon, but not on the specialized piers that are the main reason for the
investment. In the face of uncertainties concerning future traffic and the
interest of participating in the rapidly developing regional roll-on/roll-off
and container traffic, the Government opted for an all-at-once approach rather
than stage construction, which might have appeared more economical although, in
the end, more costly. The availability of attractive technical assistance and
financing by foreign institutions was also a factor. Costa Rica enters the
1980s with more than adequate port facilities. This consideration will be
crucial in the ability of the country to increase foreign exchange revenues
and to capture opportunities to use its ports as intermodal transshipment
centers for the growing Central American interregional traffic.
(iii) Railways
1.13      The railway network encompasses approximately 1,000 km.  In addition
to a short length of railway close to the Panama border on the Atlantic Coast
and operated from Panama, there are three railway systems operated by two
companies in Costa Rica: the Compania Bananera de Costa Rica's Southern
railway (a private service line) with 250 km and FECOSA's 1/ Pacific railway
with 160 km and Atlantic railway with 620 km of line. FECOSA, a Government-
owned corporation, was created in January 1977 by integrating the former
JAPDEVA and INCOP railways.
1.14      FECOSA's Pacific railway, which connects San Jose and Punta Arenas,
is the only electrified railway in Central America. Freight traffic on this
line has been stable over the last ten years at an average of some 400,000 tons.
In 1977 and 1978, traffic increased to an average of 500,000 tons because of
the transport of rocks to the Caldera port construction site. This traffic,
which constituted some 30% of the total traffic in 1978, would conclude in
1980. Passenger traffic has averaged some 850,000 p.a. since 1972. The average
length of freight haul is about 85 km. Most of the physical plant is old but
in good condition. There are proposals, based on consultants' studies carried
out in 1974, for the improvement and modernization of the railway. In order
to retain traffic in the face of competition from road transport, railway
tariffs have not been raised as necessary to avoid substantial deficits
(t 16.0 million in 1978). The future role of the railway and the economic
justification of proposed investments are being studied as part of the ongoing
transport planning studies carried out by MOPT's General Directorate of
Planning. This study is timely because the opening, in 1981, of the new port
1/   Ferrocarriles de Costa Rica S.A.



-5-
at Caldera, with its-even shorter distance to San Jose and truck access to the
pier, 1/ would represent a further threat to the Pacific railway. Considera-
tion is being given, in order to revitalize the line, to extensions to the
north, in particular to connect, as a first stage, with the new cement works
at Colorado.
1.15      FECOSA's Atlantic railway consists of some 220 km of main line
between San Jose-Limon and Rio Frio and some 400 km of branch lines in the
banana plantation areas along the Atlantic coast. Total freight traffic has
been stable since 1970 at a level of about 1,200,000 tons p.a. About 55% of
the traffic consists of bananas; 25% is traffic on the line to San Jose. The
average freight haul is about 120 km. Passenger traffic has decreased from
a peak of 1.8 million in 1973 (before the opening of the Siquirres-Limon
Highway) to some 1.2 million in 1978.
1.16      The physical plant of the Atlantic railway is in bad condition.
Average speed and train loads are very limited. The section from Siquirres
to San Jose is a hazardous line subject to frequent landslides and high
maintenance costs, particularly during the rainy-season. The section from
Rio Frio to Limon, however, plays an important role as the prime hauler of
bananas for export. Consequently, FECOSA has embarked upon an ambitious
modernization program, resulting from a study carried out in 1977 by Deutsche
Eisenbahn Consulting GmbH (Germany) which recommended complete track recon-
struction, a new alignment between Guapiles. and Rio.Frio shortening the line
some 15 km, signaling and new rolling stock.  This work, being carried out
under a contract with Canadian Pacific Services Ltd., has an estimated total
cost of US$26.0 million.
1.17      Further investments on the Atlantic railway are being carried
forward by FECOSA, i.e., the electrification of its line between Puerto Limon
(Moin) and Rio Frio.  By a Legislative Assembly's decree of April 1978, FECOSA
was granted earmarked revenues from a banana export tax and a Government
guarantee for loans contracted for the electrification works. FECOSA started
the works in October 1979. Total cost, including 12 electric locomotives,
would be US$31.5 million; financing is being provided by the German Development
Bank (KFW) and a consortium of private Banks. These investments were studied
by MOPT's General Directorate of Planning with the technical assistance of
consultants SYSTAN, Inc., provided under Loan 1187-CR,. who concluded that the
electrification was not justified at this time. Because of a loan covenant
of the Fourth Highway Project (para 1.24), the Government and the Bank con-
fronted two issues in relation to the electrification investments: (i) the
process by which the works were contracted before adequate economic studies
were carried out and (ii) the going-ahead with the works after the studies
indicated that the investments had an economic return in the range of 4% to
7%, that is, below the threshold of economic feasibility. These issues, which
affected the transport planning process and the effectiveness of the technical
assistance under the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1187-CR), have since been
addressed (para 1.24).
1/   At Puntarenas, only railway wagons have access to the pier.



-6-
(iv) Air Transport
1.18       Air Transport in Costa Rica plays a useful role in serving isolated
communities and sparsely populated areas on one hand and connecting the
country interregionally and internationally on the other. Local passenger
traffic has, in total, remained fairly constant in the last decade (at
150,000 p.a.), reflecting the improvement of the highway network. Interna-
tional passenger traffic increased rapidly from about 380,000 in 1970 to
720,000 in 1978. There is one international airport in Costa Rica, Juan
Santamaria, about 12 km from San Jose; it is also used for domestic flights.
An expansion of this airport is under way in accordance with a Master Plan
dated October 1977 prepared by consultants Dixon Speas (US) under CABEI finan-
cing. Total expansion, to be carried out over a 20-year period, is estimated
to cost US$60.0 million. The first stage, consisting of new terminal build-
ings, air traffic control and ground radar, is nearing completion.
1.19       A development plan for local airports is under preparation by
consultants SYSTAN, Inc. as part of their technical assistance to MOPT.
The plan, with an estimated total cost of US$4.0 million, will improve oper-
ations of domestic service airlines. These services are provided by a single
carrier, Servicios Aereos Nacionales, S.A. (SANSA), a subsidiary of LACSA.
LACSA, Costa Rica's flag carrier on international routes, is a private company
with Government equity participation through the Corporacion de Desarrollo,
S.A. (CODESA).
(v) Pipelines
1.20       There are some 160 km of pipelines in the country, all operated and
maintained by RECOPE. A 123-km pipeline transports oil products from a
refinery at Moin to La Garita terminal station near San Jose. A new 40-km
line connecting La Garita with the town of Alajuela has been completed,
together with a new storage facility to serve the Central Valley area. Pre-
liminary proposals from foreign interests to build a major interoceanic
pipeline to carry foreign crude from coast to coast are being discussed by
the Government.
C.   Planning, Coordination and Financing
(i) Planning and Coordination
1.21       MOPT recently carried out a reorganization, implemented at the end
of 1979, with two main objectives: (i) the decentralization of its resources
(especially equipment, materials and personnel) and (ii) the regionalization
of its activities (to improve its services at the local level). The reorga-
nized MOPT now consists of three main Divisions: Administration, Public
Works and Transport, each including several General Directorates and "Staff"
Departments. There are also various Directorates such as the Planning Direc-
torate (DGP) and technical councils with advisory responsibilities reporting
directly to the Minister. The reorganization of MOPT and the duties and
responsibilities of its new divisions are established in various Government
decrees, notably on the reorganization (Decree 9610 of February 1979), and in
the document "Organization and Functions of the Public Works Division" of
October 1979 (Chart 20505).



-7 -
1.22      MOPT has overall authority in matters of transport policy, planning
and coordination in the country. It carries out its transport responsibilities
through two of its Divisions: (i) Public Works, of which the GeneprAl D4-petor-
ates of Highways (DGV) and of Port Works (DGOP) are part, and (ii) Transport.
Under the Transport Division, the General Directorates of Water Transport and
of Civil Aviation are responsible for airports, air traffic, ports and shipping,
while the General Directorate of Road Transport is responsible for trucks and
buses. A new Railways Department in the Transport Division is being estab-
lished for regulation and tariff control.
1.23      While modal plans and coordination are carried out by the specific
Divisions, the overall planning responsibility in each mode falls on DGP,
directly under the Minister. DGP works within the framework of the National
Planning Laws of 1974 and 1979, which established the sectoral planning system
of which it is part. Economic planning at the national level is the respon-
sibility of the National Planning and Economic Policy Office (OFIPLAN), which
takes into account the plans prepared by DGP and other agencies. In 1975, as
part of the Fourth. Highway Project (Loan 1187-CR), the transport planning
mechanism was considerably strengthened by the establishment at DGP of a
planning and coordinating office with jurisdiction over all modes to prepare
integrated transport plans and investment programs, formulate policy and
foster intermodal coordination. The improvement of transport planning and
coordination by developing adequate institutions at MOPT was a key objective
of that project, which includes technical assistance provided by consultants
SYSTAN, Inc. to help DGP with the formulation of transport policy and an
investment plan for the sector, together with the formulation of measures to
improve planning, organization, administration and operation of the various
modes and their effective coordination. This project component is progress-
ing well; a final draft of the plan would be completed by July 1980.
1.24      While the Government is committed to strengthening transport plan-
ning and intends to carry out the recommendations of DGP and the plan, it
experienced, in the past, institutional problems with some transport modes
which generally carried out their plans without due regard to intermodal
relations and proper feasibility analysis. This was especially true of the
"non-highway" transport modes, particularly ports and railways. In the railway
sector, FECOSA contracted for the electrification of its line between Limon
and Rio Frio (para. 1.17) without demonstrating the economic justification of
the investment, and against the advice of DGP. This action resulted from
FECOSA's independent status and the lack of close Government controls over
its operations. The Bank indicated to the Government, in this instance, that
the electrification investments appeared to run counter to the intent of the
Fourth Highway Project Loan Agreement, which stipulated that transport invest-
ments should be carried out on the basis of adequate studies demonstrating
their economic justification. The Bank emphasized the need for better controls
to avoid similar cases in the future. The Government is tightening its con-
trols on the planning and authorization of public investments in a satisfactory
manner; this was confirmed during negotiations. Decree 9644 of February
1979 created a sectoral planning system subordinating all public and autonomous
institutions to the overall national development planning process with required
approval of investments by, in the case of transport, MOPT. Moreover,
Government Decree 9509 of January 1979 requires approval by the Ministry of



-8-
Finance and the National Planning Office of all projects where external
financing is needed. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it
would inform the Bank and afford the Bank a reasonable time to comment before
approving any exceptions or changes in the current system for the review and
approval of capital expenditures in the transport sector.
(ii) Financing
1.25      Government investment in the transport sector is budgeted by MOPT
and the modal independent agencies, which submit their annual budgets to the
Ministry of Finance (Hacienda) for final approval by the Legislative Assembly.
Public sector capital expenditures are relatively high (over 9% of GNP in
1978). Improving the physical infrastructure of the country has been one of
the main objectives of the Government, devoting to it a high level of resources.
This emphasis on public works has also been relatively intense in the trans-
port sector, where it maintained a level of some 20% of total public invest-
ment (and some 2% of GNP) in the last decade. Transport investments by mode
are shown in Table 1.3.
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
2.01      Major efforts were made in the last two decades to expand the
network. The total network length grew by 36% from 1962 to 1978; while total
length of paved roads increased by 80%, gravel roads increased by more than
240%. However, many of the paved roads are now in need of widening (lack of
all-weather shoulders is a serious problem) and strengthening by asphalt over-
lays, or complete pavement rehabilitation. Gravel roads need widening and
drainage improvement, as well as resurfacing with engineered gravel or asphaltic
surface treatment, to provide better services to the rapidly increasing traffic
and to facilitate proper maintenance. Earth roads are mostly of poor standard
and usable only during the dry season.
2.02      At present, MOPT is directly responsible for the 2,700 km of roads
classified as national and regional and for 380 km of secondary roads financed
by IDB (Table 1.2). The public roads law also provides that the construction
of other roads is the responsibility of MOPT while their maintenance is the
responsibility of the cantons l/. Under the Municipal Law, the cantons,
83 in total, are also authorized to construct local roads and tracks. Although
the cantons have financial resources of their own, these are quite limited
and have been largely devoted to small improvements. In the face of the almost
complete lack of maintenance capability on the part of the cantons, MOPT has
had to extend its maintenance responsibility over cantonal roads. The cantons
have also come to rely on MOPT for their own construction and improvement pro-
grams, diverting MOPT resources intended for the national and regional systems.
2.03      The present distribution of responsibilities and the road classifi-
cation on which it is based are obsolete. Many highways traditionally desig-
nated as regional routes have assumed national importance, and many secondary
1/   Canton--local administrative subdivision equivalent to municipalities
comprising urban and rural territories.



- 9 -
roads presently classified as cantonal roads serve as regional collectors
rather than catering only to local needs. In 1978, the Government recognized
that the strengthening of maintenance and rehabilitation capacity would
require reclassification of the road network to achieve better distribution
of responsibilities between MOPT and the cantons. The Government retained
consultants BEL-Ingenieria, S.A. (Costa Rica) to study the network, recommend
a new classification and prepare a five-year maintenance and rehabilitation
program.
2.04      The BEL study, completed in November 1979, reduced the inventoried
network to about 23,000 km through the elimination of trails and footpaths
without regular vehicular traffic and recommended a rearrangement of the
national and regional systems and incorporation into them of about 4,000 km
of roads heretofore classified as cantonal roads. The new road classification
(Table 2.1) would be based primarily on the nature and volume of the traffic
as well as on administrative coordination (Annex 1). As a result, MOPT would
be solely responsible for the construction and maintenance of the national
network. In turn, the construction and betterment of cantonal roads would
require the authorization of MOPT, which would sometimes execute the works.
The maintenance of cantonal roads and streets would be the responsibility
of the cantons, assisted by MOPT if necessary. Unclassified roads would be
built and maintained by their main users.
2.05      The consultants' recommendations, reviewed and commented upon by
MOPT, served as basis for a draft law revising the current classification.
The draft law was reviewed during appraisal and found satisfactory. That the
Government has taken all action necessary to reclassify MOPT's road network
and the cantonal road network would be a condition for effectiveness of the
proposed loan.
B.   Highway Administration
2.06      MOPT is a well established institution with about 80 engineers, most
of them graduated from the Engineering Faculty of the University of Costa Rica,
which is recognized as the best in Central America. The profession is well
organized, and there is a close link between the University and the Ministry.
MOPT does not seem to have problems in attracting and retaining engineers,
apparently for three reasons: first, the country is producing them in adequate
numbers; second, the continuity and democratic nature of the political system
have favored career development based on competence and peer recognition; and
third, the MOPT compensation package appears adequate; it includes basic
salary related to the civil service schedule plus various extras related to
responsibilities, seniority and field indemnities. In December 1979, MOPT's
work force consisted of nearly 8,000 persons, a substantial increase over the
1970 level of 5,000. Of MOPT's work force, 23% are professionals, technicians,
administrative personnel and executives. Less than one-third, that is, 2,500
persons, enjoy permanent civil service status; the remaining, some 5,400
persons, are daily workers, many hired on a seasonal basis for highway main-
tenance and force-account improvement projects. Some of these workers would
be transferred to the cantons in the framework of the program for the delega-
tion of maintenance responsibility (para 2.19). It would be important for
MOPT to monitor its hiring practices closely. During negotiations, the Govern-
ment confirmed that annual maintenance programs (paras 5.15 and 5.16) would
specify the number of daily workers in various Departments of MOPT and of the
cantons associated with maintenance activities.



- 10 -
2.07      According to the reorganization recently carried out (para 1.21),
MOPT exercises its responsibilities in the highway sector through the Division
of Public Works (DOP), which has five General Directorates (one of which is
the General Directorate of Highways (DGV)) (Chart 50506), and five Regional
Directorates. DGV exercises its highway responsibilities in close collabora-
tion with the five Regional Directorates, the General Directorate of Equipment
(DGE) and the General Directorate of Studies and Evaluation (DGEE). All
construction works financed entirely by MOPT are executed by the Regional
Directorates (either by contracting or by force account), which are also
responsible for road maintenance works of the national network within their
respective regions, for MOPT's participation in the maintenance of the cantonal
network and for operation and minor repair of road construction and maintenance
equipment assigned to them. In carrying out these responsibilities, the
Regional Directorates follow instructions and guidelines prepared by DGE and
by DGV's Subdirectorates for Road Design, Construction and Maintenance. The
Central Subdirectorates and DGE are responsible for planning of the works and
operations, each one in its own field, for preparation of the corresponding
specifications and guidelines, for supervision of execution, for control and
for recording of work accomplished.
C. Highway Planning
2.08      Highway planning, as part of the overall transport planning function,
is the responsibility of DGP (para 1.23). Since DGP is still in the process
of preparing its first National Transport Plan, DGV has continued, to date,
carrying out the preparation of highway investment programs. The preparation
of these programs (usually covering five-year periods) would remain in the
hands of DGV under the overall coordination of DGP. The latest five-year
program was formulated for the period 1975-1979 and guided, as a working
document from which a number of road construction projects were identified,
the development of DGV's highway programs. At the end of 1978, the prepara-
tion of a new five-year program was commissioned by DGV (to consultants
BEL-Ingenieria, S.A.) to cover the period 1981-1985. Following the Govern-
ment's new policy of shifting emphasis from new construction, the program
concentrated on the formulation of a five-year rehabilitation and improvement
program. The construction of new highways to be undertaken during the period
corresponds to the completion of works already included in the 1975-1979
program.
2.09      Strengthening of the sectoral planning capability of DGP is being
accomplished through the technical assistance, under Loan 1187-CR, provided
by consultants SYSTAN, Inc. (para 1.23). Detailed planning and programing of
individual road improvement and rehabilitation projects would be achieved by
the establishment, within the Public Works Division of MOPT, of a Project
Planning Section. This section would plan, evaluate and program rehab-
ilitation and improvement projects to be carried out each year, improving
MOPT's "in-house" capacity to update the five-year road rehabilitation and
improvement programs and to define annual work programs and prepare sub-
projects. Technical assistance to the section would be provided under the
project (para 5.13).



- 11 -
D. Highway Financing
2.10      MOPT has relied upon substantial foreign financing for the execution
of several large highway projects undertaken during the past four years, while
expending considerable local funds allocated from road-user and general tax
revenues to carry out a number of road improvement projects. Expenditures for
highways in the period 1970-1978 are shown in Table 2.2. The level of expendi-
tures for 1979 is estimated at approximately ¢ 567 million (US$66.7 million),
of which some 40% comprises recurrent expenditures for road maintenance, force
account road improvements and general administration. Over the 1970-1978
period, some US$136 million, or 40% of total highway expenditures, was financed
by external sources. Of total highway expenditures anticipated during the
1981-1983 portion of the Government's five-year (1981-1985) rehabilitation,
improvement and maintenance program, about 41%, or US$121 million, would be
financed by foreign lending agencies.
2.11      Estimated contributions from road-user charges are shown in Table 2.2.
Highway revenues from road users amounted to 4 112.9 million in 1970 and in-
creased to 0 298.7 million in 1978. About 55% came from motor fuel taxes, 28%
from import duties on vehicles and parts, 12% from vehicle registration and
licenses, and 5% from tolls. Because of the rapid growth of the road system
and the exemption of diesel oil from motor fuel taxes, total road user reve-
nues were historically substantially less than total expenditures on highways,
although they appreciably exceeded highway maintenance costs, including admin-
istration. This situation was drastically changed in August 1979 when motor
fuel prices were substantially increased over the previous price increase
effected in January 1979 and the fuel taxes were extended to diesel oil.
Still, on January 7, 1980, a new increase finally brought the motor fuel
prices to international levels (diesel oil: US$1.12 per gallon). In total,
diesel oil prices increased 226% from July 1979 to January 1980. Gasoline
prices increased 87% during the same period, reaching the present level of
US$2.65 per gallon.   The full impact of these sharp price increases has not
yet been determined, although some reductions in traffic have been observed.
The road user contributions would probably nearly cover, in 1980, total high-
way expenditures. It is expected that, in that year, motor vehicle contribu-
tions would reach the 0 500 million level.
2.12      The level of local funds required for execution of the road rehabi-
litation, improvement and maintenance programs is broadly in line with
current levels of MOPT's expenditures and appears within the Government's
fiscal capacity. The overall level of programed highway expenditures over
the period 1981-1985 and a summary of the programs and their relation to the
Bank project are included in Table 2.3. Projected expenditures of MOPT during
the same period, including amount of investments and current expenditures to
be financed from internal resources for subsectors other than highways, are
shown in Table 2.4. Total internally financed MOPT expenditures, including
the highway programs, would remain roughly at levels similar to that of
1979 to 1983, mostly because of the present large expenditures in the port
construction projects at Caldera, Limon and Moin which are about to be com-
pleted. No external financing is shown for highway expenditures beyond 1983
although it is reasonable to expect continuing participation by lending
agencies in MOPT's road program. The overall level of expenditures as
related to needs and to the financial capacity of the Government is reviewed
in Chapter V.



- 12 -
E. Highway Engineering
2.13      DGV's Design Subdirectorate, responsible for highway engineering,
comprises three departments: Road Design, Bridge Design, and Laboratory
and Materials. The latter performs site and laboratory investigations of
soils and materials for design of bridge foundations, earthworks and pavements;
it also performs pavement design, but lacks capability for detailed geological
studies. Although it has adequate inhouse engineering capability to handle
its normal workload, DGV has increasingly used consultants for engineering of
large and medium size projects, relying initially on joint ventures of Costa
Rican and foreign firms. One well staffed and equipped local consulting
enterprise with some additional experience in neighboring countries dominates
the field of six firms engaged in highway and bridge design.
2.14      The specifications for geometric design standards were established
in December 1973 and revised slightly during preparation of the proposed
project (Table 2.5). They are generally satisfactory and well adapted to
Costa Rica. Many roads are not to the standards of their class, particularly
the "old" roads serving the central plateau. Typical shortcomings are in-
sufficient sight distances at curves and especially at intersections, lack of
lateral support for pavements and, most important, inadequate drainage. The
steep slopes for embankments and cuts (typically 2:1 and 0.5:1, respectively)
are justified by soil conditions, by economic considerations and by rapid
vegetation growth under prevailing climatic conditions. While design and
materials selection and processing for asphalt paving are adequate, gravel
surfaces in some areas lack fine binding materials and often include a high
percentage of oversized materials.
F. Highway Construction
2.15      DGV's Construction Subdirectorate controls road and bridge construc-
tion carried out by contract. The Construction Subdirectorate is made up of
three departments: (a) Standards, which formulates general policies, prepares
general and special technical specifications, reviews the construction manual,
and reviews the "as built" drawings and documents of the completed construc-
tion works; (b) Tendering, which prepares prequalification and bidding docu-
ments, evaluates bids, recommends awards and prepares contract documentation;
and (c) Costs, which centralizes all costing information, estimates unit
prices for project cost estimates, verifies actual costs of ongoing projects
and evaluates project cost increases. Construction of road projects financed
by international institutions is handled by ad hoc offices at the sub-
directorate level; this would also be the case for works under the proposed
project. This arrangement has strengthened project management without
weakening the capacity to handle works not financed externally. The five
Regional Directorates are directly responsible for construction of locally
financed secondary and feeder roads.
2.16      In the past, many road construction and improvement projects were
undertaken by MOPT force account; in recent years, there has been a clear
shift toward contracting. In the future, construction and improvement of all
national network roads will be entrusted to contractors. Force account by
MOPT or by the cantons with MOPT technical assistance will be used only for
construction and improvement of the cantonal network, and possibly for small
rehabilitation projects on the national network, not suitable for contracting.



- 13 -
The quality of works is generally satisfactory. DGV's supervision, assisted
as appropriate by consultants and US Federal Highway Administration (USFHA)
advisors, has been effective.
2.17      Most large contracts have so far been handled by foreign contractors,
with increasing participation of local subcontractors. The local highway
construction industry has been gaining experience and strength over the past
15 years; six firms are now capable of carrying out yearly works for US$5.0
million or more, five firms have an adequate capacity for a yearly workload
of US$2 to US$4 million and six other firms are contracting highway works on
a smaller scale.
G. Highway Maintenance
2.18      MOPT is responsible for maintaining all national and regional roads
in the country and certain secondary roads built recently with IDB financing.
According to the new MOPT organization (paras 1.21 and 2.07), actual road
maintenance is executed by the Regional Directorates by force account. How-
ever, the possibility of contracting maintenance works would be investigated
under the proposed project (para 5.19). DGV's Maintenance Subdirectorate pre-
pares annual maintenance programs, assigns budgetary allocations and equipment,
provides technical guidance, supervises compliance with the approved programs
and controls maintenance costs. DGE prepares programs for equipment scrapping,
replacement and repair; administers MOPT's central workshop and the supply of
spare parts; provides guidance and technical assistance to the regional direct-
orates on equipment operation and repair; keeps records on equipment assign-
ment, utilization and performance and controls equipment operation costs.
2.19      As mentioned in paragraph 2.02, MOPT has assumed de facto responsi-
bility for cantonal roads.  A large number of these roads would be integrated
into the national network (para 2.04) under the responsibility of MOPT. The
rest of the network would remain the responsibility of the cantons. However,
until the cantons develop the necessary capacity to ensure the maintenance of
their roads, MOPT would continue to assist them on the basis of contracts
between MOPT and the cantons. It is not yet clear how these contracts would
be handled in practice. While the larger cantons are expected to act with
considerable initiative, the smaller ones would continue to depend extensively
on MOPT.  It is anticipated that smaller cantons may join together in consor-
tiums. The transfer of full responsibility to the cantons would require
careful evaluation and would be implemented gradually. Until the situation
is reassessed, MOPT would continue to receive the budgetary allocation to
attend the cantonal network. At the time of negotiations, the Government
confirmed its policy of gradual implementation of delegation of responsibility
for the cantonal roads to the cantons and agreed to exchange views with the
Bank from time to time on this matter (para 2.06).
2.20      Reliable information on past expenditures on road maintenance is not
available because field information on maintenance expenditures is lumped



- 14 -
together with expenditures for road improvement and rehabilitation. According
to consultants BEL-Ingenieria estimates, MOPT maintained, in the last years,
about 7,000 km of roads with total expenditures of about US$8 million per year,
most of it on maintenance of roads that are now being integrated into the
national network. No estimates could be made by the consultants on separate
unit costs for maintenance of paved, gravel and earth roads. Under the pro-
posed project, MOPT would reorganize its accounting system and reporting
procedures to show separately expenditures for maintenance of the national
network, for maintenance of the cantonal network, and for road improvement
and construction (para 5.17).
2.21      Existing deficiencies in road maintenance are mainly due to:
(a) inadequate organization and insufficient managerial capacity of the
highway maintenance department; (b) deficiencies in management and operation
of MOPT's maintenance equipment fleet; and (c) lack of technical skills of
maintenance personnel at all levels. The proposed project is geared to
address these points.
2.22      MOPT has a large equipment fleet of about 1,000 units plus light
vehicles and miscellaneous items having a total replacement value of US$60
million. Average age of the fleet is seven years. A preliminary assessment
made by consultants BEL-Ingenieria indicates that 35% of the units are in good
working condition, 50% need repair or overhaul, and 15% should be scrapped.
According to consultants' estimates, availability is quite satisfactory (about
70%); utilization of available equipment, however, is rather low (about 50%).
About 300 units are presently being used in the maintenance of the newly
defined national network and the principal cantonal roads. The rest of the
fleet is used to carry out other public works (such as port construction) and
to construct and improve urban roads and feeder roads. MIost of the equipment
needed for the national network is already available, or would be made avail-
able through the extensive overhaul program which MOPT has contracted with
private firms (COPESA and MATRA) and further overhaul under the project. Once
the current MOPT overhaul program is completed (1982), sufficient equipment
will be available for the cantons. The cantons will mostly keep the equipment
already assigned to them.
2.23      The distribution of workshops throughout the country is adequate,
but some of the workshop facilities require improvements and replacement of
deficient equipment and tools. The warehouses are adequate; improvements in
the stock control system are needed. To expedite cumbersome procedures for
procurement of goods, MOPT has recently reached agreements raising the ceiling
under which MOPT can purchase goods directly without the prior review of the
Finance Ministry. Concurrently, the Finance Ministry would also strengthen
auditing and monitoring of MOPT's procurements. This matter should be followed
up during implementation of the proposed project for eventual adoption of
additional measures to further expedite the procurement process.
H. Highway Personnel Training
2.24      Although DGV's senior-level staff are generally capable, lower and
middle-level personnel require additional training to enable them to employ



- 15 -
more efficient work methods. All MOPT training activities are carried out by
the Training Department under the Administration Division (para 1.21). The
Depe-tment includes three senior staff members, ten instrtuctorq and six
clerical personnel. During 1978, training courses ranging from 20 to 80 hours
were conducted by MOPT instructors for about 500 personnel, mainly mechanics,
electricians, welders, and equipment operators. Repeat courses were planned
for 1979 for about 1,000 persons; however, many of the courses could not be
implemented because of shortage of funds allocated to the Training Department,
unavailability of trainees and other constraints.
2.25      In addition to the MOPT Training Department, other training facili-
ties are available in Costa Rica such as the National University, the Tech-
nological Institute, the Central American Institute of Public Administration
(ICAP), and the National Institute of Apprenticeship (INA). MOPT's relation
with these institutions is good, since many of its staff have been attending
courses on a part-time basis. In the past, INA has provided training programs
for lower level administrative and technical supervisors and has indicated
interest in participating in MOPT's expanded training program. The training
component included in the proposed project would improve and expand the quality
of MOPT's staff training by strengthening the Training Department.
III.  ROAD TRANSPORT
A. Development and Traffic
3.01      Traffic counts on the national and regional networks have been
carried out by MOPT in a systematic way for many years. Traffic data on
secondary and feeder roads have not been gathered systematically, but a number
of classified counts were made during the studies leading to formulation of
the proposed project. Most of the highway traffic is centered around San Jose
and in the Central Plateau. The main access roads to San Jose reached, in
1977, an Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) of 20,000 to 30,000 within the
metropolitan area and 10,000 to 15,000 in rural areas. Many roads in the
Central Plateau carry an AADT of over 4,000, an amount that is also reached by
the access road to Puntarenas, while the access to Limon has an AADT of only
1,000. The AADT on the Inter-American Highway averages about 2,000 to the
north of San Jose and 1,000 to the south. The only other heavily traveled
routes are the trunk road serving the Nicoya Peninsula, with an AADT of nearly
2,000 vehicles, and the access road to the San Carlos region, with an AADT of
about 1,500. Traffic levels increased nationally by more than 9% annually
during the five years 1972-1977 (growth rates by province varied from 7.6% for
Cartago to 10.8% for Guanacaste). This growth figure is well correlated with
records of fuel consumption (Table 3.1).
B. The Vehicle Fleet
3.02      Vehicle registration has been accelerating in recent years, and
Costa Rica reached, in 1977, a vehicle density of 61 vehicles per 1,000
population, a level of motorization that puts it at the head of the countries



- 16 -
in its region. The annual growth rate of the vehicle fleet from 1960 to 1977
averaged 9.7%, and for the period 1972-1977 averaged nearly 12% (Table 3.2).
Trucks, including pickups, account for 37% of the total vehicle fleet, while
buses make up only 3% of the fleet; it should be noted that, if pickups are
excluded, the actual cargo fleet is only about 10% of the total vehicle fleet.
About 65% of the total fleet is concentrated in the San Jose metropolitan area.
3.03      The freight fleet is composed predominantly of single-rear-axle
trucks commonly used for transport of agricultural products and manufactured
goods over relatively short distances and with low load factors (less than
50%). On most regional routes, these two-axle vehicles make up 65-80% of the
truck traffic; however, on truck routes serving the major ports or carrying
international traffic, three-axle trucks and five-axle tractor and semi-trailer
rigs make up 40% of the truck volume. Freight transport over the national and
regional highways is about 1,000 million ton-km per year. As in other Central
American countries, there is considerable importation of used U.S. equipment,
although this practice has declined noticeably during the past three years.
As of 1976, MOPT statistics showed that more than 85% of the cargo fleet was
of less than 8-ton capacity and only 0.5% was over 10 tons; 37% of that fleet
was less than five years old, 41% was from six to 15 years old, and 22% was
even older.1/ Although complete statistics are not yet available, recent MOPT
surveys show that there has been a large increase in the number of 5-axle
semi-articulated trucks operating in Costa Rica, and it is estimated that
these large vehicles (20-ton payload) now comprise more than 5% of the freight
fleet.
C. Organization and Operation of the Industry
3.04      Freight operators are composed of a few multi-vehicle companies
and a majority of individual truckers owning one or two vehicles. Owner-
operators represent about 93% of all owners and account for about 72% of the
vehicle fleet.l/ Their activities are usually related to agriculture, and the
truckers often act as middlemen, operating mostly in rural areas. Individual
truckers sometimes group themselves into cooperatives which protect truckers
in certain geographical areas, or those dealing with certain commodities.
Family corporations, representing 5% of total ownership, account for 12% of
the freight fleet. About 2% of the owners are organized as modern corporations
owning 16% of the fleet, with an average of 15 vehicles per company. This
well organized group serves the intraregional market in competition with
other regional firms, in particular from Guatemala.
3.05      There are no proper transport terminals in Costa Rica.  Only the
most important freight companies have their own yards, which can be utilized
as terminal facilities. The General Customs Warehouses in San Jose act as
receiving terminals for import merchandise, but this function will soon be
taken over by the new central custom facilities recently constructed near
Alajuela. A study of possible cargo terminals (Estudio de Terminales de Carga,
Almacenes y Aduanas, ETCAA), was conducted by the Government and financed
by CABEI. The Government, in 1978, expressed interest in securing the Bank's
assistance for the construction of a major freight terminal. The proposed
1/ Analysis of the Road Transport Industry in Central America, Volume VI,
Costa Rica (IBRD report 1427a-CA) dated April 1977.



- 17 -
terminal would improve the efficiency of the interface between the various
segments of the industry. It would support the entry of domestic operators
in the interregional and intermodal services and, finally, would be a factor
in alleviating the problem caused by the circulation and parking of large
trucks in the city of San Jose.
3.06      Urban as well as rural passenger transport is provided exclusively
by private concessionaries ranging from single vehicle owners to companies
operating up to 10 vehicles. Operating franchises are granted for a five-
year period. Distribution of inter-city passenger services countrywide is
reasonable. Of a total bus fleet of about 4,000 vehicles, 85% are 48-seat or
larger buses operating with a relatively high load factor, and the remaining
are 16-28 seat microbuses. The age of the fleet is adequate, particularly
since, during the past three years, the Government has assisted operators in
modernizing the bus fleet, especially in the San Jose area.
D. Transport Regulation, Including Control of Weights and Dimensions
3.07      Government intervention in the organization of road freight trans-
port has been minimal. Truckers operate freely over routes that they select,
but under the obligation of annual registration and vehicle inspection. The
General Directorate of Road Transport in the Transport Division of MOPT
(para 1. 22) regulates routes and fares for all bus services and franchises
the new bus lines. Traffic regulations are enforced by a traffic police body,
formerly under the Ministry of Public Safety, but organized at present as a
General Directorate of Traffic Police under MOPT's Transport Division. There
is no fixed rate structure for freight transport, with individual operators'
rate levels being set by supply and demand. Regional companies base their
rates on the tariffs published in 1974 by the Central American Transport
Association and mark up these rates depending on competition. Passenger
transport tariffs have been under close scrutiny during recent years since
operators claim that revenues do not cover operating costs. A study of
intercity transport rates is presently under way.
3.08      Vehicle operating costs were determined by consultants BEL-Ingenieria
during the preparation of the proposed project (Table 6.2). Recorded financial
costs incurred by single-vehicle owners are 15% to 30% lower than those of
trucking companies. Single-vehicle owners are generally ready to operate with
a lower profit margin; they play an important role in keeping the industry
competitive and responsive to the demand. Under these conditions, savings in
vehicle operating costs due to improved road conditions would, within a
relatively short time, be passed on to the users. Better road conditions
would also favor the use of more modern and more efficient trucks where these
would lead to lower operating costs.
3.09      Maximum allowable vehicle weights and dimensions are based on the
Central American Road Transport Agreement of 1958, which specified 8,000 kg
as maximum single-axle and 14,500 kg as maximum tandem-axle loads. Since this
is on the low side compared to many other countries, the Government has un-
officially adopted the rule of permitting overloads of 15%, corresponding to
9,200 kg and 17,400 kg. A new set of Central America vehicle weight and



- 18 -
dimensions regulations is being studied by the joint Central American Trans-
port Planning Committee (SIECA). Analysis of the very limited statistics
available, supplemented by field observations, indicates that vehicle over-
loading is a serious problem on only a few routes, primarily those used by
truckers carrying logs to the lumber mills in the Central Valley. Continuous
overloading also occurs on some routes during peak harvesting of crops such
as grains, sugar cane and plantains.
3.10      To enforce weight regulations, six permanent scales are installed
in different parts of the country. In a recent reorganization, the weighing
control section was attached to the Traffic Engineering Department of the Road
Transport General Directorate and is to be provided with adequate staff and
budget resources. Strengthening of the weight control program is under way,
including: (a) installation of a seventh scale in San Isidro del General;
(b) acquisition of two 30-ton electronic scales with printing devices;
(c) acquisition of four portable electronic scales and four vehicles; and
(d) increasing the staff from the present 18 to about 40 employees. During
negotiations, the Government confirmed that MOPT would enforce the vehicle
dimension and axle load regulations in effect on the date of the loan agreement
and complete the program of strengthening outlined above by June 30, 1981.
Appropriate standards of performance and related monitoring arrangements
would be established and the results discussed with the Bank.
IV. PAST AND ONGOING BANK ASSISTANCE TO THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR
A. Past Assistance
4.01      The First Highway Project (Loan 299-CR/Credit 10-CR, US$11.0 million)
was undertaken in 1961 to assist in financing the first stage (630 km) of the
National Highway Program and also included maintenance and construction equip-
ment; the US Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) 1/ provided technical assistance.
Progress on the project lagged, but a reduced program of 510 km of roads was
satisfactorily completed in 1968. The delays were caused by a shortage of
local funds and the limited capacity of the local contracting industry, which
won most of the large number of small contracts involved, international
contractors having shown little interest.
4.02      In 1970, a second Bank project (Loan 664-CR, US$15.7 million) was
undertaken, comprising, essentially, construction of a new 57-km two-lane
highway between Siquirres (which is linked to San Jose by an existing paved
road) and Limon. Construction progressed generally satisfactorily, and the
road was completed in December 1975, some ten months behind the original
schedule. There was a bid overrun of about 35% in relation to the appraisal
estimate, but, because of the devaluation, in 1974, of the colon in relation
to the US dollar, final costs exceeded the original estimates by only 20%.
Originally, this project also included a feasibility study for an improved
1/ Now the Federal Highway Administration.



- 19 -
highway link between San Jose and Siquirres, but this study was subsequently
removed from the project and combined with detailed engineering to form the
Highway Studies Project (para 4.03). The implementation of the project and
its impact were reviewed in the PCR dated August 31, 1977 and in the PPAR
circulated to the Executive Directors (Bank Report 2084, June 1978). Both
reports concluded that the project had been successfully executed, especially
if one considers that the construction contracts were being completed during
a period of high inflation. The reevaluated rate of return of the project
was 16% compared with 17% estimated at appraisal.
4.03      At the end of 1972, the Bank made a US$1.4 million loan for a
Highway Studies Project (Loan 872-CR) covering: (a) a feasibility study for
improving the road links between San Jose with Siquirres and Puerto Viejo or
constructing new ones; and (b) detailed engineering for the most economically
feasible highway alternative. The feasibility study, which demonstrated
the economic advantage of constructing new roads, was finished in late 1973.
Detailed engineering for the new road was substantially completed by the
end of 1974, and, together with the feasibility study, formed the basis of
the Fourth Highway Project. The PCR and PPAR mentioned in the preceding
paragraph also reviewed the execution of this project and concluded that the
study was satisfactorily carried out and that the provision of a separate loan
for this purpose was well warranted given the importance and complexity of the
investment that it prepared.
4.04      The PCR and the PPAR mentioned in the preceding paragraphs also
stated that the initial progress achieved in highway maintenance had sub-
sequently fallen off, mainly because of: (a) deficiency in controlling vehicle
weight; and (b) diversion of equipment and maintenance budget for feeder road
construction and improvement works. They concluded that the Borrower complied
only partially with the Loan Agreement requirements regarding highway
maintenance and recommended closer monitoring of the maintenance covenant of
subsequent loans.
B. Projects Under Way
4.05      The preparation work under Credit 872-CR led to agreement on the
Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1187-CR, US$39 million, December 1975) with a
total cost of US$74 million equivalent, of which the Bank financed US$39 mil-
lion, or 77% of all foreign exchange costs. The balance of foreign costs was
financed by a loan of US$3 million from the OPEC Special Fund and a loan of
about US$9 million from the Venezuelan Investment Fund. The main project
component is the construction of the San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres road (about
96 km) and of the Rio Sucio-Puerto Viejo branch road (about 29 km).  The
project also comprises strengthening of MOPT's vehicle weighing and civil
works supervision capability as well as technical assistance for transport
planning and to improve urban transport in the metropolitan area of San Jose.
4.06      Although bids were invited on six sections with options to bid on
separate sections or on groups of sections, one Ecuadoran firm came out as
the lowest bidder and was awarded the 126 km under a contract with a nominal
amount of US$50 million equivalent and a completion period of 54 months.



- 20 -
Field work started in March 1977 and is running about ten months behind
schedule; by December 31, 1979, about 50% of the works had been executed.
Initial delay occurred in awarding the contract and in contractor mobiliza-
tion. Further causes of delays were a cement shortage in mid-1978 and
increases in the quantities of work required. To speed up execution and
prevent further delays, about 13% of the works were subcontracted in late
1979. Despite three previous changes in management, the contractor's perform-
ance is still not satisfactory, especially concerning financial administration.
To improve the contractor cash flow, the Government has recently reinstated
the 10% advance and appointed an inspector to control the contractor's pay-
ments. The Government is confident that, with these measures, work should
proceed at a reasonable rate and should be completed by December 1981, about
18 months later than estimated at appraisal. Acquisition of vehicles and
equipment for supervision of civil works has been completed, one permanent
weighing scale has been established and procurement of portable weighing
scales is under way.
4.07      The technical assistance for transport planning provided by con-
sultants SYSTAN, Inc. (US) is progressing well, despite a four-month delay
produced by unforeseen work demands on the counterpart personnel as well as
on the consulting team. The work carried out for the preparation of the
National Transport Plan (final draft expected by July 1980) has already pro-
vided the foundation for the identification and preparation of the proposed
Fifth Highway Project, which would shift the focus of Bank projects from
construction of primary roads to maintenance and rehabilitation. The San
Jose Urban Transport Study was carried out by consultants Wilbur Smith (US)
and provided the basis for the San Jose Urban Transport Project (Loan 1491-CR,
November 1977, US$16.5 million) now in execution. The project provides for
road and traffic improvements in the capital city. It includes technical
and financial assistance in traffic management, public transport improvement,
organization and institution building. Early coordination problems caused
implementation delay; these problems have now been largely overcome and the
implementation of most project components has been initiated.
4.08      The Bank Group is also supporting 107 km of feeder road improvement
in the canton of Perez Zeledon, included in the Agricultural Credit and
Development Project (Loan 1410-CR, June 1977, US$18.0 million; Credit 872-CR,
June 1977, US$9.0 million, of which US$0.8 million is for roads). Implementa-
tion of the road component has been hindered by delays in setting up the
Country Road Improvement Office (CRIO) at cantonal level with technical
assistance from the Institute for Promotion and Assistance to Municipalities
(IFAM). Engineering of the roads by CRIO was completed in December 1979, two
years after the date foreseen at appraisal. Road construction has been
delayed because of a two-year slippage in equipment procurement by IFAM and
is now expected to start by April 1980. Completion of the road component is
expected for early 1982, compared with the completion date of December 1979
estimated at appraisal. This project provided a fruitful opportunity to
assess the requirements for effective cooperation between MOPT and the cantons
and to redefine their respective roles in construction and maintenance of
rural roads.



- 21 -
V. THE PROJECT
A.   Objectives, Overall Framework and General Description
5.01      The project would support the Government policy of shifting its
sectoral priorities away from the initiation of new large construction and
toward the maintenance of the existing highway network and rehabilitation and
improvement of old or inadequate roads. To implement this policy, MOPT has
adopted a Five-Year Program (1981-1985) for Road Maintenance, Rehabilitation
and Improvement. The objectives of the Program are:
-    to strengthen DGV's maintenance capacity and improve maintenance
planning and management for the expanded national network;
-    to rehabilitate and improve the large number of primary and
secondary roads which are inadequate for their level of traffic;
and
-    to support the gradual delegation of maintenance responsibility
for the cantonal network to the cantons.
5.02      The reclassification of the network (para 2.04) and the recent
reorganization of MOPT provide an adequate framework to achieve a better
distribution of responsibilities between MOPT and the cantons. Focusing on
the strengthening of DGV and the upgrading of its operations is, at this
stage, the proper strategy. DGV's advances in maintenance planning and
equipment management would trickle down to the cantonal network.  DGV's
support to the cantons for maintenance would be continued for some years.
DGV would also continue to service the equipment allocated to the cantons.
Finally the technical personnel of the cantons would participate in the
training program.
5.03      A "sector approach" has been adopted for the rehabilitation and
improvement program. The sector format would be more effective in view of
the large number of small projects to be undertaken. It would also support
further improvements in MOPT planning and programing capacity, especially
the coordination of rehabilitation and maintenance policies. The sector
approach has facilitated coordination between Bank and IDB projects and has
allowed the Bank to focus attention on the program as a whole, in particular,
on the level of funds allocated to maintenance/rehabilitation and the balance
between various components of MOPT's highway program. A global approach was
also important to support one of the major sectoral objectives of the project,
that is, the reclassification of the highway system.
5.04      MOPT's Five-Year Program is described in detail in the report
entitled "Programa de Mantenimiento, Rehabilitacion y Mejoramiento Del Sistema
Vial" prepared by consultants BEL-Ingenieria in November 1979. The road im-
provement and rehabilitation component of MOPT's Five-Year Program is defined
in terms of annual physical targets and related funding requirements with a
tentative list of subprojects for the first two years 1981-1982 (Table 5.1).
The key aggregates of the Program are as follows:



- 22 -
MOPT Five-Year Program (1981-1985)
Maintenance                                                  1981       1985
National network maintained (km)                            6,800      7,000
Cantonal network maintained (km)                            8,000      8,000
- Recurrent maintenance expenditures, national
network (¢ millions at 1979 prices)                         42.8       70.0
-  Recurrent maintenance expenditures, cantonal
network (o millions at 1979 prices)                         20.0       39.0
- Total replacement value of maintenance equipment
fleet (¢ millions at 1979 prices)                          110.0      132.0
Rehabilitation and Improvements
- Annual rehabilitation and improvement, national
network (km)                                              370         420
-  Cumulative rehabilitation and improvement (km)             370      2,100
- Rehabilitation and improvement budget
(¢ millions at 1979 prices)
-- National Network                                       302.0       400.0
-- Cantonal Network                                        (90.0)     (.90.0)
- Total budget for maintenance, equipment,
rehabilitation and improvement
(¢ millions at 1979 prices)                               409.2       509.0
5.05      The maintenance component of MOPT's Program would build up DGV's
capacity to enable it to carry out agreed sequence of maintenance activities
by types of road and classes of traffic. It covers equipment, workshops,
training management and procedures. Annual recurrent expenditures required
for maintenance would average about US$7 million annually, broadly in line
with current levels and well within the capacity of the Government.
5.06      Planned expenditures for the Program as a whole are indicated on
Table 5.2. The relation between the Program and other road expenditures
planned by MOPT up to 1985 is shown in Table 2.3. The planned level of fund-
ing, both for recurrent and for investment expenditures, was reviewed by the
Ministry of Finance and found compatible with the overall planning figures
for future budgets. The estimates for maintenance are minimum requirements
related to the buildup of MOPT's capacity. The estimates for rehabilitation
and improvement programs are at this time a reasonable target; the format of
the Bank's project (sector approach) and the nature of the subprojects (mostly
small sections with a completion period of one year to 18 months) would offer
adequate flexibility to adjust the pace of the program.



- 23 -
5.07      The level of expenditures for the rehabilitation and improvement
program was established after a careful review of MOPT's existing commitment
for current public works projects, the available capacity of the contracting
industry, MOPT's administrative capabilities and the financial capacity of the
Government, assuming continuing participation of lnternaLionai Lending agen-
cies in the funding of capital costs. Planned expenditures for rehabilitation
and improvement programs would average about US$40 million, undertaken over
the first three years, 1981-1983; over this period, 400 km would be undertaken
under IDB's Road Improvement Project (Loans 603-SF and 634-OC, January 15,
1980, US$25 million), and 420 km would be included under the proposed project
with a Bank contribution of about US$20 million. Planned Government contribu-
tion includes US$24 million as counterpart funds for the two above projects
and US$50 million covering further subprojects, mostly for cantonal roads, for
which no external financing is scheduled at present.
5.08      At the time of negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would:
(i) provide counterpart funds for Bank-financed components;
(ii) provide adequate funds through its recurrent budget to
implement the agreed maintenance component of MOPT's Five-Year
Program, 1981-1985;
(iii)  give priority in planning highway capital expenditures to the
timely implementation of the remainder of the rehabilitation and
improvement component of MOPT's Program over other capital
expenditures not included therein;
(iv) consult annually with the Bank, prior to the preparation of
MOPT's budget and not later than September 30 in each year, begin-
ning in 1980, and until the completion of the project, on progress
made in the implementation of the Maintenance Program and the
Rehabilitation and Improvement Program and on the implementation and
financing of the remaining components of the Program; and
(v) exchange views annually with the Bank, prior to the preparation of
MOPT's budget and not later than September 30 each year, beginning
in 1980, and until completion of the project, on the level and
composition of MOPT's capital and current expenditures budgeted
as well as the overall level of expenditures planned by MOPT for
the transport sector and for administrative overhead expenses.
DGP would participate in these reviews, as well as the new National
Budgetary Authority, in order to assure that the review adequately
takes overall budgetary priorities into account.
5.09      The specific project components are:
(a)  Road Rehabilitation and Improvement
-    rehabilitation or reconstruction (civil works and related
engineering and supervision) of about 420 km of primary
and secondary roads as part of the first three-year tranche
(1981-1983) of MOPT's Five-Year Program. Under the proposed
sector approach, the individual subprojects would be selected
in agreement with the Bank on the basis of agreed economic and
engineering criteria and procedures;



- 24 -
-    establishment, with related technical assistance, of a Road
Rehabilitation Planning Section within the Public Works Division
of MOPT to plan, evaluate and program the individual rehabilita-
tion and improvement subprojects included in MOPT's Five-Year
Program.
(b) Maintenance and Training
-    implementation of MOPT's Five-Year Maintenance Program
(1981-1985) to ensure adequate maintenance of the expanded
national network and to assist the cantons in achieving
an acceptable level of maintenance on the cantonal network;
-    implementation of a series of coordinated measures to build
up and upgrade the maintenance capability of MOPT, including:
--   renewal and limited expansion of the equipment
fleet and supporting facilities;
--   organizational and administrative improvements
required to implement the concept of maintenance
management and provision of related technical
assistance; and
--   training of about 1,500 technical and administrative
personnel, with emphasis on practical and productive
training, and provision of related technical
assistance.
The project would be carried out over the period 1981-1985.
B.   Project Components and Requirements
{i) Rehabilitation and Improvement Works
5.10      MOPT's Five-Year Program of road rehabilitation and reconstruction
was formulated by ordering feasible subprojects out of a total of more than
600 road links into which the country's network was divided. The ordering was
done using a computerized highway network analysis model under which a detailed
economic evaluation of the new national network was carried out (para 6.02).
Ranking was done according to each subproject's economic return, with due
consideration being given to achieving a reasonable geographical distribution
of subprojects in a given year. The Bank would participate in the financing
of some 45 subprojects (420 km) during the period 1981-1983, with IDB finan-
cing 20 subprojects totaling nearly 400 km in length during this same period
(para 5.07) and the Government financing another 65 subprojects (500 km) with
its own funds or through other sources (Table 5.1). Another 70 subprojects
would be carried out by the Government, with sources of financing as yet
undetermined, during 1984 and 1985, and a few large improvement projects would
be undertaken after 1985. All subprojects scheduled for the first year, 1981,
have sufficiently advanced engineering studies to be initiated at the beginning
of 1981. The Program would be adjusted on a yearly basis, following completion
of preliminary engineering and economic confirmation studies for projects to
be included in the succeeding year.
5.11      In scope, the rehabilitation subprojects range from complete recon-
struction of the existing pavement structure to simple overlay and repairs.
The subprojects would also include construction of minimum-width shoulders



- 25 -
and necessary improvement of drainage structures. Gravel roads would be
reshaped and widened and provided with a compacted course of graded gravel.
Reconstruction and improvement subprojects would entail widening of the exist-
ing roadbed and selected realignments to improve geometric characteristics,
as related to projected traffic levels. Minimum design standards (Table 2.5)
would be used in all cases to provide adequate capacity throughout a 12-year
economic life.
5.12      Table 5.3 provides a summary description of the 10 subprojects,
totaling 110 km, selected for implementation in 1981. Detailed engineering
for these subprojects is substantially completed. Tendering would be under-
taken in July 1980. The subsequent batches of subprojects for years 1982 and
1983 would be selected and agreed by mid-1980 and mid-1981. The selection and
preparation of subprojects would proceed following the criteria and procedures
indicated below. These are adequate and were confirmed during negotiations.
(i) Preselection of subprojects and priority ranking. MOPT would
prepare this ranking annually on the basis of updated economic
evaluation through the use of computerized models (HDM and Highway
Network Analysis). On the basis of the priority ranking, MOPT
would preselect the subprojects to be prepared during the year ahead
for implementation during the following year:
(a)  individual subprojects to be selected from the top of the
ranking list, that is, with the highest Economic Return (ER).
Nevertheless, a "floor" would be set at ER   14%, below which
no projects would be accepted;
(b)  total aggregated budget required for road rehabilitation
and improvements, taking into account requirements for projects
under execution and advanced preparation, not to exceed the
level of available budgetary resources for that year under the
Five-Year Program.
(ii) Review by the Bank annually of the priority ranking and of the list
of subprojects preselected by MOPT leading to preliminary acceptance.
This list should be presented to the Bank at least 12 calendar months
before the subproject is expected to be financed with the proceeds
of the loan in order to afford sufficient time for its preparation;
(iii)  Preparation by MOPT of economic feasibility studies and engineering
designs as appropriate for individual subprojects in accordance with
criteria and design standards acceptable to the Bank;
(a)  for subprojects involving only pavement rehabilitation with
minor changes in alignment, sketch plans containing
pavement design and identification of materials, with
accurate quantity estimates; and
(b) for subprojects involving major reconstruction, detailed
engineering design (with 1/2,000 survey).
(iv) Review by the Bank and final approval of economic feasibility,
detailed engineering and bidding documents for subprojects and



- 26 -
proposed arrangements for bidding on the basis of regional groups
for small subprojects to constitute lots of adequate size. Varia-
tions of more than 15% from initial cost estimates used for the
purpose of subproject selection would effect a detailed review of
the economic viability and of the design standards.
5.13      A special Road Rehabilitation Planning Section would be established
within the General Directorate for Studies and Evaluation, Department of
Studies and Programing (Chart 20505). The Section, in collaboration with
MOPT's General Directorate of Planning, would be responsible for updating
MOPT's road rehabilitation and improvement program and for preparation of the
annual tranches, including updating of the priority ranking and economic
confirmation studies as required under step (iii), paragraph 5.12. The terms
of reference, staffing and institutional arrangements for the Section have
been discussed and agreed (Annex 2). Steps have already been taken by the
Government to organize it. The Section would be headed by an experienced MOPT
Engineer/ Planner (Section Chief) and would have at least one experienced
Economist. In addition, the project would provide technical assistance
through the advisory services of a senior Engineer/Planner, for a 24-month
period, to train and advise the Section's personnel on planning and programing
procedures. MOPT has already found a candidate acceptable to the Bank for
this position. The Section would also rerun the HDM model as necessary to
update the maintenance program. The Road Rehabilitation Planning Section is
expected to be operational by end of June 1980. Since the Senior Advisor may
undertake his services before Loan approval, retroactive financing for expendi-
tures made after March 1, 1980 and in the maximum amount of US$50,000 would be
allowed for the purpose. Establishment of the Road Rehabilitation Planning
Section with the Section Chief and the Economist in place would be a condition
for effectiveness of the proposed loan.
5.14      DGV's Subdirectorate of Design would carry out detailed engineering,
and the Subdirectorate of Construction would prepare bidding documents for most
subprojects as required under step (iii), paragraph 5.12. Both have adequate
staff and equipment to do so. If the capacity of the Design Subdirectorate
were completely mobilized or any subprojects presented unusual requirements,
DGV would, with the agreement of the Bank, retain consultants to carry out
engineering for subprojects preselected under the project. Execution of the
works would be the responsibility of the General Directorate of Highways, with
supervision of construction being entrusted almost entirely to consultants
under the project. The scope of these services is within the capacity of
local consulting firms, who have access to assistance from specialized foreign
experts.
(ii)   Highway Maintenance Program
5.15      MOPT has yet to develop a systematic approach to the planning,
programing and execution of its routine and periodic maintenance activities.
Thus, a key objective would be to strengthen maintenance management to promote
greater efficiency in the use of equipment, personnel and materials through
systematic planning, scheduling, execution and reporting of maintenance
operations. This would be supported by the technical assistance for highway
maintenance under the project (para 5.23). The proposed maintenance program



- 27 -
for the national network was formulated on the basis of a technical and
economic analysis of the national network, employing the Bank's HDM 1/ model.
After taking into account financial and operational constraints, a "modified
optimal" policy was selected for each group, and the corresponding annual
maintenance activities for the five years 1981-1985 were tabulated (para 6.11).
The frequency and scope of activities for various types of roads and classes
of traffic are recorded in the report prepared by consultants BEL-Ingenieria.
Activity levels of maintenance would also vary somewhat according to the
progress of the rehabilitation and improvement program; close coordination
between the two programs would be effected through annual revaluation carried
out by the Project Planning Section. At the time of negotiations, agreement
was reached on specific indicators to monitor annually the programing and
execution of the maintenance program. These indicators would be used by MOPT
for preparation of an annual report assessing the execution of the Maintenance
Program starting December 31, 1981.
5.16      Advances in the maintenance of the national network would have to
be paralleled by progress in the cantonal network to serve the needs of the
rural population. The requirements of the cantonal network and related equip-
ment needs were also assessed and analyzed through the HDM. This assessment
concluded that, upon completion of the fleet rehabilitation program now under
way, sufficient MOPT equipment would be available for maintenance of the
cantonal network, as well as for execution of the planned level of force
account improvements. During negotiations, the Government confirmed that,
starting on September 30, 1981, and annually by September 30 each year until
completion of the project, MOPT would prepare separate programs of activities
and identify related budget allocations differentiating between the national
and the cantonal road networks, including adequate arrangements for equipment
management. This would be done as assistance to the cantons in the framework
of the Government's policy of gradual implementation of delegation of respon-
sibility (para 2.19), with support from the technical assistance under the
project.
5.17      The redefinition and upgrading of MOPT's maintenance practices
would also require restructuring of MOPT's budgeting and accounting procedures
to introduce clearer separation between various classes of expenditures and to
facilitate the use of the budget to program and monitor physical activities.
During negotiations, the Government confirmed that it would establish and put
into effect, by December 31, 1981, budgeting and accounting procedures for use
by MOPT so that the following three classes of activities would be budgeted
and accounted for separately:
-    maintenance of the national network, with a distinction between
routine, periodic and emergency repairs; specific allocations for
activities carried out by MOPT's own forces to be broken down by
principal components, in particular, labor, materials, equipment
utilization, spare parts, fuel and indirect administrative cost;
-    capital expenditures on the national network including a distinction
between, on the one hand, rehabilitation and improvement as defined
under the Five-Year Program and, on the other hand, construction; and
1/   Highway Design and Maintenance Standards model.



- 28 -
-    expenditures channeled through MOPT for the cantonal network with a
distinction between maintenance and repair on the one hand, and
construction and improvements on the other hand.
5.18      In order to provide an adequate framework to improve equipment
management and to plan for better utilization, the assignment of equipment
among broad classes of activities should be firmed up early in the project.
The Government, therefore, during negotiations, confirmed that, by March 1, 1981,
DGE's existing road maintenance and construction equipment units would be
formally designated for the three following functions: (a) maintenance of
the national network; (b) maintenance and improvement of the cantonal network;
and (c) other MOPT activities, including construction through force account.
5.19      Net additional equipment requirements were obtained from an analysis
of the capacity required annually to carry out the specified maintenance
activities (Tables 5.4 and 5.5) and a condition survey of the existing fleet,
taking into account ongoing equipment rehabilitation contracts and the expected
effect of increased capacity of MOPT workshops. While the overall MOPT equip-
ment fleet is quite large (para 2.22), many of the units are either too old or
of a type and size unsuitable for road maintenance. Of the total of 210 units
of equipment at hand by early 1983 for the maintenance of the national network,
about 60 would come from the present fleet (either they are already available
or MOPT has contracted their overhaul to private firms), 50 would come from
100 units to be overhauled under the project, and, finally, 100 would be
purchased under the project in 1981 to balance the composition of the fleet
(lack of front-end loader and dump trucks) and to support the introduction of
improved maintenance methods (mainly patching units). The tentative list of
equipment to be procured under the project is presented in Table 5.6. The
equipment required initially would be procured at the beginning of the year
1981, with additional items to be procured in 1983 mainly for renewal. The
list and related procurement schedule were agreed during negotiations.
5.20      For the overhaul of about 100 pieces of equipment destined for main-
tenance, the Government confirmed, at the time of negotiations, that, not later
than March 1, 1981, it would prepare and adopt a detailed program, including
schedules for various types of equipment and an assessment of related spare
parts to be procured under the project. The adoption of a detailed equipment
overhaul program would be a condition for disbursement for equipment and spare
parts (para 5.32). Spare parts would also be provided as initial stocks for
the new equipment and to build up stock as necessary to introduce systematic
preventive maintenance procedures for DGEM's equipment fleet (Table 5.7).
5.21      DGE would, throughout the project, pay particular attention to the
efficient management of its equipment fleet. The average age of most of the
existing equipment to be assigned to maintenance of the national network is
relatively high; however, taking into account the extensive overhaul program,
the introduction of preventive maintenance, and the replacement in 1982 of
about 40% of the fleet, it should be possible to achieve an average utilization
of 1,000 hours per unit by the year 1983. At the time of negotiations, the
Government confirmed that it would establish, by December 31, 1981, a system to
monitor and control the availability and utilization of its road maintenance
and construction equipment fleet. The Government also confirmed that, by



- 29 -
March 1, 1981, MOPT would prepare a program for systematic equipment evaluation
and subsequent scrapping and renewal. Such program would start execution not
later than May 1, 1981. MOPT's annual programs of equipment purchase and
overhaul would be discussed with the Bank at the time of review of the annual
maintenance program.
5.22      Execution of the maintenance program would be the responsibility of
the five Regional Directorates, with routine activities being entrusted to
personnel assigned to the 15 maintenance zones. General coordination, annual
programing and technical supervision of maintenance are presently the respon-
sibility of DGV's Subdirectorate of Maintenance. Effective programing,
execution and control of maintenance activities would require the establish-
ment of a direct functional. link between the Maintenance Subdirectorate and
the Regional Directorates. MOPT recognizes this need and would adopt adequate
procedures following the recommendations of the technical assistance consul-
tants. The Government confirmed, at the time of negotiations, that organiza-
tional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank would be introduced before the
end of 1981 and maintained thereafter to ensure adequate functional liaison
and coordination between the Maintenance Subdirectorate and the Regional
Directorates.
5.23      The adoption of improved methods and procedures associated with the
strengthening of the maintenance management would require technical assistance
by specialized consultants during the first two years of the project, 1981-1982.
Principal tasks of the technical assistance team would be to assist MOPT in:
(a)  implementing adequate procedures for planning, budgeting,
programing, controlling and reporting of maintenance
activities, considering each element as a discrete compo-
nent of an integrated system;
(b)  selecting and procuring maintenance equipment and spare
parts;
(c)  overhauling some 100 units of equipment in MOPT workshops;
(d)  expanding and better equipping its workshops;
(e)  instituting preventive maintenance procedures for all
equipment;
(f)  implementing a plant hire system;
(g)  improving the skill levels of equipment operators and
mechanics;
(h)  implementing improved procedures for administration of
warehouse stocks and supplies; and



- 30 -
(i) improving the efficiency and quality of maintenance pro-
cedures, especially on paved roads, and investigating the
possibility of contracting maintenance works.
The scope of the required services is described in Annex 3. Detailed terms
of reference were reviewed and agreed upon at the time of negotiations.
(iii) Training
5.24      MOPT's five-year (1981-1985) training program is primarily addressed
to road foremen, equipment operators, mechanics, storekeepers, accountants,
and administrative personnel. The program, aimed at some 1,500 persons,
would include the organization and operation of two field production units for
road supervisors and mechanical staff,the strengthening of MOPT's Training
Department, the recruitment of training specialists/instructors, the allocation
of training equipment and materials, the organization of seminars and short
courses for senior staff and the training abroad of ten maintenance engineers
and three training officers (Annex 4).
5.25      Training of road foremen, drivers and heavy equipment operators
would be carried out mostly in the field through operation of a Training-
Production Unit (TPU). Thus, trainees would learn under actual working con-
ditions while performing needed maintenance or pavement rehabilitation works
on specific sections of roads (up to 100 km per year, valued at about
0 1,000,000). Training of mechanics would be carried out principally at the
Cartago Workshops by establishing a mechanical TPU; repairing worn and unservice-
able equipment (up to 50 units during the Five-Year Program) under the super-
vision of experienced instructors would form the basis of mechanical staff train-
ing. Short technical seminars would be conducted for maintenance engineers,
equipment supervisors, storekeepers, accountants, foremen and administrative
personnel, both in San Jose and in the Regions. At the time of negotiations,
the Government confirmed that, not later than January 31, 1981, it would
furnish to the Bank a plan of action for the purpose of carrying out the
Training Program, and, by March 1, 1981, it would establish, staff, and
operate the TPUs and provide, through DGE, an adequate supply of spare parts
for the training of mechanics and equipment for the field TPU as well as funds
in accordance with the estimated requirements given in Annex 4, Table 3.
5.26      The five-year program would require an estimated 48 man-months of
technical assistance by two expatriate training specialists (one for 36 months
and the other for 12 months spread over a three-year period) provided by an
experienced consulting firm, and 144 man-months of four Costa Rican instructors
to be recruited from the private sector, each for 36 months. The terms of
reference for these services (Annex 4) were reviewed and agreed at the time of
negotiations. To ensure necessary coordination, the same consulting firm
would provide the technical assistance for maintenance and training under
separate terms of reference. MOPT would assign counterpart personnel to the
training specialists/instructors to take over after 36 months and carry on the
training program.



- 31 -
C.   Cost Estimates, Financing and Disbursement
5.27      The total project cost is estimated at US$44 million based on
June 1979 prices and including appropriate contingency allowances as shown in
the table on the following page. The total tax content is estimated at about
8%, consisting mainly of sales taxes on materials and equipment for civil
works contracts. The proposed loan of US$30 million would finance the foreign
exchange component of the project cost estimated at 69% of total cost. About
two-thirds of the loan would be used to finance rehabilitation and improvement
subprojects. The Bank project would cover about 20% of MOPT's Five-Year
Rehabilitation and Improvement Program. The Government would finance the
local cost component (US$13.3 million) of the project and the recurrent
expenditures to carry out the maintenance and the training programs. The
financing of the Program is reviewed in paragraphs 5.06 to 5.08.
5.28      Cost estimates for the 420-km rehabilitation component were prepared
by consultants on the basis of average quantities for given classes of improve-
ment and terrain, using current unit prices for similar works. Ranges of cost
per km for typical subprojects are as follows:
Rehabilitation                            US$ per km (November 1979 values)
-  paved road                                  80,000
-   pavement reconstruction                 50,000
-   overlay                                 30,000
-  gravel roads                                20,000
Reconstruction and Improvements
-  reconstruction of paved roads              120,000
paving of gravel roads with widening        50,000
More precise estimates, based on substantially completed detailed engineering,
would be available at the time of negotiations for the 110 km of subprojects
scheduled for implementation during 1981. These estimates would be used to
adjust the scope of the two subsequent batches of subprojects.
5.29      The cost of road maintenance equipment, including spare parts, was
estimated on the basis of detailed lists prepared by MOPT with the assistance
of a specialized consultant, and reflects recent tender and price quotations.
Equipment costs include local preparation and delivery charges but exclude
import and sales taxes, which are not applicable to purchases made by MOPT.



- 32 -
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Estimated
Foreign Exch.
Component
Project Component            Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign Total           %
(Colones Millions)          (US$ Millions)
1.  Road Rehabilitation and Improve-
ment
(a) Civil Works (1981-1983)         61.0    114.4  175.4       7.1      13.3  20.4       65
(b) Supervision and Engineering    7.7         6.9   14.6      0.9       0.8   1.7       45
(c) Technical assistance to Road
Rehabilitation Planning section -          1.7    1.7       -        0.2   0.2       90
Subtotal                   68.7    123.0  191.7        8.0     14.3  22.3
2.  Road Maintenance-National Network
-Maintenance Program
(a) Purchase of maintenance
equipment 1/                     2.5      48.2   50.7      0.3       5.6   5.9       95
(b) Spare parts for overhauls
and stock buildup                0.9      10.3   11.2      0.1       1.2   1.3       95
(c) Workshops and tools               -        5.2    5.2       -        0.6   0.6       95
(d) Technical assistance             1,7       6.9    8.6      0.2       0.8   1.0       80
Subtotal                     5.1     70.6   75.7      0.6       8.2   8.8
-Training Program
(a) Training facilities              0.9       1.7    2.6      0.1       0.2   0.3       80
(b) Technical assistance, incl.
training outside MOPT            1.0       4.2    5.2      0.1      0.5   0.6        80
Subtotal                     1.9      5.9    7.8       0.2      0.7   0.9
Total Base Cost 2/          75.7    199.5  275.2      8.8      23.2  32.0
3. Contingencies
(a) Physical (12% of 1 a-b)          8.6      14.6   23.2      1.0       1.7   2.7
(b) Price 3/ (of total base cost
plus physical contingencies)  30.1        43.9   74.0      3.5       5.1   8.6
Subtotal                   38.7      58.5   97.2      4.5       6.8  11.3
TOTAL                     114.4    258.0  372.4    13.3        30.0  43.3       69
1/ Includes replacement of existing equipment to be assigned to the Training Production Unit.
2/ At November 1979 values.
3/ Price adjustment rates for civil works, equipment and technical assistance are as follows:
Local      Foreign
1979          19%         12%
1980          15%          10.5%
1981          10%           9%
1982           8%           8%
1983-1985           7%           7%
November 1979



- 33 -
5.30      Cost estimates for consulting services for engineering and super-
vision of rehabilitation works and for technical assistance are based on
recent contracts for similar services by local and foreign firms. Man-month
rates range from US$1,200 to US$8,500 among local and foreign personnel for
the various grades of engineers, planners, accountants, instructors and
technicians required for the project. A total of approximately 1,030 man-
months of specialized and professional services would be required over a
42-month period, of which some 650 man-months would be for local engineers
and technicians dedicated to inspection and supervision of rehabilitation and
improvement projects. Costa Rican instructors for the training program account
for 108 man-months, with 72 additional man-months of local experts to be
utilized in technical assistance for the maintenance program.  Services of
foreign experts are estimated to total 88 man-months for technical assistance
on maintenance, 48 man-months on training, and about 42 man-months for super-
vision of rehabilitation and improvement works.
5.31      The foreign exchange component of the road rehabilitation and improve-
ment works has been estimated at 65%, reflecting the dependence on imported
equipment, spare parts, fuel and asphalt. Also, foreign contractors presently
working in Costa Rica or other countries of the area are expected to partici-
pate in some of the larger contracts, either directly or through joint venture
with one of the several competent local contractors. The foreign exchange
component cited is based upon a detailed analysis of the principal operations
involved, using a representative mix of rehabilitation projects and improve-
ment works (the project would involve very little new construction). The
foreign exchange component for consultant services averages about 65% ranging
from 80% for technical assistance for maintenance and training, involving
substantial participation of foreign experts, to about 45% on the average for
engineering and supervision of improvement works.
5.32      Disbursement of the Bank loan would be effected to cover the follow-
ing eligible expenditures:
(a) 65% of the following:
-    expenditures for civil works for road improvement and
rehabilitation, for expansion of workshops and ware-
houses and for training facilities;
-    expenditures for consultant services for engineering
and supervision of rehabilitation and improvement
works; and
-    expenditures for technical assistance services in
connection with the highway maintenance and training
programs.
(b) 100% of the following:
-    expenditures in foreign currencies for technical assistance
services to the Road Rehabilitation Planning Section;



- 34 -
-    expenditures in foreign currencies for direct imports
of equipment, spare parts and tools; and
-    expenditures in foreign currencies in connection with
training abroad of instruction and supervisory main-
tenance personnel.
(c) 85% of expenditures for locally procured imported equipment,
vehicles, spare parts and tools for road maintenance and training.
Disbursement would be made against usual documentation for all items. The
adoption of a detailed equipment overhaul program would be a condition for
disbursement for maintenance equipment and spare parts. The estimated
schedule of disbursement is shown in Table 5.8.
D.   Execution, Procurement and Monitoring
5.33      MOPT would be responsible for project execution through its Public
Works Division and its directorates as follows:
-    DGEE, assisted by the Road Rehabilitation Planning Section, for
the planning, programing and monitoring of the rehabilitation and
improvement program;
-    DGV, through its Subdirectorate  of Construction, for the
execution of rehabilitation and improvement works; and,
through its Subdirectorate of Engineering, for the design
and preparation of contract documents for these works; and
-    the five Regional Directorates for the execution of the
maintenance program, under the technical guidance and
assistance of DGE and the Subdirectorate of Maintenance;
DGE would have primary responsibility for procurement of
equipment, spare parts, and tools, as well as the equipment
rehabilitation program; and, finally, the training program
would be carried out by the MOPT Training Department, which
is a dependency of the Administrative Division.
The capacity of the various staff and line units to satisfactorily perform the
roles assigned to them in execution of the project is considered to be adequate,
with the technical assistance contemplated and the use of consultants to supple-
ment the limited resources available in MOPT for supervision and inspection of
civil works.
5.34      As shown in the schedule presented in Table 5.9, the project would
be implemented within the five-year period 1981-1985. Project expenditures
related to the maintenance program (equipment and spares procurement, training
program and technical assistance) would take place over the period 1981 through
1983. Execution of the first batch of rehabilitation and reconstruction sub-
projects would begin in early 1981 and would continue through 1983. The last
batch would be initiated in early 1983 and would be completed by mid-1984.
The project implementation schedule was reviewed and agreed during negotiations.



- 35 -
5.35      Procurement under the project would be in accordance with the Bank's
"Guidelines for Procurement" (March 1977). The procurement program for equip-
ment and parts, indicating lot size, estimated cost and proposed exception to
ICB, would be subject to prior approval by the Bank. A draft program was
reviewed and agreed at the time of negotiations. Similar items would be
grouped to the extent possible for bidding purposes. Contracts for equip-
ment, vehicles, parts and tools with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and
within an overall ceiling of US$500,000 would be directly procured from
established and reliable suppliers under contracts awarded in accordance
with procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Spare parts for
specific brands of equipment would be procured directly from established
and reliable dealers under the same procedures for individual orders of less
than US$50,000 within an overall ceiling of US$500,000. Bidding procedures
for procurement of equipment were reviewed and agreed at the time of negotia-
tions.
5.36      Rehabilitation and improvement works would be carried out through
unit price contracts awarded to prequalified firms on the basis of ICB. For
bidding purposes, similar projects in the same general area would be combined
into lots of a size which would be attractive to the best qualified local con-
tractors and to international firms. Firms would be prequalified to tender
for one or more lots according to their capacity. At least ten existing local
firms would be capable of handling all but a few of the largest lots. The
lots would be of sufficient size to justify the mobilization of special equip-
ment for large-scale asphalt paving and related technical specialists. The
procurement arrangements for rehabilitation and improvement works were confirmed
during negotiations. Civil works contracts for workshops, warehouses and
training facilities amounting to about US$0.6 million would be awarded through
local competitive bidding procedures since this type of work would attract
only local contractors; these procedures are adequate and allow for participa-
tion of foreign contractors.
5.37      The terms of reference for consulting services for engineering and
supervision of civil works were reviewed and agreed at the time of negotiations.
MOPT would retain, for the purpose, firms (para 5.30) acceptable to the Bank,
on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank.
5.38      Technical assistance services for the maintenance program would be
provided by a qualified firm or joint venture with specialized experience in
all phases of maintenance management and training. The consultants would be
contracted by MOPT on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank and would
be mobilized and ready to begin working on January 1, 1981. The terms of
reference for these services have been drafted and were reviewed and agreed
upon at the time of negotiations. The terms of reference for technical
assistance for the Training Program and related staffing requirements are
shown in Annex 4. These services would be provided jointly with those for
maintenance. The program would become fully operational in 1981 upon estab-
lishment of the road and mechanical Training Production Units.



- 36 -
5.39      The progress of the project would be monitored against the agreed
implementation schedule and financing requirements established at appraisal.
In addition, at the time of negotiations, it was agreed that, not later than
September 30 in each year until the completion of the project, MOPT would
exchange views with the Bank with respect to the targets to be met during
the next year and to assess advances made toward the project objectives.
The following indicators would be monitored:
(a) availability and utilization of maintenance equipment (para 5.21);
(b) programing and execution of MOPT's annual maintenance programs
(para 5.15); and
(c) budgeting of adequate funds for the combined maintenance, rehabil-
itation and improvement program as per agreed schedule (para 5.04).
E.   Project Risks
5.40      The maintenance, rehabilitation and improvement components of the
project address high priority requirements which are recognized as such by
planning authorities outside the subsector as well as by MOPT personnel
throughout the organization. The economic justification of these components
is well established even under unfavorable hypotheses concerning project cost
and future traffic growth (para 6.08). The technical solutions adopted for
rehabilitation and improvement works, as well as maintenance, are based on
adequate engineering analyses and reflect the experience gained in Costa Rica
and other countries. These areas do not entail special risk.
5.41      The only important risk arises from the fact that the Five-Year
Program supported by the project is large in relation to MOPT's administrative
capacity, in the aftermath of a broad reorganization. The relatively good
level of competence of MOPT's key staff and the good integration of MOPT's
organization reduce this risk considerably. Nevertheless, the early imple-
mentation of various measures to separate maintenance of the national network
from other functions and to assign the equipment fleet into three groups would
be important to provide a proper framework for administrative control.
5.42      The ambitious scope of the rehabilitation and improvement component
of MOPT's Five-Year Program reflects the priority and magnitude of the require-
ments (2,100 km -- a third of the national network). The special planning
capacity being established for this component of the Five-Year Program, the
provision for annual review, and, finally, the "sector" format of the Bank's
contributions would afford adequate flexibility to adjust the program to
reflect performance and funding levels. The relatively small size of sub-
projects and their limited construction period would also make it easier to
avoid a situation whereby MOPT would be caught with a large portfolio of
under-funded contracts with resulting extension of construction periods,
contractual problems, and inflationary overruns.



- 37 -
VI. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   Road Rehabilitation and Improvement Program
(i) Formulation of the Program
6.01      The local consulting firm, BEL-Ingenieria S.A., was commissioned by
MOPT to prepare a comprehensive rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance
program to upgrade and maintain the highway network at a level at which
reasonable optimization of total highway transport costs could be achieved.
This resulted in the formulation of a five-year program for rehabilitation and
improvement of the new national network, as well as a five-year program for
adequate maintenance (discussed in part B of this chapter). These studies
were completed in November 1979, including economic confirmation studies of
the subprojects for implementation in 1981, and form the basis for the project.
6.02      Using a modified version of the highway network analysis model
developed in Honduras in 1977 during preparation of a national highway master
plan (financed under Bank Loans 1341-HO/1342-T-HO), a detailed economic
evaluation of the new national network was carried out (the model is described
in detail in Annex 5). Following completion of a network inventory and
studies of traffic, vehicle operating costs and typical maintenance and
improvement costs, more than 600 individual highway links were analyzed in
the model. Benefits considered were possible road-user and maintenance
savings, for both 12-year and 20-year projected traffic, with the improvement
selected for each link being that which showed the higher net present value
at 20 years. Similar links were combined into more than 300 subprojects,
of which some 210 (totaling 2,400 km) showed a rate of return exceeding 14%.
6.03      For the 110 km of road rehabilitation and improvement included in
the first year of the project, detailed economic feasibility confirmation
studies were carried out by the study consultants. Traffic, running speed
and condition surveys were carried out within each subproject, and cost
estimates were prepared by MOPT on the basis of detailed engineering designs.
These more precise, current data were used to verify the results of the
network analysis model, confirming the attractive rates of return for the
subprojects selected for the year 1981. Similar studies would be carried
out opportunely for the subprojects included in the remaining tranches of
the road rehabilitation and improvement component of the project.
(ii) Traffic
6.04      Adequate data relative to traffic volumes and composition were avail-
able in MOPT for most of the 3,000 km of highways included in the traditional
national highway system. For those routes to be incorporated into the ex-
panded national network, MOPT and consultants BEL-Ingenieria estimated traffic
volumes during the road inventory. To determine typical vehicle distribution
on these lower volume roads, and as a check on volume estimates, classified
traffic counts were carried out at some 30 representative locations throughout
the country. Traffic volumes (1979 AADT) on the road sections included in the
first year of the project range from 340 to 4,900 (Table 6.1); truck and bus
traffic is between 24 and 30% of total traffic. Extensive studies were carried



- 38 -
out in order to establish a matrix of average running speed for the varying
characteristics and conditions which the study links presented. Running speeds
on improved links were estimated from established relationships between design
speeds and average running speeds.
6.05      Traffic was forecast within the network model for each link and for
alternative analysis periods of 20 and 12 years after assumed completion of the
required improvements. Growth rates were established by province on the basis
of historical trends for the period 1972-1978, modified to reflect projected
development plans and some change in the vehicle mix--specifically, a slight
increase expected in the relative proportion of buses and large trucks. Growth
rates for the first half of the analysis period were estimated to be 5-7%,
except for the Limon and Puntarenas provinces, for which rates of 7-9% were
estimated. These rates of growth are lower than historic trends by some two
percentage points to take into account the present fuel pricing policy
(para 2.11) and the already large traffic base achieved. A slight further
decrease in these rates was assumed for the second half of the analysis period
in view of the uncertainties relative to future availability and cost of
petroleum products and considering the short-term effects of recent sharp
increases in fuel prices. The proposed road improvements are expected to
generate additional trips amounting to approximately 10-15% of existing normal
traffic; this traffic was assumed to develop during the first year of operation
of the improved facility and to increase at the same rate as normal traffic.
(iii) Benefits
6.06      The quantifiable benefits for this component of the project are
measured by the direct savings to be derived by highway users, namely vehicle
operating cost savings plus, in many cases, some reduction in annual road
maintenance costs. Operating cost savings were determined by comparing
the cost of operating on each road link without, and with, the alternative
rehabilitation or improvement measures considered. Estimated per-km operating
costs were developed for nine separate representative vehicles and appropriate
weighted costs were calculated for these vehicles combined into three groups:
light vehicles, buses and trucks. Basic operating costs for flat, tangent
pavement in good condition were adjusted for each link, according to the
inventory data, to reflect the appropriate terrain class (flat, lightly
rolling, heavily rolling or mountainous), to take into account the increased
cost of operating on gravel and earth roads, and to reflect higher operating
costs on riding surfaces in fair to very bad condition. A summary of represen-
tative basic vehicle operating costs is presented in Table 6.2.
6.07      Passenger time savings were not taken into account in the economic
analysis, nor were accident savings. In many cases involving rehabilitation
or reconstruction of a paved road in flat terrain and in fair condition,
passenger time savings would be a substantial portion of the total user
savings because the relatively high running speed which the road improvement
would permit results in minimal operating cost savings. Nevertheless, in
consideration of the fact that the magnitude of the time saved per trip is
small for most subprojects, and that it cannot be demonstrated that the
cumulative time saved would be dedicated to productive uses, these savings
have not been included in the benefits attributable to road user savings.
Annual maintenance costs without, and with, contemplated improvements were
compared, and the cost difference was taken as a positive or negative benefit
according to the circumstances.



- 39 -
(iv) Economic Returns
6.08      The proposed road rehabilitation and improvement program (1981-1983)
is amply justified, with an ER greater than 50% and a net present value (NPV)
of US$85 million using a discount rate of 12%, which corresponds roughly to
the opportunity cost of capital in the country. The ER for the first year of
the program (1981), for which detailed confirmation studies were prepared, is
greater than 80%. Subsequent years (1982, 1983), although evaluated under the
model in a preliminary form, would later contain specific projects to be
selected and evaluated each year under the sector approach. Although these
projects would very likely show a high ER, an agreement was reached during
negotiations to set a "floor" of 14% on the ER of selected projects (para 5.12).
The relatively high ER is explained by the fact that the majority of the
subprojects involve rehabilitation of existing roadbeds, therefore requiring
comparatively small investments to achieve a substantial reduction in operating
costs.  Sensitivity analyses applied to the principal evaluation parameters
show that, even under adverse conditions of increased improvement costs or
decreased user savings, the economic return for the road rehabilitation and
improvement component of the project is entirely acceptable (Table 6.3).
(v) Benefit Distribution
6.09      The greater part of the benefits resulting from savings in vehicle
operating costs are expected to be transferred ultimately to the producers
and consumers of the goods which are transported, because of the highly com-
petitive nature of the road transport industry in Costa Rica. As indicated
in Chapter III, the road transport industry is characterized by a large number
of single-owner operators, many with small vehicles. Since freight tariffs
are not regulated, the combination of greatly improved roads and intense com-
petition should result in significant reductions (at constant prices) of trans-
port charges, part of which should be passed on to the producers and consumers.
Reduced transport costs would have a direct impact on the economic activity
of the areas of influence of the various project roads since most of the
traffic is related to agricultural and manufacturing activities and commerce,
while facilitating the expansion and improvement of public health, education
and other social services to rural areas. Improvement of the principal high-
ways throughout the entire country would also foster the formation of regional
development poles and administrative centers, which is an important objective
of the national Government.
B.   Road Maintenance Program
(i) Formulation of the Program
6.10      Although the quality and frequency of road maintenance operations
have improved notably during the past two years, there is still a large
backlog of deferred maintenance to be carried out, much of which will now be
in the form of complete pavement rehabilitation. Furthermore, the large
investments in road rehabilitation and improvement contemplated under the
Government's five-year program (1981-1985) make it imperative that an adequate
system of maintenance management be instituted as soon as possible.



- 40 -
6.11      The economic analysis of the maintenance program was formulated on
the basis of the HDM model. Initially, selected representative links were
analyzed and then, when complete inventory data were available, the entire
network was segregated into representative groups of paved, gravel and earth
roads, on the basis of physical characteristics and traffic volume, and the
optimum maintenance policy for each group was determined. Because of expected
budgetary and operational constraints, especially during 1981-1983, it was
decided that a policy slightly below the optimum level should be adopted.
The "modified-optimal" policy was used as the basis for calculating annual
work quantities and equipment requirements throughout the period 1981-1985.
A complete description of the final HDM analysis is included in Annex 6.
(ii) Economic Returns
6.12      The proposed maintenance program is highly attractive, from an
economic viewpoint, with an economic return substantially in excess of
100%. Net present value of the five-year program, discounting annual
maintenance costs and benefits from road-user savings at 12%, is calculated
at US$50 million. Results of the economic evaluation are summarized in
Table 6.3.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations, agreement was reached with the Government on
the following:
(a) informing the Bank and affording the Bank a reasonable time to comment
before approving any exceptions or changes in the current system
for the review and approval of capital expenditures in the transport
sector (para 1.24);
(b) annual maintenance programs to specify the number of daily workers
in various Departments of MOPT and of the cantons (para 2.06);
(c) delegation of responsibility for the cantonal roads to the
cantons to be implemented gradually, and views to be exchanged
with the Bank from time to time on this matter (para 2.19);
(d) axle load regulations to be enforced by MOPT, and the program of
weight control strengthening to be completed by June 30, 1981
(para 3.10);
(e) the Government to provide counterpart funds for Bank-financed
components; to provide adequate funds to implement the agreed
maintenance component of MOPT's Five-Year Program, 1981-1985; to
give priority to the remainder of the rehabilitation and improve-
ment component of MOPT's Program; to consult annually with the
Bank, prior to the preparation of MOPT's budget and not later than
September 30 each year, on progress made in the implementation of
the Maintenance Program and the Rehabilitation and Improvement



- 41 -
Program and on the implementation and financing of the remaining
components of the Program; and to exchange views with the Bank
annually on the level and composition of MOPT's capital and
current expenditures budget (para 5.08);
(f) criteria and procedures for selection and preparation of
subprojects (para 5.12);
(g) specific indicators to monitor annually the programing and
execution of the maintenance program; these indicators to be used
for preparation of an annual report assessing the execution of the
Maintenance Program starting December 31, 1981 (para 5.15);
(h) starting on September 30, 1981, and annually not later than
September 30 each year until completion of the project, MOPT
to prepare separate programs of activities and identify related
budget allocations differentiating between the national and the
cantonal road networks (para 5.16);
(i) by December 31, 1981, MOPT to establish and put into effect budgeting
and accounting procedures so that (i) maintenance of the national
network, (ii) capital expenditures on the national network and
(iii) expenditures channeled through MOPT for the cantonal network
would be budgeted and accounted for separately (para 5.17);
(j) by March 1, 1981, DGE's existing equipment units to
be formally designated for the three following functions:
maintenance of the national network; maintenance and improve-
ment of the cantonal network; and other MOPT activities,
including construction through force account (para 5.18);
(k) equipment list and related procurement schedule (para 5.19);
(1) the Government, not later than March 1, 1981, to prepare and
adopt a detailed equipment overhaul program (para 5.20);
(m)  the Government to establish, by December 31, 1981, a system to
monitor and control the availability and utilization of its road
maintenance and construction equipment fleet, and, by March 1, 1981,
MOPT to prepare, and, no later than May 1, 1981, to start the
execution of, a program for systematic equipment evaluation and
subsequent scrapping and renewal (para 5.21);
(n) organizational arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to be
introduced before the end of 1981 and maintained thereafter to
ensure adequate functional liaison and coordination between the
Maintenance Subdirectorate and the Regional Directorates
(para 5.22);



- 42 -
(o) terms of reference for the technical assistance services
for the maintenance program (paras 5.23 and 5.38);
(p) the Government, by January 31, 1981, to provide a plan of action
for carrying out the Training Program, and by March 1, 1981,
to establish, staff, and operate the TPUs and provide adequate
spare parts and equipment as well as funds (para 5.25);
(q) terms of reference for the technical assistance for the Training
Program (para 5.26);
(r) project implementation schedule (para 5.34);
(s) bidding procedures for procurement of equipment (para 5.35);
(t) procurement arrangements for rehabilitation and improvement works
(para 5.36);
(u) terms of reference for consulting services for engineering
and for supervision of civil works (para 5.37); and
(v) not later than September 30 in each year until the completion
of the project, MOPT to exchange views with the Bank with
respect to the targets to be met during the next year and to
assess advances made toward the project objectives (para 5.39).
7.02      The adoption of a detailed equipment overhaul program would be a
condition for disbursement for equipment and spare parts (para 5.20).
7.03      The following would be conditions for effectiveness of the pro-
posed loan:
(a) all necessary actions being taken by the Government to reclassify
MOPT's road network and the cantonal road network (para 2.05);
and
(b) establishment of the Road Rehabilitation Planning Section with
the Section Chief and the Economist in place (para 5.13).
7.04      Subject to agreement on all the above items, the project constitutes
a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$30 million; the terms would be 15 years,
including a three-year grace period.
April 22, 1980



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Freight and Passenger Traffic by Mode
Freight Transport
Domestic (million ton-km)                                    International (thousand ton) 1/
Year          Highways    Railways  Aviation        Water      Pipelines         Total    Highways   Airports   Ports 2/  Total
1968            734.0        135.0    0.9          5.8          20.3            896.0       210.0       6.3      1,593.0      1,809.3
1970            799.0        152.0    1.2          5.0           19.9           977.1       260.0       9.1      2,153.4      2,422.5
1972          1,002.0        148.0    0.7          5.0           29.1         1,184.8       330.0       8.8      2,506.9      2,845.7
1974          1,180.0        136.0    1.2          5.0           38.3         1,360.5       363.4      11.4      2,647.6      3,014.0
1976          1,311.0        159.0    0.9          5.0          47.5          1,523.4       415.1      22.7      2,807.3      3,245.1
1978          1,582.0        147.0    0.3          5.0          56.7          1,791.0       496.8      22.8      3,297.6      3,817.2
Annual
Rate of
Growth          8.0%          0.1%      -            -           11.0%          7.2%         9.0%      13.7%       7.5%          7.8%
1968-1978
Passenger Transport
Domestic (million pass -km)                                          International (thousand pass)3
Year          Hijhwavs       Railways  Aviation   Water          Total                      Airports 4/ Ports       Total
1968         4,249.0          90.0      20.7       5.6        4,365.3                       166.4        n/a        166.4
1970         4,593.0          96.0      23.4       5.4        4,717.8                       230.6        0.3        230.9
1972          5,470.0        108.0      30.5       6.0        5,614.5                       292.3        0.1        292.4
1974          6,279.0        122.0      37.6        6.0        6,444.6                      400.4        0.1        400.5
1976          7,251.0         96.0     42.1        6.0        7,395.1                       499.5        0.2        499.7
1978         8,543.0          91.0      23.8       6.0        8,663.8                       566.3        0.1        566.4
Annual
Rate of
Growth          7.2%           -         -           -           7,2%                       13.0%         -          13.0%
1968-1978
1/ Total imports and exports
2/ Including petroleum products
3/ Total arrivals and departures
4/  Excluding in-transit passengers
Source:  MOPT General Directorate of Planning
December 1979



- 44 -
TABLE 1. 2
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of the Highway Network
Present Classification
(Km)
1962                1978
National Highways
Paved                                        625               1,329
Gravel                                       651                 308
Earth                                         13 
1,289               1,637
Regional Highways
Paved                                        371                 473
Gravel                                       439                 651
Earth                                         18                  -
828               1,124
Secondary and Feeder Roads -
Paved                                         99                 170
Gravel                                     1,484               7,970
Earth                                     13,000              11,860
Total (All Systems)
Paved                                      1,095               1,972
Gravel                                    2,574                8,929
Earth                                     13,031              11,860
Grand Total                                   16,700              22,761
1/ Excludes trails, footpaths and local streets.
Source: MOPT and consultants
December 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Transport Infrastructure Investment by Mode in Comparison with Total
Public Sector Infrastructure Investment
(Millions of Colones at Current Prices)
Three-Year
Investment Program
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977    1978           (1979-1981) 1/
Transport Sector
Highways 2/         85.7   101.6   143.4   132.2   151.6   237.2   206.8   252.1   275.8                460.0
Railways             2.7      2.5      2.4      2.4     1.7    29.7    29.2    28.0         9.1         100.0
Airports              1.5     6.5      9.4      5.9    14.6    14.4    37.1    52.0    28.0              24.0
Ports               13.9      1.7      8.1     4.5      -       29.8    38.1    66.1   216.5            130.0
Total           103.8   112.3   163.3   145.0   167.9   311.1   311.2   398.2   529.4               714.0
Total Public
Investment
(Central Govt.)  302.1   441.9   570.3   669.9   973.4  1415.0  1769.9  2107.5  2544.2
Transport Sector
Investment as
percentage of
Public Investment 34.3%   25.4%   28.6%   21.6%   17.2%   21.9%   17.5%   18.8%   20.8%
1/ Annual Average
2/ Excludes: urban streets. These investments comprise highway construction and Improvements as per Table 2.2
Source:   MOPT
January 1980



- 46 -
TABLE 2.1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed Highway Network 1982
(in kilometers)
National Network               Paved      Gravel      Earth    Proposed 1/   Total
Primary Roads               1,250          600         80       370          2,300
Secondary Roads                850       1,300        260       150          2,560
Terciary Roads                 100       2,100        360        80          2,640
Subtotal                (2,200) 2/  (4,000)       (700)    (600)          7,500
Cantonal Network
Local Roads                     70       4,060      2,380        -           6,510
Local Streets 3/               530          840       120        -           1,490
Unclassified Roads              -          900      8,800        -           9,700
Subtotal                  (600)      (5,800)  (11,300)        -         17,700
TOTAL                                                                   25,200
1/ Possible new routes to be designated as National Network.
2/ Includes some 250 km of highway under construction.
3/ Excludes metropolitan area of San Jose
Source: Consultants BEL
November 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Estimates of Highway Expenditures and Road Userst Contribution
(1970-1978)
(Millions of Colones at Current Prices)                                             4
1970    1971    1972    1973    1974        1975    1976    1977    1978
A.  Highway Expenditures 1/
Highway Studies                         2.3      6.6      8.2    15.7    21.0       16.2    17.0      6.7      2.2
Highway Construction and
Improvements                          83.4    95.0   135.2   116.5   130.6    221.0   189.8   245.4   273.6
Highway Maintenance& Rehabilitation 20.4    24.1    36.0    48.5    72.9    109.6   136.0   157.4   156.6
Highway Administration and
Supervision                            5.8      7.2     7.2      6.0      9.6     24.1    23.5    25.9    31.2
Interest on Foreign Loans               5.8    10.7    12.2    17.1    25.9         31.8    29.4    41.9    26.1
Equipment                               -       55.9    42.4    18.6    10.2        23.2     8.3    56.6       4.7
Total                                 117.7   199.5   241.2   222.4   270.2    425.9   404.0   533.9   494.4
B. Motor Vehicle Contributions
Vehicle Registration and
Licenses                           2/ 13.5    14.3    22.7    23.5    24.5         28.6    32.4    37.2    32.5
Import Duties on Vehicles and Parts  29.1    27.7    24.3    32.1    48.5           37.0    42.2    66.8    89.1
Motor Fuel Taxes  3/                   67.2    74.0    81.8    89.0   108.8    103.5   120.7   155.8   155.3
Tolls                                   3.1      3.6      4.6    11.7    13.0       13.1    15.3    17.1    21.8
Total                                 112.9   119.6   133.4   156.3   194.8    182.2   210.6   276.9   298.7
1/ Includes rural roads.
2/ Import duties on vehicles, spare parts and tires.
3/  Includes taxes on oil and lubricants .
4/ Estimates on the basis of First Semester.
Source: MOPT, General Directorate of Planning
January 1980



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Kuad Investments and Maintenance Expenditures Budget -/
(C Millions in 1979 Prices)
A.  New Construction                                        1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985
(a) Forelgn-Financed                                  121.0      191.9      134.1      161.5      153.8      121.7      100.0       40.0
- CABEI                                            70.5       74.9       54.1       92.5      143.8      121.7      100.0       40.0
-ID                                                 9.7       39.0       15.0       39.0       -          -          -          _
- IBRD                                             40.8       78.0       65.0       30.0       10.0       -          -          -
(b) Government-Financed                                65.1       71.6       73.9       50.7      100 0       52.0       20.0       -
Subtotal                              186.1      263.5     208.0      212.2       253.8      173.7      120.0       40.0
B.  Ongoing  Rehabilitation and Improvement Works
(a) Foreign-Financed                                   46.4       61.7      115.0       46.0       15.0       40.0       -          -
- CABEI                                             7.5       11.9       -          -          -          40.0       -          _
- IDB                                              26.3       34.8       55.0       26.0       -          -          -          -
- IBRD                                             12.6       15.0       60.0       20.0       15.0       -          -          -
(b) Government-Financed                                68.3       89.5      176.0      109.0       10.0       30.0       -          -
Subtotal                              114.7      151.2     291.0       155.0       25.0       70.0       -          -
(c) Cantonal Network (Government)                     138.7      140.0      100.0       90.0       90.0       90.0       90.0       9u.0
C.  Rehabilitation and Improvement Program
(a) Foreign-Financed                                   -          -          -         122.9      130.8       92.6       -          -
- IBRD                                             -          -          -          42.0       45.7       48.8       -          -°
- IDB                                              -          -          -          80.9       85.1       43.8       -          -
(b) Government-Financed                                -          -          -         179.1      194.2      257.4      380.0      400.0
Subtotal                                                               302.0      325.0      350.0      380.0      400.0
D.  Maintenance Program
(a) Foreign-Financed                                   -          -          -          42.2       -          21.3       -          -
(b) Government-Financed                                35.0       37.0       40.0       45.0       47.5       55.7       62.0       70.0
Subtotal                               35.0       37.0       40.0       87.2       47.5       77.0       62.0       70.0
(c) Cantonal Network (Government)                      13.0       15.0       16.0       20.0       24.7       29.3       34.0       39.0
E.  Summary of Investments
and Maintenance Expenditures
(a) Foreign-Financed                                  167.4      253.6      249.1      372.6      299.6      275.6      100.0       40.0
(b) Government-Financed                               320.1      353.1      405.9      493.8      466.4      514.4       586.0      599.0      <
Total                              487.5      606.7      655.0      866.4      766.o      7f90 6     R r0-0     639.0 
I/ Excludes interest on foreign loan3. includes urban streets.
SOURCE: MOPT
December 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Investments and Expenditures of Ministry of Public Works and Transport
(¢ million at 1979 prices)
1978    1979    1980    1981       1982    1983    1984    1985
Highways
Construction and Maintenance
(Government)                     320.1   353.1   405.9   493.8    466.4   514.4   586.0 2  599.0 2/
Airports Construction
(Government)                      19.1    11.7    22.3    15.0        ...      ...      ...       ...
Ports Construction
(Government)                     103.7   129.1    49.9    10.0        ...      ...      ...       ...
Buildings                           96.6   107.3    99.7   100.0    100.0    90.0    90.0           90.0
Operating Expenditures              120.3   144.9   139.3   150.0    150.0   150.0   150.0    150.0
TOTAL                         659.8   746.1   717.1   768.8    716.4   754.4   826.0    839.0
1/  1978-1980:  Actual budgets; 1981-1985:  estimations
2/ Do not includes possible foreign financing
Source: MOPT
January  1980



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Minimum Design Standards for Road Rehabilitation and Improvements-/
Class I-32          Class II        Class III         Class IV           Class V           Class VI
AADT                  8,000- 12,000      2,000- 7,999       400- 1,999         100 - 399          50 - 99       Less than 50
Type of 3/             L    0     M      L    0    M       L    0    M       L    0    M       L    0    M       L    0    M
Terrain -
Design Speed-kph       -    80    70      80   70   60      80   70   50      70   60   40      50   40   40      40   40   40
Minimum Horiz.
Curve Radius - m       -   280   210    210  160  115    210  160   80    160  115   50        80   50   50       80   50   50
Stopping Sight
Distance       m       -   110    80    110   80   75    110   90   60        90   75   45     60   45  45        60   45   45
Passing Sight
Distance       m       -   565   490    565  490  415    565  490  345    490  415  270    345  270  270    345  270  270
Maximum Profile
Grade          X       -     5      6      4    6    7       4    7    8       5    8    9       6    8   10       6    9   12
Roadbed Width  m       -  10.8  10.8    7.0  7.0  6.5    6.5  6.0  6.0    5.5  5.5  5.5    4.8 *4.8  4.8    4.8  4.8  4.8
Shoulder
Width          m       -   2.0   1.8    2.0  1.5  1.2    1.5  1.0  0.5       -    -    -       -    -    -        -    -    -
Surface Type          Asph. or PortL       Asphalt        Mult. Surface    Single Surf.Tr.        Gravel        Improved
Type                   Cement Concr.        Concrete      Treatments        or Stabiliz. Grav.                   Natural Soil
Bridge Width   m           8.5                8.5               7.3               6.5               4.3               4.3
Bridge Design
Load                   HS   20-44       HS   20-44        HS    20-44       HS    20-44       HS   20-44        HS   20-44
_4
1/ Not including Expressways
2/ Additional "crawler" lane
3/ L-Level  0 - ondulated M - mountainous
Source: MOPT
November 1979



- 51 -
TABLE 3.1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Fuel Consumption
(millions of US gallons)
Year         Gasoline           Diesel         Total
1970           27.8              26.5           54.3
1971           33.9              36.5           70.4
1972           34.0              36.9           70.9
1973           42.5              42.7           85.2
1974           45.8              49.3           95.1
1975           42.9              51.7           94.6
1976           44.1              56.2          100.3
1977           44.8               73.7         118.5
1978           51.9              74.3          126.2
Annual Rate of Growth (1970-1978)
Gasoline:        8.2%
Diesel:         13.6%
Total           11.2%
Source: Direcci6n General de Planificacion, MOPT
December 1979



- 52 -
TABLE 3.2
COSTA RICA
PROPOSED FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Registration
(1960-1977)
Passenger              Trucks
Year          Cars          (including pick-ups)       Buses         Total
1960         15,952                8,397               1,289        22,638
1965         22P733               10,195               1,952        34,880
1970         36,464               18,652               2,290        57,406
1971         40,192               21,343               2,404        63,939
1972         43,770               23,647               2,481        69,898
1973         47,868               28,324               2,551        78,743
1974         52,601               32,809               2,669        88,079
1975         57,079               37,710               2,982        97,771
1976         64,943               39,403               2,967       107,313
1977         73,449               45,778               3,482       122,709
1978         79,613               54,997               3,874       138,484
Average rate
of Growth,
1960-1.978     9,4%                11.1 %               6.3 %          9.8 %
Average rate
of growth,
1972-1978      10.5 %              15.1 %               7.7 %         12.2 %
Source: Direccion General de Planificaci6n, MOPT
December 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Rehabilitation and Improvement Program (1981- 1985)
Length                        Investments (¢millions at 1979 prices)
Section                      km      Financing   Total 1   1980 _    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985
Paraiso-Cartago                            5.2      IBRD            5.4              5.4
Canias-Tilaran                            22.1      IBRD          11.6             11.6
Llano Grande-Belgn                        25.8      IBRD           12.9             12.9
Belen-Rio Canias                           7.4      IBRD            2.3              2.3
Rio Canias-Santa Cruz                     10.4      IBRD            4.7              4.7
Barva-Barrio JesGs                         2.7      IBRD            1.5              1.5
Barrio Jesus-Sta. Barbara                  2.4      IBRD            3.5              3.5
Eslabon-La Suiza                           6.2      IBRD            5.1              5.1
San Josecito-Naranjo                      27.3      IBRD          *:20.5            112.0    8.5
Guacimo-Rio Jimenez                       11.7      IBRD            7.9              5.6   ,2.3
Piedades-Radial Villa Colon                2.7      IBRD            5.3                      5.3
San Antonio Belen-Aeropuerto               3.6      IBRD           4.9                       4.9                            a
Santa Ana-Pozos                            1.9      IBRD           1.1                       1.1                           w.
Paraiso-Ujarras                            5.4      IBRD            2.0                      2.0
Cuatro Cruces-Miramar                      6.8      IBRD           2.5                       2.5
Tejar-Ruta 2                               2.1      IBRD           0.8                       0.8
Curridabat-Concepcion                      5.2      IBRD           1.9                       1.9
Barva-Cerca de Birrd                       2.3      IBRD           1.8                       1.8
Interamericana-Juntas                      6.2      IBRD           2.3                       2.3
Piedades Sur-Potrerillos                   5.7      IBRD           0.4                       0.4
Barranca-El Roble                          4.2      IBRD           1.5                       1.5
Llanos-Limite Cartago                      8.1      IBRD           0.6                       0.6
La Puebla-Uriche                           1.4      IBRD          ;.5                        0.5
Rio Conejo-LUmite San Jose                 4.8      IBRD           0.4                       0.4
Rio Bolson-Hacienda El Viejo               4.1      IBRD           0.3                       0.3
San Juan-San Juanillo                     12.4      IBRD           0.8                       0.8
San Lorenzo-San Carlos Dota               13.0      IBRD           1.0                       1.0
San Jeronimo de Moravia-Rio Para           1.0      IBRD           0.1                       0.1
Santa Barbara-Setillal                     2.8      IBRD           1.8                       1,8
Cristo-Tres Rios                           7.1      IBRD          13.4                      1Q.0    3.4
Limite Limon-Turrialba                    26.7      IBRD          1o.o                       6.5    3.5                m a
San Pedro de Poas-Grecia                  12.7      IBRD          18.7                      13,.Q    5.7     
Other Roads O                            156.0      IBRD                                           62.5                o.
Subtotal IBRD Sub-projects          417.4                  210.0               64.6   70,3   75.1



Length
Section                           km       Financing    Tota4    1980 -/  1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Santa Rita-Lepanto                       32.1       IDB          19.0
Lepanto-Playa Naranjo                     8.4       IDB          17.0
Belen-Portegolpe                         23.4        MDB         15.5
Portegolpe-Villarreal                    22.9       IDB          14.0
Paso Canoas-Laurel                       15.9       IDB          17.7
San Miguel-Chilamate                     31.8       IDB          19.1
Muelle-Terr6n Colorado                   11.8       IDB          10.1
Interamericana-Santa Cecilia             26.5       IDB          27.5
Penshurst-Rome Creek                     17.8       IDB          23.7
San Ram6n-Piedades Sur                   11.4       IDB           6.7
Bajo Corrales-La Palma                    6.8       IDB           3.2
Cinco Esquinas-Palmitas                   2.5       IDB           2.7
Interamericana-San Vito-Sabalito         57.0       IDB          51.4                                                           3
Tilaran-Nuevo Arenal                     29.8       IDB          35.0
Frailes-San Pablo de Leon Cortes         17.0       IDB          15.3
San Isidro del General-Rivas              8.7       IDB          14.5
Frailes-Rio Conejo-Tarbaca               19.9       IDB          24.8
Tilaran-LTbano                            9.1       IDB          15.0
Santiago-Grifo Alto-San Pablo            23.9       IDB          23.0
Santiago-Sta. Marta-Salitrales           20.4       IDB          20,7
Subtotal IDR.sub-projects 4|/       397.1                    376.0    31.0   133.0   140.0    72.0
Subtotal Government subprojects  1,320.0         Gov.     1,202.0      -      104.4   U4.7   202.9   380.0  400.0
TOTAL                      2,134.5                 1 788.0    31.0   302.0   325.0   350.0   380.0  400.0
1/ Including engineering design (4%), cOnstr,ction supervision (8%) and physical contingencies (12% of vorks plus supervision)
2/ Only TDB sub-projects starting in 1980 shown.
3/ Approximate total length.
4/ Costs shown for IDB sub-projects are basic construction costs, increased by 25%, to provide a basis for
comparison with costs shown for other sub-projects; annual investments are based on IDB project schedule.
Source:  MOPT and Consultant Report
November 1979



- 55 -
TAI.E 5.2
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Five-Year Program For Road Rehabilitation, Maintenance,
Personnel Training and Technical Assistance
(O millions, 1979 prices)
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Rehabilitation and Improvement-National
Network
Included in this Project                     64.6    70.3    75.1    -        -
- Bank-financed                              42.0    45.7    48.8    -        -
- Government                                 22.6    24.6    26.3    -        -
IDB Projects                                133.0   140.0    72.0    -        -
Other Projects by Government                104.4   114.7   202.9   380.0   400.0
Total Rehabilitation and
Improvement,National Network          302.0   325.0   350.0   380.0   400.0
Rehabilitation and Improvement-Cantonal
Network
Projects by Government1/                     90.0    90.0    90.0    90,0    90.0
Maintenance
Included in this Project (non-recurrent)    44.4       -      22.4    -       -
- Bank-financed                              42.2      -      21.3    -
- Government                                  2.2      -       1.1    -       _
Recurrent Maintenance Expenditures for
National Network 2/                         42.8    47.5    54.6    62.0    70.0
Other Highway Maintenance Expenditures
by Government 3/                            20.0    24.7    29.3    34.0    39.0
Total Maintenance                      107.2    72.2   106.3    96.0   109.0
Personnel Training
Included in this Project                      3.8     1.6      1.6    -       -
- Bank-financed                               2.8     1.0      1.0    -       -
- Government                                  1.0     0.6      0.6    -       -
Recurrent Operational Expenditures            4.3     4.3      4.3     4.3      4.3
Total Training                           8.1     5.9     5.9      4.3     4.3
Technical Assistance
Included in this Project                      5.5     4.7    -        -       _
- Bank-financed                               3.6     3.1    -        -       -
- Government                                  1.9     1.6    -        -       -
Total Technical Assistance 4/            5.5     4.7
1/ Estimated MOPT force-account improvement program on new Cantonal Netverk.
2/ Includes equipment renewal component of maintenance cost.
3/ Estimated requirements for Cantonal Network, exclusive of streets within
San Jose metropolitan area (includes equipment renewal component).
4/ Excepting that required for training, which is included as a training cost.
Source: MOPT and Mission estimates
November 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary Description of the 10 Roads Included in the First Year Program
Present Condition           Length      AADT
Road                              Province            Class 1/   Surface               km       1979
San Josesito-Naranjo             Alajuela            III    Surface Treatment         27.3      1,500
Paraiso-Cartago                  Cartago             III    Surface Treatment          5.2      4,900
Eslabon-La Suiza                 Cartago              IV    Gravel                     6.2        500
Barva-Barrio Jesus               Heredia             III    Surface Treatment          2.7        960
Barrio Jes-us-Sta. Barbara       Guanacaste           IV    Surface Treatment          2.4        960
Llano Grande-Belen               Guanacaste          III    Surface Treatment         25.8      1,900
Bel'en-R$o Canias                Guanacaste          III    Surface Treatment          7.4      1,400
Rio Cafias-Sta. Cruz             Guanacaste          III    Surface Treatment         10.4      1,600
Cafias-Tilaran                   Guanacaste          III    Surface Tteatment         22.1      1,150
Guacimo-Rio Jimenez              Limon                IV    Gravel                    11.7        340
1/ According to Table 5.1
Source: MOPT
March 1980



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Maintenance Component
Equipment Requirements for the National Network
Equipment Hours Required for Average Year
Grading        Regravelling                   Surface   Total Work   Total Units
Earth  Gravel    Earth   Gravel    Patching   Dressing         Hours       ReQuired
(1,000 units to be performed)    (1.1)  (13.9)    (14.0)  (300)          (142)      (3,300)
Motorgraders                   1,100  20,000       -      3,640         -           820      25,560           31
4 m3 Dump Trucks                                 1,750  37,880         9,940    10,560       60,130           60
9 m3 Dump Trucks                                   -     6,060           340      2,970       9,370           10
Loaders                                            280  12,120            340     2,970      15,710           16
Bulldozers                                         140   6,060            340     2,970       9,510           10
Crushers (70Z of regravelling
quantity to be crushed)                           -      2,120          340      2,970       5,430            5
Water Tankers                                      -      1,820           -         820       2,640            5
Vibratory Compactors                                -     3,640                               3,640            5
Manual Compactors                                                       7,100                 7,100            8 2/
Portable Drum Sprayers                                                 5,680                  5,680            8 2/
Asphalt Distr. (2,000 gal)                                                140     1,650       1,790            3
Chip Spreaders                                                                    1,650       1,650            3
Rotary Brooms                                                                     3,300       3,300            3
Steel Rollers                                                                     1,650       1,650            3
Batch Plants (patching)                                                 2,840       -         2,840            5
Rubber-tired Cotpactors                                                   -       1,650       1,650            3
Flat-bed Trucks                                                                                               15 1/
Pickups                                                                                                       15 f/
Notes:  Average utilization estimated at 1,000 hours per year for all units (some should have somewhat higher rates
by 1982). Three crews are required for the National Resealing Program while, for periodic maintenance of
gravel roads, a minimum of one equipment spread per region (5 total) was assumed. Number of graders re-
quired was increased by five units to cover ditch cleaning and other roadside maintenance activities.
1/  One unit per maintenance zone assumed for transport of workers, supervisors and miscellaneous materials and
----equi_pment.
2/  Considering the geographical dispersion of the 2,200 km of paved roads to be maintained, and the substantial   '
reduction in-effective working time during the rainy season, a minimum of 8 patching crews is estimated to be   -
required (batching plant output canbe supplemented from plants used on construction).
Source: Mission estimates based on analysis using HDM Model                                                               .
November 1979



COSTA RTCk
FIFTH HIGWAY ?ROJECT
'4aintenenca Cc rP;ornext
Equipment Requirements for the Cantonal Network
Eau1Ipment  Hours __Legired  for  Average  Year
Grading         Regravelling                  Surface   Total Work   Total Units
Earth  Gravel    Earth   Gravel    Patching   Dressing          Hours        Required
(1,000 units to be performed)        (2.5)   (9.8)    (2.5)    (175)        (36)        (450)
Motorgraders                      2,500   14,000      -        2,100       -           -         18,600           20
4 m3 Dump Trucks                                    3,120    21,880    2,520         1,440       28,960           29
9 m3 Dump Trucks                                      -       3,500        90          400        3,990            4
Loaders                                               500      7,000       90          400        7,990            8
Bulldozers                                            250     3,500        90          400        4,240            4        X
Crushers                                              -       1,230        90          400        1,720            2
Water Tankers                                         -       1,050                               1,050            2
Vibratory Compactors                                  -       2,100                               2,100            2
Manual Compactors                                                       1,800                     1,800            2
Portable Drum Sprayers                                                  1,440                     1,440            2
Asphalt Dist. (2,000 gal)                                                 -            230          230            1
Chip Spreader                                                                          230          230            1
Rotary Broom                                                                           450          450            1
Steel Roller                                                                           450          450            1
Batch Plant (patching)                                                    720           -           720            -
Flat-bed Trucks                                                                                                    5 1/
Pickups                                                                                                           15 1/
Note:  It is considered that two regravelling crews should be formed for the Cantonal Network as well as one
resealing crew and one patching crew (patching materials would be obtained from other MOPT or commercial
plants). One grader added to provide one for each of 15 maintenance zone, plus 1 per region.
1/ One flat-bed truck per region and one pickup per maintenance zone assumed for transport of supervisory
personnel, workers and miscellaneous materials and equipment.
Source: Mission estimates based on analysis using HDM Model
November 1979



-  59 -                          TABLE 5.6
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Tentative List of Equipment to be Procured
No. of      Unit Cost       Total Cost
A.  First Phase (1980-1981)                          Units    (1979 Prices)          US$
Crusher (20 tph)                                   5         45,000             225,000
Motorgrader (125hp)                               22          65,000          1,430,000
Vibratory Roller (pedestrian)                      5           5,000             25,000
Water Tanker (1200 gal)                            5         24,000             120,000
Vibratory Roller (4-6 t)                           5         25,000             125,000
Plate Tamper (17" square)                          9          2,000              18,000
Drum Emulsion Sprayer                              9           1,000              9,000
Chip Spreader, Self-propelled (12' width)          3         50,000             150,000
Rotary Broom                                       1          8,000               8,000
Tandem Steel Roller (5-8 t)                        3         30,000              90,000
Pneumatic Roller                                   4         29,000             116,000
Batching Plant (3 tph)                             5         20,000             100,000
Lubrication Truck                                  1         25,000              25,000
Flatbed Truck                                     15         20,000             300,000
Agricultural Tractor                              5           15,000             75,000
Heavy-duty Mower (towed)                           5           5,000             25,000
Concrete Mixer                                     I          2,000               2,000
Mobile Fuel Tank                                   1           5,000              5,000
Asphalt Heating Unit                               1          5,000               5,000
Contingency Units                                  5         10,000              50,000
Total Equipment        2,903,000
Spare Parts for New Equipment (10%)                                             291,000
Subtotal 1st Phase    3,194,000
B.  Second Phase (1982-1983)
Dump Truck (4 m3)                                55          22,000           1,210,000
Motorgrader (125 hp)                              10         65,000             650,000
Wheel Loader (1-3/4 yd3)                          11         50,000             550,000
Contingency Units                                10           5,000              50,000
Total Equipment        2,460,000
Spare Parts for New Equipment (10%)                                             246,000
Subtotal 2nd Phase    2,706,000
Total New Equipment and Spare Parts                                          5,900,000
Source: Mission Estimates
November 1979



- 60 -                        TABLE 5.7
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Suxmmary of Required Expenditures for Workshops and Spare Partsl/
Estimated
Estimated 1979 Cost
(US$'000)
Expansion of Workshops and Stores Facilities                            210
Workshop Tools and Equipment                                            425
Subtotal                                                      636
One-year Stock of Spare Parts for Preventive Maintenance                600
Program
Spare Parts Needed to Rehabilitate Approximately 100 Units              600
Subtotal                                                    1,200
TOTAL                                                       1,836
1/ Does not include spare parts for new equipment to be procured, as
these are included in equipment list.
Source: Mission estimates
November 1979



- - 1 -
TABLE 5.8
COSTA RICA
FIFTH kIGHWAY PROJECT-
Schedule of Estimated Disbursement
Quarterly Disbursement        Cumulative
IBRD Fiscal Year                              (US$ Millions)           Disbursements
1981
December         1980                          0.2                         0.2
March            1981                          3.8                         4.0
June            1981                           3.5                         7.5
1982
September       1981                           2,7                        10.2
December        1981                           2.3                        12.5
March           1982                           2.7                        15.2
June             1982                          2.2                        17.4
1983
September       1982                           1.3                        18.7
December        1982                           1.1                        19.8
March            1983                          4.2                        24.0
June            1983                           3.3                        27.3
1984
September       1983                           1.4                        28.7
December        1983                           1.1                        29.8
March           1984                           0.1                        29.9
June            1984                           0.1                        30.0
Loan effectiveness                 - August/September  1980
Invitation to bid                  - August             1980
Civil works begin                  - December           1980
Delivery of spares stock starts   - December            1980
Delivery of equipment starts       - February           1981
Source: Mission estimates
November 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Schedule of Implementation
1980           1981           1982           1983            198            1985
.lf _ JL I _       J|FIM  AIM(IJ  IA S  OI ID   J 15JN  EIMI J 1A ! zJxID JIFIM _ _  IA1S JItIN AIHI _  JIFIM A1NI4 JM! 'tNL JIFIM AiMfJ _J _IAI
Approval by the Board
Loan Agreement and
Effectiveness
1. Reconstruction and Reha-
bilitation Program
a. Civil works:
Advertising thrucontr.                                                                       ( vt ub ,pro..oEly)
Mobilization and
construction                       ----a
b. Supervision              _                - _  =                                    - = = =
Selection of consult.
c. Technical assistance
to Highway Plan. Unit     _ _-
2. Maintenance Program
a. Maintenance works    _                            -      _ _ _ __
b. Technical assistance                  - _     -                      -
Selection of consult.
c. Purchase of equipment:
Advertising thru contr. 
Equipment deliveries
d. Rehabilitation of
equipment             _   _                           -  - -     -
e. Training of personnel                 -                           _
Technical assistance-    -
Source:  MOPT and mission
November 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Improvement Components for Year 1981
Traffic Flows (AADT)
Length            Present Traffic (1979 _                Estimated Future Traffic (2,002)
Section              (km)   Light Veh.  Buses       Trucks      Total  Light Veh.   Buses      Trucka     Total
Paraiso-Cartago                 5.2     3,480       290       1,130     4,900      10,800    1,000       2,400      14,200
Canas-Tilarin                  22.1       870        70         210     1,150       2.660       240        600      3,500
Llano Grande-Belen             25.8     1,350       110         440     1,900       5,170       480      1,150      6,800       l
Belen-Rio Cafias                7.4     1,000        80         320     1,400       3,800       350        850      5,000
Rio Canias-Santa Cruz          10.4     1,130       100         370     1,600       4,330       400        970      5,700
Barva-Barrio Jesuis             2.7       730        60         170       960       1,750       160        390      2,300
Barrio Jesus-Sta. Barbara       2.4       730        60         170        960      1,290       120        290      1,700
Eslab6n-La Suiza                6.2       380        30          90       500       1,140       100        260      1,500
San Josecito- Naranjo          27.3       830        70         200     1,500       4,180       390        930      5,500
Guacimo-Rio Jimenez            11.7       260        20          60        340      1,140       100        260      1,500
Source:  MOPT traffic surveys and  Consultants report.
November 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Representative Vehicle Operating Costs -
(f per km)
Light 2/         H
Light Vehicles           Buses                  Trucks-_ Heavy Trucks -_
Road Surface and Curvature   (Flat)   (9% grade)  (Flat)   (9% grade)  (Flat)   (9% grade)  (Flat)   (9% grade)
Paved, tangent           0.67       0.80       2.05       3.95       1.45       2.80       2.50         4.80
Paved, Curvature 60 m   1.05        1.30       4.00       7.80       3.05       6.15       5.25        10.60
Gravel, Tangent          0.95       1.20       3.10       6.35       2.15       4.40       3.70         7.60
Gravel, Curvature 60 m  1.60        2.00       6.50      12.85       4.90      10.20       8.45        17.60
Earth, tangent           1.10       1.45       3.75       7.75       2.55       5.30       4.45        9.25
Earth, Curvature 60 m   1.85        2.35       7.90      15.75       5.85      12.20      10.20        21.30
1/  Economic costs at 1979 prices including salaries of drivers and assistants for trucks and buses and of drivers of
light vehicles who work with their vehicles.  Costs shown are for surfaces in good condition, which was assumed
for all "with project" alternatives, for existing or "without project" alternative the costs were adjusted
whenever present condition was shown by inventory to be fair or worse (adjustment factors ranged from 1.1 for
earth in fair condition to 1.8 for pavement in very bad condition).
2/   5 ton capacity.
3/ 13 ton capacity.
Source: Consultants report.
November 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Summary of Economic Evaluation of Maintenance Program
and Rehabilitation and Improvement Project
Total Cost               Economic Evaluation
1/   -                              3/
Component                                      (¢ millions)-           Based on Best Estimates-        Sensitivity Analysis(IRR)
Financial  Economicif         NPV 4*/           IRR 5/     Costs + 20%  Benefits - 20%
Maintenance ProRram6/                       342.7       315.0            424             >100            >100           )100
Rehabilitation and Improvement Program
Year 1981                                  64.6        51.7            435              > 80           > 80              80
Year 1982                                  70.3        56.2            210               50               44             45        1
Year 1983                                  75.1        60.1             75               25              21              22
Total Rehab. and Improv. Program          210.0       168.0            720             > 50            > 50            >50
Grand Total (maintenance and rehabi-        552.7       483.0          r,144             >50              > 50           > 50
litation program)
1/ Based on November 1979 cost estimates, including 25% allowance for engineering design, physical contingencies and project
supervision.
2/ Financial cost net of taxes and duties.
3/ Basis for best estimates: (i) costs and benefits in :1979 prices; (ii) benefits include savings in vehicle operating costs,
including professional drivers' salaries, and in road maintenance costs;(iii) project execution period three years;(iv)
economic life of rehab. and improvement sub-projects 20 years; and (v) annual traffic volumes per Table.
4/ Net present value in millions of colones, with costs and benefits discounted at 12% annual rate.
5/ Internal rate of return.in percent.
6/ Total five-year program (national network) including equipment, spare parts and tools purchases.
Source: MOPT, Consultants report and Mission estimates.
November 1979                                                                                                                       H
?TI
a'



- 66 -
ANNEX 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Proposed New Road Network Classification
A.   National Network, under the direct responsibility of MOPT, would comprise
all roads of more than local importance, including connections through urban
areas, except those in the metropolitan area of San Jose; the national network
would total 6,900 km in a first stage and would be expanded to about 7,500 km
within the next decade by addition of main roads proposed for construction;
the national network would be subdivided into the following categories:
(i) Primary roads (about 2,300 km in the final stage), to
be integrated into a network of trunk roads generally
carrying high traffic volumes (annual average daily
traffic (AADT) above 2,000), with a substantial propor-
tion of international, inter-provincial or long distance
traffic (MOPT would be authorized to designate certain
of these roads as limited access highways or expressways);
(ii) Secondary roads (about 2,600 km in the final stage),
to link cantonal capitals not served directly by
primary roads, as well as other main population,
tourism or production centers having considerable
interregional or intercantonal traffic;
(iii)  Tertiary roads (about 2,600 km in the final
stage), to be collector links for primary and
secondary roads and to carry intraregional traffic.
B.   Cantonal Network, would have a total length of about 17,700 km, includ-
ing 9,700 km of unclassified roads, subdivided into the following categories:
(i) Cantonal roads, to link small villages, farms and other
rural economic activity centers to the national network,
characterized by low traffic volumes and a high proportion
of local short-distance trips;
(ii) Cantonal streets, to include connections through urban
areas of public roads not classified as part of the MOPT
national network; and
(iii) Unclassified roads, corresponding to all public cantonal
roads not included in (i) and (ii) preceding, having very
little traffic and supplying access to only a few users,
who would cover betterment and maintenance costs.
March 1980



- 67 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Road Rehabilitation Planning Section
1.   Objectives
The Road Rehabilitation Planning Section to be established by
June 30, 1980, within the Department of Studies and Programing of MOPT's
General Directorate of Studies and Evaluation, has the following objectives:
(a) to prepare annually the short-term (one year) and long-term
(five years) road rehabilitation and reconstruction programs;
(b) to assess the economic justification of works and financing
possibilities for establishing priority annual programs; and
(c)  to coordinate.the preparation of engineering and the cons-
truction of the works included in each program with the
corresponding Sub-Directorates of the General Directorate of
Highways.
2.   Work Program
The Section will assist MOPT in developing and evaluating the long-
term (five years) and the short-term (one year) road rehabilitation and improve-
ment programs, using to this effect two computerized techno-economic models
already familiar to MOPT, or other similar models. The project selection for
the five-year program will be preferably based on the "Highway Network Analysis
Model" ("Honduras Model"), and the economic confirmation analysis for each year,
on the Bank's "Highway Design and Maintenance Model" (HDM Model). In parti-
cular, the section will execute the following:
(a) Assume the responsibility for: the startup of the five-year,
1981-1985, road rehabilitation and improvement program already
prepared by MOPT; the preparation of projects already selected
for implementation during the first year; and coordinate the
preparation of detailed engineering for the individual road
projects included in the second and third year program;
(b) Prepare every year the annual program of priority projects to
be executed the subsequent year and tentative programs for
the following years, and discuss with DGV's Maintenance Sub-
Directorate and with MOPT's Planning Directorate, all one-
year and five-year programs, prior to their final approval.



- 68 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 2
(c)  Maintain adequate and up-to-date records of all basic infonration
needed for the preparation of the programs, such as: complete
inventory data on all roads included in the five-year program,
in particular, recent roughness and deflection measures;
volume and composition of traffic on these roads; national and
regional traffic growth rates; analyses of axle-load distribu-
tion; vehicle operating costs; road maintenance unit costs;
itemized and typical road construction; and other pertinent
information;
(d)  Coordinate permanently with DGV's Design Sub-Directorate the
preparation of detailed engineering of the projects programned
for execution in the subsequent year, in particular, ensure
that engineering is prepared according to data used in the
economic study and to the design standards selected for reha-
bilitation or improvement of each project;
(e) Coordinate with DGV's Construction Directorate the preparation
of cost estimates and bidding documents for the projects
programed for execution in the subsequent year, in particular,
ensure that cost estimates correspond to the programed work
quality standards, and that the bidding documents comply with
the requirements of the international lending agencies even-
tually involved in project financing;
(f)  Upon completion of the engineering and the cost estimates of
each project of an annual program, prepare economic confirma-
tion studies and formulate the final execution programn for the
subsequent year; and
(g) Prepare a complete report including final design, official
cost estimate, bidding documents, economic confirmation study
and execution schedule for those program projects to be
submitted to the Bank for financing.
3.   Staffing
The staff required will be the following:
MOPT Personnel (permanent)
1 Section Chief, Engineer/Planner
1 Economist
Support Staff (junior engineer, assistant analyst, secretaries)



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3
Internationally Recruited (provided for two years under the project)
1 Transport Engineer/Planner
4.   Schedule for Establishment
The Section will be established by June 30, 1980, and fully staffed
by December 31, 1980. The Section will be regarded as established when the
MOPT permanent professional'staff (section chief and economist) are in place.
April 1980



- 70 -                           ANNEX 3
Page 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Outline Terms of Reference for the Technical
Assistance on Road Maintenance
1.   Objectives
Technical assistance for the Road Maintenance Program would
strengthen MOPT's maintenance capacity and improve maintenance planning
and management. The principal objectives are:
(a) to assist MOPT in adopting an adequate road main-
tenance management system and in the preparation
of annual maintenance programs;
(b) to improve and expand the organization and proce-
dures for road maintenance execution;
(c) to improve the overall management and utilization
of the road maintenance fleet; and
(d) to assist MOPT in planning adequate support to the
cantons in maintenance of the cantonal road network.
2.   Scope of Consulting Services
The technical assistance program will be carried out during two
years, under the authority of DGV's Road Maintenance Sub-Directorate, in
close coordination with the Regional Directorates and MOPT's General Director-
ate of Equipment. This work will be based on the four-year maintenance
program prepared by MOPT with the assistance of consultants BEL Ingenieria
S.A. and will comprise, but not necessarily be limited to, the following
functional areas:
(i) Maintenance Administration
(a) implement adequate procedures for planning,
budgeting, programing, controlling and report-
ing maintenance activities, considering each
element as a discrete component of an integrated
system;
(b) establish an organizational framework at head-
quarters, at the level of regions and areas, and



-71 -                          ANNEX 3
Page 2
in the field, with adequate intercoordination,
for effective execution of maintenance of the
national network and assisting the cantons in
maintenance of their network;
(c) develop and implement improved general accounting
practices, and establish a cost accounting system
appropriate to support maintenance management sys-
tems; distinguishing between costs for routine,
periodic and emergency maintenance activities for
the national network and separating them from costs
for maintenance of the cantonal network and from
capital expenditures for road construction, reha-
bilitation and improvements. The costs to be
broken down by principal components, in particular,.
labor, materials, equipment utilization, spare parts,
fuel and indirect administrative costs.
(d) investigate the possibility of contracting main-
tenance works.
(ii) Maintenance Program
(a) provide assistance to MOPT in the use of the
"Highway Design and Maintenance Standards" com-
puter program during the execution of the main-
tenance program;
(b) assist in the preparation of economic analyses
to determine appropriate maintenance levels of
service and priorities to be assigned to different
roads or road sections, particularly for execu-
tion of pavement maintenance and regraveling;
(c) assist in preparation of annual maintenance pro-
grams and corresponding budgets, and in the review
of the programs' execution; and
(d) coordinate the maintenance program with the road
rehabilitation and improvement program.
(iii) Equipment and Workshops
(a) assist MOPT to revise and update maintenance fleet
condition and utilization inventory and to prepare
programs for equipment overhaul and scrapping;
(b) assist in review of equipment needs for scheduled
highway maintenance and in preparation of equipment
replacement schedules;
(c) improve incentives for equipment management both in
the workshop and in the field; in particular, introduce
a plant hire system for MOPT equipment;



- 72 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3
(d) implement improved workshop and spare parts
stores organization and management practices
for servicing and repairs of equipment;
(e) assist to improve collection, recording and
interpretation of data on fleet availability
and utilization, on equipment output and
operation costs; and
(f) assist in the preparation of bidding documents
and evaluation of proposals from suppliers of
vehicles, equipment and spare parts.
3.   Staffing
The professional staff required would be the following:
Internationally Recruited                              Man-months
Project Director, engineer/planner, specialized
in maintenance programing and administration               24
Maintenance Engineer, specialist in scheduling and
execution of maintenance activities                        24
Equipment Specialist, expert in all phases of
equipment management and repair                            24
Transport Economist, specialist in evaluation of
maintenance programs                                       12
Cost Accountant, specialist in cost accounting
and administrative procedures                               6
Storekeeper, specialist in warehouse management                  6
96
Locally Recruited (primarily assigned to give assistance to the
cantons)
Deputy Project Manager, engineer/planner                        24
Maintenance Engineer                                            24
Equipment Specialist                                            24
Transport Economist                                              12
84
TOTAL                                                           180



- 73             ~           ANNEX 3
Page 4
The internationally recruited experts would be provided under the project.
MOPT will provide supporting staff, offices, vehicles and miscellaneous
requirements.
4.   Schedule and Reporting
The project will be carried out over a period of 24 months. Reports
will be presented quarterly to MOPT, summarizing past accomplishment as well
as operational problems identified to permit a formulation of measures neces-
sary to overcome them and to proceed with the scheduled implementation.
5.   Executing Government Agency and Counterpart Staff
MOPT will be contracting agency. Counterpart personnel will be
provided from among permanent employees of MOPT to work together with the
consultants.
March 1980



- 74 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance
for the Training Program of Road Maintenance Personnel
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Ministry of Public Works and Transportation (MOPT) plans to
carry out a five-year prograa for the training and upgrading of personnel
at all levels engaged in road naintenance. This program represents the first
stage of continuing training activities to be carried out at MOPT. The train-
ing program will consist of:
(a)  strengthening the Training Departmenit of MOPT;
(b)  establishing a small center for thle training of mechanics
at Cartago (or other suitable location);
(c) setting up and operating a mobile Training Production Unit
(TPU) for the training of road foremen/overseers, equipment
operators/drivers and certain levels of mechanics.
II. OBJECTIVES
2.        The objectives of the technical assistance services are to:
(a)  assess manpower requirenqerits for thie five-year road mnain-
tenance and rehabilitation progran (1981-1985) and up-
date the inventory of all maintenance personnel;
(b) design detailed training and upgrading programs aimed at
producing qualified personnel required to implement the
maintenance and rehabilitation program;
(c) implement the program and, at the same time, provide
on-the-job training for Costa Rican counterparts and
instructors; and
(d) assess existing training policies and system of incentives
and recommend any changes required for the successful
implementation of the training program.



- 75 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2
III. SCOPE AND SERVICES
A.   General
3.        Technical assistance will consist of:
(a) a training advisor (expatriate) responsible for design-
ing the training program, supervising its implementation
and upgrading the Chief of the Training Department. He
should also advise MOPT regarding a strengthening of
all personnel actions related to staff development;
(b) one road engineer (Chief of TPU, expatriate) and a senior
instructor (Costa Rican) for operators and drivers to run
the TPU and an instructor (Costa Rican) for foremen; and
(c) a senior instructor and an instructor (both Costa
Ricans) to train mechanics and assistant instructors.
4.        Technical assistance experts will be responsible for all aspects of
the training program and be accountable to the Sub-Director General of Public
Works. They will coordinate their work with the Chief of the Training Depart-
ment and engineers in charge of road maintenance and rehabilitation in the
Regions and Zones. The functional character of this program will require that
the aims relating to the number of people trained for different job categories
be in consonance with the current and future needs of the road maintenance
programs set by MOPT. The success of the execution of the training program
will depend upon thorough coordination of the center and TPU's activities with
the Director responsible for field maintenance to ensure that equipment and
spare parts for training mechanics and operators are available when needed and
that there are jobs to be performed when trainees are sent to the field to
carry out productive road maintenance operations.
B.   Assessment of Manpower Requirements
5.        The training adviser will:
(a) determine the personnel requirements for the five-year
maintenance and rehabilitation program and prepare an
inventory of personnel requiring training and upgrading;
(b) determine the skills and knowledge required for maintenance
personnel at all levels; and
(c) assess the training needs of existing maintenance personnel.
C.   Definition of a Detailed Training Program
6.        Upon completion of the review under paragraph 5, the training adviser
will prepare a detailed training program to meet the personnel needs and will,
inter alia:



-76 -                         ANNEX 4
Page 3
(a)  determine the number of personnel by category and level to
be trained during the five-year period, establishing
priority needs;
(b)  develop a phased training program for different categories
and levels of personnel, taking into consideration DGH's
manpower requirements and budgetary constraints. The
program could be presented along the following lines:
(i)  a two-year Priority Program to start as soon as
resources become available under the Fifth Highway
Project; and
(ii)  a Continuing Program which would follow and consoli-
date action taken during the Priority Program. The
Priority Program would be updated annually in
consultation with the Bank;
(c)  set up a mobile TPU and a small center at Cartago for pro-
ductive training of road foremen, operators, drivers and
mechanical personnel;
(d)  determine the number and categories of Costs Rican instructors
required and set up programs for their training;
(e)  determine the training equipment and materials required,
including audio-visual aids;
(f)  prepare the annual budget of training activities; and
(g)  recommend any other action considered necessary for the satis-
factory implementation of training.
D.   Implementation of the Training Program
7.        Following the Government's agreement on the training program, the
technical assistance experts will:
(a)  implement the training program; and
(b)  assist in selecting and training Costa Rican counterparts and
instructors to take over the training activities within a
reasonable time.
E.   Review of Existing Training Activities and Personnel Policies
8.        The training adviser, in collaboration with the Chief of the Train-
ing Department, the Directorate General of DGH, and other senior officials,
will:



ANNEX 4
Page 4
(a) review existing training procedures and, if necessary,
recommend appropriate changes, including a new train-
ing policy (page 5 of this annex, following); and
(b) assess the effectiveness of current policies regarding
career development and incentives and recommend any
organizational changes required to create an environment
in which training can be most effective.
IV. SCHEDULE FOR REPORTING
9.        MOPT will be responsible for preparing the following reports (in
Spanish) within the time limits specified:
(a) an inception report within four months of the starting date,
detailing training needs and recommendations for a five-year
program to meet these needs, including measures required to
implement the program. The report will contain a concise
first chapter summarizing the contents;
(b) quarterly progress reports describing the work carried out
during the previous three months and the work program for
the following three months; the progress report will
identify actual and anticipated difficulties and delays
in implementing the training program and suggest remedies;
(c) a brief report on personnel policies and recommended
improvements;
(d) two months prior to the training adviser's completion of
service, a draft final report will be prepared summarizing
(i) work performed; (ii) progress made; (iii) benefits from
training program; (iv) areas where progress has been un-
satisfactory; and (v) recommendations for further action;
(e) a final report within one month of receipt of comments on
the draft final report from the Government; and
(f) other reports as may be reasonably requested by the Government.
Two copies of all reports will be sent to the Bank as soon as issued for
information.
March 1980



- 78-                          ANNEX 4
Page 5
COSTA RICA
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORTATION (MOPT)
DRAFT POLICY STATEMENT ON TRAINING
1.        The economic and social growth of Costa Rica requires the development
and maintenance of an efficient transportation system. The Government foresees
an investment of e 2,800 million for the period 1981-1985, and such a large in-
vestment must be backed up by the training and upgrading of staff necessary to
develop, administer, and maintain the present and future road network.
2.        The Ministry intends to strengthen its training structure and, with
the assistance of existing national training facilities, plans to meet the
training needs of the MOPT personnel responsible for road maintenance as quickly
as possible.
3.        The Ministry will enter into a contract with consultants experienced
in this field of work and will require them to define the manpower training
needs and to develop a comprehensive training plan, including the strengthening
of the existing Training Department, and the establishment of a training center
(Cartago) for mechanics. In addition, they will be required to assist in
developing the necessary courses and to implement agreed training programs.
4.        Training activities will involve low- and middle-level supervisors,
as well as high-level management staff.
5.        This Ministry will ensure, starting in 1981, that financial and
physical resources will be made available to carry out these activities.
In addition, to ensure the efficient implementation of the training effort,
all senior staff and engineers of Regions and Zones connected with road
maintenance activities will be required to collaborate closely with the
Training Department by making available adequate numbers of personnel to be
trained as instructors and, by releasing existing and future staff in a timely
fashion, to undertake agreed training courses.



-79 -                          ANNEX 4
Page 6
GOVERNMENT CONTRIBUTION
The Government will:
(a) appoint a road engineer and a senior instructor for operators
as counterparts to the two technical assistance experts to
TPU plus one chief mechanic; assignment of the experts will
be contingent upon the appointment of MOPT personnel;
(b) appoint two experienced chief mechanics to work with the
technical assistance experts responsible for the training
of mechanics at Cartago;
(c) appoint one senior road foreman to work with the technical
assistance expert entrusted with training of foremen/
overseers;
(d) assign suitable existing instructors to the program as
required;
(e) appoint three road foremen, three chief mechanics and three
senior equipment operators/drivers to be trained initially
as assistant instructors (or fewer, if existing instructors
(see (d) preceding) can be used for TPU and Cartago Center);
(f) recruit Costa Rican instructors from the private sector
according to Government procedure; however, the Bank will
review their terms of reference, qualifications and ex-
perience and the contract conditions prior to their
respective appointments;
(g) obtain the Bank's concurrence for personnel selected for
training abroad (fellowships);
(h) make adequate arrangements for the selection of suitable
personnel to be trained as instructors;
(i) make adequate arrangements for releasing existing and future
staff, in a timely manner, to undertake agreed training
activities;
(j) confirm that MOPT will promulgate an effective policy
statement on training; and
(k) allocate sufficient funds to finance local cost as well as
recurrent cost of the training program.



- 80 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 7
JOB DESCRIPTION
Training Adviser
Duration:                        12 months
Duty Station:                    MOPT Headquarters, San Jose, with frequent
field trips to Cartago Center, TPU sites and
other areas as needed.
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to university level.
He should be a road maintenance specialist, preferably an
engineer, with five to seven years responsible experience in
managing training activities, particularly in establishing
programs and facilities. Moreover, he should be capable of
(i) organizing a comprehensive policy of staff development
through practical and productive training; (ii) taking part
in active training by conducting seminars and discussions on
a specific road maintenance problem; and (iii) reviewing and
recommending improvements of existing personnel policies;
(b) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(c) fluency in Spainish.
2.   Responsibilities
The Training Adviser will be responsible for:
(a) establishing and coordinating training policies;
(b) identifying manpower training needs to carry out the road
maintenance and rehabilitation program;
(c) preparing the required training programs, taking into
consideration existing conditions in Costa Rica and MOPT's
administrative structure;
(d) determining the resources required to conduct the training
program;
(e) developing methodology for personnel training and quality control;
(f) approving training curricula and materials;



- 81 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 8
(g) implementing the training program, bearing in mind the
necessary coordination of activities between the Training
Department and the Cartago Center and the TPU (field
training), availability of personnel and other constraints;
(h) maintaining liaison with senior officers, Regions and Zones
engineers and consultants of MOPT to obtain their cooperation
for all matters related to training and staff development
policies;
(i) carrying out workshops/seminars on maintenance management and
related topics for high level staff;
(j) designing an evaluation system within the training program to
both monitor the results of training while it is performed and
later to evaluate the effectiveness of completed programs;
(k) reviewing and making recommendations for the improvement of
existing training policies, in collaboration with the Chief
of Training Department and other senior officers; and
(1) taking necessary measures to ensure the satisfactory imple-
mentation of all seminars and programs required to meet MOPT's
highway training needs, including the upgrading of the Chief
of the Training Department and supervising the training of
Costa Rican instructors.
3.   In discharging his duties, the Training Adviser will report to the
Sub-Director General of Public Works.



- 82 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 9
JOB DESCRIPTION
Road Engineer, Chief of Training Production Unit
Duration:                        36 months
Duty Station:                    TPU on road maintenance sites in Costa Rica.
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to university level or
equivalent - road engineer or senior road construction/maintenance
superintendent;
(b) effective previous training and subsequent extensive field
experience in road construction and maintenance;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
training in road construction and maintenance at supervisory level;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control work activities and to
maintain a team spirit;
(e) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f) fluency in spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
The Chief of the TPU will be responsible for:
(a) planning, organizing and implementing practical productive training
of MOPT personnel assigned to the TPU, as well as rehabilitation/
maintenance works to be carried out while training takes place;
during the last quarter of his service, he will have only an
advisory role while a Costa Rican staff will manage the TPU;
(b)  providing on-the-job training to road foremen, overseers, equipment
operators, drivers and certain levels of mechanics, and ensuring
that they also receive some instructions in theory;
(c) supervising the activities of the chief equipment operator
and chief mechanic assigned to the unit;
(d) ensuring an adequate supply system to enable the TPU to be
properly stocked with materials, lubricants, etc.;



- 83 -                       ANNEX 4
Page 10
(e)  ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and other
resources allocated to the TPU;
(f)  training a Costa Rican counterpart, and supervising the
training of counterparts to chief operator and chief mechanic
as well as other Costa Rican instructors assigned to the TPU.
3.        In discharging his duties, the Chief of the TPU will report
to the Chief of the Training Department through the Training Adviser.



- 84 -                        ANNEX 4
Page 11
JOB DESCRIPTION
Senior Instructor, Mechanics
Duration:                        36 months
Duty Station:                    Cartago Center or other suitable location.
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent - mechanical superintendent or senior workshop foreman;
(b) sound practical training and subsequent extensive practical
experience in the maintenance and repair of heavy road con-
struction/maintenance equipment, dump trucks and other road
vehicles; institutional training experience would be an
advantage;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job productive
programs in maintenance and repair of road equipment;
(d) capacity to plan, organize and control activities of others,
while maintaining a team spirit;
(e) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(f) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
The Senior Instructor, Mechanics will be responsible for:
(a) planning, organizing and implementing basic and upgrading training
of DGH mechanics assigned to Cartago (or other suitable location)
as well as rehabilitation of road equipment;
(b) developing, in collaboration with the training adviser and the
Chief of the Training Department, basic training materials to
be used for those trainees who never benefited from prior training;
(c) ensuring an adequate and timely supply of spare parts to carry
out productive training, i.e., repairing existing broken-down
equipment;
(d) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and materials
and other resources allocated to the center; and
(e) training a Costa Rican counterpart and other instructors
assigned to the center.
3.        In discharging his duties, the Senior Instructor, Mechanics will
report to the Chief of the Training Department through the Training Adviser.



- 85-                        ANNEX 4
Page 12
JOB DESCRIPTION
Senior Instructor, Equipment Operators
Duration:                        36 months
Duty Station:                    TPU on road sites in Costa Rica.
1.   Qualifications and Experience
(a) A good general and technical education up to technician level or
equivalent - senior equipment operator;
(b) sound prior training with seven to ten years responsible
experience in heavy and light construction and maintenance
equipment, particularly in preventive maintenance; should
have experience in operating most important r.oad equipment;
(c) experience in developing and implementing on-the-job
productive training of equipment operators and drivers of
supervisory level;
(d) working experience in Latin American countries; and
(e) fluency in Spanish.
2.   Responsibilities
The Senior Instructor, Equipment Operators will be responsible for:
(a) organizing and implementing on-the-job productive training
of MOPT equipment operators and drivers periodically assigned
to the TPU, as well as rehabilitation/maintenance works
while training takes place;
(b) developing, in collaboration with the training adviser and
the chief of the TPU, basic training materials to be used
for those trainees with limited early training;
(c) ensuring appropriate use of all training equipment and
materials allocated for training;
(d) training a Costa Rican counterpart and other in.structors
assigned to him.
3.        In discharging his duties, the Senior Instructor, Equipment Operators
will report directly to the Chief of the TPU.



- 86 -                        ANNEX 4
Table 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Number and Classification of Maintenance Personnel to be Trained
Number to be Trained!/
Classification                           1981    1982    1983    1984    1985
Engineers                                   20       20       -        -        -
Administrative Personnel                    20       20       20       -
Foremen                                     20       20       10       10
Equipment Operators and Drivers            120      120      120      100       80
Mechanics and Helpers                       70       70       70       40       20
Skilled Laborers                          120       120      120      100      100
Total                             370      370      340      250      200
1/ The project cost will cover only the numbers of personnel listed under
years 1981-1983.
Source: MOPT and mission estimates
November 1979



ANNEX 4
-87-                               Table 2
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Training of Maintenance personnel
Capital and Technical Assistance Expenditures
(US$)
Local           Foreign          Total
Description
(a) Improvement of Training Facilities
Civil works in Cartago                       18,000          18,000           36,000
Workshop equipment and tools                  4,000          62,000           66,000
Provisional camp for TPU                     20,000          20,000           40,000
Special training equipment, including           -            39,000           39,000
audio-visual aids
Mobile classrooms and vehicles                  -            80,000           80,000
Subtotal        42,000         219,000          261,000
(b) Technical Assistance and INA
Training adviser and instructors            198,000         348,000          546.,000
(1981-1985)
DGH Fellowships                                 -            54,000           54,000
National Institute of Apprenticeship         17,000             -             17,000
(INA)
Subtotal       215,000         402,000          617,000
TOTAL          257,000         621,000          878,000
Source: Consultants and mission estimates
November 1979



-88-                            ANNEX 4
Table 3
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Recurrent Operating Expenditures
(Colones)
Description                                          Every Year           Total Program
(1981-1985)          (five years)
(a) Operation of Training Facilities
Training Office at headquarters                  1,620,000           8,100,000
Cartago center for mechanics  o/ 104X000                               520,000
Sub-total      1,724,000           8,620,000
(b)  Per diem for DGH's Personnel
1.  Mechanics, 46, Colones 70/day/44 days          141,680             708,400
2.  Drivers, 90, Colones 70/day/20 days            126,000             630,000
3.  Operators, 70, Colones 70/day/30 days          147,000             735,000
4.  Road inspectors, foremen, overseers,           109,200             546,000
52, Colones 70/day/30 days
5.  Counterparts and assistant                     184,800             924,000
instructors, 12 (MOPT),
Colones 70/day/220 days
Sub-total       708,680            3,543,400
(c)  Operation of Training Production Unit 2/
Operation of equipment                           1,300,000           6,500,000
Materials (asphalt, cement, etc.)                  510,000           2,550,000
Sub-total     1,810,000            9,050,000
Total (a+b+c)  4,242,680           21,213,400
1/   Overhauling up to 50 units of equipment.
2/   Maintaining up to 100 km of roads per year.
Source: MOPT
November 1979



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Five-Year Training Program
198                           1982                            983                          984                      1985
Description                                         J/F/M A/M/J J/IA/SI O/N/D   J/F/M A/M/J J/A/S O/N/D I J/F/M A/M/J J/A/S O/N/D  Ji/F/M A/M/J J/A/S O/N/D  IJ/F/H A/M/J J/A/S 0 /N/D I
1.   Training Adviser (Exp.)                                                                                                                       _
2.   Road Engineer (Exp.)                                          -                                   -              -                            -            XX______ K XXXX CXXXXX (X XX. XXX E5XXXX~
(Chief of TPU )
3.   Senior Instructor  (mechanics) (CR)                            ---                                        ---XXXX   xxxxxxxcxxxxxxx  xxxxJ
4.   Senior Instructor  (operators) (CR)                           =---                                                                                               I =xxx. cuxxxxxu cxxxxxxx xxxxuxx
5.   Instructor, mechanics (CR)                                                                . _    .xxxxx: LXXXXX CXXXXXX
6 .   Instructor, foremen (CR)                                             -I  ---                                                                                  xxx [xxxxx:  cxxx: 1xxx:  cxcXxx:
Counterparts & Assistant Instructors
(MOPT)
7 .   5 Counterparts (2 to 6 above)                              =XXXX  2XXXXX0XXXXXXXXX  mXXXXoXXXXXhXXXXX                xXX XXX :XX x  XXXXXXCXX CXXXXX x     XXX x    KXXXXX    x  x     xxn
8.   1 Chief Mechanic                                             oncxX xxx: xxxxxK cxxx  xxx: XXXXXX cxxxxxa cxxxxx cxxxx Kxxxxx  XXX CXXXXX CxXXXa xxcCXXXXX  KXXXXXX Cxx:cXXXXX IXX, XX
9.   3 Assistant Instructors                                      nx"XX XXXX   X        xxxx                              Assaxxxxx    XXXXXI  =XXX cXXXX  XXXXX X xxxxx   cxXXX   XXxxx  cXXXX CXXX  LXXXXX
(operators/drivers)
10.   3 Assistant Instructors                                     cxxxx cxxxx: xxxxx xKXXX c.xxxxxxxxI cxxxxxx cxxxx  xxxxxxxxXX, txxxxx:xx xxXX EXxx   xxx xx  xxx:  cxxxK cxxxxx: [XXXXXI
(road foremen)
SOURCE:  MOPT and Mission                        Consultants                                                                         MOPT
Expatriates      =   48 man-months                                   Counterparts                    270 man-months
Costa Ricans    =  144                                              Assistant Instructors            378
Sub-total          192                                                Sub-total                     648
Total:   840
November 1979
1 N



- 90 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Highway Network Analysis Model
A.   General Description
1.        A computer model was used to evaluate the economic feasibility of
improving individual links of the national highway network to the level re-
quired by future traffic. As many as 999 links can be analyzed in one run
and, following the link analysis, another evaluation is made of projects,
which are formed by combining links requiring similar improvements; projects
are ranked according to their economic rate of return. Separate rankings
are made for improvement projects and those involving only pavement rehabili-
tation. Any length of analysis period can be specified, with provision being
made for stage construction of any project and for using two different growth
rates for traffic over the analysis period.
B.   Required Input Data and Analysis Procedures
2.        Principal input data required for the model are general inventory
data for each link, consisting of identification number, terrain type,
physical characteristics and condition of the roadway, present traffic volume
and composition, and average light-vehicle running speed. Additional data are
input as block data in the analysis program and are called as needed. These
data include equations for basic vehicle operating costs and for adjusting
these costs for surface type, condition, grade and curvature; running speeds
for the different classes of improved roads; rehabilitation and improvement
costs per kilometer for each possible road betterment; and equations for
calculating average annual road maintenance costs per kilometer by class of
highway.
3.        Principal steps in the network analysis procedure are as follows:
(a)  inventory data are processed and stored on disk for use in the
economic evaluation, with reports being generated, as requested,
showing by link all roadway and bridge data, and traffic volumes
for light vehicles, buses and trucks;
(b)  traffic is projected to the end of the analysis period, and the
corresponding class of highway is tentatively selected;
(c)  road-user savings are calculated for each year of the analysis
period by comparing the estimated cost of operating on the
improved road with that of operating on the existing road with-
out improvement;



-91 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 2
(d) the difference in annual maintenance cost for the existing
and improved roads is calculated, with any reduction being
taken as a benefit and any increase as a negative benefit;
(e) the cost of the projected improvement is calculated and
spread over a three-year design/construction period, and
the salvage value is taken in the final year of the analysis,
estimated as a percentage of the total capital investment;
(f)  capital costs and benefits are discounted to the base year, and
the net present value, economic rate of return and first-year
benefits indicator are calculated;
(g) results of the analysis of each link are printed and analyzed;
(h) some links may be reanalyzed for a specified class other than
the one indicated by projected traffic so that they may be
combined with adjacent links into logical projects;
(i) links are combined into projects as specified, cost-benefit
streams are combined and economic indicators are calculated
for the projects; and
(j) individual project results are printed out, and reports are
generated ranking projects by economic rate of return or by
first-year benefits if requested.
4.        The network analysis model, of necessity, performs an economic
evaluation of links and projects at the prefeasibility level with the aim of
providing a reasonable technical basis for choosing between alternative
investments in highway rehabilitation and improvement projects within the
entire road network. Selected high priority projects are then analyzed using
more detailed data, particularly betterment costs based on engineering studies
and plans for each specific project, to confirm (or modify, if appropriate)
the results obtained using the network model.
February 1980



- 92 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Model
A.   General Description
1.        The evaluation of alternative maintenance policies with the objective
of optimizing, insofar as practicable, the annual road maintenance costs and
corresponding road user costs, was carried out using the Bank's Highway Design
and Maintenance Standards (HDM) model. A preliminary analysis was made by the
consultants, using the version of the model which was made available to them
in March 1979, with representative links of paved, gravel and earth roads
being analyzed. Field and office studies were carried out to determine
physical and geometric characteristics of each roadway section, including
structural numbers, subgrade CBR, average rainfall, length of rainy season and
other required input data.
2.        By the time complete road inventory data were in hand, a greatly
improved version of the HDM model was available. Therefore, a more complete
analysis of the new National Network was carried out, and the results served
as the basis for the five-year maintenance program presented in this report.
B.   Determination of Road Maintenance Program
(i) General
3.        The five-year road maintenance program was prepared on the basis
of an analysis using the Bank's HDM model. The analysis, which aimed at
maximizing the net present value of the road maintenance program, can be
summarized in the following steps:
-    classifying the national road network into major categories;
-    preparing basic input data for the HDM model;
-    determining alternative road maintenance policies for each
road category;
-    running the HDM model for each road maintenance policy and each
road category;
-    determining the optimal road maintenance program (according to
the maximum net present value criterion); and
-    determining a modified road maintenance program, considering
budgetary and operational constraints, for use as the basis
for preparing budget estimates and equipment and spare parts
requirements.



- 93 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 2
Before providing a detailed description of the preceding steps, a summary of
the operations of the HDM model 1/ is given below.
(ii) Basic Operations of the HDM Model
4.        Basically, for each road maintenance alternative, the HDM model
simulated the road surface conditions and vehicle operating costs as they are
affected by the level of maintenance. For each year of analysis, the road
surface conditions (roughness, rutting, cracking, etc.) were computed as a
function of the previous year's conditions, the pavement characteristics, the
climatic conditions, the level of road maintenance and the annual traffic
volumes and composition. The vehicle operating costs, in turn, were computed
as a function of the road surface conditions, as well as the vehicle charac-
teristics and costs, and the traffic volume and composition. This simulation,
repeated for each year of the analysis period, produced the annual costs of
road maintenance and vehicle operation for each alternative, from which
economic comparison between the proposed and null alternatives in terms of
net present values, benefit/cost ratios and economic rates of return, was made.
Also, output from the simulation were management-oriented reports on the quan-
tities and costs of maintenance work done by different activities; these
reports provided a quantitative basis for preparing a more detailed road
maintenance program for implementation.
(iii) Road Network Classification
5.        The national road network was divided into ten major categories, six
for paved and four for unpaved roads. First, the traffic on some 800 inven-
toried physical sections was projected to 1984 from the 1979 estimates. Each
of the physical sections was then classified into one of ten categories distin-
guished by surface type and traffic level. This gave the length in kilometers
of each category; the lengths were further adjusted to account for some
upgrading work expected to be carried out between 1979 and 1984. Table 1 of
this annex shows a summary of the 1984 classified road network accompanied by
the corresponding MOPT road classes.
(iv) Preparation of Basic Input Data
6.        The basic input data required for the HDM model consisted of:
(a) existing road characteristics; (b) vehicle characteristics and costs;
(c) maintenance unit costs; and (d) traffic volumes, compositions and growth
characteristics. These data are compiled in Tables 1 through 4 of this annex.
7.        For the existing road characteristics, each of the paved road
classes was divided into five to ten homogeneous subcategories, each specified
with different values of the modified structural number, road surface roughness
and cracking. The reason for the further subdivision was as follows: the road
1/   Highway Design and Maintenance Standards (HDM) Model:  Model Description
and User's Manual, Transportation, Water and Telecommunications Department,
The World Bank, June, 1979.



- 94 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 3
maintenance standards employed in the analysis were condition-responsive in
that the decision rules for performing maintenance each year were based on
the surface conditions of each subcategory, not on a predetermined schedule.
Thus, the road subcategories were employed to represent a distribution of
these characteristics over the network so that maintenance quantities estimated
by the HDM model would realistically be uniformly distributed over the period
of the road maintenance program. The values of the modified structural number
used were estimated based on a sample of values obtained from a field survey.
8.        For road maintenance unit costs (Table 4 of this annex), maintenance
operations were analyzed in the following categories:
Paved roads
Patching         -  including heavy and light patching
Resealing        -  including both single and double seals
Unpaved roads
Regraveling      -  including both gravel resurfacing and spot
regraveling
Grading          -  assuming no watering and compaction
(i.e., natural moisture and compaction by
traffic)
Roadside routines -  including miscellaneous operations such as
grass cutting, culvert cleaning and repair
and ditch clearing
9.        Different values of road maintenance unit costs were determined for
the "without-project" case and the "with-project" cases to reflect some
improvements in efficiency in road maintenance operations. The unit costs
were based on an average equipment utilization of 750 hours per year for the
without-project case and 1,000 hours per year for each of the alternative
with-project cases.
(v) Determination of Alternative Road Maintenance Policies
10.       The road maintenance policies analyzed, consisting of the without-
project policy and alternative improved policies for each road surface type
(paved, gravel and earth) are summarized in Table 4 of this annex (B, C and D).
For paved roads, the without-project policy consisted of a fixed annual amount
of patching of 20 sq m/km and a condition-responsive annual threshold level
of cracking of 30% (see Footnote 8 in Table 4 of this annex). This threshold
level of cracking was selected so that the resulting average annual level of
resealing of 210 km computed by the HDM model (based on the weighted average
road width of 6.2 meters) was similar to the existing average annual kilometrage
estimated in the range of 150-200 km. There is considerable variation among



- 95 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 4
maintenance standards in different regions of the country, but the average
condition assumed in the without-project case, on the basis of available
information, was considered adequate for estimating the incremental economic
benefits of the proposed improved standards. In the with-project cases,
14 road maintenance policies were analyzed, representing combinations of
various condition-responsive levels of patching and resealing, as summarized
in Table 4 (B) of this annex. These alternative policies were applied to all
paved road categories.
11.       For gravel roads, in all cases the amounts of regraveling (both
gravel resurfacing and spot regraveling) were assumed to be sufficient to
replenish the amounts of gravel lost from the road surface each year, although
it is not expected that replacement would actually be carried out in this
manner. For earth roads, fixed annual amounts of spot regraveling were
assumed. For both gravel and earth roads, the four with-project policies
were distinguished by their grading frequencies. Table 4 of this annex
(C and D) shows the frequencies of grading for unpaved roads.
12.       The routine roadside maintenance activities, costed in fixed amounts
per km per year, were assumed to be the same for all with-project policies.
No direct economic benefits from these activities were estimated, although
they were considered to be essential conditions for the validity of the road
deterioration relationships employed in the HDM model.
(vi) Running the HDM Model: Basic Assumptions
13.       For each road category and each case, a five-year period of 1981-1985
was used for analysis. This procedure tended to underestimate somewhat the
economic benefit due to the lag effects of improved maintenance on road
surface deterioration beyond the program period, especially for paved roads.
Since the time lag was not known with any reasonable precision, the relatively
short analysis period was selected as being conservative. Because of the need
to build up road maintenance capabilities gradually, it was assumed in the HDM
model that the improved maintenance standards (Policies 1 through 14 for paved
roads and 1 through 4 for unpaved roads) were to become effective from 1982
onward. Similarly, savings in unit maintenance costs due to improved equip-
ment utilization were assumed to be realized after 1981.
14.       For simplicity, no overlaying or rehabilitation work was applied to
any road category. This is not to say that no major strengthening or repair
work should be carried out on the existing network since much of this type of
betterment is urgently needed but, rather, that the structural numbers input
in the model reasonably represented average network conditions over the
analysis period.
15.       For each with-project policy and each road category, the overall
economic benefits were expressed as the net present value of annual benefits
relative to the without-project case, computed at 12% base discount rate.
Four other discount rates (8, 10, 14 and 16) were also employed for sensitivity
checks. The annual benefits were computed as the vehicle operating cost



- 96 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 5
savings of "normal" traffic due to improved road surface conditions minus the
increase in road maintenance costs. For "generated" traffic, which was thought
to be minimal, no economic benefits were estimated. On the same grounds,
economic benefits due to passenger travel time savings were not estimated
either.
16.       For unpaved roads, according to the HDM model, the improved road
surface conditions relative to the without-project case are due solely to
higher grading frequencies which result in a lower average surface roughness
and rut depth. For paved roads, the road surface conditions are improved by
higher levels of patching and resealing in two ways: first, by immediately
slowing road surface derioration through preventing moisture from entering
the pavement, thereby precluding premature failure. Another advantage of
upgrading the levels of patching and resealing lies in reducing the cost of
strengthening since fewer roads would be allowed to fail before scheduled
pavement reinforcement. However, for simplicity, this extra economic benefit
(in terms of the differential residual value of pavements at the end of the
five-year program) attributable to the improved maintenance standards was not
estimated.
(vii) Determination of the Optimal Road Maintenance Program
17.       The optimal road maintenance program was obtained by selecting, for
each of the ten road categories, the improved maintenance policy that maxi-
mized the net present value, irrespective of financial constraints and con-
straints on the rate of building up the MOPT maintenance capabilities. The
optimal program was to be employed as the starting point for reduction in
order to arrive at a more realistic program with consideration given to the
prevailing constraints.
18.       A summary of the optimal program is shown in Table 5 of this annex.
This program is quite insensitive to the discount rate in that none of the
optimal maintenance policies for the road categories changed when the discount
rates of 10, 14 and 16% were.employed instead of 12%. For the 8% discount
rate, only the optimal policy of one road category was altered, but this
alteration caused less than 1/2% difference in the net present value for the
road maintenance program.
19.       The financial costs per kilometer per year, averaged over 1982-1985,
for the various surface types--US$1,600 for paved, US$1,100 for gravel and US$330
for earth roads--were though quite reasonable relative to the norm of similar
countries. However, the average total annual financial cost of US$7.7 million
or 4 66 million (over 1982-1985) was higher than what was realistically
considered as likely to be achieved during 1983-1984, estimated between
4 56 and 4 60 million. For paved roads, the optimal program suggested
27 sq m/km of patching and 680 km of resealing per year for the projected net-
work (based on the average paved road width of 6.2 m). The indicated annual
amount of resealing is more than double the present annual program, and some
reduction was considered desirable. For gravel roads, the total annual amount
I



- 97 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 6
of regraveling estimated by the model (averaged over 1982-1985) of 300,000
cu m/year was considered reasonable in light of past MOPT experience, as were
the average gravel resurfacing cycles of 3.5 to 7 years. However, for unpaved
roads, the grading frequencies suggested by the optimal program were more than
twice as high as existing frequencies and were considered to be impractical for
some subcategories. Since, in the HDM model, the optimal grading frequency for
a given road is quite dependent on the quality and type of the surface material,
which was assumed for all cases to be a combination of the two most prevalent
types, grading frequencies were lowered on the basis of judgment.
Determination of the Modified-Optimal Road Maintenance Program
20.        The modified program was derived by scaling down the optimal program
so that the total annual financial cost of the program in the middle year of
the program period was reduced to a more realistic value in the range of
t 56-60 million per year. This was accomplished in such a way that the reduc-
tion in the net present value from the optimal program level was minimized and
the estimated quantities of annual maintenance work were within the expected
attainable capabilities during 1983-1984.
21.        In minimizing the reduction in the net present value of the program,
graphs of the relationship of the net present value to the financial cost for
the road categories were employed. Specifically, for each road category, the
net present value (at 12% interest) was plotted against the annual financial
cost for all with-project maintenance policies. This resulted in various
increments for possible reduction in the form of a piece-wise linear curve,
as shown, for example, in Figure 1(A) for road category GRV1. The slope of each
straight-line segment, representing an increment, was the ratio of the increase
in the net present value to the increase in the annual financial cost of the
maintenance program, and, for simplicity, was called the "incremental NPV-AFC"
ratio.
22.        To pare the annual financial cost to the maximum available budget,
the straight-line segments of the net present value versus financial cost
curves for all road categories were first examined. The reduction was made
by progressively paring the increment with the smallest incremental NPV-AFC
ratio among the available increments; this was subject to the condition that
the increments which would cause the annual maintenance quantities to decrease
to within the projected capacities had to be taken first. This procedure
resulted in a road maintenance program costing US$6.9 million or f 58 million
per annum, as summarized in Table 5 of this annex. Most of the paring occurred
in the unpaved road categories. Figure 1(B) shows the graph of the net present
value versus total annual financial cost, representing the series of incre-
ments taken in the down-scaling process. The following table shows, for each
of the optimal and modified programs, the net present value, the discounted
incremental economic costs of road maintenance, and the percent discounted
vehicle operating cost savings (all at 12% discount rate) relative to the
null alternative of not improving present maintenance standards:



- 98 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 7
Optimal Program         Modified Program
(million US$)            (million US$)
Net present value                              51.95                    49.64
Discounted (incremental)
economic costs of road
maintenance                                  8.98                       4.91
Percent discounted vehicle
operating cost savings                       4.0%                      3.7%
23.       For the optimal program,  the"net benefit-cost ratio,"defined as the
ratio of the net present value to the discounted incremental economic cost of
road maintenance, equals 51.95 . 8.98 = 5.78; for the modified program, this
ratio equals 49.64 i 4.91 = 10.10. Moving from the optimal to the modified pro-
gram corresponds to a decrease in discounted economic cost of road maintenance
of 8.98 - 4.91   US$4.07 million and also a decrease in the net present value of
51.95 - 49.64 = US$2.31 million; the corresponding incremental net benefit-cost
ratio is 2.31 - 4.07 = 0.57. The relative magnitudes of these ratios indicate
that the modified program itself is almost optimal since the additional benefits
per unit increase in road maintenance expenditure beyond the modified program
would have been relatively small. The marginal "inputed" economic rate of
return of the modified maintenance program was computed by solving the follow-
ing equation:
2 NPV        ERR         0
EMC      O. 12 
where L\NPV = the decrease in the net present value of the last increment taken
in the down-scaling of the maintenance program from optimal; A EMC = correspond-
ing decrease in the economic cost of road maintenance, discounted at 12% and
MERR = the marginal inputed economic rate of return. In the above formula,
the term MERR/0.12 - 1 represents the shadow price of an additional unit of
the budget on the margin; it is assumed to equal the net present value of a
hypothetical stream of annual economic returns equal to (MERR - 0.12) per year
to perpetuity discounted at 12% interest, the 12% being treated as the social
discount rate. From Figure 1(B), the last increment (No. 6), corresponding
to the change from policy 2 to policy 1 for road category GRVI, gave L NPV and
L\NEMC = 0.33 and US$0.13 million, respectively. For these given values of
L6NPV and tA fC above, the equation was solved to yield MERR = 42%.



- 99 -                         ANNEX 6
Page 8
24.       For paved roads, the annual amount of resealing decreased from
680 km to 540 km, while the amount of patching increased from 27 to 49 sq m/km
per year. For unpaved roads, the frequencies of grading decreased by about
20%, and there was no change in the amounts of regraveling. These annual
maintenance quantities were then employed as the basis for deriving the budget
estimates and requirements for road maintenance equipment and spare parts, as
detailed in the following section.
C.   Determination of Budgetary and Equipment Requirements
25.       Following determination of the average annual work quantities cor-
responding to the modified optimal maintenance level for the national highway
network, calculations were made of equipment required to execute those quanti-
ties. The number of units needed for each major activity was determined on
the basis of an average annual utilization of 1,000 hours, assuming reasonable
average hourly production per unit. Results of the calculations for the
national network are shown in Table 4.3 of the report and for the cantonal
network in Table 4.4.
26.       Target annual maintenance budgets for the national network were
established assuming that the modified optimal level would not be achieved
before 1983-1984, following completion of the major portion of the road reha-
bilitation subprojects included in the Government's five-year (1981-1985)
program and of required institutional and administrative reforms. For 1981, a
spending level roughly equivalent to the present level was estimated, although
it is expected that an improved level of maintenance will be achieved with this
amount of expenditure. Approximate annual funding required for adequate main-
tenance of the new cantonal network was also estimated, inasmuch as MOPT will
probably continue to carry out most maintenance on this network for the next
few years.
February 1980



100 -                                 ANNEX 6
Table 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
A. National Road Network Classification for Maintenance Study
Road Category    1984                                    MOPT        1984 ADT
Name      (KI Length      Surface    e             Classes 1/    Range
PVH1        55            Paved:                   A2, I-3       over  8,000
PVH2       175            asphalt                  and II        4,000-8,000
PVH3       185            concrete                               under 4,000
PVL1       245            Paved:                                 over  4,000
PVL2     1,080            surface                  III, III-1   1,000-4,000
PVL3     1,220            treated                                under 1,000
Sub-total: 2,960
GRV1       375            Gravel:                               over  250
GRV2       810            volcanic and             IY  and V    100 - 250
GRV3     2,285            quartzitic                             under 100
Sub-total: 3,470
ERT1       555            Earth                    VI
Total:     6,985
B.  Traffic Characteristics
Road Category   Passenger                       Medium    Heavy
Cars   Jeeps      Buses     Trucks    Trucks    Total
1979 Average Daily Traffic 3/
PVH1        2933       1956       450       874        219        6432
PVH2        1983       1322       304       591        148        4348
PVH3         709        473       108       211         53        1554
PVLl        1830       1220       280       545        136        4011
PVL2         607        404        92       180         45        1328
PVL3         160        107        24        47         12         350
GRV1         153        102        23        45         11         334
GRV2          56         37         8        16          4         121
GRV3        13.0        8.7      1.6        306        0.9       27.8
ERT1         2.5        1.7      1.0       0.24       0.06        5.5
Annual Percentage Growth Rate 1979-1985
All
Categories     5.7        5.7       6.7       5.7        5.7
1/  A = 4-lane expressway or autopista; I-3 = 3-lane paved, high standard;
II   2-lane paved high standard; III = 2-lane paved, low standard; III-1 = I-lane
paved, low standard; IV = 2-lane gravel; V = 1-lane gravel; VI = earth.
2/  The 4-lane divided highways (autopista) were treated as 2-lane roads with
double the length and one half the traffic of the autopista.
3/  Some ADT figures appear as fractions as a result of averaging over the
roads in the same category.
Source: MOPT and BEL



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Existing Road Characteristics
Road Category:      PVHI          PVH2          PVH3           PVL1          PVL2          PVL3           GRVI          GRV2           GRV3           ERTI
LengtL (Km)                                          55          175           185            245         1,020         1,220            375           810          2,285            555
Number of sub-categories                              5            5             5              5            10            10              5              5             5              1
Length of each sub-category                          11           35            37             49           108           122             75           162            457            555
Average Altitude (meters over MSL)                 800           800           800            800           800           800            800           800            800            800
Average wet season lengths (months)                   7            7              7             7             7              7           NAP"/         NAP            NAP            NIP
Average dry season lengths (months)                   5            5             5              5             5              5           NAP           NAP            NAP            NAP
Average annual rainfall (mm)                     2,500         2,500         2,500         2,500          2,500         2,500          2,000         2,000          2,000          2,500
Average surface width (meters)                     7.8           7.;6          7.1            6.7           6.4           5.6            5.4           4.5            3.5            2.8
Average gradient (percent)                         4.0           4.5           2.0            3.5           4.0           5.0            6.5           6.5            5.0            7.5
Average horizontal curvature (degree/km)             30           30            30             45            75             75           100            123           148            155
Surface type                                     --------asphalt concrete -------          -----------surface treated --------            2/            2/             2/         earth
Average wearing course thickness (mm)              50.           50.           50.            50.           50.           50.            NAP           NAP            NAP            NAP          °
5.11         4.10          3.60           3.60        3.41,3.38     3.10,3.06
Modified structural numbers                       4.86          3.98          3.48          3.56         3.35,3.32    3.01,2.96
(one for each sub-category)                    4.61         3.86           3.36          3.51         3.29,3.26    2.91,2.86          NAP           NAP            NAP            HAP
4.3f6        3.73          3.23           3.46        3.23,3.20    2.81,2.76
4.11         3.61          3.11           3.41        3.15,3.11     2.71,2.66
Surface roughness (mm/kmi)-                 1,800-2700  1,700-2,100  1,800-2,400  4,000-4,800           4,400-5,300  3,100-4,700   9,000             9,400         10,800        12,000
Crack area (sq.m/km)-l                        400-750      130-310       200-500        500-1,000          500-1,000    500-900          NAP           NAP            NAP           NAP
Rut depth (mm)                                     NAP            NAP           NAP           NAP           NAP           NAP             40            42             ID             60
Deterioration relationship                          4/             4/            4/             4/           4/            4/             2/            2/             2/   non-clay earth
1/ NAP means "not applicable."
2/ Volcanic gravel in 4 sub-categories, quartzitic gravel in one sub-category; with corresponding
TRRL-Kenya relationships for unpaved road deterioration.
3/ The range of roughness and cracking values was uniformly distributed over the sub-categories.
4/ TRRL-Kenya relationships for paved road deterioration.
Source: MWPT, BEL and mission



ANNEX 6
- 102 -                                   Table 3
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Vehicle Characteristics and Costs
(Costs in US.  Dollars)
Vehicle Description            Passenger                          Medium    Heavy
Cars      Jeeps      Buses      Trucks    Trucks
Vehicle type code;l                1           2          5         4          5
Fuel typeD/                    GASOLINE    DIESEL    DIESEL    DIESEL    DIESEL
Brake horsepower                   69.00     89.00    170.00       90.00    330.00
Gross veh.wght (metric tons)        1.50       2.30     12.00       7.20      20.00
Axle equivalency factor             0.00       0.00      1.20       0.50       2.80
Economic Cost
New vehicle                      4740.00   7710.00  33530.00  12710.00  50270.00
Cost/tire                          26.00      38.00    145.00      59.00    168.00
Maintenance labor cost/hr           2.90       2.90       2.90      2.90       3.02
Crew cost/hr                        0.00       0.00      2.01       2.30       1.82
Annual overhead costs
% of operating costs           0.00      0.00      12.00      12.00     12.00
Interest rate (percent)            12.00      12.00     12.00      12.00      12.00
Fuel & lubricants (cost/liter):  Petrol - 0.23  Diesel fuel - 0.21
Engine oil = 1.00
Vehicle Utilization
Annual operating hours            450.       450.     2000.      2000.      2000.
Annual kilometers driven        16000.    16000.    80000.    43000.    550000
Av vehicle life (years)            13.        13.         8.       10.         8.
Vehicle depreciation code3/          3          3        2          2          2
Vehicle utilization code4/           1          1         3         3          3
1/  Vehicle type codes: 1 = Passenger car; 2 = Light pickup; 3 - Medium size bus;
4 = Goods vehicle under 8.5 tonnes; 5 = Goods vehicle over 8.5 tonnes or
large bus.
2/  The fuel consumption relationships developed by Chesher were used.
3/  Vehicle depreciation codes: 1 = TRRL Kenya relationships; 2   deWeille's
varying vehicle life; 3 = Constant vehicle life.
4/  Vehicle utilization codes: 1 = Constant annual kilometerage; 2 = Constant
annual hourly utilization; 3 = Adjusted utilization.
Source: BEL



- 103 -                                                       ANNEX 6
Table 4
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Road Maintenance Unit Costs and Alternative Policies
A. Road Maintenance Unit Costs (in US$)-/
Without-project Case2/   With-project Case2/
Financial    Economic   Financial   Economic
Patching3/                  5.20          4.67        4.00          3.59      per sq,m
Resealing_/                 0.92          0.82        0.84         0.75       per sq.m
Other routine (paved)   269.00          259.00      240.00       231.00       per km per yr
Regravelling5/              5.78          5.28        4.86         4.44       per cu.m
Grading6/                  32.30         37.80       27.60        31.00       per km
Other routine (unpaved) 220.00          210.00      180.00       172.00       per km per yr
B. Paved Road Maintenance Policies7/
Without-project policy: patching 20 sq.m/km per year
resealing at 30 percent threshold level (in percent of road surface area)8/
Improved policies:                                    Resealing
Threshold cracking level
(in percent of road surface area)8/
Annual amount                     30%         15%                     2.5%
of patching, in         20%                Policy 1   Policy 2    Policy 3J
percent of un-          40%    Policy 4   Policy 5   Policy 6    Policv 7
patched cracked         60%                Policy 8   Policy 9    Policy 10
area                    80%    Policy 11  Policy 12  Policy 13   Policy 14
C. Gravel Road Maintenance Policies9/
Policy No.    Grading frequenc lo/
Without-project policy:         0          15,000 vehicle passes per grading
Improved policies:              1          12,000 vehicle passes per grading
2           9,000 vehicle passes per grading
3           6,000 vehicle passes per grading
4           3,000 vehicle passes per grading
D. Earth Road Maintenance Policies11/
10/
Policy No,    Grading frequEn_yl-
Without project policy:         0          Once a year
Improved policies:              1          1,600 vehicle passes per grading
2          1,300 vehicle passes per grading
3         1,000 vehicle passes per grading
4            900 vehicle passes per grading
1/ The unit costs include 10% physical contingencies.
2/ Based on 750 and 1,000 hours per year utilization for without and with porject
cases, respectively.
3/ Based on 100% heavy patching in the without-project case and 50% heavy patching
and 50% light patching in the with-project cases.
4/ Based on 80 percent single seal and 20 percent double seal.
S/ Include both gravel resurfacing and spot regravelling.
6/ Grading without watering and compaction.
7/  Apply to road categories PVH1, PVH2, PVH3, PVL1, PVL2 and PVL3.
8/ Above which resealing was to be done in the analysis year in question,
9/ Apply to road categories GRV1, GRV2 and GRV3; all gravel roads were subject to
the same policy of replenishing all gravel losses each year.
10/ Subject to minimum frequency limit of once a year (except Policy 0 for ERTI
already with a fixed frequency).
11/ Apply to road category ERT1.
Source: BEL and mission



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Optimal and Modified Road Maintenance Programs
A. Benefits and Costs for Individual Categories
(in US dollars)
Net Present Value-/            Annual Financial Coot-              Annual Financiay
Road          Length             Maintenance Policies             in  millions                   in   millions                        Cost per hkll
Category      (ki)              Optimal        godified        Optimal         Modified       Optimal         Modifieed         Op               ofe
Paved:            PVHI            55                3               3              2.18           2.1           0.105           0.105            1.96             1,908
PVH2          175                 3              3              3.51            3.51          0.444            0.444            2,537           2,537
PVH3          185                14              14             1.00            1.00          0.356            0.358            1,935            1,935
PVL1          245                12             12             16.38           16.38          0.193            0.193              768              788
PVL2        1,080                 2              2             20.29           20.29          1.701            1.701            1,667            1,667
PVL3        1,220                 2               1             2.54            1.79          1.790            1.328            1,467            1.089
Sub total:                    2.960                                              45.90           45.15           4.591           4.129                     1,423
Unpaved:          GRV1           375                3               1              1.154          0.647          0.692           0.550            1,845            1,466
GRV2          810                 3               2             1.775           1.398         0.853            0.779            1,053              961
GRV3        2,285                 4              3              3.035           2.375         1.361            1.216              596              532
ERTI          555                 3              2              0.087           0.066         0.210            0.182              378              327
Sub total:                    4.025                                               6.051           4.486          3.116           2.727              774              677
Total:                         6,985                                             51.950          49.636          7.707           6.856            1,113              990
B. Annual Quantities of Maintenance Work-/
Paved Roads                                                                                  2/         Unpaved Roads
Grading Frequency
Road            Annual Patching  (85.m)        Annual Resealing  (eq.m)             Road             (km/km/year)                       Annual.Regr-V ing (both programs)
Category          Optimal        Modified        Optimal        Modified           Category         Optimal        Modified          cu.m.            kltCycle (ars)-
PVHI                290             290        107,000         107,000              GRVI             24.4            12.2         69,500            107              3.5
PVH2              2,230           2,230        465,500         465,500              GRV2              8.9             5.9         98,900            183              4.4
PVH3              9,060           9,060        328,400         328,400              GRva              4.1             2.0        134.B00            321              7.1
PVL1             33,380          33,380           -               -               Sub total:          5.0             4.0        303,200            611              5.7
PVL2             19,370          19,370      1,632,000       1,632,000              ERT1              2.4             1.9          13,900
PVL3             13,600          78,060      1,708.000         854 000
Total:             77,930         142,390      4,240,900       3,386,000             Total:             4.6             3.7        317,100
1/ All annual maintenance quantities and financial costs represent averages 'over 1982-1985.
2/ The net preeent value represents net incremental benefits relative to the without project maintenance policy over the 5-year analysis period, computed at 12 percent
discounted rate.
3/  Based on an average of 12-cm thickness per surface regravelling application.



ANNEX 6
- 105                               Figure 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Benefits vs. Level of Road Maintenance-/
A. Plot of net present value vs. annual financial cost
for an individual road category (GRV1)
Optimal level
First increment -     / 
1.0  _ 
Net present                  Second increment                             Policy 4
value over            _cJn.
without project
case, in
US$ millions    0.5
(at 12%)
0.                       1.0
Policy 1 ") /   /    Annual financial cost
Policy 2                  (US$ million)
Policy 3
B. Plot of net present value vs. annual financial cost
for entire road network
52.0                       Increments
Optimal
51.0      Modifiea      Q                                       program
Net present               program
value over
without project
case,          50.0
(12% iJnterest)
49.0
6.8      7.0        7.2        7.4       7.6       7.8
Annual financial cost
(US$ million)
1/ Annual financial cost, used in this figure as the overall indicator of road
maintenance level, was computed as the average over 1982-1985.
2/ The six increments taken corresponded to the following road categories and
maintenance policies:
Increment         Road Category        Starting Policy    Ending Policy
1                  PVL3                    2                 1
2                  GRV1                    3                 2
3                  ERT1                    3                 2
4                  GRV3                    4                  3
5                  GRV2                    3                 2
6                  GRVI                    2                  1



- 106 -
ANNEX 7
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available
in the Project File
1.        "Programa de Mantenimiento, Rehabilitacion y Mejoramiento del Sistema
Vial"  -  BEL Ingenieria S.A., 4 Volumes (November 1979)
Volume 1 Final Report, Chapters I to V
Volume 2 Final Report, Chapters VI to IX
Volume 3 Annexes A, B, C and D
Volume 4 Annexes E, F, G, H, I, J, K, L and M
2.        Working Paper:  "National Network Maintenance Program, Estimate of
Annual Maintenance Works Indicators and Annual Operational Budget
Requirements"
3.        Road Improvement Program - Stage II, Project Report - Inter-American
Development Bank, November 20, 1979
4.        Reports on the Weights and Dimensions Department, MOPT, June 1979
5.        Program Terms of Reference for the "Programa de Mantenimiento,
Rehabilitacion y Mejoramiento," BEL Ingenieria S.A., February 1979
6.        Solicitud de Financiamiento para la Segunda Etapa Mejoramiento de
Carreteras, MOPT - IDB, July 1979
7.        Cuadros Estadisticos Sobre Sector Transportes - 1977-1978 - MOPT -
Director General de Planificacion
April 1980



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
MINISTRY OF PUBLIC WORKS AND TRANSPORT
MINISTER
VICE MINISTER
GENERAL               GENERAL
ADVISORY COMMITTEES                                  DIRECTORATE            DIRECTORATE
OF PLANNING            OF AUDITING
GENERAL
DIRECTORATE
OF LEGAL AFFAIRS
ADMINISTRATIVE                         TRANSPORT                           |PUBLIC WORKS
DIVISION                            DIVISION                             FIVE  ION
ADMINI STRATIVE _  _WCOMPUTER          DEPARTMENT                                           B  -2PRTMENT
PLANNING       _      _CENTER      OF RAILROADS    _ OF TARIFFS
GENERAL   l     |GENERAL            GENRA               GENERAL  l      |GENERAL1
_DIRECTORATE | |DIRECTORATE D| ECORT                      DIRECTORATE | |DIRECTORATE 
_OFPESONNELE          OFTROAFFI         OF WAE              OF CIVFIL   |    OF STUIESHAND|
AND SEVICES      | ENGNSPORTN   TRNPR               AVATONIE l       XEAUTO
|GENERAL             GEEA                                 GEEA               GENERAL l
-|DIRECTORATE        DIETRT                               DIECORT            DIRtECTORATE|
|OF SUPINCES        OF TRFI|FRFI                                           OF STUIDINGS AN
DIRECTORATE~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~-  D I RECTORATE|
|OF EQUIPMENT
-|GEN ERA Ll
|OF PORT WOR KS|
World Bank -20505



COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
ORGANIZATION CHART OF THE
GENERAL DIRECTORATE OF HIGHWAYS
GENERAL DIRECTORATE
I    OF HIGHWAYS
SUH-DIRFCTORATE                                  SUB-CIRECTORATE                            SUB-DIRECTORATE          SUB-DIRECTORATE
OF DESIGN                                      CONSTRUCTION                               OF MAINTENANCE         OF FORCE ACCOUNT
DEPARTMENT OF    DEPARTMENT OF   LAORATORY AND  DEPARTMENT OF  DEPARTMENT OF| DEPARTMENT OF|           EPARTMENT OF      ARTMENTOF
ROAD DESIGN        BRIDGES         MATERIALS          COSTS           BIDS        STANDARDS          PROGRAMMING      SUPERVISION
WORKS BY
WORKSY                   WdR KS BY                WORKSBY                    CNTRACTSANJOSE
CONTRACT ERD             CONTRACTl ID            CONTRACT CARF|    SIQU IRHES
World Bank - 20506



IBRD 14807
N ~~~                       ~          ~                    ,                                                             MARCH 1900
N                                                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COSTA RICA
ik  Ni f    , n ,t'   t'2>f ~/caragua  r  " I C  A    U  A                       FIFTH   HIGHWAY   PROJECT
NAtLONAT HNONL 0 NTWOK
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -      - R ;oy'$ ON Cn ;0t sIXIZllMqruc Do
1 <   2   <onof   <   +  <  L  <  s  \  r  v  \  C>wW3rnent Floi t Rt>=dt~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  Gv,NltNoHd
v-61w    \  \  X   /t  jwlooD1ans  t)   ;  \   nertnlo .,A,,,  A              \             ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~CATRcOOR&  N NzoR 0000  ATiONAL NETWRK
3  3- ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
omp           <           }          z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... Goww V n  \   X*-d t  !"j
C~~~
5M,, 3  a2ae                                         '',,} "81 r'- 04  c A-11
t35A3400M>  4.0 4303.4
4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(
.0~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ok



