Document of
The World Bank    FILE COPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2785-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
April 25, 1980
This document has a restricted distributon and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Units    =      Colon (¢)
US$1               =     ¢ 8.60
t 1 million              US$116,300
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
1 meter (m)               =      3.28 feet (ft)
I kilometer (km)       2         0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km ) =       0.386 square mile (sq mi)
I metric ton (ton)        =      0.98 long ton-1.1 US short ton
ABBREVIATIONS
CABEI         -     Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CODESA       -      Corporacion Costarricense de Desarrollo
(State Development Corporation)
DGP           -     General Directorate of Planning
DGV          -      General Directorate of Highways
FECOSA       -      Ferrocarriles de Costa Rica, S.A. (State Railway
Corporation)
IDB          -      Inter-American Development Bank
IFAM         -      Institute for Promotion and Assistance to
Municipalities
IMF          -      International Monetary Fund
INA          -      National Institute of Apprenticeship
MOPT          -     Ministry of Public Works and Transportation
NBA          -      National Budgetary Authority
OFIPLAN       -     National Planning and Economic Policy Office
USAID         -     US Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                   Republic of Costa Rica
Amount:                     US$30 million equivalent
Terms:                      15 years, including three years of grace
at 8.25 percent interest per annum.
Project Description:        The proposed project is part of the Government's
five-year (1981-85) program for maintenance,
rehabilitation and improvement of Costa Rica's
highway network. The program components supported
by the proposed loan are: (i) the rehabilitation of
some 420 km of primary and secondary roads; (b)
technical assistance for improving the Ministry of
Public Works and Transportation's organizational
arrangements and procedures for highway rehabilita-
tion and reconstruction; (c) purchase of maintenance
equipment; and (d) technical assistance and training
services to implement the Government's highway
maintenance program. In addition, the project would
strengthen road administration through a clearer
division of responsibilities between the Ministry
and local authorities. The project would first
benefit vehicle operators and the transport industry,
and later producers and consumers. Because of the
ambitious size of the project, its major risk,
special measures have been designed to afford
adequate flexibility.
Estimated Cost:
US$ million
Local        Foreign          Total
Road Rehabilitation and
Improvement                           8.0          14.3             22.3
Road Maintenance
-  Equipment and tech. assist.        0.6            8.2             8.8
-  Training                           0.2           0.7              0.9
Base Cost                   8.8           23.2             32.0
Contingencies:        Physical          1.0            1.7              2.7
Price             3.5           5.1              8.6
Financing Requirements Total           13.3           30.0            43.3
Tl: document has a restricted-distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -      
Financing Plan:
US$ million
Local           Foreign         Total
IBRD                                 _             30.0            30.0
Government                        13.3                -            13.3
13.3             30.0            43.3
Estimated Disbursements:
US$ million
FY1981    FY1982    FY1983    FY1984
Annual                7.5         9.9        9.9       2.7
Cumulative            7.5        17.4       27.3      30.0
Rate of Return:              Over 50 percent for total project, including more
than 50 percent for road rehabilitation and more
than 100 percent for road maintenance because of
the relatively small investment needed to preserve
the productive capacity of large construction
investments.
Staff Appraisal Report:    Report No. 2880a-CR, dated April 22, 1980



INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR A FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan for the equivalent of US$30.0 million to the Republic of Costa Rica for
a fifth highway project. The loan would have a term of 15 years, including
3 years of grace with an interest of 8.25 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Position and Prospects of Costa Rica"
(No. 1666-CR) was distributed to the Executive Directors on November 11,
1977. Since then, various Bank economic missions have visited Costa Rica;
this President's Report reflects their findings. A new economic report is
now under preparation. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
3.        Costa Rica is a small, medium-income country.  In 1978 its popula-
tion was 2.1 million and its per capita income was $1,540. It is an example
among developing countries of how high per capita income growth may be achieved
without an undue concentration of development benefits in the upper income
groups. Per capita income has increased at an annual average of 3.0 percent
since 1960, and the country's income distribution is one of the most equitable
in Latin America. Successive governments have paid substantial attention to
both developing the country's infrastructure (roads, hydropower and opening
new areas for cultivation) as well as addressing the social needs of the
people. More than 45 percent of all expenditures of the Central Government
have traditionally been in education, health, nutrition and other social
sectors. Health and nutrition programs have been an important factor in
halving mortality rates from 10 per thousand in the early 1960s to the
present 5 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth has risen to 70 years.
At the same time, rising incomes, higher educational standards and active
birth control-related programs reduced birth rates so that the natural rate
of population increase fell from 3.7 percent in 1960 to its current level
of 2.5 percent. Moreover, by spending almost one-third of its budget on
education, the Central Government has been able to improve the coverage and
quality of primary and secondary schools, reduce illiteracy to a minimum --
the adult literacy rate was 89 percent in 1978 -- and provide good quality
university education. Costa Rica has no standing army and the share of
Government expenditures devoted to security -- about 2 percent -- has long
been one of the lowest in the world. A coalition of opposition parties won
both the Presidential and Congressional elections in 1978. The Executive's
Congressional majority is small, however, and this has led to delays in
the legislative passage of Government programs. New elections will be held
in 1982.



-2-
4.        Both agriculture and industry have experienced vigorous growth in
the last two decades. Agricultural output growth at 4.2% per annum (1960-
1979) has been among the highest in Latin America, and the sector presently
generates about 20 percent of GDP and absorbs about 30 percent of the labor
force. About two-thirds of agricultural output is destined for overseas
markets, with coffee, bananas, and beef averaging 60 percent of all export
earnings in the last five years. The strong performance of agriculture
notwithstanding, the economy has been undergoing a fundamental transformation
as industry has become the largest productive sector. Manufacturing value
added has grown at an annual rate of 8.8 percent since 1960, currently con-
tributes 22 percent of GDP, and since 1963 has absorbed more than twice as
many new employees as has agriculture. The rapid growth of industry was
facilitated by the creation of the Central American Common Market (CACM) in
1960, which fostered a pattern of import substituting industrialization behind
high regional tariff barriers. Regional trade in manufactured products grew
very rapidly in the first years of the CACM, but more recently, as the first,
easy stage of import substitution has ended, has become a source of diminish-
ing importance for industrial growth. The Government, conscious of the need
to maintain the momentum of industrial growth by finding new markets for manu-
factured products, is currently reviewing policies with a view to removing
economic distortions and institutional bottlenecks which inhibit such an export
thrust.
5.        Costa Rica's economy is very open and its exports and imports highly
concentrated. In 1979, for instance, exports constituted about 26 percent
of domestic production while imports absorbed 38 percent; about two-thirds of
merchandise exports were agricultural commodities and a similar proportion of
merchandise imports (excluding petroleum) were capital and intermediate goods.
This level of openness and degree of concentration make the economy quite
vulnerable to external price movements. The economy's growth has thus been
punctuated by periodic balance of payments difficulties, where the originating
impulse is most often to be found in deteriorating terms of trade. Financial
strains, moreover, have been occasionally pronounced as the Government has, in
these periods of difficulty, initiated countervailing expansions of Government
expenditure and credit.
6.        Recent economic history exemplifies these cyclical pressures.  In
1976 and 1977,led by a quadrupling of coffee prices and continued improvements
in banana and cocoa prices, the terms of trade moved sharply in Costa Rica's
favor. GDP growth accelerated and the expansion was accompanied by a rapid
increase in imports. With the improved export performance, the resource gap
declined from 11.6 percent of GDP in 1974-1975 to an average 5.7 percent in
1976-1977. In 1978 and again in 1979, coffee prices fell substantially and
in the latter year, the country, along with other oil importers, was subjected
to the latest round of increases in the price of petroleum. Consequently, at
the end of 1979 the country faced a difficult balance of payments situation
with the resource gap standing at 12 percent of GDP and net international
reserves at slightly less than one week's import coverage. GDP growth, more-
over, slackened in 1978-1979 as the CACM demand for manufactured products
weakened (mainly due to political developments in the region) and as agricul-
ture suffered a poor crop year in 1979.



7.        Not all sources of difficulty in this recent period have been
external. The Government in 1978-79 adopted expansionary fiscal and monetary
programs which fueled excess demand pressures in the economy. Public savings
virtually disappeared as current expenditures (propelled by salary rises,
increased purchases of goods and services and rapidly rising debt service)
increased 50 percent faster than current revenues. Simultaneousi3, public
capital expenditure grew from the equivalent of nearly 9 percent of GDP
in 1976 to nearly 12 percent in 1979. Investment levels rose substan-
tially in the electricity and transport sectors and the State Development
Corporation (CODESA) made several large investments with limited economic
returns. Significant recourse to Government borrowing from the banking system
was necessary, and the resulting credit expansion exacerbated inflation.
The annual rate of inflation, as measured by the wholesale price index,
accelerated to 24 percent in 1979, compared to 9 percent in 1978.
8.   The difficult financial circumstances of the country led the Government
in November 1979 to formulate a stabilization program. Its program served as
a basis for a standby arrangement with the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The standby, for approximately US$80 million tranched in two payments, was
approved by the IMF Board in March. The major elements of the program are
(a) a reduction in the overall deficit of the public sector; (b) a reduction
in the rate of credit expansion; and (c) a ceiling on foreign borrowing by
the public sector. The tightened fiscal and monetary policies are expected
to reduce pressures on the balance of payments. The fiscal measures include
already implemented increases in some consumption taxes, and the Government
has placed before Congress a bill to modify the sales, income and property
taxes in a manner that will yield increased revenues. The Congress has
orderecL the decentralized agencies and state enterprises to reduce budgeted
expenditures by 10 percent and ordered the Central Government to cut its own
expenditure appropriations in specified categories by the same proportion.
The net impact of the fiscal program is intended to reduce the public sector
deficit from 11.5 percent of GDP in 1979 to 7 percent in 1980. Credit expan-
sion of the banking system is to be held to 21 percent in 1980 compared to 38
percent in 1979, with a much reduced absorption of bank credit by the public
sector. Finally, the Government plans a 21 percent decrease in its official
borrowing from external sources in 1980. Preliminary projections suggest that
the current account deficit on the balance of payments would decline from
14.5% percent in 1979 to 11 percent of GDP in 1980, and the growth of output
will decelerate to perhaps 3 percent this year.
9.        Fiscal control in Costa Rica has long been difficult.  A high
percentage (about 40 percent) of budgetary revenues are earmarked for specific
purposes. This together with constitutionally mandated spending requirements
and contractual obligations have left the Central Government in recent years
with little discretionary power in controlling the size of its operating
deficit. Moreover, public sector entities enjoy a high degree of financial
autonomy; the Central Government has not possessed the administrative machinery
to bring their spending in line with macro-economic objectives, or to achieve
a more rational allocation of public sector resources. In recognition of



- 4 -
these problems, the Government set up in November 1979, with technical assis-
tance from the IMF, a National Budgetary Authority (NBA). All Central Govern-
ment entities, decentralized agencies and public enterprises are now required
to submit their budgets for approval by the Budgetary Authority. The NBA, for
the first time, is presently developing an efficient reporting system for the
transactions of the non-financial public sector as well as preparing a con-
solidated budget for the entire public sector. Furthermore, a study has been
initiated of the network of earmarked revenues and compulsory spending with
the intention to present to the legislature later this year a bill eliminating
revenue earmarking and limiting compulsory spending to purposes called for in
the Constitution.
10.       The Government has undertaken several important economic initiatives
since its assumption of office. In 1978 the interest rate system of the
country was liberalized, portfolio restrictions on commercial and conventional
bank assets were removed, and private financial institutions were left entirely
free to establish their own interest rate structures as well as freely engage
in foreign currency operations. This financial liberalization has, however,
been only partial; rates for agricultural lending have been maintained well
below lending rates to other sectors. Nevertheless, the virtual doubling of
rates paid on time deposits (currently 16 - 17 percent) has resulted in a
substantial increase in private financial savings. A second important initia-
tive has been a partial refinancing of the country's external debt. Histor-
ically, large external borrowings as well as a very recent shift towards
expensive short-term credits has led to a progressively more onerous debt
service burden. The public debt service ratio went from 10.3 percent in 1973
to 16.4 percent--before refinancing--in 1978. In 1978 and early 1979 the
Government refinanced some $170 million of debt at more favorable terms,
lengthening maturities as well as securing more favorable spreads over LIBOR.
However, the rapid increase of external borrowing, coupled with higher pre-
vailing interest rates will entail a continuing high debt service burden, to
be reduced over the medium and long-term only by prudent policies reducing the
size of the resource gap as well as a lesser recourse to the short-term
capital markets.
11.       Over the longer term, a substantial effort towards the promotion of
non-traditional exports will be necessary if Costa Rica is to sustain its
development momentum while strengthening its balance of payments. Currently,
exports of non-traditional products to countries outside the CACM are stimu-
lated through an export tax credit scheme as well as a duty drawback scheme.
An agency has been created to promote non-traditional exports. Pre-export
and export financing instruments have been established. These economic and
institutional developments notwithstanding, the system of trade incentives
still heavily favors production for the local and regional market. Recognition
of this has led the Government to seek ways to reduce the implicit import-
substituting bias of the trade regime.
12.       More direct efforts will be needed to strengthen the growth perfor-
mance of the productive sectors. While the extensive frontier of cultivation
has not yet been reached in Costa Rica and the Government continues to develop
unused land (expanding acreages in sugarcane, bananas, and oil palm), much



remains to be done in improving yields--especially in beef production--and
adopting improved land management practices. Although substantial excess
capacity now exists in industry, the active promotion of subsectoral develop-
ment in those areas where Costa Rica has a comparative advantage (food products,
textiles, leather products, furniture making, etc.), supported by strengthened
export financing system and provision of technical assistance to entrepreneurs
in developing competitive export lines, will considerably assist the export
effort.
13.       In sum, Costa Rica, in spite of cyclical fluctuations, has combined
high growth with good income distribution. Some reorientation toward the
export sector is now required, and the Government is considering how best to
achieve this. The program of fiscal and monetary measures endorsed by the
recent IMF stand-by agreement is expected to help curb inflation and reduce
the public sector and balance of payments deficits. In light of the above
and given the country's long tradition of political and social stability,
Costa Rica continues to be creditworthy for Bank operations.
External Assistance
14.       As of December 31, 1978, it is estimated that the Bank Group held
16.1 percent of the US$1,576.0 million external public debt outstanding --
including undisbursed -- repayable in foreign currency. This share is likely
to decrease somewhat (beginning in 1980)because of an expected increase in
the activity of other external lenders. The Bank Group share of total public
debt service in 1978 was 9.0 percent, and it is also projected to decline
beginning in 1980. Of the other major lenders to Costa Rica, the IDB holds
15.3 percent of external public debt outstanding, including undisbursed,
CABEI 8.0 percent, the U.S. Government 6.2 percent, Venezuela 3.2 percent,
other bilateral lenders 6.9 percent and private lenders 44.3 percent.
15.       The lending to Costa Rica during 1970-79 from the four principal
external agencies totals US$1,490 million, at FY80 prices, of which IDB has
provided 36 percent, the Bank Group 28 percent, CABEI 28 percent and USAII)
8 percent. The IDB has concentrated on power, transport and education;
USAID on agriculture and health; and CABEI on transport, power and housing
(see Annex I, page 6). These agencies are likely to continue in the same
areas in the future.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       Costa Rica has received to date 24 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totaling US$327.7 million net of cancellations. Of these, six were for
power, five each for telecommunications and industry, four for roads, three
for agriculture and one each for education and urban transport. The last
operation, a loan for the Sixth Power Project amounting to US$34.0 million,



- 6 -
was signed on June 25, 1979. Fourteen projects have been completed. Per-
formance audit reports have been issued for two highways and two telecommunica-
tions projects and for one agriculture and one power project. The reports on
the highways projects are summarized in para. 42 below. The audit reports
for the other projects indicate that their objectives generally were achieved
in the cases of power and telecommunications but relatively less so in agri-
culture. In the latter instance, appraisal targets related to crop production
and exports were missed. Also, there was only limited success in the estab-
lishment of an efficient project unit within the Central Bank and in the
adoption by commercial banks and borrowers of better investment analysis
methods. Effectiveness of Bank loans to Costa Rica has often been delayed by
the lengthy legislative ratification process. The two last operations, the
aforementioned Sixth Power Project and the Industrial Credit Project, are not
yet effective because of this problem. Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans, IDA credit and IFC investments as of March 31, 1980, and
notes on the execution of on-going projects.
17.       Since other lenders have been able to provide Costa Rica with sub-
stantial amounts of concessional lending which the Government prefers to use
for its socially oriented investments, the main thrust of the Bank's past
lending has been to help develop basic infrastructure, such as power, tele-
communications and highways. However, the Bank has also provided assistance
for agricultural and industrial credit, and has helped make educational pro-
grams more consistent with manpower objectives through a loan for secondary
and vocational education.
18.       In future lending to Costa Rica, we intend to continue to provide
some support for the development of physical infrastructure, in view of
the continuing need for substantial amounts of external financing and our
long-standing involvement which gives us a special ability to foster
institutional development. We are planning, however, to increase Bank
lending in other areas, particularly to help intensify the efforts of the
Government towards broadening economic opportunities for the lowest income
segments of the population. The Bank is assisting in the preparation of
rural development projects in two of the poorest areas of Costa Rica, the
Atlantic and Puntarenas regions. Another important lending objective is
to ease the foreign exchange constraint on development, a constraint that
has become more critical since the increase in petroleum prices, by support-
ing projects designed to increase Costa Rica's export capacity and, where
economical, to substitute domestic production for imports. The Bank is
helping Costa Rica to prepare a project for processing of non-traditional
agricultural products which would support this objective. Similarly, the
Puntarenas area project is designed to expand oil palm development. Bank-
assisted investment in the transport sector, such as the proposed highway
project, would facilitate the smooth and economical flow of exports.
19.       IFC's activities in Costa Rica include a 1962 loan and equity
investments of US$194,000 and US$75,530 respectively, in a concrete block
factory, Productos de Concreto, S.A. In 1965 an additional debt and
equity investment of US$183,000 and US$54,830 respectively were made in
this company. These investments have since been sold and fully repaid.
In 1978 the Executive Directors approved two new investments in Costa Rica.



- 7 -
The first was a US$2.5 million loan for the expansion of the facilities of
Scott Paper Company de Costa Rica, S.A. This loan, which has been fully
disbursed, is on schedule and within budget. An equity and loan investment of
US$700,000 and US$1.4 million respectively was approved in 1979 to help finance
the integration and expansion of a shrimp farm on the Pacific Coast of Costa
Rica. This project, which will make Costa Rica a world leader in the innovative
shrimp farming industry, was structured in coordination with, among others,
CODESA and two local commercial banks. The project is six months behind
schedule and within budget with 55% of the loan and 90% of the equity disbursed.
IFC is also exploring other financing possibilities in the country.
PART III - THE SECTOR
Background
20.       Transport plays an important role in the development of Costa Rica.
The economy depends heavily on the export of primary products and industrial
goods and has increasingly relied on imported raw materials and manufactured
goods. The principal transport flows in the country reflect the regional
distribution of economic activities, particularly of coffee in the central
valley and bananas in the east. Further, the mountainous terrain surrounding
the central valley impede communications with and the movement of goods to
the rest of the country, as well as to the associated members of the Central
American Common Market. Recently, moreover, the Government has directed its
development planning to opening up new lands for productive use towards the
"frontier" areas along the Nicaraguan border and in the Atlantic Basin. Rural
poverty is concentrated in these areas which appear to have growth potential
but have received relatively little infrastructural support and other public
services.
21.       Costa Rica relies for its transportation needs on an extensive road
network; two main ports; two main railways connecting these ports with the
Central Valley and the country's capital, San Jose; and an international
airport. Until relatively recently, these two railways, the Atlantic one in
particular, provided the only means of transportation to their areas of
influence, which include the largest banana growing areas of the country.
However, over the last two decades, highways have become the main form of land
transport, partly because of the need to serve extensive areas not reached by
the railways but, more importantly, because highway transport is more appro-
priate for the generally short hauls involved as well as the absence of large
volumes of bulk traffic (except bananas) suitable for rail transport. By
1978, road transport carried about 88% of all ton-km generated in the country
and about 98% of all pass-km, while the railways carried about 8% of the
ton-km and 1% of the pass-km.
A. Highways
22.       The road network, which historically was concentrated in the
central plateau where the majority of Costa Ricans live and where most coffee
growing is concentrated, by now is relatively dense in most populated areas of
the country. It provides access to all major producing areas. Primary links
under construction will provide connections with major producing areas hereto-
fore without adequate highway access: (i) the banana-growing Guapiles region,



- 8 -
through the Bank-financed San Jose-Siquirres-Puerto Viejo Highway; and (ii)
the Puntarenas province, through the Costanera highway financed by the Central
American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI).
B. Ports and Railways
23.       The two main ports of Costa Rica are Limon on the Atlantic and
Puntarenas on the Pacific coast. Their poor physical condition, capacity and
operations prompted the Government, in the mid-1970s, to embark on an ambitious
program to improve the port of Limon and to develop two new ports, one at
Caldera near Puntarenas and the other at Moin near Limon. These projects
are now under construction and are scheduled to start operations in 1981.
This rapid and substantial expansion constituted an understandable reaction to
the high cost and restrictions imposed on maritime transport by the old port
facilities in a country largely dependent on foreign trade and exports. These
investments are technically well conceived and carried out, although they
might have been phased over a longer period without incurring congestion.
24.       There are three railway systems of importance:  the Compania
Bananera de Costa Rica's Southern railway (a private service line) with 250
km, the Pacific railway with 160 km and Atlantic railway with 620 km of line.
The latter two systems are owned and operated by Ferrocarriles de Costa Rica
S.A. (FECOSA), a Government-owned corporation.
25.       FECOSA's Pacific railway, which connects San Jose and Puntarenas,
is the only electrified railway in Central America. Freight traffic on this
line has been stable over the last ten years at an average of some 400,000 tons.
Most of the physical plant is old but in good condition. There are proposals,
based on consultants' studies carried out in 1974, for the improvement and
modernization of the railway. In order to retain traffic in the face of
competition from road transport, railway tariffs have not been raised as
necessary to avoid substantial deficits (US$1.9 million in 1978). The future
role of the railway and the economic justification of proposed investments are
being studied as part of the transport planning studies carried out by MOPT's
General Directorate of Planning (see paragraph 29 below). This study is
timely because the opening, in 1981, of a new port at Caldera, with its
shorter distance to San Jose and truck access to the pier. Consideration is
being given, in order to revitalize the line, to extensions to the north, in
particular to connect, as a first stage, with new cement works at Colorado.
26.       FECOSA's Atlantic railway consists of some 220 km of main line
between San Jose-Limon and Rio Frio and some 400 km of branch lines in the
banana plantation areas along the Atlantic coast. Total freight traffic
has been stable since 1970 at a level of about 1,200,000 tons p.a. The phy-
sical plant of the Atlantic railway is in bad condition. Average speed and
train loads are very limited. The section from Siquirres to San Jose is
hazardous because of frequent landslides and is costly to maintain. Since
the section from Rio Frio to Limon is the prime hauler of bananas for export,
FECOSA has embarked upon an ambitious modernization program of track recon-
struction, a new alignment on a portion of the route and new rolling stock.
Additional investment for electrification of the Atlantic railway is also
being carried out but is of dubious economic feasibility (see para. 30 below).



- 9-
Transport Investment and Planning
27.       Given the importance of transport to the economy (see para 20
above), the Government has given high priority to the development of the
national transport network. From 1970 to 1978, transport accounted for an
average of some 23 percent of public investment, reaching as high as 29
percent within this period. In the last three years, about US$48 million
equivalent was invested annually in this sector. Fifty-nine percent went to
road transport, about 26 percent to ports and 9 percent to airports with only
5 percent assigned to rail transport.
28.       The Ministry of Public Works and Transport (MOPT) has overall
authority in matters of transport policy, planning and coordination in the
country. It carries out its transport responsibilities through two of its
Divisions: (i) Public Works, of which the General Directorates of Highways
(DGV) and of Port Works are part, and (ii) Transport. Under the Transport
Division, the General Directorates of Civil Aviation and Water Transport
are responsible for airports, air traffic, ports and shipping, while the
General Directorate of Road Transport is responsible for trucks and buses.
29.       While modal plans and coordination are carried out by the specific
Divisions, the overall planning responsibility in each mode falls on the
General Directorate of Planning (DGP), directly under the Minister. DGP began
operating as an effective sectoral planning office in 1975 when, as part of
the Fourth Highway Project (Loan 1187-CR), it was given jurisdiction over all
modes to prepare integrated transport plans and investment programs, formulate
policy and foster intermodal coordination. The improvement of transport plan-
ning and coordination by developing adequate institutions at MOPT was a key
objective of that project, which includes technical assistance to help DGP
develop the capacity to carry out its assigned functions. This project com-
ponent is progressing well; a final draft of a sector investment plan is
scheduled to be completed by July 1980.
30.       While the Government is committed to strengthening transport plan-
ning and intends to carry out the recommendations of DGP and the plan, there
has been problems with some independent transport agencies which generally
carried out their plans without due regard to intermodal relations and proper
feasibility analysis. This was especially true of the "non-highway" transport
modes, particularly ports and railways. In the railway sector, FECOSA con-
tracted for the electrification of its line between Limon and Rio Frio without
demonstrating the economic justification of the investment, and against the
advice of DGP. This action resulted from FECOSA's independent status and the
lack of close Government controls over its operations. The Bank indicated to
the Government, in this instance, that the electrification investments appeared
to run counter to the intent of the Fourth Highway Project Loan Agreement,
which stipulated that transport investments should be carried out on the basis
of adequate studies demonstrating their economic justification. The Bank
emphasized the need for better controls to avoid similar cases in the future.
The Government is tightening its controls on the planning and authorization of
public investments in a satisfactory manner. A February 1979 decree created a
sectoral planning system subordinating all public and autonomous institutions
to the overall national development planning process which, in the case of
transport, requires approval of investments by MOPT. Moreover, a second
recent decree requires review by the national planning agency (OFIPLAN) and



- 10 -
the Ministry of Finance's approval of all projects where external financing is
needed. In view of the past difficulty, the Government has agreed that any
exceptions from, or changes in, the present system for the review and approval
of transport investments would be discussed in advance with the Bank (see
Section 4.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
The Highway Subsector
31.       Overview:  Major efforts were made in the last two decades to expand
the highway network. The total network length grew by 36% from 1962 to 1978;
while total length of paved roads increased by 80%, gravel roads increased by
more than 240%. However, many of the paved roads are now in need of widening
(lack of all-weather shoulders is a serious problem) and strengthening by
asphalt overlays, or complete pavement rehabilitation. Gravel roads need
widening and drainage improvement, as well as resurfacing to provide better
services to the rapidly increasing traffic and to facilitate proper mainte-
nance. Earth roads are mostly of poor standard and usable only during the
dry season. Therefore, with the completion of the major elements of the
national trunk system now in sight, the Government proposes to begin placing
greater stress on the requirements of rehabilitating, strengthening and
maintaining the highway network.
32.       Administration:  MOPT administers the national highway system, in-
cluding regional roads, through the DGV of the Public Works Division. All
national expenditures for highways are channeled through MOPT which is a
capable organization employing nearly 8,000 staff. Most of its 80 engineers
graduated from the University of Costa Rica which is recognized as having the
best engineering faculty in Central America. The Ministry has benefited also
from its abandonment of the previous policy of force account construction of
major roads in favor of contracting. The quality of works is generally satis-
factory. Moreover, at the end of 1979, MOPT was reorganized. Its new struc-
ture is intended to help decentralize its operations in order to improve
services at the local level.
33.       Need to Revise Division of Responsibilities:  At present, MOPT is
directly responsible for the 2,700 km of roads classified as national and
regional and for 380 km of secondary roads. The public roads law also pro-
vides that the construction of other roads is the responsibility of MOPT while
their maintenance is the responsibility of the cantons 1/. Under the Municipal
Law, the cantons, 83 in total, are also authorized to construct local roads
and and tracks. Although the cantons have financial resources of their own,
these are quite limited and have been largely devoted to small improvements.
In the face of the almost complete lack of maintenance capability on the part
of the cantons, MOPT has had to extend its maintenance responsibility to cover
cantonal roads. The cantons have also come to rely on MOPT for their own
construction and improvement programs, diverting MOPT resources intended for
the national and regional systems.
34.       The present distribution of responsibilities and the road classifi-
cation on which it is based are obsolete. Many highways traditionally desig-
nated as regional routes have assumed national importance, and many secondary
roads presently classified as cantonal roads serve as regional collectors
rather than catering only to local needs. In 1978, the Government recognized
1/   Municipal subdivisions.



- 11 -
that the strengthening of maintenance and rehabilitation capacity would
require reclassification of the road network to achieve better distribution
of responsibilities between MOPT and the cantons. The Government therefore
is now redefining the national highway network, based on the nature and volume
of traffic and administrative capacity of the national and local authorities.
It has proposed an amendment of the previous public roads law for this purpose.
Enactment by the Legislative Assembly of this proposed amendment or other
suitable action to accomplish this change would be a condition of effective-
ness of the proposed loan (see Section 5.01(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
35.       The proposed new classification would expand the national network
to 6,900 km initially, to be expanded to about 7,500 km in the 1980's. By
the latter period, the network would include about 2,300 km of primary roads
(trunk roads generally carrying high traffic volumes); about 2,600 km of
secondary roads (to link the cantonal capitals not served directly by primary
roads and other main centers which have considerable traffic); and about 2,600
km of tertiary roads. MOPT would be solely responsible for the construction
and maintenance of the expanded national network. In turn, the construction
and betterment of cantonal roads would require the authorization of MOPT which
would sometimes execute the works. The maintenance of cantonal roads and
streets would be the responsibility of the cantons, assisted by MOPT if neces-
sary. Unclassified roads would be built and maintained by their main users.
36.       The extent to which MOPT will continue to assist the cantons to
carry out their maintenance responsibility is expected to vary considerably.
The larger cantons are expected to take the initiative to assume fully this
function relatively quickly. Some of the smaller ones would continue to
depend on MOPT; other may join together in consortia. The transfer of full
responsibility to the cantons would require careful evaluation and should be
phased in at an appropriate pace. The Government has confirmed its policy of
gradual delegation of responsibility to the cantons for the cantonal roads;
it would exchange views periodically with the Bank on its delegation program
(see Section 4.04(b) of the draft Loan Agreement).
37.       Highway Financing:  Total expenditures for highways have increased
four-fold since 1970. They reached about US$66.7 million equivalent in 1979,
of which some 40% comprises recurrent expenditures for road maintenance, force
account road improvements and general administration. Some 40 percent of high-
way expenditures over this period was financed by external assistance. Since
1975, highway expenditures were roughly twice total road user revenues (although
the latter substantially exceeded highway maintenance costs). This situation
has changed dramatically since August 1979 as a result of the Government's
fuel price increases, passing on to consumers increases in energy costs, and
its extension of fuel taxes to diesel oil. The increases in the retail price
of gasoline (to US$2.65 per gallon, an 87 percent rise) and diesel (to US$1.12
per gallon, a 226 percent rise) have brought fuel costs in Costa Rica to
international levels. With these changes, road user contributions are likely
to nearly cover total highway expenditures in 1980.
38.       Road transport; Maintenance:  The vehicle fleet grew at an average
rate of almost 12 percent annually from 1972 to 1977 and traffic levels



- 12 -
increased by more than 9 percent p.a. during the same period. These develop-
ments, together with inadequate attention to the upkeep and maintenance of
existing primary roads, have led to a deterioration of Costa Rica's highway
system. Many of these roads are in poor condition and a minimum of some 2,100
km need to be rehabilitated. In addition, much of the secondary and feeder
road network is badly deteriorated and cannot be properly serviced or main-
tained. These deficiencies reflect the (a) inadequate organization, technical
skills and management capacity of MOPT's maintenance staff; and (b) weaknesses
in management and operation of the maintenance equipment fleet. The proposed
project is designed to overcome these weaknesses.
39.       Transport Industry; Regulation:  The road transport industry has met
the increasing demand for freight and passenger transport flexibly. Freight
transport is dominated by individual truckers owning 1-2 vehicles, and tariff
levels are set by supply and demand. Passenger transport is provided by
private concessionaires ranging from single vehicle owners to companies
operating up to 10 vehicles. Analysis of the very limited statistics avail-
able, supplemented by field observations, indicates that vehicle overloading
is a serious problem on only a few routes, primarily those used by truckers
carrying logs to the lumber mills in the Central Valley. Continuous overload-
ing also occurs on some routes during peak harvesting of crops such as grains,
sugar cane and plantains. To enforce weight regulations, six permanent scales
are installed in different parts of the country. Strengthening of the weight
control program is under way, including: (a) installation of a seventh
permanent scale; (b) acquisition of two 3-ton electronic scales; (c) acquisi-
tion of four portable electronic scales and four vehicles; and (d) increasing
staff from the present 18 to about 40 employees. MOPT would complete this
strengthening program by June 30, 1981.
Five Year (1981-85) Program
40.       The planned reclassification of the network and reduced emphasis on
construction of major new highways provide an appropriate framework to improve
maintenance planning and management for the expanded national network; to
rehabilitate and improve the large number of primary and secondary roads which
are inadequate for their level of traffic; and to support the gradual delega-
tion of maintenance responsibility to the cantons. In order to achieve these
purposes, MOPT has prepared a Five-Year Program whose key components are
(1) the rehabilitation and improvement of the national network at the rate of
370 km per year in 1981 rising to 420 km in 1985, for a total of 2,100 km
through the end of the period, and (2) upgrading the maintenance capability
of MOPT to ensure adequate maintenance of the expanded national networks and
to assist the cantons in achieving an acceptable level of maintenance of the
cantonal network.
41.       Within the Government's overall highway budget, implementation of
the first several years of the program would mean that construction investment,
which averaged over 40 percent of highway expenditures in 1978-79, would de-
crease to 32 percent this year in real terms (1979 prices), and to less than
22 percent in 1983.  Current projections of MOPT's expenditures through 1983



- 13 -
(also using 1979 prices) show that, beginning in 1981, rehabilitation and
maintenance outlays would average about 62 percent and 12 percent respectively
of total highway budget. The level of expenditures for the rehabilitation and
improvement program was established after a careful review of MOPT's existing
commitments for current public works projects, the available capacity of the
local contracting industry, MOPT's administrative capabilities and the finan-
cial capacity of the Government, assuming the continuing participation of
international lending agencies (especially CABEI and IDB) in the funding of
capital costs. This level of local funds appears to be broadly in line with
current levels of MOPT's expenditures and within the Government's foreseeable
resources, based on the Government's planning for future budgets. If, how-
ever, the size of the program or fiscal stringencies should present any prob-
lem, the provision of annual reviews of progress and plans for the following
year (see para. 61 below) and the fact that the project involves small road
subprojects requiring no more than 12-18 months would offer adequate flexi-
bility to adjust the pace of the program.
Bank Participation in the Sector
42.       The Bank Group has made five loans and one credit to the highway
sector, totalling US$83.6 million. The first four 1/ have been successfully
completed. Together, they provided for (a) construction of 510 km of the
first stage of the national highway program; (b) construction of a 57 km.
highway between Siquirres and Limon; and (c) a feasibility study and detailed
engineering of road links from San Jose to Siquirres and Puerto Viejo. The
Project Performance Audit Reports for the Second Highway and Highway Studies
Projects 2/ indicate that both projects were implemented without noteworthy
problems and that their purposes were fully achieved. One of the major
lessons learned from these projects - the need for improved maintenance
practices by the Government - is addressed in the proposed project.
43.       The Fourth Highway Project  (Loan 1187-CR of December 30, 1975)
which principally involves the construction of the San Jose-Rio Sucio-Siquirres
road and the branch road to Puerto Viejo is about half completed. Its progress
was delayed by the slow award of the civil works contract and tardy contractor
mobilization, as well as a cement shortage and increases in the quantities of
work required. Some of the civil works were subcontracted in late 1979 to
speed up project execution and prevent further delays.  The Government also
has taken measures to overcome deficiencies in the contractor's financial
administration. With these actions, construction should now proceed at a
reasonable rate and should be completed by December 1981, about 18 months
later than originally estimated.  Acquisition of vehicles and equipment for
supervision has been completed, one permanent weighing scale has been estab-
lished and procurement of portable weighing scales is under way. Technical
assistance for transport planning is progressing well; the work carried out
for the preparation of a national transport plan provided the foundation for
the proposed project.
1/   Loan No. 299/Credit No. 10 of October 12, 1961; Loan No. 664 of March 31,
1970 and Loan 872 of December 19, 1972.
2/   Sec. M 78-508 of June 13, 1978.



- 14 -
44.       The San Jose Urban Transport Project  (Loan 1491-CR of November 4,
1977) which is designed to build and improve roads and traffic services in
the capital city is now being carried out effectively after initial delays.
Following its reorganization, MOPT has made good progress and continues to
improve in executing the civil works and the complementary project components.
Contracts for seven (of the scheduled nine) radial routes have been awarded;
construction of the first six is well underway. Bids have been received for
all equipment. The traffic signal system and the vehicle inspection facility
are now being designed. Other Bank-assisted transport activity in Costa Rica
involves supporting improvements of 107 km of feeder roads under the
Agricultural Credit and Development Project (Loan 1410-CR of June 2, 1977).
Implementation of this component has been hindered by the delays in setting up
the Country Road Improvement Office at cantonal level and by the slowness of
the Institute for Promotion and Assistance to Municipalities (IFAM) in pro-
curing equipment. Road construction was scheduled to start in April 1980, and
should be completed early in 1982. This project provided a fruitful oppor-
tunity to assess the requirements for cooperation between MOPT and the cantons,
and for the redefinition of their respective responsibilities for construction
and maintenance of rural roads (see para. 35 above).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
45.       A Staff Appraisal Report entitled "Fifth Highway Project - Costa
Rica" (No. 2880a-CR. dated April 22, 1980) is being circulated separately.
Supplementary Project data are included in Annex III. The project was pre-
pared by MOPT and consultants during 1978-79; it was appraised in October
1979. Negotiations with the Government were held in Washington during
April 14-15, 1980. The Government delegation was led by the Minister of Public
Works and Transport and the Vice Minister of Finance.
Objectives and Project Content
46.       The project would form part of the Government's Five-Year (1981-1985)
Rehabilitation, Improvement and Maintenance Program discussed in para. 40 above.
A "sector approach" would be adopted for the rehabilitation and improvement
component i.e. the specific works within the program to be financed by the
Bank would be selected during the course of project implementation in accord-
ance with criteria and procedures agreed with the Bank, with the overall scope
and pace of the program to be subject to annual reviews with the Bank. The
sector format would be more effective in view of the large number of small
projects to be undertaken. It would also support further improvements in MOPT
planning and programing capacity, especially the coordination of rehabilita-
tion and maintenance policies. The sector approach has facilitated coordina-
tion between Bank and IDB projects in the highway sector (see para. 47), and
allowed the Bank to focus attention on the highway program as a whole, in
particular, on the level of funds allocated to maintenance/rehabilitation and
the balance between various components of MOPT's highway program. A global
approach is also important to support one of the major sectoral objectives of
the project, that is, the reclassification of the highway system. The project
components would include:



- 15 -
(a) Rehabilitation: Rehabilitation or reconstruction of some 420 km
of primary and secondary roads; and technical assistance for
improved planning and implementation by MOPT of rehabilitation
and improvement works.
(b)  Maintenance and Training:  Implementation of MOPT's maintenance
program to ensure adequate maintenance of the expanded national
network and to assist the cantons in the maintenance of canton
roads through:
(i) renewal and limited expansion of the equipment fleet and
supporting facilities;
(ii) technical assistance for improving the planning and
administration of road maintenance; and
(iii) training of about 1,500 maintenance personnel, purchase
of training equipment and related technical assistance.
Rehabilitation Program
47.       The project would include rehabilitation and reconstruction of some
20 percent of the 2,100 km of roads contained in the five-year program. This
would parallel the 400 km works to be undertaken under the road improvement
project being financed by a US$25 million loan of IDB approved in January
1980. For the proposed Bank project, the rehabilitation works would be chosen
on the basis of agreed criteria and procedures (see Section 3.07 of the draft
Loan Agreement). In scope, the rehabilitation subprojects range from complete
reconstruction of the existing pavement structure to simple overlay andl
repairs. Agreed design standards would be used in all cases to provide
adequate capacity throughout the roads' economic life. On the basis of a
priority ranking within a countrywide analysis, a first group of 10 roads
totalling 110 km has already been selected with Bank approval for 1981; these
are in the provinces of Alajuela, Cartago, Guancaste, Heredia and Limon.
Detailed engineering of these roads was completed by April 1980, and their
tendering is scheduled for the middle of this year. At approximately the same
time, a second group of roads would be selected for implementation in 1982 and
the third and final batch for inclusion in the project would be picked by
mid-1981.
48.       The roads selected would be taken from a priority list revised
annually on the basis of updated economic evaluations performed through the
use of models. Ranking of projects would be by economic rate of return (with
no projects accepted with rates of return below 14 percent). The Bank would
receive for comment each year the priority ranking and list of preselected
sub-projects. After taking into account the Bank's comments, economic feas-
ibility studies and engineering designs as appropriate would be prepared for
individual sub-projects in accordance with standards acceptable to the Bank.
The detailed studies, bidding documents, and proposed bidding arrangements (on
the basis of regional groups for small subprojects to constitute lots of
adequate size) would be subsequently submitted to the Bank for approval.



- 16 -
49.       For this program, MOPT would establish a special rehabilitation
planning section within the Public Works Division. This section would prepare
the annual list of rehabilitation and reconstruction works including updating
the priority ranking and economic confirmation studies. The terms of reference,
staffing and institutional arrangements for this section have been agreed with
the Government. MOPT would retain as a consultant a senior engineer, to be
financed under the project, to provide 24 months of technical advice to the
new section. His terms of reference have been agreed and a suitable candidate
selected. Establishment of the planning section and the assignment of a
section chief and an experienced economist to it would be a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed loan (see Section 5.01(a) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
50.       MOPT would carry out the detailed engineering and prepare bidding
documents for most subprojects. It has adequate staff and equipment to do
so. If, however, its capacity were completely occupied or any subprojects
presented unusual requirements, MOPT would, with the agreement of the Bank,
retain consultants to carry out engineering for subprojects preselected
under the project. Execution of the works would be the responsibility of
the DGV with their supervision entrusted almost entirely to consultants pro-
vided under the project. The scope of these services is within the capacity
of local consulting firms, who have access to assistance from specialized
foreign experts.
Maintenance Program
51.       The maintenance program was prepared on the basis of economic and
technical analyses of the national network. This was done with the help of
the Bank's highway design and maintenance standards model which simulated road
conditions and vehicle operating costs under alternative maintenance standards.
This defined the level of maintenance work and equipment needed, together with
the required institutional and administrative reforms and Government funding
support. Through this study, MOPT has defined an appropriate sequence of main-
tenance activities related to road and traffic conditions. Activity levels of
maintenance would vary somewhat according to the progress of the rehabilitation
and improvement program; close coordination between the two programs would be
effected through annual evaluations carried out by the planning section.
52.       Advances in the maintenance of the national network would have to be
paralleled by progress in the cantonal network to serve the needs of the rural
population. The requirements of the cantonal network and related equipment
needs were also assessed and analyzed through the model discussed above.  This
assessment concluded that, upon completion of the fleet rehabilitation program
included in the project, sufficient MOPT equipment would be available for main-
tenance of the cantonal network, as well as for execution of planned levels of
force account improvements. The Government has confirmed that, starting in
fiscal year 1981, MOPT would undertake to prepare separate programs of activi-
ties for the maintenance of cantonal roads including adequate arrangements for
equipment management (see Section 3.06 of the draft Loan Agreement). This
would be done as assistance to the cantons in the framework of the Government's
policy of gradual delegation of responsibility with support from the technical
assistance under the project.



- 17 -
53.       The redefinition and upgrading of MOPT's maintenance practices
would also require restructuring of MOPT's budgeting and accounting procedures
to introduce a clearer separation between various classes of expenditures and
to facilitate the use of the budget to program and monitor physical activities.
Starting in fiscal year 1981, MOPT's budgeting and accounting procedures would
be revised so that the following three classes of activities would be budgeted
and accounted for separately: maintenance of the national network, capital
expenditures on the national network including a distinction between
rehabilitation/improvement and construction, and expenditures channeled
through MOPT for the cantonal network with a distinction between maintenance/
repair and construction/improvements (see Section 4.02(b) of the draft Loan
Agreement).
54.       The project provides for renewal and limited expansion of the equip-
ment fleet which now has about 1,000 units plus light vehicles and miscella-
neous items. Many units are either too old or unsuitable for road maintenance.
Analyses of the existing supply and of the required capacity indicate a need
for overhauling 100 pieces of equipment and purchasing an additional 100 new
and 86 replacement units. The new items are to balance the composition of the
fleet or to support improved maintenance methods. The Government has agreed
that it would (i) monitor the availability and use of the maintenance equipment
fleet continually during execution of the project; (ii) by March 1, 1981,
assign each existing equipment unit formally to either maintenance of the
national network, maintenance and improvement of the cantonal network, or
other MOPT tasks; (iii) by the same date, adopt satisfactory procedures for
equipment evaluation and subsequent scrapping and renewal; and (iv) adopt
an equipment overhaul program, including schedules for various types of equip-
ment and an assessment of related spare parts to be procured under the project.
Adoption of the latter program would be a condition of disbursement under the
proposed loan for maintenance equipment and spare parts (see Section 4(b) of
Schedule 1 to the draft Loan Agreement).
55.       Technical assistance would be provided under the project for plan-
ning, supervision and control of maintenance operations. Consultants employed
over the first two years of the project would help MOPT, inter alia, to install
better procedures governing all maintenance operations; to procure new equip-
ment and rehabilitate present units; and to institute preventive maintenance
procedures.
Training
56.       Although DGV's senior staff is generally capable, its middle and
lower-level personnel need to be trained in using more efficient work methods.
The project would support a five-year training program aimed at improving the
standard of highway maintenance and rehabilitation through the upgrading of
some 1,500 persons. Training of road foremen, drivers and heavy equipment
operators would be carried out mostly in the field, through the operations of
newly-established field training units. The Government has agreed that the
units would be established by March 1, 1981 (see Section 3.08 of the draft
Loan Agreement). The project also includes the strengthening of MOPT's
Training Department, the allocation of training equipment and materials, the
organization of seminars and short courses for senior staff and the training
abroad of ten maintenance engineers and three training officers. The Training



- 18 -
Department would be assisted by two internationally experienced training
specialists and four local instructors. Agreement has been reached on the
terms of reference for both the technical services for the maintenance program
and for the training specialists. To assure necessary coordination, the
Government would seek to retain the same consulting firm for technical services
for the maintenance component and for training. A total of 144 man-months of
expatriates' consultant services would be needed for these two purposes.
Project Costs and Financing
57.       The cost of the project is estimated to be US$43.3 million. The
total tax content is estimated at about 8 percent. The proposed loan would
finance the foreign exchange component, amounting to US$30 million. The
Government would finance the local component (US$13.3 million) through the
MOPT budget. In addition, the Government has agreed that it would: (i) pro-
vide adequate funds through its recurrent budget to implement the agreed
maintenance component of MOPT's Five-Year Program (estimated to average US$7
million equivalent annually); and (ii) give priority in planning highway
capital expenditures to the timely implementation of the remainder of the
rehabilitation and improvement component of MOPT's Program over other capital
expenditures not included in this component (see Section 3.01 of the draft
Loan Agreement).
58.       Costs have been estimated on the basis of November 1979 prices.  A
physical contingency of 12 percent has been applied to the rehabilitation
component, and price contingencies equivalent to about 25 percent then applied
to the total project cost plus physical contingencies. The average man-month
base cost for consultant services was estimated to range from US$1,200 per
man-month for locally hired engineers and technicians to US$8,800 per man-month
for expatriate consultants. Detailed cost estimates are shown in the following
table:



- 19 -
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Project Cost Estimates
Project Component           Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign,Total
-            (Colones Millions)         (US$ Millions)
1.  Road Rehabilitation and Improvd-
ment
(a) Civil Works (1981-1983)         61.0    114.4  175.4      7.1      13.3  20.4
(b) Supervision and Engineering    7,7        6.9   14.6      0.9      '0.8   1.7
(c) Technical assistance to Road
Rehabilitation Planning section -          1.7    1.7       -       0.2   0.2
Subtotal                   68.7    123.0  191.7       8.0      14.3  22.3
2.  Road Maintenance-National Network
-Maintenance Program
(a) Purchase of maintenance
equipment 1/                     2.5     48.2   50.7      0.3       5.6   5.9
(b) Spare parts for overhauls
and stock buildup                0.9     10.3   11.2      0.1       1.2   1.3
(c) Workshops and tools               -       5.2    5.2       -        0.6   0.6
(d) Technical assistance             1,7      6.9    8.6      0.2       0.8   1.0
Subtotal'                   5.1      70.6   75.7      0.6       8.2   8.8
-Training Program
(a) Training facilities              0.9      1.7    2.6      0.1       0.2   0.3
(b) Technical assistance, incl.
training outside MOPT           1.0       4.2    5.2      0.1       0.5   0.6
Subtotal                    1,q       5.9    7.8      0.2       0.7   0.9
Total Base Cost 2/         75.7    199.5  275.2       8.8      23.2  32.0
3. Contingencies
(a) Physical (12% of 1 a-b)          8.6     14.6   23.2      1.0       1.7   2.7
(b) Price 3/ (of total base cost-- -
plus physical contingencies) *30.r'    43.9   74.0        3.5       5.1   8.6
Subtotal                   38.7      58.5   97.2      4.5      6.8  11.3
TOTAL                     114.4    258.0  372.4    13.3        30.0  43.3
1/ Includes replacement of existing equipment to be assigned to the Training Production Unit.
2/ At November 1979 values.



- 20 -
59.       Project expenditures eligible for disbursement under the Bank
loan would be as follows:
(a) 65 percent of expenditures for civil works for road rehabili-
tation, expansion of workshops, training facilities, and
consultants' services for maintenance and training, and
for supervision of the rehabilitation works;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign cost of technical assistance
services to the rehabilitation planning section; of imports
of equipment, spare parts and tools; and of the training of
maintenance staff outside of Costa Rica; and
(c) 85 percent of total expenditures for locally procured
imported equipment, vehicles, spare parts and tools for
maintenance and training.
Retroactive financing of up to US$50,000 is recommended for payment for
services of the senior engineering advisor to the planning section
(see para. 49).
Execution and Procurement
60.       MOPT would carry out the project, which would be implemented over a
five-year period, through its Public Works Division. The project implementa-
tion schedule was agreed upon during negotiations. MOPT would assign appro-
priate counterpart personnel from the related operational directorates in
accordance with the implementation schedule.
61.       Throughout the project implementation period, MOPT would exchange
views annually with the Bank, prior to the preparation of its budget, on its
progress in carrying out the Five-Year Program and plans for financing the
remainder of this Program (see Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement).
In view of the size of the latter, and the possibility of a tight fiscal
situation, these annual reviews would focus on the size and composition of
both the investment and recurrent budgets of MOPT for the transport sector.
During these exchanges, MOPT would also discuss the priority ranking and list
of preselected roads for rehabilitation works, plus the maintenance work
programs planned for the national and cantonal networks. DGP would partici-
pate in these reviews, as well as the new national budgetary authority in
order to assure that the review adequately takes into account overall budgetary
priorities.
62.       Procurement of equipment would be, in accordance with Bank Guide-
lines, i.e., through international competitive bidding (ICB) with the following
exceptions. Lots with estimated costs less than or equal to US$50,000 and
within an overall ceiling of US$500,000 would be advertised locally in accor-
dance with Government regulations, which are satisfactory. Spare parts for
specific makes of equipment would be procured directly from established
dealers, in accordance with the same Government regulations, for individual



- 21 -
orders less than or equal to US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of
US$500,000. Similar items would be grouped to the extent possible for bidding
purposes. Rehabilitation and improvement works would be carried out through
unit price contracts awarded to prequalified firms on the basis of ICB. For
bidding purposes, similar subprojects in the same general area would be
combined into lots of a size which would be attractive to the best qualified
local contractors and to international firms.  Firms would be prequalified to
tender for one or more lots according to their capacity. At least ten exist-
ing local firms would be capable of handling all but a few of the largest
lots.  Civil works contracts for workshops, warehouses and training center
facilities (amounting to some US$600,000) would be awarded through local
competitive bidding procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank, since the
contracts would be too small and dispersed to attract foreign firms not
already established in Costa Rica.
Project Benefits and Risks
63.       The proposed project has an overall rate of return of over 50
percent. Benefits of the proposed rehabilitation component would accrue to
the economy at large in the form of savings in, or avoided increases of,
vehicle operating costs and some reduction in maintenance costs. The economic
rate of return has been estimated at greater than 50 percent with a net
present value of US$85 million using a discount rate of 12 percent. The
economic rate of return for the first year of the program (1981), for which
detailed confirmation studies were prepared, is greater than 80 percent.
Subsequent years (1982, 1983), although evaluated on the basis of the national
highway network analysis in a preliminary form, would later contain specific
sub-projects to be selected and evaluated each year under the "sector approach."
Since this component involves the rehabilitation of existing road beds, only
comparatively small investments are needed to obtain a substantial reduction
in operating costs. The economic rate of return for the maintenance program
would be in excess of 100 percent with a net present value of US$50 million,
when discounting annual maintenance costs and road user savings also at 12
percent. Here as well, relatively low cost investments are required to
preserve the productive capacity of the initial investments.
64.       Most of the benefits to be generated by the program would accrue
at first directly to individual vehicle operators and the road transport
industry. Because freight tariffs are unregulated, however, the reduced
vehicle operating costs and time savings, as a minimum, should help to main-
tain competition for road transport. Ultimately, therefore, the benefits
should accrue directly to producers and consumers. Reduced transport costs
would also foster greater economic activity in rural areas affected by the
project road works.
65.       The high rates of return show that the project would be well just-
ified. The technical solutions adopted for rehabilitation and improvement
works, as well as maintenance, are based on adequate engineering analyses and
reflect the experience gained in Costa Rica and other countries. Therefore
the only important risk arises from the ambitious scope of the rehabilitation
and improvement components. However, the new special planning capacity being
established and the provision for annual review, and the "sector approach"



- 22 -
to be used by the Bank would afford adequate flexibility. Regarding mainte-
nance, MOPT's present operations have suffered delays from the diversion of
its equipment and budget, deficiencies in organization and management and
lack of sufficient technical skills. These would be largely remedied under
the proposed project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The Draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica and
the Bank and the Report to the Committee provided for in Article III, Section
4(iii) of the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately. The Draft Loan Agreement conforms to the normal pattern
of loans for highway projects. The more important features have been included
in Part IV of this report and are summarized in Section III of Annex III of
this report. Under the Loan Agreement, there is one special condition of dis-
bursement for the purchase of equipment and spare parts for the maintenance
program: that MOPT has adopted a detailed overhaul program for about 100
pieces of its present equipment (see para. 54). The effectiveness of the loan
is conditioned on the approval by the Legislative Assembly of the proposed
new public roads law or other suitable action to effect the new road classifi-
cation (para. 34) and on the establishment and staffing of the new MOPT
rehabilitation planning section (para. 49).
67.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
68.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
By M.A. Qureshi
Attachments
April 25,1980



-23-                                             AMEX I
Psa. I
TABLE 3A
COSTA UCA - SOCSAL INDICATORS DATA SU"
COSTA UUA  UF  CE GRO   (AU USD A                         S
LAND A"A (TllOtl8AJID SO. at.)                         - MOSTSA UCINT  1STIXT= -IH
TOTAL            S3.7                   .             sr SECENT    GNGPMO      C
ACUCULTUIAL      20.5                              MOST ILCCNT    CLOCA         u.IC   INCOMZ  INcoNZ
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTI7ATE /b     REGION /c  CR0  /d   GROUP /a
CM PER CAPITA (USS)                *20.0       710.0   1540.0          1124.4    1097.7      1942.6
ENEScy cONSmpTiON KFn CAPITA
(ULOCU4RS OP COAL EQUIVXNT)    233.0         421.0    48.0            943.1     730.7      1646.7
POPULATION AD VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION ID-TAR (NILLION5)       1.2         1.7      2.1
OU1 POPULATION (PERCIAT 0? TOTAL) 36.6        39.7     41.3            59.3      49.0        51.2
POPULATION PFOICTSONS
POPULATION IN TEAt 2000 (MILLIONS)                    3.0
STAT1ONUST PtOU.ATO  (MILLIONS)                       5.0
TE  STATIONARY PoPULTIOU IS REZCD                   2065
POrULATION DZNSITY
P. SQ. Dt.                      24.0        34.0     41.0            23.3      44.6        28.2
PER SQ. KM. AaRCULTURAL LAND    85.0        93.0    102.0            80.5     140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGZ  RCTR  (PERCENT)
0-L4 IRS.                       47.6        45.7      41.0           40.9      41.3        35.4
15-64 nIS.                       49.3        51.2     56.0            54.4      55.3        56.3
65 Ts. AND ADMY                   3.1         3.1      3.0             3.9       3.5         5.1
POPULATION GROCE KATZ (PEttT)
TOTAL                            3.7         3.4      2.5             2.4       2.4         1.7
bRAN                             4.*2t       4.2      3.3             3.7       4.5         3.0
CRUDE R1IT  RATE (PZR THUSAND)    47.0        41.8     28.0            32.8      31.1        27.5
CRUDE DATIL RATE (PER THOUSAND)    10.0       .8.1      5.0             8.5       9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION IRAT!           3.5         2.8      1.7             2.4       2.2         1.8
- ANILT PLANNIG
ACCEPTORS. ANUMAL (TNDUSAIDS)     ..        19.0     28.6
USE!RS (PERCENT OF KARED  ON)   ..            ..     33.7            17.7      34.7
FOOD AID NUTRITION
INDtX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        85.4       100.0    111.0            99.4     104.4       102.0
PQR CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT or
REQUIRDMNTS)                  98.0       110.0    113.0           107.0     105.0       120.8
PROTEINS (GRALS PER DAY)        55.0        63.0     61.0            60.4      64.4        80.9
OF WRICR AIl4AL AND PULSE    30.0/h      35.0     33.6            28.3      23.5        31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) 41ATALITT RATE    10.0        4.6      3.0             6.7       8.6         5.1
EALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (TERS)   62.0        66.8     70.0            63.6      60.2        65.6
INFANT NORTALITY RTZ (PER
TIOUSAND)                         85.0/f      70.0     37.6            76.1      A6.7        45.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        74.0     77.0            63.4      60.8        69.4
URBAN                             ..        98.0     95.0            79.5      75.7        85.1
RURAL                             ..        59.0     62.0            38.6      40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..        52.0     93.0            58.8      46.0        70.1
URBAN                             ..        66.0     94.0            77.8      46.0        88.3
RURAL                             ..        43.0     93.0            24.5      22.5        33.2
POPULATION FER PHYSICIAN        2600.0      1630.0   1550.0          1841.9    2262.4      1343.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON   1700.0      1690.0    580.0           933.7    1195.4       765.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL SED
TOTAL                             ..       250.0    260.0           563.4     453.4       197.6
URBAN                             ..       100.0    110.0           279.4     253.1       260.2
RURAL                             ..      4440.0       ..          1140.9    2732.4      1055.0
ADMISSIONS ?ER 8OSPITAL 3ED        ..        28.0     29.0            25.7      22.1        17.3
HOUS ING
AVERAGE SIZE OF ROUSEHOLD
TOTAL                            5.8/f      5.6       5.6            5.0        5.3        4.7
URBAN                            5.4/f       ..        ..             4.8       3.2         4.4
RURAL                            6.0/f       ..        ..             5.3       5.4         5.1
AVERAGE NUE8U.P OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                            1.5/f       1.3      1.4             1.3       1.9         1.1
URBAM                            1.37f        ..      1.4             1.3       1.6         1.2
RuR.AL                           1.77?        ..        ..            1.5       2.5         1.2
ACCESS TO ELECrRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                           55.0/f       ..      59.0/k          54.3      50.0        66.0
U1AMN                           93.57        ..      37.0O7          90.1      71.7        85.1
RURAL             ~32.7!                      ..     37.037U        14.2       17.3



24~~~~~~~~:
- 2~4 -                   -ANNEX I
TA rTiC         SOCIAL ID!CATORS DATA SNET
COSSA ars                  tfREFERESCE CROUP! f IUSTD ANt}0ZS
.osT REZ2YS      CEOCKAPliC   IN4COz         24;CM!
1960 /b     1970 lb ESTLSATI /b        REGION /c   GROUP /d    GROUP /c
EDUCATION
MEMSD  mROLLwNT RATIos
PRIXMAR:     TOTAL                 96.0        110.0      L11.0            107.3       102.5        101.7
KALE                  97.0        110.0     111.0            109.1       106.6        110.0
rEIAL.                95.0        109.0     110.0            107.4        97.1         92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                 21.0         28.0       43.0             40.5        33.5        51.2
KALE                  20.0         27.0      41.Q             40.4        38.4         56.4
EMNALE                21.0        28.0       *6.0             39.0        30.7         63.7
VOCATIONAL mOL. (2 O  SECONDARY)  19.0            10.0       19.0             18.5       11.5          16.3
PnWIL-TEACQR  ATIO
PRwRY                              26.0         30.0       33.0             37.1        35.8         27.1
SECONDOAT                          22.0         17.0       20.0             17.9        22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERAC  RATE (PERCENT)           ..          ..       88.0             77.4        64.0         86.1
CONSLFPT f ON
PASSEN.CR CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULAT:OtN                        14.0         23.0       30.4             29.1        13.5        53.4
IaOI KRECEIVERS PER tHOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0         72.0       74.0            172.1       122.7       225.9
TV LECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.0         57.0       79.0             67.9        38.3        102.6
NEWSPAP?E ("DAILY CS2rERAL
.NrTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
tHOUSAND POPULATION                  92.0           ..       U.0              76.1        *0.0         78.5
CINEMA ANNUAL A?ENDANCZ PER CAPITA   ..              ..        ..              4.2         3.7          3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LoaR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       379.0        585.3L1   719.7/
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   16.4         19.47      28.17            21.5        25.0        24.3
AGCICULTURE (PERCENT)              51.2         36.47T    30-4lI            30.2        *3.5         25.9
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                 IS.5           ..      21.7              23.8        21.5        30.t
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.3         30.7       32.2             30.9        33.3         33.8
MALE                                  50.4        49.9       51.5             47.3        48.0         51.3
IzhALZ                                 9.9        11.2       12.6             13.3        16.8         16.3
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY IATIO                1.6          1.6/1     1.3              1.5         1.4          1.3
INCOXE DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE LINCOMl
RECEIVED by
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF NOUSZROLDS   33.0          23.0         ..             23.7        20.8
8ICGHST 20 PERCENT OF 90USENOLOS  58.6          50.4         ..             58.7        52.1        57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF NOL'SEHCLDS    5.7          5.4         ..              2.9         3.9          3.4
LOWEST 40 PERCZNT OF HOUSESOLOS   13.0          14.7         ..              9.9        12.6         11.0
POVERTY TARCET CGROPS
ISTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..          ..      235.0            265.6       270.0
RURAL                                 ..          ..      165.0            185.1       183.3
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USs PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      543.0            396.3       282.5       550.0
RURAL                                ..           ..      237.0            308.1       248.9       403.4
ES1TIATED POPUL5.T5N 3FOUW k3SOLU`E
POVER7Y INCO.KE .VELE PERCENT)
URIAN                                 ..          ..         ..             35.2        20.3
RURAL                                ..           ..         ..             46.6        35.3
Not avai!able
Noc appllcable.
NOTES
Ja    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighced geometric means, excluding cho extrem
values of che indicator and the most populated country na each group. Coverage of rouncries among the
incicacors depends on ava.±abillty of date and is  ctc 'm±form.
/b    fniess ocberise nocedao    ta :or i9j0  :e-r :o any .,eer hec .en 1959 and i961; for  970, btcween !969
and 1971: and for .s   le.ir ~   : .1ce  bet-een !974 and 1977.
/c  Latin  mertcv S Cartbbe3n;  /d  Interaediate Middle Income (f551-l135 par capita, 1976);  Ia  Upper
Vo c Lnc~oria  S  oo    n r  acrLta, i7i),   f  9.3;             -39503;    h  1962;   /i  1971;   u   1978;
7k Percent of tubscr.bers.
e1 l;-C_S-*  n. o r :1?lCA us fr1:9
August, t979



-25 -                                                                                    ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL iNDICATORS                                                                Page   3
Notes:  Altho-gh the datr  are drawn from  sources generally judged the mot authoritative  nd reliable, it should also be noted tht they may not be inter-
national1 y conparable because of the lark of so-adardle-d definitions sod nomepts .ssed by different tountries tr rotleosing the dat    The data are, nonethele
useful to det ribe orders ot magnitude, indi-ate trends, and ch-rscteriz  pertain major differancea between ounsrlns.
The adjusted  group averages  for eath iudicator are popu.stion-wsightf geseteric meass,  xcrluding the estree values of the inditannr and the most
populated dountry in eh group.  Covor-ge of tountrieG among the indicators dep nds on availahiliry of data and is not ..ifee. D.. to lok of data,
froupeoe rnfes for Capital turplus  .il topornere end indirstors of ats            - to outer and e-creta dispoal., houaing, in-tne distributiLn sod porerty  re
staple p-pnlotion-seightnd genetfrit means oithout the exnlusion of rotreose vslues.
LAND AREA (thousand eq. ki)                                                            Population per hoapital bed - tonal.  orban. and rural - Popolatin (tltel.
Total -  Total surff usrea conprising laud arts sod island canons                       urban, and rural) divided by their respartiv- namber of hospital bade
Agricultural - Most recnt estimat  of agrinulturol area used temporarily                available in public and private gonca.l and spenializad hospital and re-
or P.r.onently for crops, pssturs, msrkt eand kitnhbe  gardens or to                  hbilitstior testrs   Hospitals are establiabents permaently staffed by
lie follow                                                                            at Inset on  phylcias.   Hatabliab_te providing prineipaIly custodial
osr  ar  e   inludd.RaraI hospitals. hesseve, include health ad mmJ-
NP PERF CAPITA (01$) - GNP per oupits ositmates at ournent sarket price,                 cal  c ntens nor permanently staffed by a phyiintan (bat by a          *dica le-
colcutle d by same tosnvr ion moehod as World Bask Atls  (1975-77 busis);            aittat. nurs, midife, etc.) whioh offer is-pstient aonoodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data                                                             provide a li-itsd rasge of medical faciliti.
Admissions pen hospital bed - Total nonber of dmissions to or diseharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - A.um.l co usuptiun of .o               . ercial  ergy    from hospitals divided by the number of bade.
(ooal and lignitn, petroleum,  natur. l gas and hydro-, nuclear and gro-
thar_al el-ctricity) in kioograms uf goal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Average aloe of housebld (persons per household) -          total, urban. sd rurel-
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                          A household consists of a group of individuals vho share living qaarters
Total Population. aid-near (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                 and their mati  meals   A boarder or lodger   y or may not be inoluded in
average of tec end-year ostimatut; 1960, 19)0, and 1977 data,                         th  household for snatInIal porpose    staiticel d finition, of hous-
Urhan population (ornoo't of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; different definitions of orban aroas nay affeot louperebility                 Av,rage number of Persons per noon- total, urbee  and rural -            Average sum-
of data among countries.                                                              be  of perena per noon in a11, urban, and rural occupiad convenional
Population denuitv                                                                      dwellings, respeutively.  Dw1lisge emlode non-permanent struoturos and
Per no. k- - Mid-year population pnr  qusre kiloanter (100 hbetoree)                   unn.cupIed parts.
of totul ares.                                                                      Acess to  lectrinity  (percent of dwellings) - total. urban  and rural -
Prr  k. ta  agriculture land - Computed us abov  for agrioultural land                 Conventional dwellinge with  lictrirtpy in living quarters as percentage
ooly.                                                                                 of total, urhon, and rural dwellIngs respectively.
Ppulation age truotune (p roent) - Childr-n (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 yours and over) an poronutagna of aid-            EDUCATION
year populattor.                                                                   Adjusted enrollmnt ratios
Popu iatiGn arowth r-ei  (percnot) - total, end urbhn - Compound  nonual              Primary enhool - total, and female - Total and female e.rollaent of a11 ages
growth rates of total snd urbhn aid-year populations for 1950-60,                     at the primary level as percentages of reepeotioely primr,y school-age
_1960-70 a' nd 1970-75.                                                                poplations; normlly includes obildree  aged 6-1.1 yers, but.adjus,te  for
Crude birth cte (per thousand) - Annual liv  births per thbo.and nf                     different lengths of primary  ducation;               i    it    I
aid-your popalation; too-year arithbento averagea ending nt 1960 and                  oatono enrollment may exceed 100 peroent siJ-. some pupils are below or
1970 sod f(te-year  veragen endieg in 1975 for most reoent estimate,                  sbove the official scobol  ge.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - A.aual deaths per thousaud of mid-                  Secondary noboul - total, and feale - Computed as above; secondary aduna-
yoan population; tin-year ariihnetiG averages ending in 1960 and 1970                 tion requires an least four years of approved primary imatrontione  pee-
and fivo-year avrago ending in 1975 for most regent estimete.                         video general vcoational, or teacher training inntrnotiona for pupils
Gros  resroduction rate - Avrge n ber of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generaIly
in her normal 1epruduoti-e period if she experiences present age-                     ecluded.
upecific fertility rates; osually five-year averagns ending in 1960,                Vocational en.ollment (percent of se.on.der) - Vooational institutions in-
19(0,  nd 1975.                                                                       clude teohuical, industrial, or other progrons whith operate independently
nily planninga- ancoepors.  Innual thnouas dea  - Annual n enhor of                     or en depertefenna of secondary toatituos
acceptoru of birth-control d-iooes under auspices of national .     atily          P,pil-teacher ratio - prImary,  and aeoondary - Total stndents e-olled in
pinning program                                                                      primary e       on a .odary levels divided by numbers of teabhere in tho corre-
Fa.inly plannng- u_ ers (peront of married women) - Percentage of                      spunding leole..
marriod women of ohild-bhering age (15-44 years) who use birth--ontrol             Adult literary rate (pernest) - Literate adults (able to read a.o  wrise) as
devines to oIl -rnYied women in  ame age group.                                       a prcoentage of total adult population aged 15 years and ovr.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUIMPTION
index of food produc-ti- per gopita (1970100) - Index number cf por                  Passmugor tarn (per thousand population) - Pasaenger oars comprise manor cars
c,pito aoousl pcudugiou of all food gaumoodition                                    seatine lmno thou eight persons; eonluder ambulance., hearses end military
Per gupita supply of calories (percent of renaicents) - Computed from                 vehtcles
o.orgy  quivaloot cf net food suppIlee available in  -ontry per capita             Radio receivers (per thboss.d population) - All types of resever s for radio
pot day.    A-ilable oupplio  -onpriun domestic prodocoton, itports lass           broadcasts to general pnubli  par thousand  of population; emcludes unlioensed
expertn, and ohanges in  tock.  Net supplies -rclude aniu-l feed, seeds,            receivers in too  tries *nd in yea   when rsgistration of radio sets was in
q..ntities ouod in food processing, and looses in distributin.  Re-                 effgtt; data for rcent years may not be nomparable since mast gounnetre
quir-eeto  --re estitatd by FAO baued on physiological needs fur nor-               aboll-hod lic tes ing.
.aI aotivlty and health considering enviroomonnal temperature, bcdy                TV receivers (Por thousand population) - TV rec.ueire  for broadcast to generdL
ocights, age and see distributions of populantir, and allowing 10 per-                publig per thousand populetion;  .e.ludes unliceunod TV recei-nra in coun-
snvt for waste  at bouseold 1lev1.                                                    tries and in years when regtstration of TV sets won in effect.
PerapIta eopln of protein (grams  per dayl - Protein torrent of per                  Newpapr ctirculation (Per thousand population) - ihow-  the average otirula-
ospita 00t supply of food per day   Net supply of food is defited as                  tion of 'daily general interest aewapapec', defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Roquirenroto for all counttrie  establiuhed by 'JSDA provide for              oation devoted primarily to r.o.rding general rnva   It is considered to
a rininu= allowune of 60 grapt of  ototl pro_ein poc day  and 2n grays                he 'daily" ti it f  ppear.  at I.et four tima a week.
of animal aud pulse protein, of whigh 10 grams should be *nim-l protein.           tinni  annual uttendanoe per gapite per year - Hosed on the nombec of tinkers
Th'es  utandards are lower  than  those of y5 grams of total prutoi  and              sold during the year, including admissions  to drive-in oinetas and mobile
23 gru-o of atimal protein an an overage for the vorld, proposed by                   uni
FAD in the Third World Food Survy.
Per oapita protnis SUpplY Iron animal acd Pulse - Protein supply ut food            EPiPLOYIENT
derived from animals and pu1ses in gres per doy.                                   Total labor force (thoasends.) - Economiully active persona, including ar-ed
Child (agns 1-4) rortalinY ra-t  (per thousand) - Annual druths per thous-              torcesuad Ieemployed but o'oludind   housewives, student   etc.  Defint-
and in agn group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                            tions in various . ouotsire are not louparoble.
fomalo foeronot) - Female labor force as ;erceentag of totsl labor focru.
HEALTH                                                                                Agriculure (Percent)  - Labor forte in fsrming, forestry, hooting a=d fishing
Life empegtangy at hirih (vears) - Averngs number of ye.,. of life                      as pe-centagn of total labor force.
remaining at birth  usually fine-year av-rageu ending in 1960, 1970,               Induntry (Percent) - Labor force in minieg, conatruction, manufacturing and
snd 1975.                                                                             electricity, outer and gRe  as peren-tage of total labor fore.
Iv    t mortaity rate (per tbousaed) - Annual doaths of infants under                Participation rote (percent) - tctal. male, and female - Total,  ale, end
one year of age pee thousaud lIve bihts.                                              feanle labor force as peroenta.gn  of their respective populations.
Acce--  to nafe water (peroust of Population) - total, urban, and rural -               Thbese are ILo's adjated partitipatiom rates refleting age-tee
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                  strcuctrs of the population,  nd long time trend.
sofa outer supply (<icludes trestad nunfagewaters or untreoned but                Etono=ic dependency roio - Ratio of population uedec 15 and 65 snd o-er ro
oocontonina-ed water outh an that frue protucted boreholes, sprigs,                   the labor focce in age group of 15-64 years.
and  anitsary wlln) as pncerctages of their  -pective popalatins.
lnsnurban area   public fountain or standpost looated not more                    INCOMiE DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters frco  a house cay be coosidecod as being within rco-               Percentage of priratn income (both in oseh and kind) receiv-d bh  ri-hest 5
uo)oble access of that hoose   1=rural area.. rasuoahabl    ces- .ould                percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, and poorent 40 percent
imply that the hcusef ife or m,bnera of the household do not have to                  of hbouehlds.
spend a dispropornticnas part of the day in fetching the fa=ily'o
watsr oedo.                                                                       POVERTf TARGET GROUPS
Ac-ut to oxc_t-  disgosal (per-ent of population) - tonal, urbao, and                Intimated absolute pyovrty income level (US5 per tapita) - urbha and rural -
cu     Nonro  pooplo (tutul, uchrb    advcr,ral) nerndby...reta                Ahaluto povncty ioer.  leve .1Is that inoe -oel hbo wihioh a miuiaal
dispu oulas portertcges  f taheir renpIctine populariuns    Encreta                   nutritional ly adequate diet pls eSsen.tial non-food rbq. .v.n t a in not
disposal cay include the gollegtioe and die.po.al.,  ith or without                   afordable.
treatmet, of human ep rrtet and  wasto-wator by water-hoc u ysteoa                 Eatieaned relative ronerto imn lev   loss (SS   capita) - urban and   ral -
orthe us  of pit p-nnina ad siia   ua liou.Rltivo poverty-aioon  looe  Is that Inoe level lees than one-third
Population per physioan - Poptlation divided by nuaber of practiging                    per capita personal income of thi  country.
pbyniaictnu qualIfied fnon a tedigul ucioul at nnivrrit  lve-l.                     futimted ppnlation below poverty inomo level (pereo-t) - urban and  rurl-
Pocolation  ysr nur i berson- Populto-  divided bynue  of                             PEctt    t of population  (lurbn ad reral) who ace either "absolute poor' or
poaclt lo~g ouo uod f-ule go-dnotecu-.-  pr-nliolnrss I             nI                "rotcv  P.poor"  whcere Is greaten
icono=ic and Social Deta livision
icuonoic Analysis and Pro e otimos Departmnt



-  26  -                                 ANNEX I
Page 4
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GBaSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979                                              ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant prices)
US $ Min.          %                                  1966-73       1973-79
GNP at Market Prices           4033.5          100.0                                  7.0            5.2
Gross Domestic Investment      1144.1           28.4                                   9.5          11.1
Gross National Saving           542.5           13.4                                   9.2           2.6
Current Account Balance       -601.6            15.0
Exports of Goods NFS           1049.1           26.o                                  12.4           6.1
Imports of Goods NFS          1543.2            38.3                                  9.9            8.5
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1978
Value Added                       Labor Force 1/                     V. A. Per Worker
US $ Mln.         %                  Thou.                               us_ U$_
Agriculture                   693.6            20.0                208.7          29.0                3323.3            65.8
Industry                      889.4            25.6                162.1          22.5                5486.6           108.5
Services                     1890.0            54.4                316.2          43.9                5977.2           118.2
Unemployed                   ._._32.7                                              4.5 
Total/Average           3473.0           100.0                719.7         100.0                5055.3          100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                               Central Government
(colones Mln.)           % of GDP                 (colones Ml.)            ' of GDP
i2             19                                 1979            1979         1976-79
Current Receipts              7379.4           20.7          22.4                4415.8           12.4          13.5
Current Expenditures          7212.5           20.2          20.6                4757.1           13.3          13.8
Current Surplus                167. 0O          0.5          - .7                 341.3           -0.9          -0.3
Capital Expenditures          2089.6            5.9            5.3               1733.8            4.9           3. 8
External Assistance (net)         ..            ..             ..                1400.1            3.9           2.3
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES            1974            1975             1976            1977              1978              1979
(Million colones, outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money              3795.0          5262.0           6758.7          8866.o           11446.6           13934.0
Bank Credit to Public Sector        346.3           803.3            947.9          1890.1            2787.9            5588.o
Bank Credit to Private Sector      5180.9          6587.7           7700.4           9171.3          11250.8           13374.0
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP   28.7             31.3             32.7             33.7             38.5              39.1
General Price Index (1966 = l00)   180.6            224.9            262.2            306.6            327.8             375.5
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                  23.2            24.5             16.6            16.9               6.9              14.6
Bank Credit to Public Sector (net)  -3.8            132.0             21.4             99.4             47.5             100.4
Bank Credit to Private Sector        33.5            27.2             16.9             19.1             22.7              18.9
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table areat the average exchange rate prevailing during the period covered.
1/ 1979 figures are estimates.



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENIS                                                   MERCHANDISE EXPORTS (AVERAGE 1977-79)
1977      1978        1979                                 US $ Mln.      %
(Millions Us $)
Exports of Goods, NFS                 969.5      1017.2     1049.1       Coffee                      307.5      35.7
Imports of Goods, NFS                1137.1      1317.6     1543.2       Bananas                     163.5      19.0
Resource Gap (deficit = -)           -167.6      -300.4      44          Meat                         62.0       7.2
Sugar                       15.6       1.8
Interest Payments (net)               -54.4       -82.2     -91.5        Cocoa                        13.8       1.6
Workers' Remittances                    0.0         0.0        0.0       All other Commodities       298.8      34.7
Other Factor Payments (net)           -19.1       -21.2     -36.0            Total                   861.2    100.0
Net Transfers                          15.5        16.1      20.0
Balance on Current Account           -225.6       377T7    -601.6
Direct Foreign Investment              63.2        47.1      50.0        EXTERNAL DEBT, DECEMBER 31, 1978
Net MLT Borrowing                                                                                            US$ -lan.
Disbursements                     330.6      573.6      598.1        Public Debt, incl. guaranteed        -963.0
Amortization                      135.9      250.4      250.5        Non-Guaranteed Private Debt             ..
Subtotal                            W7        T 323.2   347.6        Total outstanding and Disbrused       963.0
Capital Grants
Other Capital (net)                    75.6        -9.4     153.6        DEBT SERVICE RATIO for 1978              %
Other Items n.i.e.
Increase in Reserves (+)              107.9       -6       -100.4        Public Debt. incl. guaranteed           23.2
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt
Gross Reserves (end year)             245.2       268.8     200.7        Total outstanding and Disbursed         23.2
Net Reserves (end year)               188.9       162.0      61.6
IBRD/IDA LENDING, (as of January 31, 1980) (Miln. US$)
Fuel and Related Materials                                                                                IBRD      IDA
Imports                            98.5      132.3      201.0        Outstanding and Disbursed        275.o3   5.1
of which:  Petroleum             83.7       96.7      165.1        Undisbursed                      118.5    0.0
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed  394'3    5.1
RATE OF EXCHANGE
Since March 1974
Us $ 1.00 = t8.6o
r1.00 = US $ 0.116



- 28 -                     ANNEX I
Page 6
OFFICIAL LENDING TO COSTA RICA BY MAJOR LENDERS AND SECTORS, 1970-1979
(In Millions of Constant FY80 US Dollars) 1/
IBRD/IDA     IDB      CABEI 2/      AID       TOTAL
Transport                       112.3      124.8    163.5            -      400.6
Power                           117.1      200.7     86.3            -      404.1
Telecommunications               94.0          -      5.7            -       99.7
Education                        12.4       69.9     16.9            -       99.2
Health                              -       54.2        -         11.1       65.3
Housing                             -          -    110.4            -      110.4
Agriculture                      43.5       55.1     25.4         70.5      194.5
Manufacturing                    17.5       20.9      2.1            -       40.5
Urban Development                21.2          -        -         17.1       38.3
Other                               -       14.1      8.0         15.4       37.5
418.0     539.7    418.3         114.1   1,490.1
1/   IBRD commitment deflator used for price adjustments.
2/   Excludes operations with the private sector.



ANNEX II
-  29 -                          Pag e I
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of March 31, 1980)
Loan or
Credit
Number    Year      Borrower            Purpose           Bank    IDA /1  Undisbursed
Fifteen loans and credits fully disbursed                 109.4   5.5            -
827        1972     Banco Central       Agriculture         9.0       -         0.3
915       1973      Costa Rica          Education           6.2       -         1.8
1006      1974      ICE                Telecommunica-
tions              23.5       -         1.7
1126      1975      ICE                 Power              41.0       -         4.2
1187      1976      Costa Rica         Highways            39.0       -       23.1
1410      1977      Costa Rica         Agriculture
Credit             18.0       -        10.1
1491      1977      Costa Rica         Urban Transport   16.5         -        14.8
1532      1978      ICE                Telecommunica-
tions              10.6       -         9.3
1599 /2   1978      Banco Central       Industrial Credit 15.0        -        15.0
1713 /2   1979      ICE                Power               34.0       -       34.0
Total                                          322.2    5.5        114.3
of which has been repaid                      47.2    0.4
Total now outstanding                          275.0    5.1
Amount sold                     11.1
of which has been repaid       8.8             2.3       -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                 272.7    5.1
/1   Excluding exchange adjustments.
72   Not yet effective.
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT (as of March 31, 1980)
Year   Obligor                                Type of Business   Loan   Equity  Total
1976   Productos de Concreto S.A.             Concrete products   0.6       -       0.6
1978   Scott Paper Co. de Costa Rica S.A.  Paper Products           2.5     -       2.5
1979   Maricultura S.A.                       Shrimp Farming        1.4    0.7      2.1
Total gross commitments                                     4.5    0.7      5.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments and sales                                      0.6     -       0.6
Total now held by IFC                                       3.9    0.7      4.6
Total undisbursed                                           0.6    0.1      0.7



ANNEX II
-30-                           Page 2
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 827    Second Agricultural Credit Project:  US$9.0 Million Loan of
June 5, 1972; Effective Date: January 25, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980.
All funds have been committed and the final disbursement
application is being prepared.
Loan 915    Education Project:  US$6.2 Million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date: December 27, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The project is progressing about 20 months behind schedule. The
operation of the Project Unit has improved significantly, and a revised imple-
mentation schedule has been developed. After delays impeding the construction
of regional centers and headquarters of the National Institute of Apprentice-
ship, the management of this component has improved and there is now more
satisfactory progress on all segments.
Loan 1006   Fourth Telecommunications Project:  US$23.5 Million Loan of June 14,
1974: Effective Date: November 19, 1974; Closing Date: September 30,
1980.
The project is progressing satisfactorily, and no cost overruns
are expected. Procurement arrangements were completed at the end of 1979.
The Closing Date was recently extended to September 30, 1980 to permit final
disbursements on small items of the project.
Loan 1126   Fifth Power Project:  US$41.0 Million Loan of June 16, 1975:
Effective Date: December 16, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The four generation components have been completed and commissioned.
Extension of the transmission system was delayed up to 21 months as a result of
late equipment deliveries and slow procurement. The load dispatch center has
been delayed by about three years because of slow deliveries.
Loan 1187   Fourth Highway Project:  US$39.0 Million Loan of January 14, 1976;
Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: October 31, 1980.
See discussion in para. 44 above.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. These should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



- 31 -                        ANNEX II
Page 3
Loan 1410   Agricultural Credit and Development Project:  US$18.0 Million
Loan of June 2, 1977: Effective Date: January 23, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
The main part of the project, agricultural loans, has been almost
completely committed. The remainder of the project is about 12 months
behind schedule. The Ministry of Agriculture has employed 60 additional
extension agents. The Government has begun to prepare a rural development
project for the Atlantic Zone (See also para. 45 above).
Loan 1491   San Jose Urban Transport Project:  US$16.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1977:  Effective Date:  March 2, 1978; Closing
Date: June 30, 1982.
See discussion in para. 45 above.
Loan 1532   Fifth Telecommunications Project:  US$10.6 Million Loan of
March 23, 1978; Effective Date: March 9, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981.
ICE is proceeding with the procurement actions required for the
project.
Loan 1599   Industrial Credit Project:  US$15.0 Million Loan of July 12, 1978;
Terminal Date for Effectiveness: May 1, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1982.
The failure of the Legislative Assembly so far to ratify this
loan has delayed effectiveness. In the meantime, the Central Bank has estab-
lished the Industrial Development Fund, provided it initial capital and
recruited its staff. At last report, the Economic Affairs Committee of the
Assembly has approved the ratification of the loan, and has recommended it
for full Assembly approval.
Loan 1713   Sixth Power Project:  US$54 Million Loan of June 25, 1979:
Terminal Date for Effectiveness: May 26, 1980; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983.
The Financial Affairs Committee of the Assembly has just approved
this loan, and has recommended it for final Assembly ratification. Meanwhile,
ICE has prepared technical specifications and detailed design for all the
project components.



- 32 -                  ~~~~~ANNEX III
Page 1
COSTA RICA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) First presentation to Bank: October 1977
(b) First Bank Mission to identify project: April 1978
(c) Agency which prepared project: MOPT
(d) Departure of Appraisal Mission: October 1, 1979
(e) Completion of negotiations: April 15, 1980
(f) Planned deadline for effectiveness: October 30, 1980
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III: Special Conditions
(a) Any exceptions from, or changes in, the new system affecting
the review and approval of transport investments to be
discussed in advance with the Bank (para 30);
(b) Delegation to the cantons of responsibility for maintenance
of the cantonal roads to be implemented gradually (para. 36);
(c) Annual consultations with the Bank, prior to the preparation
of MOPT's budget, on the size and composition of MOPT's transport
investment program and planned recurrent expenditures, progress in
carrying out the Five-Year Program and plans for its future imple-
mentation, in addition to the proposed work programs for highway
rehabilitation, improvement and maintenance (para. 61);
(d) Criteria and procedures for selection, preparation and approval
of rehabilitation subprojects (para 47);
(f) Beginning in 1981, preparation of separate programs for
maintenance of cantonal roads (para. 52), and revision of
MOPT's budgeting and accounting procedures so that
(i) maintenance of the national network, (ii) capital
expenditures on the national network, and (iii) expendi-
tures channeled through MOPT for the cantonal network
would be budgeted and accounted for separately (para 53);



- 33 -                        ANNEX III
Page 2
(g) By March 1, 1981, MOPT to assign each maintenance equipment
unit formally to either maintenance of the national network,
maintenance and improvement of the cantonal network, or other
MOPT tasks and to adopt satisfactory procedures for evaluation
of its maintenance equipment and its subsequent scrapping and
renewal (para. 54), and by March 1, 1981, to establish field
training units (para. 56);
A             (h)  As a condition for disbursement for the US$7.6 million of the loan
to be expended for maintenance equipment and spare parts, the
MOPT would adopt a detailed equipment overhaul program for about
100 pieces of its present equipment fleet (para. 54); and
(1) Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be the approval
by the Legislative Assembly of the proposed new public roads
law or other action which achieves this purpose (para. 34), and the
establishment of MOPT's new rehabilitation planning section and the
assignment to it of a section chief and an economist (para. 49).






IBRD 14807
g.                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MARCH 1908
K,4<.  __    lak  Nicqrgo9v                                                                                           COSTA RICA
0"     4<                                             N     C;  5 f.. 9  A  R4;  9 ;    -  ' A  G  V   A     FIFTH: HIGH AY    PROJECT
c~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ;, -c^. J~$ aS od<0 v.......... OZ ..TvcO,odo 
dVd                                           R Th9 0800A A uMo TORJAL NETWOKR
77'..-A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-oi.
41o    R Soro
romm d9<X\<}  z;  W*Q   JX                           >           &     Y    f          r*          X     :i;  0 3olR    o
..,~   4-9. 7 00                                                                      C;-X 2 
-'a r ooCp6 v         's  C;3vm|9                              u0                                                        X<t4                                                     ;
-c                                                   $~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~W
CO.O00C9    rS~~~~' '0oCORO9oo  9 4<                                                    d       d 
4000 'C0~ 4                                                                        f                                  a
<             R                                              .                                     ~~                                                       ^hv      0   r~-'-5
v    X    So9fRtHRi O4   Wn                                                                                  \ \ \:f~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
S , .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Cood   Kt   > N.'\ \
JI)   a   ''   t   .;    c~~~~~~~~~~A q  -TZ                            1                                                   8;i    ,~~~~~~-



