LOAN NUMBER 1845 CR
Loan Agreement
(Fifth Highway Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated                               , 1980


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1845 CR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         A"t 27             , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Bank).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the se-eral terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "MOPT" means    the Borrower's Ministerio de Obras
Publicas y Transportes;
(b) "Maintenance Program" means the program for maintaining
the Borrower's road system to be carried out by the Borrower
during the year 1981 - 1985, as described in the Capitulos VII
and VIII of the report of BEL Ingenierfa S.A. entitled "Programa
de Mantenimiento, Rehabilitaci6n y Mejoramiento del Sistema Vial,
dated November, 1979;
(c) "Rehabilitation and Improvement Program" means the
program for rehabilitation and improvement of the Borrower's road
system to be carried out by the Borrower during the years 1981 -
1985, and which provides for such priorities in respect of the
Borrower's highway investments and such works to be executed
during such period as are described in the Capitulo VI of
the report of BEL Ingenierfa, S.A. entitled "Programa de
Mantenimiento, Rehabilitaci6n yi Mejoramiento del Sistema Vial"
dated November, 1979;


﻿- 2 -
(d) "Road Rehabilitation Planning Unic" means the unit to
be established in accordance with Section 4.05 of this Agreement;
and
(e) "Sub-project" means a specific road section of the
Borrower's road network to be rehabilitated or improved under the
Rehabilitation and Improvement Program.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or
referred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to
thirty million dollars ($30,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for
expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1984
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and twenty-five hundredths per cent (8.25%) per annum on
the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semianually on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower, through MOPT, shall carry out
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, engineering, financial and
highway construction and maintenance practices, and shall pro-
vide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the purpose;
(b) The Borrower shall carry out the Maintenance Program
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appro-
priate administrative, engineering, financial and highway mainten-
ance practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
(c) The Borrower, in planning and executing its highway
investments during the period 1981-1985, shall give priority to
the investments included in the Rehabilitation and Improvement
Program over other capital expenditures not included in such
Program.
Section 3.02. (a) In order to assist the Borrower in carry-
ing out the Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The Borrower, for purposes of carrying out Parts A.2, B
and C of the Project, shall assign to each one of the consultants
employed pursuant to paragraph (a) above and maintain thereafter,
until the completion of the Project, competent counterpart staff
in number and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. Not later than September 30 in each year,
beginning on September 30, 1980 and until the completion of the
Project, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank with
respect to the targets to be met during the next fiscal year in


﻿-4-
respect of the Maintenance Program and the Rehabilitation and
Improvement Program.
Section 3.04. Not later than September 30 in each year,
beginning on September 30, 1981 and until the completion of the
Project, the Borrower shall exchange views with the Bank with
respect to the progress of the carrying out of the Maintenance
Program and the Rehabilitation and Improvement Program.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a) (i) not later than March 1, 1981 and for purposes
of carrying out Part B of the Project, prepare a program, satis-
factory to the Bank, for a systematic disposal of MOPT's worn-
out equipment, vehicles and obsolete parts; and (ii) not later
than May 1, 1981, start the execution of such program until
its completion;
(b) not later than January 30, 1981, furnish to the Bank
a plan of action, satisfactory to the Bank, for purposes of
carrying out Part C.2 of the Project;
(c) execute for purposes of carrying out Part B.2 of the
Project, the program referred to in paragraph 4 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and
(d) not later than March 1, 1981, designate from among the
units of MOPT's road maintenance and construction equipment those
to be used primarily for the following purposes: maintenance of
the national road network; maintenance, rehabilitation and im-
provement of the cantonal road network; and other MOPT activities,
including construction by force account.
Section 3.06. For purposes of carrying out the Maintenance
Program, the Borrower shall, not later than September 30 in each
year, beginning on September 30, 1981, and until completion of the
Project, prepare a detailed work program, differentiating between
MOPT's road network and the cantonal road network, for each of
MOPT's Regional Directorates to be carried out during the next
following calendar year.
Section 3.07. In the selection and preparation of Sub-
projects for the carrying out of Part A.1 of the Project, the
Borrower shall apply or cause to be applied the following criteria
and procedures:


﻿-5-
(a) the economic evaluation and ranking of the Sub-projects
shall be determined through the use of methods and criteria
satisfactory to the Bank. Such evaluation and ranking shall be
presented to the Bank at least 12 calendar months before the
date the Sub-project is expected to be financed with the proceeds
of the Loan, so as to afford the Bank reasonable time to comment
thereon;
(b) the economic feasibility studies and detailed engi-
neering designs shall be prepared taking into account Bank's
comments; and
(c) the feasibility studies, detailed engineering designs
and bidding documents for all Sub-projects in respect of Part A.1
of the Project shall be presented to the Bank for approval.
Section 3.08. For purposes of carrying out Part C.2 of
the Project, the Borrower shall, not later than March 1, 1981,
establish, and thereafter maintain adequately staffed, field
training units for carrying out training programs, and provide,
promptly as needed, the necessary facilities, funds and equipment,
including spare parts and other resoi-.ces, as shall be required
for the efficient operation thereof.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or
make adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof
to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance, any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the
Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) The Borrower shall cause all equipment and vehicles
either financed or reconditioned under the Project and spare parts
therefor to be used exclusively for the carrying out of the
Maintenance Program.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules for
the Project, and any material modifications thereof or additions
thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably request.


﻿- 6 -
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate co record and monitor the progress of -.e Project (in-
cluding its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii) shall
enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the facili-
ties and construction sites included in, the Project and to examine
the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any rele-
vant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Bank at
regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall reason-
ably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where appro-
priate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Bank, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank a
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by the Borrower and the Bank of their respec-
tive obligations under the Loan Agreement and the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) It is the policy of the Bank, in making
loans to, or with the guarantee of, its members not to seek, in
normal circumstances, special security from the member concerned
but to ensure that no other external debt shall have priority over
its loans in the allocation, realization or distribution of
foreign exchange held under the control or for the benefit of
such member. To that end, if any lien shall be created on any
public assets (as hereinafter defined), as security for any
external debt, which will or might result in a priority for the
benefit of the creditor of such external debt in the allocation,
realization or distribution of foreign exchange, such lien shall,
unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, ipso facto and at no cost
to the Bank, equally and ratably secure the principal of, and
interest and other charges on, the Loan, and the Borrower, in
creating or permitting the creation of such lien, shall make


﻿- 7 -
express provision to that effect; provided, however, that, if for
any constitutional or other legal reason such provision cannot
be made with respect to any lien created on assets of any of
its political or administrative subdivisions, the Borrower shall
promptly and at no cost to the Bank secure the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan by an equivalent
lien on other public assets satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) The foregoing undertaking shall not apply to: (i) any
lien created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for payment of the purchase price of such property;
and (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course of banking
transactions and securing a debt maturing not more than one year
after its date.
(c) As used in this Section, the term "public assets"
means assets of the Borrower, of any political or administrative
subdivision thereof and of any entity owned or controlled by,
or operating for the account or benefit of, the Borrower or any
such subdivision, including gold and foreign exchange assets held
by any institution performing the functions of a central bank or
exchange stabilization fund, or similar functions, for the
Borrower.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to
be maintained records adequate to reflec:    in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accou.iting practices, the
operations, resources and expenditures of MOPT.
(b) The Borrower shall establish and put into effect,
by December 31, 1981, budgeting and accounting procedures for use
by MOPT that will determine the cost of:
(i) maintenance of the national road network, distin-
guishing among routine, periodic and emergency
maintenance, including labor, materials, equipment
utilization, spare parts, fuel and indirect
administrative costs;
(ii) civil works on the national road network, distin-
guishing between rehabilitation and improvement
works as defined under the Rehabilitation and
Improvement Program, and construction works; and


﻿- 8 -
(iii) maintenance, rehabilitation and improvements, and
construction works of the cantonal road network,
distinguishing among them.
(c) Establish by December 31, 1981, a system to monitor and
control: (i) the works carried out by MOPT's Maintenance Division
and assess expenditures related thereto; and (ii) the availability
and utilization of MOPT's road maintenance and construction
equipment.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall:
(a) adequately maintain MOPT's road network in accordance
with sound engineering and financial practices;
(b) adequately maintain all of MOPT's road maintenance
equipment and make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof,
all in accordance with sound engineering practices, and take
all necessary action and provide the necessary funds and resources
to ensure the proper and timely repair and maintenance of such
equipment; and
(c) establish and maintain suitable workshops and inven-
tories of spare parts as required for the foregoing.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall:
(a) review and take all appropriate action, satisfactory to
the Bank, to reclassify MOPT's and the cantonal's road networks;
and
(b) gradually delegate to the cantons responsibility for the
maintenance of the cantonal road network and, from time to
time, exchange views with the Bank on this matter.
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter
maintain, a Road Rehabilitation Planning Unit within MOPT, to
carry out: (i) studies on and programming of the activities to be
undertaken under the Rehabilitation and Improvement Program; and
(ii) selection of Sub-projects to be carried out on the basis of
annual priority ranking; such Unit to be headed by an experienced
MOPT Engineer/Planner, and assigned adequate staff, including at
least one experienced Economist.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall ensure that:


﻿-9-
(a) MOPT efficiently enforces the vehicle dimension and
axle-load regulations of the Borrower in effect on the date of
this Agreement; and
(b) MOPT monitors the data collected in the enforcement
of such regulations, and at any time at the request of the Bank,
exchanges views with the Bank on the results of such monitoring.
Section 4.07. The Borrower shall inform the Bank and afford
the Bank a reasonable time to comment before approving any excep-
tions or changes in the Borrower's current system for review and
approval of capital expenditures in its transport sector.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower has established the Road Rehabilita-
tion Planning Unit and assigned thereto the Senior Engineer/
Planner and the Senior Economist referred to in Section 4.05 of
this Agreement; and
(b) that the Borrower, pursuant to Section 4.04 (a) of
this Agreement, has taken all action necessary to reclassify
MOPT's road network aTd the cantonal road network.
Section 5.02. The date 5tpAmbx21,90  , is heraby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministro de Obras PGblicas y Transportes
of the Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower
for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿- 10 -
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Obras PG'blicas
y Transportes
San Jose
Costa Rica
Cable address:                      Telex:
MOPT                                2493 MOPT
San Jos6, Costa Rica
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INTBAFRAD                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
By AuthorizedRepresentativ
Authorized Representative


﻿- 11 -
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /8Au~L~6\U       ~ttfOa
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)  to be Financed
(1) Civil works for              13,548,000       65%
Parts A.1, B.3 and
C.4 of the Project
(2) Technical assistance          1,148,000       65%
for Parts B.4 and
C.2 of the Project
(3) Technical assistance            200,000       100% of for-
for Part A.2 of the                          eign expendi-
Project                                      tures
(4) Scholarships for                 54,000       100% of for-
Part C.2 of the                              eign expendi-
Project                                      tures
(5) Equipment, vehicles and       6,800,000       100% of for-
spare parts for Parts                        eign expendi-
B.1 and B.2 of the                            tures and 85%
Project                                      of local ex-
penditures
(6) Equipment, vehicles,            606,000       100% of for-
spare parts and tools                        eign expendi-
for Parts B.3, C.3 and                       tures and 85%
C.4 of the Project                           of local ex-
penditures


﻿- 13 -
Amount of the
Loan Allocated          % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equ.Lvalent)  to be Financed
(7) Consultants' services           800,000       65%
for engineering and
supervision for Part
A.1 of the Project
(8) Unallocated                   6,844,000
TOTAL              30,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign ex-
penditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country
other than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from
the territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Loan shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the 'territory of, the Borrower on goods or servAces,
or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied
on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan decreases or increases, the Bank may, by notice to
the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage
then applicable to such item as required to be consistent with
the aforementioned policy of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made:
(a) in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in an aggre-
gate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000 may be made in
respect of Category 3 on account of payments made for such expen-
ditures before such date but after March 1, 1980; and


﻿- 14 -
(b) in respect of Categories (5) and (6) on account of
payments made for carrying out Parts B.1, B.2 and B.3 of the
Project until a detailed program, satisfactory to the Bank, for
reconditioning about 100 pieces of maintenance equipment of the
Borrower has been prepared by the Borrower.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the
amount of the Loan then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Loan which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Bank are
not needed to meet other expenditures; and (ii) if such realloca-
tion cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the dis-
bursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order
that further withdrawals under such Category may continue until
all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the
Loan Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of
the Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the
amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have been
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 15 -
SCREDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of:
Part A:   Road Rehabilitation and Improvement
1.   Rehabilitation or reconstruction, including civil works and
related engineering and supervision, of about 420 km of primary
and secondary roads.
2.   Establishment of planning and programming procedures for
road rehabilitation.
Part B:   Road Maintenance
1.   Acquisition and utilization of road maintenance equipment
and vehicles and the establishment of an initial inventory of
spare parts.
2.   Reconditioning (f about 100 pieces of existing maintenance
equipment and vehicles, including acquisition and utilization of
spare parts.
3.   Improvement of MOPT's maintenance workshops, including
acquisition and utilization of workshop tools and equipment
and expansion and equipping of existing warehouses and work-
shops.
4.   Establishment of procedures for:
(i) planning, budgeting, programming, controlling and
reporting of maintenance activities;
(ii) improving the efficiency and quality of road maintenance
methods, especially on paved roads;
(iii) improving the administration of warehouse stocks
and supplies; and
(iv) improving the selecting and procuring of maintenance
equipment and spare parts.


﻿- 16 -
Part C:   Institutional Improvements, Training and Studies
1.   Strengthening of MOPT's technical and managerial capabilities
as required to carry out the Maintenance Program and Rehabilita-
tion and Improvement Program.
2.   Strengthening of MOPT's Training Department through estab-
lishment of field training units to carry out on-the-job training
and seminars for MOPT's personnel at all levels, and provision of
scholarships for courses abroad for about ten maintenance engineers
and about three training officers.
3.   Acquisition of teaching and training equipment and utiliza-
tion thereof by MOPT's Training Department.
4.   Construction and equipping of training facilities.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1985.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
On each June 1 and December 1
beginning December 1, 1983
through   June 1, 1995                     1,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable -in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4..02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿- 18 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums
payable on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of
the principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b)
of the General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                              Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                             1.65%
More than three years but not
more than six years before
maturity                                     3.30%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                             6.00%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                             7.15%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                             8.25%


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order co provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   Civil works under Part A.1 of the Project shall be carried
out through unit price contracts awarded to prequalified bidders
pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
4.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the imported
goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of other
goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and other
import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or the
sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.


﻿- 20 -
5.   Before issuing the invitations to bid, goods to be procured
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 above shall, for
bidding purposes, be divided into lots, to the extent practicable,
such lots to be satisfactory to the Bank.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for equipment, vehicles, parts and tools estimated
to cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 may be*directly
procured from established and reliable suppliers under contracts
awarded in accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; provided, however, that the aggregate of the contracts
procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
2.   Contracts for spare parts for specific brands estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 may be directly procured
through negotiated purchases from established and reliable sup-
pliers in accordance with procurement procedures satisfactory to
the Bank; provided, however, that the aggregate of the contracts
so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $500,000.
3.   Civil works to be carried out under Part C of the Project
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordanre with local
procurement procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of prequalification. The Borrower shall, before
qualification is invited, inform the Bank in detail of the proce-
dure to be followed, and shall introduce such modifications in
said procedure as the Bank shall reasonably request. The list of
prequalified bidders, together with a statement of their qualifi-
cations and of the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for
prequalification shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Bank
for its comments before the applicants are notified of the Bor-
rower's decision, and the Borrower shall make such additions to,
deletions from, or modifications in, the said list as the Bank
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods and civil works
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:


﻿- 21 -
(a) Before bids are invited the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and
the specifications and other bidding documents together with a
description of the advertising procedures to be followed for the
bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said documents
or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Bank's
concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the
Borrower shall, before a final decision on the award is made,
inform the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report, by the consultants refer-
red to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, togethe-. with the recommendations
for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it deter-
mines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms -nd conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's zoncurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asired or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to delivery
to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds from
the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to delivery to the Bank of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons
for such determination.
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or


﻿- 22 -
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Bank of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Bank, if it determines
that the proposal would be inconsistent with the provisions of
this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower and sta,.e
the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Bank for Reconstruction and Develop-
ment.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Bank thereunto
this 42L      day ofJL     , 198 iL.
FOR SECRETARY


