CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 453 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 17, 1974


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 453 ET
Development Credit
Agreement
(Fifth Telecommunications Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JANUARY 17, 1974


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 17, 1974, between E  "IRE OF ETHIOPIA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the foreign exchange cost of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The   Project  will  be  carried  out  by  Imperial Board    of
Telecommunications of Ethiopia (hereinafter called the Board) with the Borrower's
assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to the
Board the proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions se. forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Board;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Board of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time
to time;


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Board pursuant to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement,
as the same may be amended from time to time;
(c)   "Previous Loan Agreements" means the loan agreements dated
May 31, 1962, December 28, 1965 and June 3, 1969, respectively, between the
Board and the Bank; and
(d)   "The Board" means the Imperial Board of Telecommunications of
Ethiopia, a corporation created by a Proclamation for the Establishment of the
Imperial Board of Telecommunications of Ethiopia (Proclamation No. 131 of 1952
as amended) of the Borrower and shall include any successor to the Board.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivaient to twenty-one million four hundred
thousand dollars ($21,400,000).
Section 2.02, The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as
such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.


﻿5
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April 15 and
October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing
April 15, 1984 and ending October 15, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 15, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its othe;
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the Board to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities and other recources, necessary or
appropriate to enable the Board to perform such obligations, and shall not take
or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to the Board
under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and
the Board under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the
Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:


﻿6
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the performance by the Board of its obligations under the Project
Agreement, the administration, operations and financial condition of the Board
and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower o: of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall furnish or cause to be furnished to
the Association all such information as the Association shall reasonably request
concerning the administration, operations and financial condition of the Board.
(b)   The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each other
of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, the performance by either of them of its obligations under the Development
Credit Agreement or the performance by the Board of its obligations under the
Project Agreement and the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿7
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall occur in the performance of any obligation on the part
of the Board under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
(b)   the charter of the Board shall have been suspended, terminated of
repealed, or amended so as to affect adversely the ability of the Board to carry
out the Project or any of the agreements set forth in the Project or Subsidiary
Loan Agreement without the prior agreement of the Association.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur; and
(b)   any event permitting the Association to declare the principal, interest,
and other charges, of any of the loans to the Board provided for under any of
the Previous Loan Agreements shall have occurred.


﻿8
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
the Board shall have been duly authorized or raLItfied by all necessary corporate
action;
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and the Board, respectively, have been duly authorized
or ratified by all necessary corporate and governmental action; and
(c)   the Board shall have increased its share capital in an amount necessary
to permit it (under its charter) to assume the indebtedness required for the
execution of the Project.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly a-thorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Board, and constitutes a valid and
binding obligation of the Board in accordance with its terms;
(b)   that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and the Board,
respectively, and constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and
the Board in accordance with its terms; and
(c)   that the condition set forth in Section 7.01(c) of this Agreement has
been met.
Section 7.03. The date March 31, 1974 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Article III of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.


﻿9
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 9.03 of the General
Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
Ethiopia
Cable address:
MINFINANCE
Addis Ababa
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿10
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ H.E. Ato Kifle Wodayo
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Bernard R. Bell
Regional Vice President
Eastern A frica


﻿11
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            %o of
(Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                U.S. Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
I.   Local exchange                 7,600,000          100% of foreign
equipment, sub-                                  expenditures
scribers dis-
tribution networks
and subscribers
plant
II.  Microwave, multi-              4,400,000          100% of foreign
plex equipment,                                  expenditures
open wire line
material, carrier
systems and trunk
switching equip-
ment
III.  Earth satellite               4,700,0            100% of foreign
station with SPADE                               expenditures
terminal, inter-
national telephone
exchange, inter-
connecting micro-
wave system. HF
equipment and con-
sultants services
IV.  Teleprinters, tele-              400,000          100  of foreign
graph and telex ex-                              expenditures
tension equipment
V.   Vehicles, tools, in-           2,200,000          100% of foreign
struments and train-                             expenditures
ing, power and air-
conditioning equip-
ment
VI.  Unallocated                   2,00,000
TOTAL        21,400,000


﻿12
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and
in the currency, of any country other than the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of Category III on account of expenditures
incurred for consultants' services incurred after September 1, 1973 in an aggregate
amount not exceeding the equivalent of $50,000; and
(b)   payments for tcxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph 1 above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall decrease,
the amount of the Credit then allocated to such Category and no longer required
therefor will be reallocated by the Association by increasing correspondingly the
unallocated amount of the Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.03 of the Development Credit Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
and the Association may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other
right, power or remedy of the Association under the Development Credit


﻿13
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in
the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures
which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of
the Credit.


﻿14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the first part of the Board's development program
for the years 1974-1978 and consists of:
(a)   installation of local automatic telephone exchange equipment for
29,300 lines and manual switchboards for about 4,500 local lines and
extension of local cable distribution networks and subscribers' plant
associated with the increase in switching capacity;
(b)   installation  of microwave systems for the Asmara-Tessenei and
Desse-Assab routes; multiplex and carrier equipment; automatic trunk
switching equipment for Shashamane, and extension and reconstruction
of open-wire lines;
(c)   installation of teleprinters, telegraph and telex extension equipment;
(d)   installation of an earth satellite station, with a SPADE terminal, an
international telephone exchange for semi-automatic operation and an
interconnecting microwave system;
(e)   acquisition of land and construction of buildings required for the
foregoing; and
(f)   provision of tools, instruments, power equipment, motor vehicles, and
training and air conditioning equipment.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


