Document of
The World Bank
Report No. T-6868-IND
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT
FOR
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING
April 17, 1996



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(As of April 1996)
Currency Unit   =  Rupiah (Rp)
RP I million     =  US$427
US$ 1.00         =  Rp 2,342
FISCAL YEAR
April 1- March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAPPENAS -  National Development Planning Agency
Bappeda     -  Provincial Development Planning Agency
CAS         -  Country Assistance Strategy
GOI         -  Government of Indonesia
Dinas       -  Local Government Technical Office
IBRD        -  International Bank for Reconstruction &
Dev elopment
IDA         -  International Development Association
IMR         -  Infant Mortality Rate
JGF         -  Japan Grant Fund
Kanwil      -  Provincial Sector Office
OED         -  Operations Evaluation department
PDPs        -  Project Documentation Packages
PIM         -  Project Implementation Manual
PMU         -  Project Management Unit
REPELITA  -  Five-Year Development Plan
TA          -  Technical Assistance
TOR         -  Terms of Reference



INDONESIA
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
TECHNICAL ANNEX
TO THE
MEMORANDUM OF THE PRESIDENT
I. COUNTRY AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.   Indonesia has just completed its first 25-year development plan in which its
accomplishments included steadily rising income -- per capita GNP reached an estimated
US$884 in 1994; a decline in poverty incidence from 60 percent (70 million persons) at
the beginning of the 1970s to 15 percent (27 million persons) in 1995; and considerable
success in making social services accessible. Universal primary education has been
achieved, secondary and tertiary enrollments have risen sharply and the adult illiteracy
rate has fallen by almost two thirds. Infant mortality rate (IMR) declined from 142 deaths
per 1,000 livebirths in 1968 to 57 deaths per 1,000 livebirths in 1994.
2.    Looking ahead to the next 25-year development plan, Indonesia is setting its
sights on more ambitious and appropriate objectives: continuing to sustain high rates of
income growth, progressing in poverty reduction efforts while also addressing
inequalities and improving quality of life and social services. For all of the above, the
government realizes the importance of the social sectors and has embraced human
resource development as a key instrument and objective in the current five-year
development plan (REPELITA VI) and in utilizing donor funds.
3.    Yet despite the emphasis on human resource development and some recent
improvements in relevant indicators, major challenges to improve the effectiveness and
efficiency of the social sectors remain. These challenges are evident in the slow pace of
IMR decline in the late 1980s, low utilization rates of health facilities, the continuing
high drop out rate in primary education, and the slow increase in secondary education
enrollment. Indonesia has only now reached a stage of health development which
countries like Malaysia and Thailand transcended 15-30 years ago. Addressing these
challenges involves the adaptation to an increasing regional orientation while improving
the coverage, efficiency and quality of social sector services, especially health and
education. To this end, there is a need to ensure that government as well as private
spending responds to the need for additional resources for these sectors, that government



- 2 -
outlays be used to address market failures and to efficiently provide services that will
benefit the poor, and that enabling environments conducive to private service provisions
are established.
4.    The Government's (GOI) ability to achieve its human resources objectives is
impeded by the lack of an overall framework and operational strategy to translate
REPELITA VI goals into action. Because of this, the planned investments for the sector
represent only a small percentage of the REPELITA VI allocation --planned investments
represent about one fifth and one quarter of the REPELITA VI allocations for health and
education, respectively.
5.    Several factors have contributed to the lack of a broad vision and tactical program
for the social sectors. First, capacity remains limited within the National Development
Planning Agency (BAPPENAS) and the planning units in the line ministries to carry out
sector analysis, medium-term planning and priority setting and to develop operational
approaches. This is due in part to the still limited experience of planning staff in
identifying the key issues facing the social sectors and analyzing existing data to assess
needs and priorities. In addition, those few staff with training and experience in policy
and strategy development are utilized mainly for other functions like preparing projects
and coordinating donor activities. Second, there is no clear process for translating
REPELITA goals and objectives into an investment plan that is based on a careful
analysis of alternatives and priorities. Existing approaches enable the identification of
very broad sector goals but do not translate these into clear options and investments that
could be implemented later. In addition, and partly as a consequence of the above two
points, there are a number of analytic efforts that are urgently needed for the sectors to
move ahead (see Annex 1 for more details).
6.    Strategies for human resource development also need to address emerging issues,
especially decentralization, and to define clear processes for dealing with them. Till now,
decentralization has been pursued slowly through discrete and incremental steps.
However, the next phase requires a more clearly defined roadmap and framework.
BAPPENAS, the line ministries and the provinces are in the process of changing their
roles, functions, and relationships with one another. This in turn will necessitate an
assessment of alternatives and capacity to carry out the new roles, and an identification of
the skills needed and the type of capacity building effort that should be planned.
7.    GOI recognizes that overcoming the above constraints will have significant
development impacts. A number of initiatives to address these have been undertaken.
For example, integrated planning and budgeting for the health sector has been introduced
at the provincial level, a pilot for decentralized decision making at the district level is
underway in 26 districts, and a number of provincial investments that build provincial
capacity in selected areas have been approved in the last 5 years. However, the various
measures have not coalesced into revised strategies for the social sectors and the pace of
improvements in human resource indicators remains relatively slow. In response,



- 3 -
Indonesia is about to embark on an exercise to develop its sector strategies and build the
needed capacities to arrive at the desired outcomes in human resource development.
II. THE PROJECT
A. Institutional Setting
8.    The project will provide support at the central level to: BAPPENAS (Deputy IV -
Human Resource Development); and to planning bureaus and planning officers in the line
ministries (Health, Education and Culture, Social Affairs and Religious Affairs). I At the
provincial level, support will be provided to institutions reporting to the Provincial
Governor (Bappedas and Dinases) and to the line ministries (Kanwils). A description of
the institutional settings of the main agencies involved in the project is presented below.
Central Level
9.    BAPPENAS is a non-department institution that assumes a key role in
development in Indonesia. It was established in 1963 and is responsible for incorporating
national development goals into medium-term development plans (REPELITA);
allocation of resources within the economy and preparation of the National development
budget; coordination with donors, mobilization of foreign resources and allocation of
local and foreign-sourced funds to finance the development budget; and monitoring of
major project implementation among others.
10.   BAPPENAS is chaired by the State Minister for Development Planning with a
vice-chairman and eight Deputies for groups of economic activities (Fiscal and monetary
Regulation, Economic Development, Infrastructure Development, Human Resource
Development, Regional Development, Fund Allocation and Implementation
Management, Foreign Cooperation, and Administrative Affairs). Four or five Bureau
Chiefs in charge of sub-sectors report to each Deputy Chairman. An organizational chart
for BAPPENAS is present in Chart 1. The project will largely support the Deputy for
Human Resource Development and his four Bureaus, especially those principally
concerned with the health and education sectors.
11.   Line Ministries. Within the line ministries, at the central level, planning activities
are carried out by the Bureaus/units of Planning as well as by planning officers located in
the different Directorates. The Bureau of Planning is under the Secretary General's
Office and is headed by a Bureau Chief, supported by several divisions (about 5 to 7).
The Bureau of Planning is responsible for coordinating planning of all sector programs
under both the routine and development budgets as well as for monitoring and evaluation
of sector programs. The Bureau also provides guidance to the Directorates on the
methodology and techniques for planning and assists the Directorates in preparing
projects.
1Ministries of Finance and Home Affairs will also have limited participation in project implementation.



-4 -
Provincial Level
12.   At the provincial level, the provincial development planning agencies (Bappedas)
are the main government agency for overall planning and coordination. They are under
the administration of the provincial Governor. Each Bappeda is headed by a chairman
assisted by a secretariat and five divisions responsible for: research; economic affairs;
social and cultural affairs; physical facilities; and statistics and reports. Bappedas play an
important in role provincial planning including: formulation of the provincial five-year
development plan (Repelitada); preparation of annual implementation schedules for the
provincial programs; and coordination of development planning at provincial levels. The
Bappedas also prepares the development budget for the province/district and monitor the
progress of program implementation.
13.   Sectoral planning activities are carried out by the Kanwils, who are responsible to
the line ministries, and by the dinases responsible to the Local Government. The Kanwil
is typically staffed by a chief assisted by a secretariat and several divisions, including one
which is responsible for planning activities. Staff are funded from the budget of the line
ministry. The Dinas is responsible for contributing to the provincial sectoral plan and
their implementation. The distinction between the roles of the Kanwil and Dinas is not
clearly defined.
B. Project Description
14.   Project Objectives. The project would provide, over four years, support for
conducting sector studies, formulating strategies and building institutional capacity for
the social sectors, especially health and education. More specifically, the project aims to
(a)    develop sector strategies for social sectors, especially health and
education;
(b)    build capacity in BAPPENAS and planning bureaus/units of line
ministries to develop concepts and strategies, plan, monitor and evaluate
sector performance and programs; and
(c)    build capacity of provincial staff -- Bappedas, provincial line ministries
(Kanwil), and Dinas-- to design, prepare, implement, monitor and evaluate
programs.
15.   In addition, the project will support provincial efforts to determine sector
priorities and prepare investment plans, and support project design and feasibility studies
as well as pilot projects.
16.   Project Components. The proposed project will provide support to BAPPENAS,
line ministries (especially health and education) and the provinces. A description of
project activities for the different implementing agencies is given below.



- 5 -
17.    Support to BAPPENAS This component will assist BAPPENAS to
(a)    formulate sector strategies and investment priorities including plans for
further decentralization of the social sectors and design of enabling
environments to encourage private sector development through the
provision of TA and support for key sector studies2;
(b)    review the planning frameworks for social sectors and identify ways to
strengthen the linkage between REPELITA goals, strategy formulation,
and program identification, design, and implementation;
(c)    improve skills needed and processes used to review and appraise
investment plans, set priorities, monitor and evaluate sector performance;
(d)    build in-house capacity needed to achieve the above activities, after careful
assessment of capacity building efforts. On-the-job training is likely to be
an important element of this effort;
(e)    develop and institutionalize training programs for planning and
management of social sectors, especially at the provincial effort3; and
(f)    provide technical inputs for the mid-term review of REPELITA VI and the
formulation of REPELITA VII.
18.    Activities to be supported by this component will include: sector analysis and
studies, development of decentralization strategies, review of planning frameworks,
assessment of staff skills and training needs, on-the-job training of staff; development of
training programs for social sectors planning and pre-feasibility studies. This component
will also support a limited number of advisors, who could be either in-house or provide
technical advice on demand to BAPPENAS.
19.    Support to Line Ministries This component will assist the planning units in the
selected line ministries (Health, Education and Culture, Religious Affairs, Social Affairs)
to define and operationalize their sector strategies (covering public-private delivery and
targeting public interventions) and to carry out selected sector studies. The component
will also include provisions to review and improve monitoring and evaluation systems
and capacities. Support for selective training programs to strengthen the capacity of these
units and for carrying out a small number of pilot studies (e.g. operations research) and
feasibility studies will also be included.
2In addition, BAPPENAS staff have identified needed TA for assistance with strategy development for
selected social issues like (1) gender and development; and (2) social welfare, especially the disabled
individuals and the isolated communities.
The proposed program is likely to be carried out by local universities (e.g., Ul and/or other institutes with
similar capacities). The program design will also be linked to the capacity needs assessment planned
for the first year of project implementation.



- 6 -
20.   In addition, the Ministry of Home Affairs will participate in project
implementation as a facilitator for provincial Bappedas, and Ministry of Finance staff
who deal with social sector issues will participate in selected training activities.
21.   Support to Provinces. The main objective of the provincial component is to assist
the provinces in carrying out their emerging role in planning and designing and
eventually financing programs. To this end the project will, after careful needs
assessment and evaluation of current efforts, develop and implement training programs
for the provinces to improve skills in project design, implementation, management and
monitoring and evaluation. The training programs will be developed after careful needs
assessment of the provincial staff needs and existing skills. The programs will include
basic training modules that will be implemented in all provinces and more specialized
modules that will be provided to provinces on demand. Further, the capacity building
efforts need to be coordinated with the work that will be carried out at BAPPENAS and
the Bureaus of Planning to develop guidelines to assist the provinces in their new roles.
A significant part of the capacity building effort will be for the Bappedas and provincial
staff (both Dinas and Kanwil) involved in the planning and delivery of social sector
services.
22.   The support for provinces will be carried out at two levels: (a) an intensified
support for training, sector analysis, and preparation of investment plan in about five
provinces selected according to agreed criteria; and (b) general support for an additional
number of provinces (three to five) that consists of basic training as well as provision of
resources for pre-feasibility study proposals that could later be developed into project
design and feasibility studies.
23.   Performance Indicators. The ultimate goal of the project is to improve social
sector indicators. However, these indicators should not be used to monitor and evaluate
project implementation and impact since there are a number of intervening variables, e.g.,
the macro finance trends for the sectors, investments in other sectors, implementation of
other projects, that will affect and bias these measures. Accordingly, proximate
indicators for monitoring the implementation and outputs of the project have been
suggested and are summarized in Annex 2.
24.   These indicators have been identified for each project objective. The main criteria
for their selection was that they are relatively simple, easy to measure (and interpret), and
reflect implementation progress and/or project outputs. Special attention has been given
to measuring the implementation and effectiveness of training efforts aimed at
transferring skills and building capacity.



- 7 -
25.   The main indicators identified for monitoring project outputs are (Annex 2-Table
1):
> number of completed sector studies of acceptable quality (including preparation of
REPELITA VII chapters for social sectors);
=> number of central and provincial investment plans (e.g., included in the "blue book");
=> competency level of target staff (as defined by the capacity building needs
assessment);
=> proportion/number of social sector proposals submitted to BAPPENAS of acceptable
quality; and
> availability of key indicators for social sectors at the national and provincial levels.
26.   In addition, project implementation will be monitored using the following inputs
and process indicators (Annex 2-Table 2):
=> number of studies initiated/completed (3 months of expected date);
=:> number of consultants hired (within 1-3 months of expected date);
=  number of investment plans (e.g., project design, feasibility studies)
initiated/completed at the central and provincial levels;
7> number of staff trained;
=  initiation/completion of the review of planning process(es);
=> initiation/completion of training program development;
=. identification of key sectors indicators; development of data systems for increasing
access to these indicators;
27.   In addition to these indicators, the project management team will develop a more
extensive set of indicators to monitor project activities and ensure adequate
implementation. The project management unit (PMU) will furnish to the Bank quarterly
reports monitoring and evaluating progress achieved in project implementation, in
accordance with the identified indicators, starting no later than December 31, 1996.
28.   Selection of Project Activities. Terms of reference for key activities that will
start during the first year of project implementation were discussed and agreed during
negotiations. A list of those activities is presented in Annex 3. Other activities may be
selected during project implementation.
29.   Review Process. Guidelines about informing potential beneficiaries, review, and
approval of Sub-projects (e.g., sector studies, design and pre-feasibility studies) at the
provincial and central level have been prepared and will be included in the project
implementation manual. Criteria and procedures for reviewing and approving Sub-
projects were agreed to at negotiations and will be further detailed in the project
implementation manual. Moreover, the PMU will furnish to the Bank for approval Sub-
projects proposals and training programs to be carried out during the next fiscal year, by
no later than September 30 of each year starting no later than September 30, 1996.



- 8 -
II1. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT
30.   Project Management. The project will be executed at provincial and district
planning offices and at central planning bureaus of the ministries of health and of
education and culture and will be coordinated overall at BAPPENAS. The project
management structure (see Chart 2) is briefly described below.
a Steering Committee (SC) that is chaired by the vice chairman of BAPPENAS
and that includes members from Echelon I representatives from the various line
ministries involved in the project (Health, Education and Culture, Religion, Home
Affairs, Social Affairs, and Finance) and Deputy IV of BAPPENAS. The main
role of the SC is to provide policy guidance on implementation of the project.
The SC should meet at least twice a year;
*     a Project Director who will be the Deputy Chairman for Human Resources
Development (Deputy IV) BAPPENAS. The Director will be responsible for the
overall guidance of the project implementation and will liaise with the SC on
policy related matters related to the project;
*     Technical Committee(s) (TC) that are chaired by the Project Manager (see
below) and comprise Bureau chiefs under Deputy IV, BAPPENAS; chiefs of
Bureaus of Planning of line ministries; chairmen of provincial Bappedas; and
technical experts (as needed). The TC will assist the Project Manager on
substantive matters related to the project and screening of the various TAs
proposed by the executing agencies (EAs). The TC should have a flexible
structure depending on the needs of the project and should meet at least four times
a year and upon the request of the Project Manager. One meeting to be held
before annual World Bank review;
*     a Project Manager who is a qualified experienced staff appointed full-time to the
project. The Project Manager is responsible for overall project implementation
and is assisted by a Project Management Unit and a Treasurer. The Project
Manager will also act as secretary to the SC;
*     a Project Management Unit (PMU): Management support directly to the Project
Manager. Membership consists of a Technical Support Team (TST) comprising
expatriate and national technical experts in selected sectors and administrative
support unit. Counterparts for the TST members will be at three levels: 1)at
BAPPENAS - division heads from designated bureaus in BAPPENAS; 2) at the
line ministries - designated staff form Bureaus of Planning; and 3) at the
provinces - the Bappeda. The counterparts should assign adequate time for
working on the project;
*     Provincial Project Secretariats (PPSs): Chaired by chief division of
social/cultural affairs of Bappedas and comprising Kanwil and Dinas staff of



- 9 -
selected sectors in selected project provinces (i.e., those where major social sector
investment plans will be prepared- estimated number is about five). The main
role of the PPS is to facilitate provincial level studies and capacity building
efforts.
31.   The main objective of the PMU is to promote the effective planning and
management of the TA and training activities so that TA objectives are met in a cost
effective and timely manner. The PMU will assist the different executing agencies (EAs)
in the planning, procurement, monitoring, evaluation, and follow-up action of TA and
training services. In support of this, the PMU develop a Project Implementation Manual
(PIM) by April 30, 1997 which standardizes all activities related to the preparation of
project documentation packages (PDPs) and terms of reference (TORs), the evaluation of
proposals, the negotiations of fees with selected consultants, the contracting procedures
and monitoring of TA services. The PIM should be consistent with the Bank Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency (August 1981). The PMU will also be responsible for collecting and
analyzing data on performance indicators and will furnish to the Bank for review and
comment quarterly reports monitoring and evaluating progress achieved in project
implementation starting no later than December 31, 1996. In addition, by July 30, 1998,
the PMU will carry out a mid-term review of the project based on a progress report
furnished to the Bank by April 30, 1998. TORs and staffing of the PMU were agreed to
during negotiations. Procedural aspects for the establishment of the PMU is a condition
of disbursement for consultant services for BAPPENAS and the line ministries.
32.   Bank Supervision. In view of the range of activities and the need for flexibility,
individual projects will be reviewed through periodic consultations between GOI and the
Bank. In view of the nature of technical assistance expected to be financed under this
project, considerable inputs are likely to be required from headquarters (HQ) staff and
consultants, especially for reviewing TORs and study proposals. A team of experts will
be identified (both inside and outside the Bank) who will assist in reviewing and
commenting on TORs and study design. Although this is likely to increase the cost of
supervision, it is essential for the first 18 months of project implementation. In addition,
a major review of project implementation and progress towards objectives will be
conducted two years after implementation starts (mid-term review). A tentative schedule
for supervision mission has been outlined in Annex 4.
33.   Project Costs and Financing. The overall project cost is estimated at US$ 25.0
million equivalent including local taxes amounting to US$ 1.4 million equivalent and
US$ 1.2 million equivalent of contingencies. Detailed costs for the different project
components are estimated as follows:



- 10-
Central Level                                US$ Million
Capacity building for policy, strategy, and         6.15
planning
Project design and feasibility studies              3.10
Training
Development of training programs                  1.20
Local training                                    0.45
Short-term overseas                               0.60
Equipment                                           0.30
Subtotal                                           11.80
Provincial Level
Capacity building for policy, strategy, and          1.25
planning
Project design and feasibility studies              4.65
Training
local                                             2.51
short-term overseas                               0.30
Equipment                                           0.30
Subtotal                                            9.01
Project Administration                               3.0
Total Base Cost                                    23.81
Contingencies                                        1.19
Total Project Cost                                 25.00
34.   The Bank Loan of US$ 20 million equivalent will finance 100 percent of the
studies and consultant services at the provincial level and 80 percent of those at the
central level4; 40 percent of the local training, 100% of overseas training costs, and 100%
of project management costs. Equipment will be financed at 100% by GOI. GOI's
contribution will be used mostly for local expenditures. In addition, a significant part of
GOI's share in project costs will be in kind in the form of counterpart staff and in
facilities and services provided to manage and implement the project.
Procurement and Disbursement
35.   Procurement of consultants. All consultant services will be procured in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. In particular, fee levels and
overhead expenses will be negotiated to reflect the nature and length of the assignment
and the level of expertise required. Also, budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
See Annex 5 for a breakdown of consultant services by type.



- 11 -
of invitations, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts would be subject to Bank's
prior review for all contracts estimated at US$ 100,000 equivalent per contract or more
with consulting firms and US$ 50,000 equivalent or more with individual consultants.
The Standard Form of Contract for Consultant's Services will be used.
36.   Contracts that are estimated below US$100,000 equivalent with consulting firms
or US$50,000 equivalent with individual consultants would be subject to random post-
review. However, these exemptions to Bank prior review shall not apply to: (a) terms of
reference for such assignments; (b) single source selection of consulting firms; (c)
assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments
to contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to US$
100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to US$ 50,000 equivalent or above.
37.   As for training activities financed by the project, those will be reviewed by the
Bank on annual basis. Administrative costs for travel, per diem, allowances, supplies,
maintenance and office accommodations for project administration will be based on
GOI's administrative procedures.
38.   Disbursement. Disbursement percentages for each category of TA and for
training are given in Schedule B of the Memorandum of the President (MOP). A Special
Account (SA) will be set up in Bank Indonesia or a commercial bank with initial
authorized allocation of US$2.00 million for all expenditures.
39.   Disbursement procedures include:
(a)   one copy of the final contract and two copies of the English Contract
Summary would be submitted prior to the first disbursement application
for TA contracts subject to prior review by the Bank;
(b)   the evaluation report, one copy of the final signed contract and two copies
of the English Contract Summary would be submitted together with the
first application for withdrawal for TA contracts subject to post review by
the Bank; and
(c)   Statement of Expenditures (SOE) procedures would apply to expenditures
for: (i) training and administrative expenditures; and (ii) contracts for
employment of consulting firms valued at less than $ 100,000 equivalent
each and contracts for the employment of individual consultants valued at
less than $ 50,000 equivalent each. Contracts would be retained by the
PMU and made available for review by visiting Bank missions.
40.   Reporting. The PMU would prepare and submit quarterly reports starting no later
than December 31, 1996. In general, the report should provide data on project inputs and
implementation indicators (see Annex 2 for more details).



- 12-
41.   Audit of Accounts. The PMU would maintain separate project accounts in a form
satisfactory to annual audits. These accounts, including the Special Account, would be
audited annually by an independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and would include
opinions on all expenditures, including those made against SOEs. The PMU would
submit the audited accounts to the Bank for review no later than six months after the
closing of each fiscal year.
42.   Technical Audits. During negotiations, agreement was reached that technical
audits of selected major assignments would be carried out by independent experts in a
manner satisfactory to the Bank, to review performance of consultants and of training
programs and their institutional development impact.
IV. PROJECT BENEFITS, RISKS AND SUSTAINABILITY
43.   Benefits. The project will assist GOI in formulating clear sector strategies for
improving the performance of the social sectors. This is essential if Indonesia wants to
reach a stage of human resource development attained by some of its neighboring
countries like Malaysia and Thailand and increase its competitiveness. Building capacity
for development planning within BAPPENAS, the line ministries and the provinces will
improve overall sector performance. The special attention given to building capacity and
encouraging innovation at the provincial level will be key for improving the quality of
social sector programs and for ensuring their sustainability as decentralization proceeds.
Further, the emphasis on monitoring and evaluation needs is key for improving the
effectiveness and efficiency of the social sectors. The project will also strengthen
BAPPENAS's focus on strategic issues, assist the transition to decentralization, and
encourage innovation at the provincial level. Finally, the proposed activities will assist in
developing investment plans for the sectors that will generate more resources for these
sectors from both GOI and donor sources.
44.   Risks. The main risk is that the different activities supported by the project will
not coalesce to produce the desired impact on social sector strategies. Strong ownership
by the GOI team, expected effective management of project implementation as well as a
commitment to adequate supervision by the Bank will minimize this risk. Risks
pertaining to slow appointment of consultants would be minimized by the role the PMU
would play in providing assistance to various implementing agencies. The risk that too
many studies may be managed at the central level has been foreseen and resources for
provincial level studies have been specifically allocated. The risk of poor ownership has
been minimized by a demand driven process for proposal selection and identification of
TA.
45.   Sustainability. Sector strategies and project design and feasibility studies to be
supported by the project will enhance the quality at entry of projects and therefore
enhance the overall sustainability of the sectors. In addition, the project has a number of
features that will enhance its sustainability. These include: (a) institutionalization of
training program(s) needed for building capacity to ensure that these programs can



- 13 -
continue after the project closes; (b) reviewing and initiating planning processes that will
continue beyond the period of the project; (c) developing approaches and models for
carrying out social sector plans at the provincial level, models which would be replicated
in other projects and provinces; and (d) developing monitoring systems and indicators for
sector performance at the central and provincial levels. These systems will be maintained
after the project and will have a significant impact on the overall performance of the
sectors.
V. ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND POVERTY IMPACT
46.   The proposed project does not have any environmental impact and has been
classified in environmental Category C. The project strengthens poverty alleviation
efforts by addressing some of the strategic issues and possible solutions to improve
targeting of human resource services to the poor.






-15-                       ANNEX I
INDONESIA
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
HEALTH AND EDUCATION SECTORS:
BACKGROUND AND KEY ISSUES
I. HEALTH SECTOR
1.    Despite significant improvements in health status and the provisions of health
services in Indonesia during the past 25 years, much remains to be done to respond to the
changing disease patterns and improved socioeconomic circumstances of Indonesians.
The unfinished agenda includes increasing the total resources available to health,
improving the effectiveness of the delivery system and decentralization of health services.
However, the ability of the government to address these issues is limited by the
institutional capacity for translating goals into sector strategy, policy analysis, priority
setting and development of operational plans. The proposed project aims to provide
resources to build the required institutional capacity at the central and provincial levels
and to carry out crucial policy analysis and sector studies.
2.    Twenty-five years ago the health status of the Indonesian people was
characterized by:
* high infant and child mortality due largely to infectious diseases;
* superimposed on, and contributing to, high rates of protein-energy and
micronutrient malnutrition;
* relatively low rates of non-communicable diseases in adults; and
* inefficient health services which were not widely accessible to the population.
3.    Since 1970, overall health status has improved significantly:
* despite a possible plateau in the 1980s, IMR has fallen from approximately 90 per
1000 livebirths in 1970-74 to 57 in 1994 and CMR from 166 to approximately 80;
* acceptance of family planning has risen dramatically and the population growth
rate has shown a corresponding decrease; and
* the prevalence of protein-energy malnutrition has decreased significantly.
4.    Over the same period, while there have been significant increases in total public
spending on health, it has basically kept pace with inflation and the increase in
population:
* in the 1970s public spending on health was 0.2% of GDP and is currently 0.7% of
GDP and 4% of total government expenditures;



-16-                        ANNEX I
*  nevertheless, real per capita public spending in 1991/92 was only 6% higher than
in 1982/83;
*  in the 1 990s total expenditure on health was approximately $12 per capita (2% of
GDP) of which one-third came from public expenditure and two-thirds from
private sources:
* consequently, per capita government expenditure on health in India and China
exceeded that in Indonesia, while outlays in Thailand and Malaysia are large
multiples of the Indonesian figure.
5.    Despite these chronically low levels of public spending, there has been an
increase in the number and improved distribution of public health facilities, as a result of
which there has been a very significant increase in accessibility to modem health
services.
6.    Nevertheless, despite these overall gains there are significant differences in health
status and the utilization of health services between socioeconomic groups and regions of
the country:
* there are differences in IMR and CMR between provinces (in Java/Bali the IMR
in West Java at 72 per 1000 livebirths is significantly above that of Jakarta and
Yogyakarta at 24 per 100 livebirths and there are similar differences between
provinces in other regions);
*  the IMR of groups of lower socioeconomic status are still significantly higher and
have fallen at a slower rate than those of higher socioeconomic status (over the
period 1970-74 to 1990-94 the IMR of children born to mothers with primary
education fell from 95 to 55 per 1000 livebirths while the rate for those born to
mothers with no education decreased from 115 to 85);
*  maternal mortality remains high in many parts of the country; and
*  utilization of health services by the poor increased to reach 54% by 1987 but then
fell to 44% in 1992.
7.    At the same time the epidemiologic transition has proceeded with an increase in
the importance of chronic non-communicable diseases of adults and a decrease in the
burden due to infectious disease in children.
8.    Nevertheless, the health system in Indonesia has significant problems
* despite the increases which have occurred, total expenditure ($12 per capita) is
low compared to other countries in the region (e.g., in Asia (excluding India and
China) total expenditure at $61 per capita represents 4.5% of GDP;
=> as with total expenditure, both public and private spending on health
services are much lower than in other countries in the region,
=> it is estimated that provision of the limited package of public health and
clinical interventions recommended for low income countries in the World
Development Report (WDR, 1993) on health would cost $10 per capita -
thus adoption of this basic package would require a considerable increase
in public spending as well as reallocation within the current outlays,



-17-                          ANNEX I
* in addition, public spending is biased against the poor and in favor of the non-
poor;
=: utilization of public health services by the poor (as compared to the
nonpoor) is low and decreasing - this is particularly true for hospitals and
less so for health centers,
=> consequently, the public subsidy is more available to the nonpoor,
> further, recent trends have increased the proportion of public funding
allocated to hospitals (from 42% of government health expenditure in
1984 to nearly 50% in 1991) and decreased the proportion allocated to
health centers (from 40% of total government health spending in 1984 to
35% in 1991), deepening the bias in public spending against the poor,
z> in addition, the pipeline of public investment in the health sector involves
even further emphasis on hospitals and will lead to even further bias
against the poor.
* overall, the health system is not responding to meet the challenges contained in
the new situation,
=> overall, the response is still in terms of centrally-directed blank-et
approaches which ignore local variation in disease patterns and service
needs,
= the response to changing disease patterns (for example the fall in infant
mortality and rise in non-commullicable diseases of adult in the more
developed areas of the country) has been slow and inadequate,
= the staffing patterns and skills are inappropriate,
=> the administration of the public healtlh services (including personnel and
budget procedures) continues to be centrally driven and frequently
unresponsive to the provincial and local situation.
z and the bias against the poor continues and deepenis.
9.     While the h.ealth systcmi as a wNhole has not responided to these challenges, some
Hiitiltives have been talkeni:
*  government has promoted limited healttl Iisurance.
*  increased cost recoverv h1as beeni introduced in soIm1e health f'acilities,
*  integrated budgtets at the provincial level have beeni introdduced for several
provinces.
*  there have beeni incremental moves to decceilralizationi in some provinices,
*  other projects have responded to specif'ic disc.:se challenges.
10.   These initiatives notwithstanding, the overdfl  esponse of the system has been
slow and inadequate.
11.   An important aspect of'the limited abilitv of the tovernmenit to respond to the
current health situation is the institutionial setting, and particularly the capacity of the
government to analyze the situation, design and implement projects and monitor change.
At the government level this involves -



-18-                       ANNEX 1
* the Five-Year Development Plan or REPELITA, an indicative plan which
translates and elaborates the main objectives and priorities of development
contained in the GBHN,
+ the annual National Budget which is the instrument for detailed development to
meet the goals and targets of the REPELITA,
* BAPPENAS, the key central government institution in development in Indonesia,
whose mandate covers coordination, implementation and monitoring of all
development planning,
* the central Ministry of Health where the Planing Bureau has responsibility for
policy analysis and strategic planning within the sector,
* at the provincial level
> the Bappeda, whose main function is to provide coordination of all
provincial development planning, monitoring and evaluation
> the Dinas Kesehatan, responsible for delivery of health services.
12.   Each of these areas of governnent is limited in its ability to respond to the current
challenge.
i while laudable goals for the sector are set through the REPELITA there is no
coherent strategy and framework which identifies realistic instruments for
reaching the goals through changes in the sector,
* at BAPPENAS there is a limited ability for policy analysis or for conceptualizing
projects and most staff are tied up with routine matters. As a result, planned
investments for health represent only one-quarter of the REPELITA allocation
and do not necessarily reflect government priorities,
* in general, the Ministry of Health remains committed to increasing the extent of
the public system without due attention to improved quality or increased private
funding of health expenditure,
* at the Bureau of Planing, where preparation of health project currently occurs is
limited by staff availability and skills. There is no capacity for analysis of issues,
medium term planning and priority setting and development of operational plans
in the sector or for articulation of an overall sector vision and forging a
commitment to it,
* provincial capacity is even more limited and there is no clear plan for preparing
the Bappeda or the Dinas Kesehatan through building their capacity for policy
analysis and implementation, a critical issue as decentralization proceeds and
provinces need to play a larger role in developing their own programs,
* while there is a general goal of decentralization there is no clearly defined
framework and timetable through which it will be implemented.



-19-                         ANNEX I
13.   Thus the critical policy issues are
* how to increase the ability of the sector to carry out policy analysis, and plan and
implement change through building capacity at the central and provincial levels.
The most important questions to be addressed in policy analysis and planning for
change are -
+ how to increase the total resources available to the health sector (from both public
and private sources) with emphasis on -
=> delivery of basic packages of health services, with emphasis on the poor,
> increased private contribution by the middle and upper income groups,
with particular attention to cost recovery and health insurance,
z harnessing and stimulating service providers in the private sector;
* how to improve the effectiveness of the delivery system through
> reallocation of public expenditure away from hospitals to health centers
and sub-centers,
> promotion of locally appropriate responses to the prevailing health
services and health situation,
> improved quality of health services at all levels,
7> improved productivity,
=> improved staffing of health services, including the provision of more
appropriate training;
+ how to decentralize the health services including attention to
, promotion of health service structures and interventions which are
appropriate to the local situation,
7> an overall plan, transition strategy and timetable for decentralization,
=  clarification of the roles of the center, provinces and districts in a
decentralized system,
z> reform of planing, personnel and budgetary procedures including
provision for transfer of funds through block grants and transfer of control
over staff,
=> assistance to the provinces and districts to strengthen their ability to
manage services.
II. EDUCATION SECTOR
14.   This annex reviews changes in education status and provision of education
services in Indonesia in the last 20 years and concludes that while there have been
dramatic improvements, Indonesia is now at another cross-roads in the development of its
human capital. The challenges it faces are substantial and include enhancing quality of
primary education and reaching the very poor who are still outside the system, providing
nine-years of basic education to the 50% cohort not currently enrolled, and bringing about
a paradigm shift in higher education. The ability of the government to address these
issues is limited by the institutional capacity for translating goals into sector strategy,
policy analysis, priority setting and development of operational plans. The proposed
project aims to provide resources to build the required institutional capacity at the central



-20-                       ANNEX 1
and provincial levels and to carry out crucial policy analysis and sector studies.
15.  Indonesia has made significant achievements in education in the past two decades:
* While 60% of adults were illiterate in 1970, by 1993, illiteracy was reduced to
15%;
* At the basic education level, gross enrollment rates increased rapidly between
1973-1993 from 60% (13 million students) to 97% (30 million students) in
primary, and 17% (1.5 million) to 54 % (7.1 million) in junior secondary;
+ Enrollments at senior secondary and tertiary are comparable to countries with
twice Indonesia's per capita income: 35% (4.2 million) at senior secondary and
11% (2 million) in tertiary.
16.   The above gains have been achieved by maintaining a sound expenditure policy:
* Public expenditure on education over the past two decades averaged 3% and 14%
of GDP and total government expenditures, respectively;
* The share of primary education was maintained at 45% of the total education
budget, with secondary and tertiary receiving 25% and 13%, respectively. Again,
this reflects the pattern adopted by Indonesia's successful East Asian neighbors;
* The combination of high public sector shares in provision of primary schooling
and variations in age composition across income groups have resulted in a pro-
poor bias of public spending on primary education.
17.   Another strong point of the Indonesian education system is the relatively high
level of private participation in education, particularly beyond the primary level.
* More than 50% and 70% of enrollment at the secondary and tertiary levels,
respectively are provided by private schools and universities;
* Households spend about 1.5% of GDP on education, demonstrating a significant
private contribution to human capital development.
18.   Notwithstanding the progress achieved to date, the education sector faces some
formidable challenges in the medium to long term.
* Increasing retention and access of the rural poor, particularly in the Outer
Islands to quality primary education.
=> Still only 84% of primary school-aged children from the poorest 20% of
households enroll in primary school and most of these not attending are
concentrated in the Outer Islands;
= Overall retention rates in primary schools are approximately 75% with the
Outer Islands averaging 60% and some of the poorest provinces as low as
40%;
=> Tests of cognitive ability show that student learning abilities are weak. On
average, less than 50% of the curriculum is absorbed by students, and
Indonesian students performed low in international comparisons of
reading achievement tests.



-21-                         ANNEX I
* Expanding quality basic education (three years beyond primary) to the 50% oJfthe
age-group who are currently not enrolled and who are primarily the rural
population and some urban poor.
z There are significant differences in enrollment among income groups and
urban-rural residents: net enrollment rates among the lowest quintile is
25% compared to 66% for the top quintile; and 33% for rural children
compared to 62% for urban;
=> High costs, both direct (official and unofficial fees, uniforms, books, etc.)
and indirect (high travel time, foregone earnings) of junior secondary
education constitute a deterrent for poor households;
=> Achieving the nine-year basic education policy objective will require
significant outlays of public resources to school construction, upgrading of
teachers, textbooks and learning materials, scholarships to poor children.
and subsidies to private schools for quality improvements. This implies a
significant level of recurrent costs to sustain the system once the program
is fully implemented (in approximately 15 years). Effective delivery of
basic education will require more focused analyses of education needs and
imply the identification of issues at lower (provincial, district) levels,
addressing those issues through flexible, locally specific strategies.
z> An important issue in achievement of the nine-year policy is what role the
private sector can continue to play and how. It currently enrolls 40%,
serves an important equity consideration (a higher proportion of the poor
attend private schools), but is of relatively lower quality than public
schools. The level of savings of public resources is very high if the
expansion is done with the private sector, not underestimating
administrative difficulties.
-  Rationalization of the v ocational ind technicail senior secontlary stream.
= The VTE stream currently enrolls about 30% of senior secondary students.
The current system is costly andi the labor market outcomes it provides for
its graduates are indistinguishable from those in the general stream.
> The government's plan to increase the VTE enrollment share to close to
50% should be carefully analyzed in light of the above and other sectoral
priorities.
*  Development of i coherent frameuwork./or a large and diferentiated higher
education system.
= With enrollment rates at high levels (11%) for a country of Indonesia's per
capita inicoimie, and in light of the government's priority to achieve
universal ninie-years of education in the next 15 years, there is need to shift
from quantity expansion to quality improvements throughout the higher
education system, and to continue the high levels of reliance on private
financing.



-22 -                      ANNEX 1
=> GOI is beginning a paradigm shift in this sector from a highly centralized
system to one that grants financial and academic autonomy to public
institutions while simultaneously establishing a clear framework of
accountability for their performance. The main elements of the "New
Paradigm" for the public sector include: (i) greater decentralization of
management; (ii) provision of higher education in less-developed regions
and in high-priority fields; (iii) increased emphasis on economic
considerations in determining public fund investments; and (iv) significant
role in enhancing quality in both public and private institutions.
=> For the more than 1,300 private institutions, there is need for quality
enhancement through the establishment of a workable accreditation
mechanism.
19.  In order to meet the challenges it is facing in primary and junior secondary
education, Indonesia would probably need to allocate a higher proportion of GDP to
education. This would also bring it closer to the regional average of 4%. But increasing
resources is only one side of the story and by itself will not automatically produce more
and better educational services. Accompanying resource increases there is need for
continuous analysis, planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of programs at
all levels of government.
20.   An important aspect of the ability of the government to carry out these aspects is
the institutional setting. This involves:
* The Five-Year Development Plan or REPELITA, an indicative plan which
translates and elaborates the main objectives and priorities of development
contained in the GBHN,
* The annual National Budget which is the instrument for detailed development to
meet the goals and targets of the REPELITA,
* BAPPENAS, the key central government institution in development in Indonesia,
whose mandate covers coordination, implementation and monitoring of all
development planning,
* The central Ministry of Education and Culture (MOEC) where the Planning
Bureau has responsibility strategic planning within the sector and Balitbang has
responsibility for policy analysis; and the central Ministry of Religious Affairs
(MORA) which is becoming a larger player in providing education services;
* At the provincial level: The Kanwil MOEC whose functions are (i) to provide
coordination of education strategy, planning, monitoring and evaluation including
coordination with MOHA and MORA; and (ii) delivery of education services; and
the Dinas MOHA, who is responsible for delivery of primary education.
21.   Each of these areas of government is limited in its ability to respond to the current
challenge:
* While laudable goals for the sector are set through the REPELITA there is need
for a more coherent strategy and framework which identifies realistic instruments
for reaching the goals through changes in the sector;



-23 -                       ANNEX I
* At BAPPENAS there is a limited tire of experience in policy analysis or for
conceptualizing projects and most staff are tied up with routine matters. As a
result, planned investments for education represent only one-quarter of the
REPELITA allocation and do not necessarily reflect government priorities;
+ At the Bureau of Planing and the line departments within MOEC and MORA
(where preparation of education projects currently occurs) there is limited
capacity for analysis of issues, medium term planning and priority setting and
development of operational plans in the sector or for articulation of an overall
sector vision and forging a commitment to it;
* Provincial capacity is even more limited and, while there are plans being
developed under the current Secondary Education Projects for preparing the
Kanwils, it is one of the first of such initiatives and will require careful
monitoring to draw lessons for future projects;
+ While there is a general goal of decentralization there is no clearly defined
framework and timetable through which it will be implemented. This requires:
n promotion of education service structures and interventions which are
appropriate to the local situation;
=> an overall plan, transition strategy and timetable for decentralization;
= clarification of the roles of the center, provinces and districts in a
decentralized system;
=> reform of planning, personnel and budgetary procedures including
alternatives for transfer of funds and transfer of control over staff;
=> assistance to the provinces and districts to strengthen their ability to
manage services.






INDONESIA
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Table 1: Project Output/Outcome Indicators
Main Objective                         Output                                Indicator                             Expected Outputs
Sector studies and strategies (including  Number of completed sector           At least 75% of studies financed by the
Development of           *    REPELITA VII for social sectors)         studies of acceptable quality         project are relevant to policies &
strategies in social                                                  (including REPELITA VII                programs (to be determined by an
sectors, especially in                                                 chapters on social sectors)           external panel).
health and education
C>                                  CE
Programs and investment plans            Number of central and provincial      At least 10 provincial and 4 central social
investment plans (included in the     sectors investment plans prepared
Blue Book)
Capacity building at:
Target staff with acquired needed         Competency level of target staff      Increase in the competency levels of
*  provincial level          skills (planning, preparation,                                  . optnylvlo agtsafIces  ntecmeec  eeso
bappedvica, kl,ve         skimplemntaion, monp'r.iong               (as defined by the capacity           target staff by a agiven proportion (to
diap)   kni          im>     levalation o soi stors pam             building needs assessment).            be defmed by the baseline survey).
dinas)                    evaluation of social sectors programs) 
*  central level
(BAPPENAS,                                                    C>
BPlNnin  o                                                         Proportion/number of social sector    Increase (proportion and total number) of
selected line                                                      proposals submitted to                social sector proposals accepted annually
ministries eC    BAPPENAS of acceptable quality                                                          into BAPPENAS pipeline
Institutionalized enabling environment
'V   and support system for capacity     C>  Availability of key indicators for     Kr
building                                social sectors at the national and     Key social sectors indicators are
provincial levels                    accessible to the central and provincial
Development of monitoring and                                                  staff planning staff.
evaluation systems for social sectors
planning (including identification of
indicators)



INDONESIA
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Table 2: Monitoring Project Implementation
(Input and process Indicators) 1
Project Outputs                                   Project Activities (interventions)             Indicators
=>, | Carry out sector studies        |  r   | No. of studies initiated/ completed ( within 3 months of
C*    nouscortdis                                  expected date)
Sector studies and strategies;
REPELITA VII chapters on social sectors
_______________________________________        |,.~   No. of consultants hired (within 1-3 months of expected
    Provide TA                                 V    date)
Programs and investment plans                     tdentify sub-projects/ investment plans        No. of investment plans initiated/completed at the centratU
provincial levels
Target staff acquire needed skills (planning,     Conduct training programs                      No. of staff trained
preparation, implementation, monitoring and      |in
evaluation of social sectors)
| Review planning process                     Initiation/completion of the review of planning
Institutionalized enabling environment and
support systems for capacity building            Design! prepare training program(s)            Initiation/completion of training program development
Monitoring systems for social sectors
(including identification of indicators)         Identify indicators and develop monitoring   E  Identification of key sector indicators/ development of
( i a nsystem(s)                                      data systems o
The indicators should be reported by project component (if applicable. The PMU reporting and recording system is likely to be the main data source for these indicators.
Moreover, the PMU will also report data on procurement, disbursement as well as project management performance.



INDONESIA
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
Summary of Activities to be Initiated in the First Year of Project Implementation
Activity                              Expected Output                                Resources              Responsible   Timeframe
Agency
Mid-term review of         Assessment of achievements to date, action needed for the  A panel of specialists in key  BAPPENAS    8 months
REPELITA VI and initial    second phase of REPELITA VI, review of the planning process,  health, education, and other social
preparation of REPELITA    identification of key information gaps; preparation of an outline   sectors. Estimated budget is
VIl                        for social sectors chapter in REPELITA VII.              US$200,000- 500,000.
Preparation of health sector    Provision of technical assistance to MOH to review functioning   A number of short term  MOH       12 months
strategy and preparation of    and effectiveness of the health system and formulating future    international and national TA to
sector inputs to REPELITA  strategy and direction (with special attention to health financing   assist MOH team
VIl                        and private sector role). The effort will also provide TA to  Estimated budget is about US$
senior officials at MOH for the preparation of REPELITA VII.   150,000-250,000.
Review of strategic directions  Review of present priorities and disease control programs in  Support is needed for a local team   MOH  12 months
for the health sector      light of major changes in the disease burden. Two key outputs   to carry out the planned review as
development in response to    are expected:                                         well as international consultants
the epidemiologic transition    *  policy recommendations for overall disease control  who would provide advice on
activities, including non-communicable diseases; and  specific topic. Estimated budget
*  an investment plan for the implementation of the proposed   is US$350,000.
strategy.
Analysis of quality of 9-year   Analysis of issues and constraints facing the 9-year basic  A team from MOEC assisted by    MOEC/  12 months
basic education            education sub-sector. The study should provide special attention  international and national  MORA
to (1) the effective coverage of primary and junior secondary  consultants would carry out the
schools in the project areas; (2) dropouts in the primary schools   proposed analysis. Estimated
and the main determining factors; (3) determinants of the quality  budget is US$ 500,000
of basic education and possible interventions to address them.
Pilot efforts and investment plans to address these issues should
be outlined by the study.
Provincial health sector   Provision of technical assistance and other resources to  A provincial team with local and    Provincial  16 months
studies and investment plans   *  carry out health sector analysis and prepare provincial  selected international technical  Government
health strategy;                                     assistance (with good command of  (bappeda,
*  document and identify efforts needed to strengthen the  Bahasa Indonesia) will prepare    kanwil, dinas)
provincial and district level ability to design, prepare,  the sector analysis and the
implement, monitor and evaluate programs and projects;    investment plans. About 2
and                                                  provinces will start in the first
*  prepare investment plan(s) to implement the proposed  year. Estimated budget is
strategy.                                            US$400,000-500,000 per
strategy________________  ._____________________________________ I province. 



Activity                                Expected Output                                   Resources               Responsible   Timeframe
Agency
Provincial education sector    A similar effort to that for the provincial health sector (see  Same as above               Provincial     16 months
studies and investment plans   above).                                                                                     Government
(bappeda,
kanwil, dinas)
Capacity building needs      Assessment of the skills required, skill levels of existing staff,  A consulting team to work with  BAPPENAS,   8 months
assessment                   and strategies (including training programs) to fill the identified   the PMU to carry out the  line
skill gaps. The target groups for the assessment would be   assessment in collaboration with    ministries,
:provincial and district staff; staff of Bureaus of Planning at the   the line ministries and the  provinces
line ministries, and BAPPENAS staff under Deputy IV. The    provinces. Estimated budget is
assessment should provide an analysis of the constraints and  US$300,000-500,000.
reasons for the limited capacity at the different levels (i.e.,
central, provincial, and district). The output of the assessment is
a strategy for improving the capacity of the different levels.
Finally, the assessment should provide baseline data and
expected targets for the training programs.
Development of a training    Development of a training program to develop the capacity and   Local universities with      BAPPENAS    12 months
course for social sectors    practical skills for social sectors planning. The main target  international and national
planning and management      groups for the training program are the provincial planners,  technical assistance. Estimated
especially the Bappedas (levels I and II) and, as appropriate,  budget is US$300,000-500,000.
planning staff from the line ministries. The main objective of                                                              00
the activity is to institutionalize training programs for social
sectors planning that would help prepare the provinces for their
increasing role in this area.
Review of budgetary process   Review of existing approaches to prepare budgets for social  International and national TA to    BAPPENAS/   12 months
for the social sectors       sectors at central level and identification of ways to increase  work with BAPPENAS staff.   MOF
efficiency of the process (e.g., automation). The expected  Estimated cost: US$ 150,000 -
outputs are: a proposal outlining steps needed to improve the  200,000
process; and possible pilot effort in one unit in the second year
of the project .
Review of social welfare     Review of current approaches for dealing with isolated      International and national TA to  BAPPENAS/   12 months
issues                       communities and identification of strategies for increasing the  work with BAPPENAS staff and   MOSA
participation of these communities in the development process.   MOSA. Estimated budget US$
The review will also examine issues related to the prevalence of   100,000- 150,000.
disability (physical and mental) in Indonesia and steps needed
for developing strategies to addressing the needs of the disabled
individuals.
Establishment of the project   Selection of BAPPENAS staff as well as a consulting team to  Estimated budget is US$750,000    BAPPENAS    ongoing
management unit (PMU)        staff the PMU. An essential activity for project implementation.  per year.                  _
Dissemination of project     Conducting of a number of workshops and seminars to brief and   Part of the PMU budget       PMU             6 months
information to potential     inform the potential beneficiaries of the project about its                                                                 Z
beneficiaries                objectives and how they could participate in its implementation.                                                            X



- 29 -                           ANNEX4
INDONESIA
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Mission Timing                         Objective                        Staffing - Resources
August, 96        Project Launch:                                       Health specialist;
*  review of project management staffing and skills;  education specialist;
*  review TORs for initial activities                RSI
December, 96      Review mission:                                                 ;
*  focus on project implementation;
*  needs assessments for training programs;
*  needs assessment for data/ indicators at the different
levels
July, 97          Review mission:
*  focus on progress in submission and quality of
provincial proposals;
*  adequacy of the review process,
*  identify any implementation bottle necks especially
in relation to the recruitment of consultants
December ,97      Review mission:
*  update data on performance indicators;
*  prepare for project's mid-terms review in July 98,
*  review implementation of the different components;
*  assess quality of completed studies and proposals
July, 98          Mid-term review mission:
*  comprehensive review of project implementation and
assessment of project's ability to achieve its specified
objectives;
*  update/analyze data on performance indicators to
assess overall achievements
December, 98      Review mission:                                                 ;
*  follow-up the recommendations et forward by the id-
term review team;
*  update data on performance indicators
July, 99          Review mission:                                                 ;
*  prepare for ICR mission;
*  update data on performance indicators;
*  assess feasibility of completion of planned project
activities
December, 99      ICR mission- prepare implementation completion report
for the project and provide analytic assessment of its
performance



- 30 -                         ANNEX5
INDONESIA
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CONSULTANTS TO BE FINANCED UNDER THE PROJECT
Staff Months      Estimated Cost (US$)
Consultant                  Local   International Local Foreign  Total Implementing Agencies
consultants consultants
Policy Development a/       TBD         TBD        0.8    1.6    2.5  BAPPENAS, Line ministries,
Provincial Governments
Capacity Building b/        TBD         TBD        1.6    3.3    4.9  BAPPENAS, Line ministries,
Provincial Governments
Implementation Support c/    TBD        TBD        0.6    1.1    1.7  BAPPENAS
Total                                              3.0    6.0    9.1
a/ The required expertise include: Health financing, decentralization, public sector management, private sector
development, health promotion, monitoring and evaluation, & policy analysis for social sectors among others
b/ The required expertise include: Data-base management, development of training programs, training specialists
in: monitoring & evaluation, sector analysis, program formulation, & implementation among others
c/ The required expertise include: (i) a technical support team (e.g., health specialist, education specialists);& (ii)
Administrative support team (procurement, reporting/recording, financial/accounting etc.)
TBD: To be determined



- 31-                                                 CHART 1
INDONESIA
SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
ORGANIZATION STRUCTURE OF THE STATE MINISTRY FOR DEVELOPMENT
PLANNING/BAPPENAS
|   Chairman of Bapens 
|   Vice-Chairmant
DEPUTY~~~~~~~~Rsore                                                             DEUYII
Fiscal & Monetay                               Huma EU                                       Foreign Cooperation
Econ. Analysis & Stat.                      Relig, Educ , Culture & Sponr                  Multilateral Econ Cooperation
Monetar. & State Fin           |              Social Welfare, Health & Nutrit.                  Bilateral Ecos. Cooperation 
|   Balanee of Payment   l                    Popul. Fam Plan.,                         Foreign Eeon Coop. Adminus     |
1                      1         1       ~~~~~~~~~~Women's Role & Youth  |      1_
|    Macro Econ Plan & Studies    l       | Marine, Aerospace, Environment,                  Monitor. Foreign Ecoa. Coop
1                     I          1       ~~~~~~~~~~~Science & TechnologY I      11
DEPUTY 1                                       DEPUTY V                                      DEPUTY VIII
Economic Affairs                               Regional & Area                                 Administration
[| ndustry& Mining                                     Regional Dev. I                         Development Adrninistration 
0   Agric., Food & Forestry  l        X           Regional Dev. 11II                 0 Law, Soc. Communication & Inform.
-| Trade, Coop. & Business        l             j Urban, Settlemt .......... & Housing  l    ...... 0 Educ & Training Administration
Manpower & Job Opportunity    |                   Area Dcv. & Tranantigration                     Dais Process. & Information 
y    IIIIl                                                                                       
|     DEPUTY Il1l                                      Spatial & Environment                           General Administration 
Infrastructure
DEPUTY VI
caon & Tansport                   Funding & Imp Control
|   Tourisrn, Post & Telecom.  l       H        Project Prep & Analysis
Water Supply & Imigation                    |      Budget & Project Admnu 
Electric Power & Energy                          Monitor., Project Implement
Unit Prtce Analysis and O&M4



- 32 -                 CHART2
INDONESIA
SOCL41 SECTORS STRATEGY AND CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE
PROJECT DIRECTOR        [  STEERING COMMITTEE
'  ADVISOR(s)
PROJECT MANAGER
PROJECT                 TECHNICAL
MANAGEMENT                COMMITTEE(s)
UNIT (PMU)
SECRETARIAL SUPPORT|
ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT        TECHNICAL SUPPORT TEAM
TEAM
Finance and Accounting          Studies
Procurement/Implementation      Training
Reporting and Recording         Monitoring and Evaluation
Other                           Other
BAPPENAS              PROVINCES             LINE MINISTRIES
BUREAUS UNDER      BAPPEDA DINAS KANWILS        BUREAUS OF
DEPUTY IV                                    PLANNING/DG(s)



>-" THALAND                                              IIT                                                    sle                                                      lINDONESIA
@   '  '  >   PHILIPPINES    '-                          SOCIAL SECTORS STRATEGY AND
BRUNFI                                          HI/                                          CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
CW-    MALAYSIA
Medon  MALAYSIA  \  Aif                                                                         ) ~ j  S  PROVINCE HEADQUARTERS
/                          * J  I   @  NATIONAL CAPITAL
-   PROVINCE BOUNDARIFS
j  MALAYSIA                                                                      7 /                           _  _    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
, .oSINGAPORE                                        L                                                                          /
t                          POnllu~~~~lqu S~V                                               HU                                
JAWA RARAT S,
Ki     D K J AKARTA                                                                              ng: y                                       
JAWA TENGAH                                                      I
'D   OGYAKARTA                      P                            !
B       ~      Z~~JJ~LAMPUN         RI.                                    -- -E                                                                                                              AA 
SUMATERA SELATAN                           B.,do,                                                                                                                                                                                                          7
RIAU                                          pg                                   ~R AL
SMATERA BARAT
DMATER UTARA                                             JAKARTA
KIMANTAN BARAT                                   B.       go,., e Cd ang     __
KALIMATAN TENGAH                                         9) d.. g                 /
KA "           KAIATAN SELATAtl,                                                   
_MANTAN TIMUR
LXWESi TENGAH, 
SULAWESI STARR                                                                                            / Melorom           /
SLAWEI SEI-ATAN                                                                                    jl/
ULAWES ENGGARA                                                                               Dno
NUSA TENGGARA bARAT                                                                                                                              R             \
o   _NUSA TENGGARA TIMUR                                                                                                                                Ku,.,,g           \I
_   ^MALUKU                                                                                                                                                   (3     
1  .'IRIAN JAYA         The L-udore.-,, -1-denmpfosndnilhrfrmfO                                                                                                                                                                                                          t
3   TIMOR TIMUR  h.,   h, "P d -t          Ipo y P  W dorMek,o,                                                                                                                                                AUSTRALIA
'^ oro,y.,,dornm                                                                                                                                                                                                                 'f such ib .0 d.-









C:
z
(OD
Z-O
zo0
Z                4-)
F            S~~~~4  - 
<                CZ, CI)
:27              a.  >,



