Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22629
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-40300; SCL-4030A; SCPD-4030S)
ON A
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 20 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
ID-HR CAPACITY BUILDING PROJECT
August 22, 2001
Human Development Sector Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective as of July 2001)
Currency Unit = Indonesia Rupiah (Rp)
Rp. 1 million = US$ 105
US$ 1 = 9,525
FISCAL YEAR
April I March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADB                         Asian Development Bank
AST                         Administration Support Team
Bappeda                     Regional Development Planning Agency
Bappenas                    National Development Planning Agency
CAS                         Country Assistant Strategy
CBNA                        Capacity Building Needs Assessment
Dinas                       Local Government
GOI                         Government of Indonesia
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
Kanwil                      Provincial Office
MOEC                        Ministry of Education
MOH                         Ministry of Health
MOHA                        Ministry of Home Affairs
MORA                        Ministry of Religious Affairs
MOSA                        Ministry of Social Affairs
NOL                         No Objection Letter
PD                          Project Director
PM                          Project Manager
PMU                         Project Management Unit
PPPs                        Provincial Project Secretariats
REPELITA                    Five Year Development Plan
S3CB                        Social Sector Strategy and Capacity Building Project
SC                          Steering Committee
TA                          Technical Assistant
TC                          Technical Committee
TOR                         Terms of Reference
TST                         Technical Support Team
Vice President:   Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
Country Manager/Director:    Mark Baird, EACIF
Sector Manager/Director:    Maureen Law, EASHD
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Samuel S. Lieberman, EASHD



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
ID-HR CAPACITY BUILDING
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               I
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  6
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                    8
6. Sustainability                                                                       10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                       10
8. Lessons Learned                                                                     13
9. Partner Comments                                                                    13
10. Additional Information                                                             21
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                   22
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                   23
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                   25
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                   26
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                   27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                      28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                  29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P041896                                         Project Name: ID-HR CAPACITY BUILDING
Team Leader: Samuel S. Liebernan                            TL Unit: EASHD
ICR 7yvpe: Core ICR                                         Report Date: August 30, 2001
1. Project Data
Name. ID-HR CAPACITY BUILDING                          L/C/TF Number: CPL-40300;
SCL-4030A;
SCPD-4030S
CountrvIDepartment: INDONESIA                                              Region. East Asia and Pacific
Region
Sector/s ubsector: HR - Reform and Financing
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Acttal
PCD:  08/15/1995                                Effective:  10/10/1996         10/10/1996
Appraisal:  03/01/1996                                  MTR:
Approval:  06/04/1996                                Closing:  12/31/2000          12/31/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency: GOI/BAPPENAS
Other Partners:
STAFF                 Current                                     At Appraisal
Vice President:       Jemal-ud-din Kassum                        Russell Cheetham
Countoy Manager:      Mark Baird                                  Dennis N. De Tray
Sector Manager:       Maureen Law                                 Samuel S. Lieberman (Acting Division Chief)
Team Leader at ICR:   Samuel S. Lieberman                         Fadia Saadah
ICR Primary Author:   David Steedman
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institltional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
Borrower Perfbrmance: U
QAG (if available)        ICR
Quality at Entry: U                       U
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The original objective was to provide support for conducting sector studies, fornulating strategies
and building institutional capacity for the social sectors, especially health and education. Specific
objectives were to:



(a)    develop sector strategies for social sectors, especially health and education;
(b)   build capacity in BAPPENAS (the National Development Planning Agency) and the
planning bureaus/units of line ministries to develop concepts and strategies, plan, monitor and
evaluate programs, and
(c)   build capacity of provincial staff - Bappedas (Planning Agencies), provincial line ministries
(Kanwil), and sectoral units of local governments (dinas to design. impplement, monitor and
evaluate programs.
An additional objective was to support provincial efforts to determine sector priorities and
prepare investment plans, and support project design and feasibility studies as well as pilot
projects.
The objectives were clear, important to the sector and to the achievement of development
priorities and in line with the CAS. The responsible agencies, BAPPENAS, line ministries and
provinces, had experienced great difficulties in translating broad social sector goals into strategies,
investment plans and the identification and preparation of projects.
The objectives were also ambitious and complex in that they included two separate but related
goals each of which entailed a large number of activities involving multiple actors in many
agencies and units at three different levels of government: i) the development of sector strategies
and of provincial investment plans and pilot projects, which was to be initiated and sustained
through the production of a large number of studies, and ii) capacity building activities at the
central and provincial levels.
The main objective was to ensure that studies were done and sector strategies developed. The
work program for the first year and the indicators included in the Technical Annex reflect this
approach. The capacity-building objective was secondary; the project was phased in such a way
that this component was to come on stream only after the preparation of a Capacity Building
Needs Assessment. Its objectives were clear in general terms; the specific objectives were to be
defined as part of the Needs Assessment. The content of capacity building capacity of provincial
staff" was not defined in the objectives. The components section of the Technical Annex equated
capacity building with formal and on-the-job training. Despite a reference to the importance of
on-the-job training in the description of the capacity building component, there was apparently no
effort to ensure that the production of the studies was designed so as to ensure capacity building -
for example by ensuring that the TOR of consultants and advisors included knowledge transfer.
The only indicator was described as "competency level of target staff (as defined by the capacity
building needs assessment)".
The project was very demanding for the borrower and the implementing agency and its ambitious
scope and complexity implied a high level of demand and interest as well as management expertise
for its implementation within BAPPENAS.
3.2 Revised Objective:
The project was never formally revised in terms of objectives. In 1998 the Bank and the
Government agreed to focus the project on training and studies aimed at enhancing social sector
planning capacity at the provincial and regional level and to restructure project management.
Despite considerable interaction and correspondence on this proposal, little was accomplished
- 2 -



apart from some training for provincial staff and in late 1999 the Government and the Bank
agreed to cancel the project.
3.3 Original Components:
The three main components were defined as: Support to BAPPENAS, Support to Line
Ministries, and Support to Provinces.
Support to BAPPENAS included assistance to:
(a) formulate sector strategies and investment priorities, including plans for further
decentralization of the social sectors and design of enabling environments to encourage
private sector development through the provision of TA and support for key sector studies;
(b) review the planning frameworks for social sectors and identify ways to strengthen the linkage
between REPELITA goals, strategy formulation, and program identification, design and
implementation;
(c) improve skills needed and processes used to review and appraise investment plans, set
priorities, monitor and evaluate sector performance;
(d) build in-house capacity needed to achieve the above activities, after careful assessment of
capacity building efforts. On-the-job training is likely to be an important element of this effort;
(e) develop and institutionalize training for the planning and management of the social sectors,
especially at the provincial level; and
(f) provide technical inputs for the mid-term review of REPELITA VI and the formnulation of
REPELITA VII.
This program was to support activities such as sector analysis and studies, development of
decentralization strategies, reviews of planning frameworks, assessment of staff skills and training
needs, on-the-job training of staff, development of training programs. This component would
also support a limited number of advisors who could either be in-house or provide technical
advice on demand to BAPPENAS.
Support to Line Ministries. This component was to assist the planning units in the selected line
ministries (Health, Education, and Culture, Religious Affairs, Social Affairs) to define and
operationalize their sector strategies (covering public-private delivery and targeting public
interventions) and to carry out selected sector studies. The component was also to include
provisions to review and improve monitoring and evaluation systems and capacities. Support for
selective training programs to strengthen the capacity of these units and for carrying out a small
number of pilot studies (e.g. operations research) and feasibility studies would also be included.
In addition the Ministry of Home Affairs would participate in project implementation as a
facilitator so that provincial Bappedas and Ministry of Finance staff who dealt with social sector
issues will participate in selected training activities.
Support to Provinces. The main objective of the provincial component was to assist the provinces
in carrying out their emerging role in planning and designing and eventually financing programs.
To this end the project would, after careful needs assessment and evaluation of current efforts,
develop and implement training programs for the provinces to improve skills in project design,
implementation, management and monitoring and evaluation. The training programs would be
- 3 -



developed after careful needs assessment of provincial staff needs and existing skills. The
program was to include a basic training modules to be implemented in all provinces and more
specialized modules that would be provided to provinces on demand. Further, capacity building
efforts needed to be coordinated with the work that would be carried out at BAPPENAS and the
Bureaus of Planning to develop guidelines to assist the provinces in their new roles. A significant
part of the capacity building effort would be for the Bappedas and provincial staff (both Dinas and
Kanwil) involved in the planning and delivery of social sector services.
The support for provinces would be carried out at two levels: (a) an intensified support
for training, sector analysis, and preparation of investment plans in about five provinces selected
according to agreed criteria; and (b) general support for an additional number of provinces (three
to five) that consisted of basic training as well as provision of resources for pre-feasibility study
proposals that could later be developed into project design and feasibility studies.
The components were in principle well suited to achieving the objectives, but the management of
so many activities within many organizations at three level of government was a major challenge
that proved very difficult for the implementing agency and the PMU. Efficient, transparent and
rapid procurement of consultants was key for the success of the project. In terms of lessons of
past experience, Bank staff responsible for the project had been frustrated in the past by delays
within Bappenas in the procurement of consultants for the social sectors. Staff who developed
the project felt that the level of commitment and interest displayed by Government would result in
the creation of a highly effective project management unit and that procurement performance
would greatly improve under the project.
3.4 Revised Components:
Component;                Cost;          Rating
CENTRAL LEVEL;           $9,100,000.00;   U
PROVINCIAL LEVEL;        $7,200,000.00;   U
PROJECT MANAGEMENT;   $3,000,000.00;   U
UNALLOCATED;              $700,000.00;    NA
3.5 Quality at Entry:
As noted in Section B, quality at entry was rated as Unsatisfactory. The project was identified,
developed and appraised quickly over a six month period. Staff felt this was justified because the
experience of BAPPENAS in managing other projects, in particular one in health and a TA
support operation in infrastructure, indicated that the agency was equipped to manage this one.
The design was complex in that it required the participation of many stakeholders at different
levels of government and in BAPPENAS and very close liaison with the World Bank which had to
approve all TORs for studies funded under the project. The management structure was elaborate:
a Steering Committee, a Technical Committee, a Project Director to oversee progress, a full-time
project Manager, a project Management Unit, Technical Committees, and Provincial Project
Secretariats. Bank staff felt that the experience of previous projects justified this approach.
The design was complex and ambitious but staff made the judgment, based on past experience,
that BAPPENAS had the capacity to manage the project and especially the procurement. The
PMU was supposed to be an independent unit or taskforce which would function at arms length
from BAPPENAS and have a considerable degree of independence; for example, the usual
-4-



BAPPENAS rules for the recruitment of TA were to be waived, funds would go directly from
BAPPENAS to provinces as sub-projects, counterpart funds were to be provided to the
ministries from BAPPENAS itself The support of the Deputy and the plans for a highly
competent PMU with considerable administrative independence (TORs and staffing levels for the
PMU were prepared during negotiations) explain the expectation that the project would take off
quickly. The files (see Aide-Memoire of October 25 to November 8, 1996 Review Mission)
indicate that Bank staff expected BAPPENAS to: i) ensure that the PMU was fully operational
within a few months and ii) at the same time, create a transition team and appoint a project
manager to undertake a series of preparatory activities: finalization of short lists and contracts by
January 1997 for the first cycle of studies; meetings with beneficiaries and agencies involved in the
project; rapid establishment of the Technical Support Team by February 1997, and so forth.
Similarly the PSR of the April '97 mission lists over sixty actions which were required during the
first six months of 1997.
These were ambitious expectations and represented a calculated risk, based on previous
experiences and governnent interest, that this operation would also go well. In particular, staff
felt that the strong commitment of the Deputy for Human Resources and his team guaranteed
project success. In fact, when the deputy retired and his whole team changed soon after
negotiations, project implementation faltered; his successors were less committed to the project
and their interest waned further when the on-set of the crisis in 1997 forced them to turn their
attention to other priorities.
One reason for the independent PMU was the recognition, (see the Concept Paper), that the
social sector divisions of the agency were weak and slow in the procurement of consultants and
,that this constituted a risk. The project was unusual in that it was to be implemented almost
exclusively by consultants procured under Bank Guidelines and therefore the success of the
project was totally dependent on efficient, transparent and rapid procurement. The average Bank
TA project entails the hiring of about 25 consultants; this project was designed to hire at least
twice that many.
To its credit, the Bank recognized that the project would be labor intensive in terms of
supervision and provision had been made in the design for a team of experts (para.32 of the
Technical Annex) both inside and outside the Bank to assist in reviewing TORs and study
proposals. In short, the Bank was to play a major role in ensuring the quality of what was
supposed to be a large number of studies and other activities. Given the difficult relationship that
developed between Bank staff and the borrower during implementation, a relationship rife with
disagreements over the relevance of study proposals, TORs and a host of procurement issues, this
decision to involve the Bank so intensely in the workings of the project may be questioned.
Perhaps it would have been preferable to have appointed a third party to deal with the technical
aspects and the management of the project. This would have ensured better management and
restricted the Bank to its usual role in supervision.
While the main thrust of the project was the preparation of studies, Capacity Building was also an
important objective. In the project design, it was decided to undertake a Capacity Building Needs
Assessment after the project began and to plan the program on the basis of these findings. It has
- 5 -



been common Bank practice in the case of TA projects since the early nineties to insist that
preparations for the most important activities be well advanced before effectiveness. The
experience of the project confirms that it would have been preferable to finish the Assessment
through the use of a grant or a PPF before effectiveness; or at the very least to have prepared final
TORs and short lists for this key activity.
It is also important to note that capacity building as such is not clearly defined in the Technical
Annex or President's Report; it seemed to consist mainly of formal training at the provincial level
within the context of a separate component. There was no attention given in the design to
defining how coaching and/or on-the job transfer of skills could have served, during the process of
preparing the studies, to improve the quality of the proposals and the skills of local staff at the
central and provincial levels.
Should Quality at Entry be rated as satisfactory or not? The main issue that needs to be
considered, and which is really a judgement call based on hindsight, is whether the Bank
overestimated the capacity of the implementing agency and the PMU to manage a complex design
involving multiple actors at different levels of government, as well as a large agenda of studies and
other activities which depended on highly efficient and transparent recruitment of consultants.
Bank experience with TA projects would indicate that the design should have been simpler, the
number of implementing organizations fewer, the number of planned contracts less and that more
up-front efforts, such as putting the PMU in place and completing the Needs Assessment before
effectiveness, should have been completed. (See, for example, "Perspectives on Technical
Assistance", commissioned by CODE and issued by the Operational Core Services Network in
1998). This report recommends an Unsatisfactory rating. Preparation was too dependent on a
few officials in government and on their ability and that of the planned PMU to address decisively
a series of critical prerequisites for success after the project had started. In addition, the precise
meaning and actual activities for the capacity building element were not defined adequately.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The project's outcome was Unsatisfactory.
Although a number of studies, several seminars and two training courses were completed, the
majority of planned activities were never launched. Most of the time and energy of the PMU and
responsible Bank staff was devoted to revising action-plans and timetables and to trying to find
solutions to myriad management and procurement difficulties. Despite a reorganization of the
PMU in 1998 and a decision in 1999 to focus the project on provincial studies and training, the
project never took off. The final PSR indicates that only 1 1% of the original loan amount of US$
20 million was disbursed, of which approximately half was spent on project administration
including the technical and administrative support teams. Very little monitoring of what was
achieved took place (monitoring and evaluation received a U on the final status report); it was
difficult for the ICR mission to find complete documentation on what was accomplished or copies
of the studies which were finished during the project. This makes it hard to describe or assess the
outputs with accuracy. In the education sector, for example, there are discrepancies between the
lists of finished projects provided by the former project management and those cited by the
Ministry of Education officials involved at the time. The Annual Report of FY 1997/98 mentions
- 6 -



various studies and consultancies but does not distinguish between those which had been finished
at that point and others.
4.2 Outputs by components:
(a)   Support to BAPPENAS and (b) Support to the Line Ministries. Given the close
collaboration among the Bank, BAPPENAS and the line ministries in developing ideas for studies,
these two components should be considered together. The work got off to a very slow start; the
full time project manager foreseen in the Technical Annex was not appointed as planned and the
project was guided by a senior official from BAPPENAS on a part-time basis. By December,
1997, the Bank had approved documentation for 14 studies and consultancies but only two
studies (both in the health sector) had been finished. The Bank expressed concern about
continuing procurement delays, in particular regarding recruitment of the Technical Support team
and consultants for the Capacity Building Needs Analysis. Both these were crucial to other
planned activities such as the training programs. Government officials had difficulties in
identifying and recruiting international specialized staff, many of whom were not available.
A review of the available documents shows that during the life-span of the project a small number
of studies were done and what appear to be useful inputs to reviewing Repelita VI and planning
Repelita VII for health and education were completed (e. g.,"Review of the Pharmaceutical
Sub-Sector", "Differentiating the Planning Process for a Diverse Nation", an analysis of how
educational planning could be improved at the decentralized levels). A seminar entitled
"International Panel Discussion on Population Dynamics and Family Planning Issues for Repelita
VII " was held in October 1997. Education Ministry and BAPPENAS sources show that several
studies were finished under the project: "The Strategy for Improvement of the Quality and
Internal Efficiency of Education", "Relevance and Efficiency of Vocational Education Program",
"A Study for Strategies to Enhance the Quality of Basic Education, to Decrease Drop Outs and
Repeaters...", "Investment Plans for Enhancing the Quality of Basic Education in 6 Provinces".
In the health sector, the Conformed Aide Memoire for supervision missions carried out in
February and April 1999 shows that only one of three studies planned for 98-99 had been fully
completed. One was in draft form- "Review of Health Sector Activities for the Preparation of
Repelita VII", and the third proposed activity had been cancelled. Demand for studies in this
sector was undercut when ADB approved a similar project for the health sector. No activities
had been completed in the ministries of Social Affairs, Home Affairs or Religious Affairs.
According to project staff, the quality of these outputs was monitored by the PMU and the
Technical Committee.
International training took place mainly in the last quarter of 1997; this consisted of sending
senior BAPPENAS and ministry officials to courses in the US, including: the Short Course of the
WB Executive Development Program and a Flagship Course on Health Sector Reform and
Sustainable Finance at an American University. In addition, the budget category was used to send
several top BAPPENAS officials to conferences in the US and Europe. No evaluations of the
relevance or usefulness of these activities were prepared by the PMU. The final loan amounts
allocated and spent show that of the US$ 720,000 allocated for this category, only US$ 24,473
was spent.
(b)   Support to Provinces.
-7 -



Training within the project was supposed to take place after the Capacity Building Needs
Assessment had been completed and a strategic plan prepared. Bank staff expressed
disappointment with the quality of the Needs Assessment. Given the long delay in completing this
study -it was ready in November 1998- domestic training was delayed. An Action Plan for
Training was prepared, consisting of basic training and sector specific training. After lengthy
discussions with the Bank on the rationale for these activities and their ultimate purpose and
usefulness, two training sessions for provincial planners and planners from Bappenas and line
ministries (health, education, religious affairs, social affairs and home affairs) were held in April
and July 1999. The courses consisted of four modules: problem identification and analysis;
project design and proposal writing; project implementation management; and monitoring,
reporting and evaluation. An evaluation was carried out as follows: (i) by trainees on
lecturers/trainers performance and on the modules (substance), and by the trainers, primarily in
the form of pre and post-tests. The findings were on the whole positive. One trainee who was
interviewed during the mission for this ICR stated that the course was practical, applied and
highly relevant for planners at the local level. BAPPENAS indicates that some of the material
prepared under the project is being used in the curriculum of the Masters in Social Development
at the University of Indonesia. For the local training as a whole, only US$ 96,000 of the allocated
US$ 1,640,000 was spent during the course of the project.
This component also included the creation late in 1998 of six provincial secretariats to help
stimulate studies and other activities at their level. Three of these offices were visited by Bank
staff during a supervision mission in April 1999. They found serious problems, including: a lack
of clarity about the role of provincial offices after they had developed proposals; uncertainty
among staff as to their responsibilities for implementation and for managing the available budget;
insufficient operating funds; communications problems among the provincial offices, the PMU and
provincial D1NAS and KANWIL. The PMU disagreed with these conclusions and attempted to
clarify its position with the Bank. The main activity apart from provincial training was the
completion of six preliminary studies on the provincial social sectors.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The performance rating is Highly Unlikely.
Given the low level of project activities, there was inevitably limited impact on institutional
capacity. The evaluation of the training was positive, however, and the modules were later
replicated in training programs in two provinces, two ministries and in the Masters Program in
Social Development at the University of Indonesia. Completed studies supported under the
project were used as inputs to the Five Year Development Plan (REPELITA).
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The major exogenous factor was the onset of the economic crisis in mid 1997. The need to cope
- 8 -



with rapidly declining income levels and a sudden increase in poverty changed priorities within
BAPPENAS and distracted senior officials and staff from other activities such as the project. It
also provoked delays and administrative problems; for example, foreign travel for training was
suspended; counterpart funds for local training became scarce, prompting a request to the Bank
that it fund 100% of local training costs. The other event which undermined the project was the
general unease and rapid senior staff turnover during the second half of the project period
triggered by the imminent approach of decentralization. Under the latter, it was expected that the
agency would lose a lot of its responsibilities and influence and senior staff were seeking out more
promising positions elsewhere.
It must be stressed, however, that if the project had already been functioning well when the crisis
hit and had been able to respond quickly and flexibly to changing demands, then the onset of the
crisis and the imminence of decentralized planning would both have presented opportunities for
very relevant studies and capacity building activities. On the other hand, all social sector projects
were badly affected at the time and perhaps this one would also have been seriously delayed even
if it had been functioning better.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The major factors affecting implementation were undoubtedly those under the control of the
implementing agency and the PMU (see next section below). There were, however, certain
characteristics of the government in general and of the social sector ministries in particular which
had a negative impact on implementation and outcomes. These include: slow communication and
at times inadequate coordination within the line ministries; a lack of coordination within line
ministries between operational and research/planning departments; uncertainty about the roles of
BAPPENAS, the Bappedas, the line ministries, the DINAS and the KANWILS in the transition to
a decentralized system for planning and project identification. In addition, BAPPENAS
complicated the situation by accepting a similar project from the health sector from ADB, thus
lessening the need resources from this project.
Another generic government problem which likely affected the project was the way performance
was assessed. Indonesian civil servants were not generally held accountable for project results
and operated in a environment where rent-seeking behavior was rarely sanctioned. Government
Officials were unlikely to advocate closing down a badly performing project or to refuse to accept
an offer of additional resources (cf. the ADB project).
5.3 Factors generally subject to implenzenting agency control:
The Government, Bappenas and the Bank share responsibility for the unsatisfactory outcomes of
this project. On the implementing agency side, Bappenas never moved decisively to launch this
project on a solid basis, including setting up on an urgent basis a highly competent management
unit and technical support team was no longer viable. The project faltered and never really
became operational as envisaged by its initiators. Without the necessary political support,
administrative backup and technical expertise the project was doomed to fail. Given that its design
was complex and that it demanded very professional management, it was much more vulnerable
than a normal social sector project. BAPPENAS, although it is not an operating agency, had
implemented several projects in the past and staff assumed that with inspired leadership from the
top it could manage this project well. This would have required a competent full-time manager
-9-



and a committed Deputy. As it was, BAPPENAS never appointed a full-timne manager as was
required if the planned activities were to take off and be sustained, nor did it move to adapt the
project to fit the views of the new deputy and his team. In early 1998, for example, the project
manager strongly objected to the findings of the Bank mission of December '97 which emphasized
that slow implementation was putting the project's development goals at risk.
BAPPENAS never succeeded in creating a competent PMU with the necessary full-time
professionals. There were constant management problems with the PMI which led to a
reorganization in June'98; this initiative had little impact on subsequent management
performance, however.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The project's resources were under-spent; in 1998, $8.4 Million was cancelled and the entire
remaining amount was cancelled in late 1999. As a proportion of each category of the loan,
project administration accounted for US$1,187,300.00 out of the US$2,000,000 planned. This
was a much higher percentage than any of the other categories. In the final PSR, the revised
disbursement lag is given as 87.45% and as 29 months. Implementation and disbursements delays
continued at high levels throughout the project (see Sections D, E and G).
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The project, given its very low level of disbursements and achievement, has to be rated Unlikely
for sustainability. There is no evidence of any systematic attempt to consolidate the work
accomplished or to build on the lessons of the project's failure in future activities. BAPPENAS
raised the possibility of undertaking at the very end of the project a study on "Development of
Capacity building plan for repositioning BAPPENAS in social sector in decentralized and
autonomous environment". It was never carred out as no credible proposal was ever received.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
This category is not applicable in this case, given the meager output of the project and its lack of
sustainability.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's performance was Unsatisfactory. As discussed in Part 2, Quality at Entry,
preparation and appraisal were done quickly, as Bank staff felt that the commitment of the Deputy
and his team, combined with a strong PMU which had considerable autonomy, were sufficient to
implement the project as designed. This was a calculated risk based on confidence in the Deputy
and past experience with several other projects. On the other hand, the design was complex and
failed to take into account lessons learned about how best to ensure successful TA projects: e.g.,
a simple design, a small number of implementing agencies, a limited number of consultant
contracts to be processed, careful up-front definition and planning of knowledge transfer and
other capacity-building activities. It may be argued that the Bank should have done more during
appraisal and before effectiveness to prepare BAPPENAS to manage this project. No actions
were taken during preparation to equip the agency to deal with procurement management; despite
- 10-



the fact that procurement of consultants had been a serious problem in the social sectors in the
past (as acknowledged in the Technical Annex), it was assumed that the PMU could handle this.
The work program for the first year was ambitious and the timetable was demanding: the Bank
expected the studies to be launched at the same time as the PMU was set up and the various
participants began to learn about and to participate in the project. More consideration should
have been given to sequencing the start-up activities over a longer period and to ensuring that the
PMU was set up and equipped before activities started. For example, why was the project
designed so that it became effective before the PMU was in place?
The design of the capacity building component relegated all the preparatory work to the project
itself; no preliminary studies were done. As a result the nature of capacity problems and possible
responses were not defined in advance; this vagueness undermined the credibility of the project
and of its objectives and may also have been a factor in the lack of subsequent Government
understanding and ownership. The capacity building was seen as a discrete activity in the design;
once the project began, however, it seemed that this distinction was not fully grasped by all the
Government actors, some of whom maintained that the performance standards demanded by the
Bank for the studies were inappropriate to a capacity building exercise.
7.2 Supervision:
Supervision is rated as Unsatisfactory even though Bank staff attempted to get the project on
track. There were eight formal supervision missions and considerable interaction between the
borrower and staff in the Jakarta office. At the beginning, Bank staff went to much effort to kick
start the project by preparing work programs, and even suggesting studies and in one case
preparing TORs and recommending consultants. Bank staff were on the whole conscientious in
reviewing project documentation and in suggesting ways to improve the hapless management of
procurement. Staff attempted in 1998 to get the BAPPENAS deputies more involved in
suggesting projects and helped with the restructuring plan for the PMU and the final attempt to
revive the project by focussing it on training at the provincial level. Bappenas complained on
several occasions about slow Bank responses to request for TOR reviews and other matters and
the Bank acknowledged this at one point. Two factors which made supervision slow at times
were staff turnover in the Bank team and the transition from Washington to Jakarta based
responsibilities.
Although the Bank realized by 1998 that the project was at risk and questioned its
viability, it was not cancelled then despite the fact that it received repeated U ratings for both
development objectives and implementation. When the whole portfolio was reviewed in early
1998 as a result of the economic crisis, the Bank attempted to overcome some of the worst
features of the project: lack of inter-ministerial trust, weak leadership in BAPPENAS, and weak
management. The latter was reorganized and the amount was reduced by cancellation of $8.4
million. In the PSR of December 1999, the Task Manager wrote: " In the cancellation process,
the Bank proposed that virtually the entire remaining balance ($14.2 Million) be cancelled.
However, BAPPENAS insisted that the cut be confined to $8.4 million." It was only in late 1999
that the Government acquiesced and agreed to cancel the entire remaining amount ($5.8 Million).
Why did the Bank not insist that the project be simply cancelled at that point? Interviews
with staff and interpretation of the files indicate that the following may have militated against
- 11 -



outright cancellation: cancellation is highly unusual and entails elaborate procedures within the
Bank; the Government strongly resisted the idea for fear of losing face and insisted that the 1998
reorganization be given a chance to succeed; PMU staff and their superiors in BAPPENAS were
reluctant to give up the advantages conferred by their contracts and other opportunities and
perquisites afforded by the project; the Bank did not want to risk damaging its rapport with
BAPPENAS in the social sectors at a difficult time of economic crisis when the two parties were
working together on crucial initiatives like the social safety net.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
Given the design and other quality at entry problems, the meager results of the project and the
failure to close it down earlier, overall Bank performance is rated as Unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The performance of the borrower is rated Unsatisfactory on all counts: preparation,
implementation, implementation agency performance and overall. In terms of preparation, the
Deputy responsible at the time shares with the Bank the responsibility for the preparation and
appraisal and the related design decisions discussed in Section C.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
The management of BAPPENAS which was in place when the project began was not comnmitted
to the design and failed to provide adequate support. Little happened during the first year and the
PMU was not operational until March 1997 (this was a condition for commencing disbursements
for studies and training activities). In addition the agreed management arrangements, whereby the
project manager would be a full time senior (echelon II) BAPPENAS staff member, were never
put in place. A senior official of BAPPENAS was appointed under an interim arrangement
whereby he did the job very much on a part time basis and relied on a management advisor and
other staff to do the daily work. The most senior among these also continued to hold their posts
in BAPPENAS while working in the PMU.
This weak commitment and inadequate advocacy and communication on the part of BAPPENAS
and the PMU undermined the credibility of the project from the very beginning and resulted in
confusion and uncertainty among the potential clients about the roles of the respective actors. As
the project continued to stagnate, potential clients turned to other sources of funds for their
research and training activities. By the time the economic crisis hit, the project was perceived as
so inefficient that managers turned elsewhere for support for urgent studies and other activities.
Despite these problems, the borrower persisted in maintaining right up to the fall of 1999 that the
project was viable. Thus the borrower, as well as the Bank, may be faulted for not closing down
the project much earlier.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Throughout the duration of the project, management by the PMU was weak; inadequate work
plans and timetables were produced and a full technical support team was never established.
Expatriate advisors hired to help with technical work expressed dissatisfaction and did not remain
long enough to have a substantial impact. No monitoring and evaluation systems were
established.
- 12 -



Above all, the preparation of studies and the management of procurement were highly inadequate.
Despite repeated requests from the Bank and considerable help from Bank staff, the borrower
never took decisive action to achieve a sufficiently professional level of performance in the
processing of procurement.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
Unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The lessons which emerge from this failed project are clear and confirm the importance that the
Bank had attributed for many years to certain key factors which help ensure successful project
implementation:
*   careful ground work and consensus building during preparation in order to ensure
commitment and understanding arnong all stakeholders about objectives, means and the details
of managing implementation; thorough assessment of local circumstances in order to design a
project whose management structure and activities are realistic in the light of local capacities
for policy development and administration; completion of essential prerequisite activities (e.g.,
feasibility studies. TORs, management arrangements, procurement training) before project
effectiveness.
*   observance of the lessons of past experience in the county and the sector (e.g., procurement
of TA in BAPPENAS) and of best practice in the Bank (the preparation of TA loans and of
capacity building activities in this case).
*   a willingness to intervene rapidly and decisively in cases where projects are at risk; this may
entail restructuring or even closing prematurely a project. Allowing such projects to continue
is bad supervision practice: it is also a waste of Bank and borrower resources and detrimental
to relations between the borrower and the Bank.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
1. INTRODUCTION
1.  Background. The S3CB was a strategic project designed to strengthen and empower the capacity
of planning units/institutions at both the national and provincial levels for social sector development and
to accelerate the trend of decentralized and locally autonomous governance. The project was initiated on
August 1996 and ran until December 2000. Due to several conditions, such as the economic 1997
crisis, political changes, government policy changes, the project implementation performed
unsatisfactorily. However, there are valuable lessons to be learned from this project that will be inputs
for future projects.
2. Obiectives and Expected Outcomes of the Proiect. The project was supposed to provide, over a
four year period, support for conducting sector studies, formulating new strategies and building
institutional capacity for the social sectors, especially health and education. More specifically, the
project aimed to:
a. develop sector strategies for the social sectors, especially health and education;
- 13-



b.  build capacity in Bappenas and line ministries planning bureaus/units to develop concepts and
alternative strategies, plan, monitor and evaluate sector performance and programs; and
c.  build the capacity of provincial staff, Bappedas, provincial line ministries (Kanwil), and local
implementation offices (Dinas), in designing, preparing, implementing, monitoring and evaluating
programs.
An additional objective was to support provincial efforts to determine sector priorities and prepare
investment plans, and support project design and feasibility studies as well as pilot projects.
3.  Before the 1997 economic crisis, the objectives were very suitable and in sync with the GOI efforts
to improve competences of social sector agencies to construct and develop strategic plans for social
sector development at both the central and provincial levels. GOI, in this case Bappenas, had
anticipated the transition toward decentralization and autonomy by strengthening capacity of district and
provincial levels. The multi-dimensional crisis affected the project as government priorities shifted.
GOI's priority had changed to maintenance of basic social services, and the original S3CB priorities,
particularly studies, were not relevant to immediate needs. The implementation of SSN program became
a primary priority for Bappenas, the line ministries, and local government to insure basic services to the
poor. Although S3CB was not executed as planned, one of the development objectives of S3CB project
remained relevant, and that was training. G01 proposed reorienting the project into training to support
the SSN program. The proposed training program was not approved.
4.  Performance Measurement Criteria. According to the project document, the main indicators for
the social studies especially for monitoring project outputs included:
a.  Number of completed sector studies of acceptable quality, including preparation if REPELITA VII
chapters for social sectors):
b.  Numbers of central and provincial investment plans;
c.  Competency level of target staff (as defined by capacity building need assessment);
d.  Proportion/number of social sector proposals of acceptable quality submitted to Bappenas; and
e.  In addition, availability of key indicators for the social sectors at the national and provincial levels.
(More detail information see Annex 2 - Table 2, Project Document).
5.  Furthermore, according to the Technical Annex 2, Table 2 (Project Document) the performance
indicators were indicated as follows:
a.  Number of studies initiated/completed (within 3 months of expected date),
b.  Number of consultant hired (within 1-3 months of expected dated),
c.  Number of investment plans initiated/completed at central/provincial levels,
d.  Number of staff trained,
e.  Initiation/completion of the review of planning process,
f.  Initiation/completion of training program development,
g.  Identification of key sector indicators/development of data systems.
During the implementation of the project, there was delay in formation of Project Implementation unit,
recruitment of the consultants, in order to fulfill the requirements of the Bank policy and procurement
procedures.
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION PROCESS AND ACTIVITIES
6.  Proiect Inputs. There were two major project inputs explained as: financial input and project
- 14-



management.
a.   Financial Inout. The original loan amount was US$ 20 million. Because of the crisis which hit
Indonesia in 1997, there was low disbursement in the first year of implementation. The Government and
the Bank agreed to cancel a portion of the loan amount for US$ 3.6 million in the mid 1998. In late
1999, for a second time the loan amount, was reduced by US$ 8.4 million. By the end of this project in
2000, the utilized loan was less than 10% of the original loan amount (see Annex I - ICR). The financial
input was distributed into four main categories i.e. training (overseas and local), project administration,
and consultant services and studies. Almost three fourth of the loan was for consultant services and
studies. Project administration accounted for the highest percentage as compared to the other categories,
as the costs of international and national Technical Support Team (TST) were covered under this
category (more than half of the total project administration budget). The low disbursement of the other
categories was the result of many factors affecting implementation (see point III below).
b. Project Manauement. The four main components were: Project Management Unit (PMU),
Technical Support Team (TST), Administration Support Team (AST), and Provincial Project
Secretariats (PPSs).
b. 1. Project Management Unit (PMU). The original structure of the project management consisted of
: (a) a Steering Committee (SC) chaired by the Vice Chairman of Bappenas with the members from
related Echelon I and met at least twice a year; (b) a Project Director (PD) who was the Deputy
Chairman of Bappenas for HRD and was responsible for the overall guidance of the project
implementation; (c) a Technical Committee (TC) chaired by the Project Manager with the members
from related Echelon II and met at least four times a year; (d) a full-time Project Manager (PM) who
also act as secretary to the SC and was responsible for overall project implementation; (e) a Project
Management Unit (PMU) who reported directly to the PM and consisted of Technical and
Administration Support Teams (TST and AST); and (f) Provincial Project Secretariats (PPSs) chaired
by division head of social/cultural affairs of Provincial Bappedas with the role of facilitating provincial
level studies and capacity building efforts. PMU had also been supported by sub-project managements
at bureau of planning at the Ministry of Education (MOEC), Ministry of Religious Affair (MORA),
Ministry of Health (MOH), Ministry of Social Affair (MOSA), and Ministry of Home Affair (MOHA).
After long discussions with the Bank, in the late 1998 (after 2 years project implementation), there were
six Provincial Project Secretariats established and attached to the provincial Bappedas. The Provinces
were: West Sumatra, Was Java, East Java, East Nusa Tenggara, South Kalimantan, and South
Sulawesi. The two major components of PMU were TST and AST.
The project implementation was handled smoothly and rated as "satisfactory" at mid 1998 and again in
late 1998. International TST for training, health, and education (3 persons) and national TST for
training and education (2 persons) were hired by mid 1998. The national TST for health was not hired
by the end of the project.
Most of the effort of the PMU was devoted to revising TORs, as there was no designated staff at the
Bank confirmed as "regular partner" to this project. Inadequate support and guidance from the Bank
contributed to various difficulties faced by the PMU in executing the project. Further, there was a high
staff turnover in Jakarta at the Bank. The multiple staffs that held responsibility for this project were
also a source of the difficulties faced by the PMU in communicating project concerns. The staff also
considered that they were just as an "ad-hoc assistance", and the Bank related work was not as part of
his or her main duties. Moreover, the time needed to get approval for a TOR took an extraordinarily
long time, as compared to the time needed by other Bank's projects. For example: In the case of
- 15 -



Education TORs, each TOR took 7 months to receive an NOL. Most NOL's for submitted TORs took
a long time to be received. Please review monthly and quarterly reports developed in 1997-1999 which
were always sent to the SC and TC members as well as to the Bank for comments.
All the mentioned above conditions plus the "crisis situation" required the attention of government
officials to develop strategies to rescue the poor of the country (explained more detailed in point III),
resulted in the slow implementation progress of this project. As a consequence, the rating of the project
remained unsatisfactory (except in 1998).
b.2. Technical Support Team (TST). The TST was one of the crucial project components which,
influenced project implementation. The TST was responsible for assistant the PMU with all project
components at both central and provincial levels. The TST consisted of both intemational consultants
and local consultants. There were three international consultants hired as training, education, and health
specialists, and three national consultants hired with similar expertise as international consultants.
The recruitment process of TST took a long time. The first TST (TST for training) was recruited in
June 1998, followed by TST for health and education in July 1998. This was caused by the procurement
delays. The Bank required highly qualified persons, not many of which were available by the time
required. On those occasions when the PMU and the Bank both agreed on a person, the Bank
administration process prolonged the recruitment process causing them to decline the project's offer.
National consultants were successfully hired for training and education, the national health TST was
unable to be recruited until the end of the project implementation.
b.3. Administration Supnort Team (AST). The AST consultants hired were all on a full-time basis,
except for the reporting and recording consultant. The procurement and financial consultants were hired
at the beginning of the project (January 1997).
b.4. Provincial Proiect Secretariats (PPSs). As foreseen in the Technical Annex there was a need to
establish Provincial Project Secretariats (PPS) within each province. Due to unclear communication
between the PMU and the Bank hiring of PPS staff, did not occur immediately. The Bank questioned the
need of hiring PPS staff. So, that the six PPSs were established in the late 1998 using the Government
budget. Each PPS chaired by the sub-division head for social and culture of provincial Bappeda's
consisted of one full-time staff and one full-time secretary. The time required to establish PPSs
contributed to the slow process of developing provincial studies.
7.  Proiect Activities-Management. A significant exogenous factor was the onset of the crisis in
mid 1997 of which contributed to difficulties faced by the PMU in executing the project. The crisis
distracted government officials at all levels, especially in education and health offices, by the need to
come up with a social safety net for the poor, and getting it implemented as described in paragraph 3.
Other exogenous factor is inadequate support and guidance by the Bank (described in paragraph 6).
Another influencing factor of the project management performance is that a full time Project Manager
was never hired which in tum causing disruption both in the administration and procurement. In mid
1997 the Bank agreed that the project could hire a full-time Project Director Advisor and merged the
responsibilities of the Project Officer (Pimpro) with that of the PMU Coordinator.
8.  PMU held regular meetings with all stakeholders at all levels. This was always communicated and
reported to the Bank. The SC had two meetings a year with SC, and the TC met five times a year. All
projects issues and problems were discussed in those meetings.
- 16-



9.  Project Documentation (for period September 1997-March 1999) were complete, and consisted of
financial reports (monthly and quarterly) and activity reports (monthly and quarterly). These reports
were distributed in the SC and TC meetings for comments and inputs, being sent to the Bank shortly
thereafter. The financial reports explained total Rp and US$ spent for each activity as well as each
category based on the budget status. The activity reports showed the progress of each activity starting
from TOR Development, bidding, time scheduling, payment, and report. There were no comments
received by the PMU or Bappenas from the Bank conceming any of these reports sent by the PMU. The
reluctance of project beneficiaries to utilize the services provided also hindering project implementation.
10. Development and Implementation of Studies. The first objective of the project was to develop
social sectors strategies at three levels, i.e. Bappenas, line ministries, and local government. Although
there were delays in hiring the TST because of administrative problems TST were supposed to guide
project beneficiaries in developing social sectors strategies, the process of developing TORs for studies was
already initiated by the PMU and the related agencies starting by mid 1997. This effort showed a high
commitment of the (OI to the project success.
11. Even though "a full team" of TST was never on board (due to the unhired national TST for
health), the efforts shown by them were appreciated. There were many proposals of studies developed at
all levels (Bappenas, line ministries, and local level). Although only few studies had been finished until
the end of the project, there was also a good transfer of knowledge.
12. The role of TST in guiding line ministries and six provincial local governments in developing
studies through series of workshops/meetings/discussions and "on-the job training" was felt to be useful.
This was also a part of the capacity building. Even though the definition of capacity building was never
identified clearly, the Project assumed that technology transfer was also part of capacity building. The
TST assisted the project beneficiaries in improving the quality of the TORs through various actions
such as: (a) provided written guidance for TORs development; (b) conducted long distance
communications (telephone, letters, facsimile, intemet, etc); (c) conducted site visits through intensive
discussion, personal assistance, and "on the job training"; and (d) discussed study's TORs.
13. The implementation of the studies was contracted out following the Bank procurement guidelines.
Dealing with the Bank increased the time needed by the PMU for the procurement process. In several
cases, the procurement process of studies, which eventually received NOL from the Bank, took so much
time and effort that the activity could not be initiated until after the end of the project.
14. The TST facilitated a series of discussions and in-house workshops with the project beneficiaries in
developing social sectors strategies. As a result, many proposals were finalized and sent to the Bank
requesting NOLs. Since, the Bank staff did not involve itself in the process of developing proposals, the
Bank often raised questions that the TST and angencies considered obvious and unnecessary, and
requiring even more time for the agencies to answer the questions. All of this contributed to a
time-consuming process for each proposed study. For example: A study on "Assessment of
Sustainability of Government Health Services Delivery" proposed by Ministry of Health in July 1, 1998
and received its first NOL (NOL for TOR) from the Bank in February 25, 1999 (after 8 months!); A
study "Relevance and Efficiency of Vocational Education Programs in Anticipating Industrial Era
proposed by Ministry of Education to the Bank in July 7, 1998 and received its NOL for TOR from the
Bank in February 16, 1999. Please review the monthly and quarterly reports sent to the Bank at regular
base, for more information on this matter.
15. The six preliminary studies on the provincial social sectors were completed in mid 1999, and they
- 17-



were documented and sent to the Bank. These, as well as the other finished studies, were never
commented on by the Bank.
16. Training Promrams. The second objective of the project was to increase the capacity of planners
(Bappenas, line ministries, and local govenmment). Even though the definition of capacity building is
never clearly defined in the Technical Annex or President's Report, the TST guided the ministerial and
provincial stakeholders in proposal writing reflecting local needs. This was capacity building, and
continued through exemplary TST-facilitated informal workshops and proposal development in all the
provinces and with line ministries.
17. The Capacity Building Needs Assessment was finalized in late 1998 and the TST consultants
(international and local) were on board in mid 1998, causing the implementation of the training to also
be delayed. The delay of CBNA was due to the long process necessary to hire international firms to
conduct the CBNA study. A decision was eventually made to use local firm/university to conduct the
CBNA study.
18. The basic training modules were developed and a training design was agreed to by the Bank, to be
implemented. The first and second batches were done in mid 1999. The trainers were professionals,
lecturers, and government senior officials who had strong background and experienced in social sectors
programs. The trainees were selected based on certain criteria (agreed by the Bank). They were all
planners from Bappenas social sector Bureaus, line ministries (MOH, MOEC, MOSA, MORA, and
MOHA), and local governments. Provincial and selected district Bappedas, Dinas and Kanwils.
Additional information is available in the training reports sent to the Bank.
19. It was proposed that the project objectives be changed giving more attention to the training
component (June 1999). In accordance with the economic crisis, the govemment proposed S3CB
project to be more concentrated in training. However, it was never approved by the Bank.
20. There were pre and post evaluation to the training implementation done by the PMU. The
evaluation reports showed that the trainees felt that the training program was very useful and related to
their daily planning activities. Later, two provinces (East and West Jawa) and two Departments
(Ministry of Home Affairs and Ministry of Education) did replicate the S3CB training program. They
also mentioned that the knowledge they gained from the S3CB training program as well as the guidance
from of TST was very helpful in developing provincial and district strategic planning in the under the
new laws regulating decentralization. This information was received by the PMU during the informal
meetings with the local government.
21. Achievement and Outputs of Proiect Implementation. There were two major outputs of project
implementation, i.e. studies and training.
a.  Studies. The studies done under Bappenas and line ministries component (health, education, family
planning, and youth and adolescents) were used as inputs in developing Repelita VII (and later for
Propenas). Sustainability of this project also can bee seen from the training program that had been
replicated in two provinces (East Java and West Java) and two Departments (Ministry of Education and
Ministry of Home Affairs).
There were 34 consultant services and studies finalized during the project's life. Those were executed by
Bappenas, and line ministries (except Ministry of Religious Affair). Those included 19 studies and TA
done by Bappenas, 3 studies by Ministry of Education, 2 TA by Ministry of Social Affair, 3 studies by
- 18-



Ministry of Health, and 1 study by Ministry of Home Affair (see Annex 2 - ICR). Further, there were
about 80 TORs proposed to the Bank but then were cancelled due to the project cancellation in early
2000 (see Annex 3 - ICR).
b.  Trainine. Two batches of the Basic Training on Social Sector Planning were executed and
attended by 60 participants from Bappenas, line ministries, Bappedas, Dinas, and Kanwil from four
provinces. The trainers of this training also contributed to the development of a curriculum for Masters
Programs in Management of Social Development at University of Indonesia. Based on the post review
(done by PMU) the trainees knew how to develop an integrated social development plans and were also
able to write good TORs. Overseas training was conducted by sending 4 (four) participants abroad to
attend health and education courses/workshops.
III. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
22. Economic Crisis. The major factor influencing the project implementation was the financial and
economic crisis of mid 1997. The Rupiah dropped in value against US dollar. The government adjusted
the priority of program priorities to focus on the poor who were the most affected by the crisis. The
priority program in the social sector was how to cope with declining income level and increasing levels
of poverty. The sectors budget had been cut and reallocated to others sector that were considered high
priority. For instance, the government canceled a portion of the loan for this project, US $3.6 million in
mid 1998, and US$ 8.4 million in 1999. Intemational short course and travel or every activity which
used the foreign currency had been restricted. This situation negatively affected the project
implementation.
23. Government PoliEy. After the economic crisis in mid 1997, the process of economic recovery has
taken long time. Political and government institutions have also changed as described in paragraph 3.
Bappenas and other social sector government institutions responded immediately to create a social safety
net. They were more concerned with maintaining school enrollment, access to basic health care and safe
motherhood services, than capacity building and executing studies for a Repelita cycle. However, those
projects (SSN and S3CB) did have the same target in enhancing the quality life of people. This situation
did affect the implementation of the project, PMU organization, and other aspects of the project such as
capacity counterpart financial and human resources.
24. Bank Policy and Response. Delegating Bank's responsibly from Washington to Jakarta's office
along with it's staff turnover had left this project often unguided (see paragraph 6 and 7), which
consequently, caused delay Bank response to TORs or questions regarding project implementation.
IV. SUSTAINABILITY AND LESSONS LEARNED
25. Sustainability. Strengthening the capacity of social sector planners (e.g. Bappenas, Bappedas, and
line ministries) helped the GOI to better assist the transition process towards decentralization. By
enhancing strategy, institutional capacity and program development, the project improved social sector
strategies, especially health and education and helped build the capacity in Bappenas, provincial
planning units (Bappeda), and planning units of line ministries to better be able to develop strategies,
monitor, and evaluate the social sector performance and programs. Furthermore, supporting strategy
development and the preparation of investment and expenditure plans has contributed significantly to
human resource development for Indonesia. Sustainability of the project can be observed from
utilization of provincial studies, utilization of TORs, and follow-up of training.
- 19-



26.a Utilization of Studies. The report of Provincial Studies or CBNA that conducted in six project
provincial are very important information as input to develop annual planning in social sector by
Bappeda, Bappenas training programs, and few training programs of MONA. The completed studies
under Bappenas and line ministries components (health, education, family planning, and youth,
adolescents) were used as inputs for developing Indonesia's Five Year Development Plan (Repelita VII-
later called PROPENAS)
26.b Utilization of TORs. Some of the TORs that had received NOL from the Bank were implemented.
Some TORs that had not been received by the Bank were been implemented in smaller versions at
provinces or related units using local funds. Most TORs were relevant to the needs and conditions of
provincial governments in implementing a decentralized and autonomous policy.
26.c Utilization and Follow-up of Training. The training system and modules of the S3CB has widely
used in training for educational planner at national and provincial levels executed by MOEC. The
training modules had been replicated and used in two provinces (East Java and West Java), three
ministries (MOEC, MOHA and MOSA), and development curriculum of Master Programs in
Management of Social Development at University of Indonesia. The trainees acknowledge that they were
understood to develop an integrated social development plans and were able to construct a good TORs
based on post evaluation review of the implemented training.
26.d Impact of TST and AST Consultations at Central and Provincial Levels. TST and AST visited
the provinces and line ministries and conducted focus group discussions and hand on transfer of
technology about TOR development, procurement and study implementations to the personnel from
social sector units at Bappedas, Dinas and Kanwil. Private and small group consultations were
conducted intensively to particular personnel who were responsible in development of TORs, sub-project
proposals, procurement process and procedures, as well as project implementation.
27. Lessons Learned. There should have been flexible adjustment objectives in any projects that
exogenous factors (i.e. crisis and big political change) must be taken into consideration. Both, GOI and
the Bank, must readjust the project according to the condition occurred.
27.a The process of project development was too short and had less preparation than necessary, without
in-dept feasibility studies due to lack of financial support to develop the project. The objectives and
scope of the project was very relevant to the felt need at the time initiated, and has become more relevant
for this era of decentralization and autonomy. The preparation of this kind of project, that will involved
many agencies, should be based on careful and in-dept study supported by the Bank, over a longer
period of time.
27.b On-going tum over of project personnel was one of many sources of project failure. New project
personnel need more time to adjust his / herself to the project including administration procedure and
GOI regulations. Rapid turn over of Bank staff, no designated Bank staff assigned to the project, and no
fixed format for TOR development, also made a significant contribution to the failure of the project.
This demonstrates that people in charge in a project should be sustained for at least two years period or
better yet for the life of the project.
(b) Cofinanciers:
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
- 20 -



10. Additional Information
- 21 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimate
- Number of completed sector studies of   At least 75% of studies financed by the  The Bank received 6 copies of sector
acceptable quality;                    project are relevant to policies and programs studies. The project list claimed to have sent
(to be determined by an extemal panel);    to the Bank: 9 sector studies, 7 provincial
studies and 25 Bappenas studies/ TA.; 80
proposed studies were cancelled. No
assessment of quality was done.
- Number of central and provincial     At least 10 provincial and 4 central sodal    1 Investment Plan completed.
investment plans;                    sector investment plans prepared;
- Competency level of target staff (as  Increase in the competency levels of target  No formal assessment was done against
defined by the capacity building      staff by a given proportion (to be defined by   baseline.
needs assessment);                    the baseline survey);
- Proportion/number of social sector   Increase (proportion and total number) of    No data on quality assessment is available.
proposals of acceptable quality       social sector proposals accepted annually
submitted to BAPPENAS; and            into BAPPENAS pipeline;
- Availability of key indicators for   Key social indicators are accessible to the    Not available.
social sectors at the national and    central and provincial staff planning staff.
provincial levels.
Output Indicators:
tndicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSRC    Actua/Lates Estimate
End of project
- 22 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal   Actual/Latest   Percentage of
Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
Project Cost By Component             US$ million    US$ million
Overseas Training                                    0.90           0.02            2.7
Local Training                                       1.20           0.05            3.9
Consultant Service & Studies                        14.20           0.77            5.4
Project Administration                               3.00           0.88           29.5
Unallocated                                          0.70           0.34           48.8
Total Baseline Cost                                 20.00           2.06
Price Contingencies                                 0.00
Total Project Costs            20.00            2.06
Total Financing Required             20.00           2.06
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category     ICB        Procurement Method2          N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.00         0.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.00          0.00         0.00         0.60         0.60
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00          0.00         3.90         0.00          3.90
Training                    (0.00)        (0.00)       (2.10)       (0.00)        (2.10)
Consultant                   0.00          0.00         17.50        0.00         17.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (14.90)       (0.00)       (14.90)
Project Administration       0.00          0.00         3.00         0.00          3.00
(0.00)       (0.00)        (3.00)       (0.00)       (3.00)
Total                     0.00          0.00         24.40         0.60        25.00
(0.00)       (0.00)       (20.00)       (0.00)       (20.00)
- 23 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method
Expenditure Category          ICB             NCB           Other          N.BF.        Ttacost
1. Works                          0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00           0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services                       0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
Training                         (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.41)         (0.00)         (0.41)
Consultant                        0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.70)         (0.00)         (0.70)
Project Administration            0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (0.89)         (0.00)         (0.89)
Total                          0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
(0.00)         (0.00)          (2.00)         (0.00)         (2.00)
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
piIncludes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
I             7707 77       7         0      :                   Percentage of Appraisal
Component               Appraisal Estimate       [    Actual/Latest Estimiate                       -
Bank      Govt;   CoF.          Bank       Govt.      CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
Overseas Training          0.90                            0.02                           2.2
Local Training             1.20       1.80                 0.05                           4.2    0.0
Consultant Service &      14.20      2.60                  0.77                           5.4    0.0
Studies
Project Administration     3.00                            0.88                           29.3
Unallocated                0.70                            0.34                           48.6
Equipment                                       0.60                                              _       0.0
Note: Government Disbursement Figures is not available.
- 24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable.
- 25 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty             Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)     Implementation  Development
Month/Year    Count            Specialty                       Progress      Objective
IdentificationlPreparation
November 1995                2    1 Population & Health Specialist,
I Economist
Appraisal/Negotiation
March 1996                   8    1 Population & Health
Specialist, I Education
Specialist, I Nutrition
Specialist, I Economist, 2
Team Assistants, I Country
Director, I Division Chief
Supervision
November 1996                 3   1 Institutional Development
Consultant, I Health &
Population Specialist, I
Education Specialist
April 1997                    4   I Economist, I Mission Leader, I
Health & Population Specialist, 1
Education Specialist
December 1997                 3   1 Health & Population Specialist,
I Education Specialist, I HD
Coordinator
May 1998                      2   1 HD Coordinator, I Education
_   Specialist
August 1998                   5   1 HD Coordinator, 2 Education
Specialists, I Health Specialist, I
Procurement Specialist
April 1999                    7   1 HD Coordinator, 2 Education
Specialists, 3 Health Specialists,
I Procurement Specialist
December 1999                 2   1 HD Coordinator, I Education
Specialist
ICR
May 2001                     1    Institutional Development
Consultant
- 26 -



(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle    1                  Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation
Appraisal/Negotiation                                                     93,400
Supervision                                                              126,300
ICR                                                                       16.500
Total                                                      I                              I
- 27 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
El Macro policies                          0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
El Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
E Physical                                 OH OSUOM ON ONA
El Financial                               O H  OSUOM  ON  O NA
El Institutional Development               0 H  0 SU 0 M  * N  0 NA
L Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
ElGender                            OH OSUOM *N ONA
El Other (Please specify)           OH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
El Private sector development              0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management                 0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
L Other (Please specify)                   O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
- 28 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                 Rating
El Lending                                           OHS OS  *U  OHU
a Supervision                                        O HS O s   * u  O HU
O Overall                                            OHS OS * U O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                             Rating
a Preparation                                        OHS OS   *U   O HU
El Government implementation performance             O HS O 5  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS   *  U  O HU
LI Overall                                           OHS OS   * U  O HU
- 29 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
- 30 -



