Report No. PIC2868
Project Name                   Indonesia-Capacity Building for Human...
Resource Development Project
Region                         East Asia and Pacific
Sector                         Population / Human Resources
Project ID                     IDPA41896
Implementing Agency            BAPPENAS, Ministry of Health, Ministry of
Education
Date PID Prepared              October 6, 1995
Project Appraisal Date         March 11, 1996
Projected Board Date           May 14, 1996
Duration                       3 years
Background
1.   As Indonesia approaches the third year of REPELITA VI, and despite
significant improvements in human resource development in the recent
years, major challenges to improve effectiveness and efficiency of the
social sectors remain.    These challenges involve the adaptation to an
increasing regional orientation of human resource development while
improving coverage, efficiency and quality of health and education
services. In response, the government has undertaken a number of
initiatives in both health and education to address these challenges.
For example, in the health sector a number of policy reforms and other
initiatives have been launched to address key sectoral issues. These
include: steps towards decentralizing the health care system like
introducing integrated planning and budgeting systems at the provincial
level and reducing the growth of the health workforce by offering newly
graduating doctors three year contracts instead of the life time job as
civil servants. Moreover, the government+s decision to sponsor and
subsidize community-based water and sanitation investments, to take
steps to improve quality in peripheral facilities, to require public
hospitals to improve their efficiency and service standards and to
provide more autonomy in using retained earnings, and the deregulation
aspects of pharmaceuticals production comprise additional policy steps
and so forth. Comparable initiatives were also proposed for the
education sector. For example, GOI now plans to increase the level of
education of the labor force at large by increasing compulsory education
from six to nine years over a 15 year period, and through higher
enrolents in tertiary education; higher quality of education at all
levels; expansion of education to poorer groups and remote regions.
Other efforts are underway to further improve the efficiency of the
education system.
2.   Despite these initiatives, REPELITA VI has not been accompanied by
an overall operational strategy and framework which encompasses policy
changes and supporting investments, and the various measures taken have
not coalesced into a revised strategies for the social sectors. Turning
to the health sector, there is no apparent strategy to implement
decentralization. The contract-doctor scheme has not been followed up



with broad overhaul of workforce allocation, management and supervision
mechanisms in the public sector and a review of quality of medical
education. and health spending has not risen at the expected pace. In
education, the broad objectives of the sector have not been fleshed out
sufficiently. For instance, GOI+s strategy is often not specific
enough, e.g. how will higher quality of university graduates be
provided, and how will poor and remote areas be targeted efficiently.
Moreover, some crucial elements remain to be resolved, including the
phasing of secondary expansion and the resources required to fund this
program.
3.   Several factors have contributed to the lack of an overall
implementation framework for these sectors. Capacity is limited at the
line ministries to carry out needed sector analysis, medium-term
planning and priority setting, and develop an operational strategy and
pipeline. In addition, the limited resources are utilized mainly for
processing projects and donor coordination activities. Moreover, as
decentralization proceeds, provinces need to play a larger role in
developing and implementing their own programs. This in turn will
require building capacity for project design, management and evaluation
at that level. Thus, a program that provides provincial staff with the
resources and technical support needed to play a larger role in project
design and implementation is required.
4.   Thus, the major challenges facing the social sectors during this
transition period include the need to: change the role of the center so
that it focuses on sectoral strategy and policy development and
technical support; to allow, support and build the capacity for
innovation at the provincial level; and to assist BAPPENAS build its
capacity in sectoral planning and evaluation. The change in roles and
the need to strengthen sectoral strategy and planning will require
technical assistance and other capacity building efforts at the
provincial and central levels of the government agencies.
Lessons Learned
5.   Indonesia's experience with stand-alone technical assistance (TA)
loans is generally good. Five IDA Credits were implemented between the
mid-1960s and the mid-1980s. The operations were generally effective
with 87 percent of the sub-projects financing feasibility/design
studies, cuinating in the funding and successful implementation of a
series of investments. It is more difficult to quantify the
effectiveness and impact of studies designed to improve institutional
capacities or policy reform. In this regard, a rich and varied agenda
of studies was undertaken that were likely to have impacted on the
overall development agenda. A review of Bank assisted free-standing
technical assistance credits in Indonesia pointed to several lessons for
future stand-alone TA projects. These include: pre-identification and
end-uses analysis are key for the success of such flexible projects;
free-standing TA can be important in preparing pilot operations in +new+
areas, for institution building, especially where the issues cut across
more than one sector and where project financed TA is not the
appropriate tool for implementation; having a regularly functioning
mechanism for supervising, directing and reviewing sub-projects is
essential for efficient and effective implementation; and commitment
- 2 -



from the recipient should be ensured for the success of such
investments.
6.   Several lessons can also be drawn from TA provided through
projects. A review of such experience points to the following: a common
problem affecting TA in all sectors was the significant delays in
appointment of consultants, mostly due to government+s procedures; TA
for implementation support has been generally effective; the
effectiveness of TA for capacity building and policy studies has been
mixed; careful assessment of the absorptive limits of the receiving
institutions is needed to ensure that TA can be effectively utilized,
especially for capacity building efforts; supervising and managing TA
are key for its effectiveness. This may be easier to address in stand-
alone technical assistance loans where it would receive more attention
from project managers and supervision missions; and project-related TA
may be limited in its ability to address broad sectoral issues.
Project Objectives and Description
7.   Project Objectives.   The proposed project aims to assist the
government in its efforts to enhance human resource development. To
this end, the project will provide support for formulating sector
strategies and building needed institutional capacity for the health and
education. Specific objectives of the project will be to (i) improve
sector strategies and planning frameworks in health and education; and
(ii) encourage and support provincial efforts to prepare sector
priorities and investment plans.
8.   Project Description. To achieve the above objectives, the project
will provide support to activities to BAPPENAS, the line ministries and
the provinces. Proposed project activities will be grouped into these
three main components. These activities are likely to include -
(in-house) advisors on key sectoral policy issues and planning
frameworks. This would include experts in sector expenditures and
financing (e.g., education and health financing, health insurance),
private and public sector roles, workforce planning, institution
capacity building and decentralization and so forth;
policy/sector studies on key issues to be carried out by BAPPENAS,
as well as central and provincial level agencies and research
centers;
feasibility studies and selected project preparation activities;
on a limited scale, training for provincial level staff in skills
needed for project preparation such as procurement, interpreting
data and linking that to project design, and proposal writing
skills; and
an expert-panel to assist with the monitoring and evaluation of the
studies (including quality control) and project preparation (and
proposals).
9.   In addition, the expert-panel and the in-house advisors would also
-3 -



help BAPPENAS develop better systems for monitoring overall sectoral
performance. This in turn may require the establishment of some data
bases for key indicators of sector performance.
Project Benefits, Risks, and Sustainability
10. Benefits. The project will improve the overall strategy for human
resources and thus improve the performance of the sectors involved. It
will also strengthen the projects pipeline for the government and,
subsequently for the Bank assistance. The project will also strengthen
BAPPENAS+s focus on strategic issues, assist the transition to
decentralization, and replenish the pipeline of investment projects -
including Bank projects. Moreover, the project will assist the
government in mobilizing other resources and utilize grant funds more
effectively.
11. Risks. The main risk for the project is effectiveness of the TA
and its ability to produce the desired results. Efforts to reduce this
risk through careful preparation and institutional assessment will be
essential to reduce this risk (e.g., absorptive capacity). Further, the
PMU should be well staffed and has the capacity to review and supervise
the different studies and consultants. Another risk is that the project
resources will be utilized mostly for central level activates and less
so for the provincial preparatory and building capacity activities.
Careful review of proposed activities for the first 18 months (that
should be done prior to negotiations) should minimize this risk.
Finally, slow implementation has been a common feature for most TA and
is a risk that the project faces. Procedure and implementation plans
need to be in place to ensure realistic and efficient implementation
12. Sustainability. By enhancing quality at entry of projects and by
strengthening strategy, the project will enhance sustainability of the
investments in the sectors.
Poverty/Environment/Project Objective Categories
13. The proposed project has no environmental impact. It has been
classified as Category C. The project will have an impact on poverty
alleviation efforts by addressing some of the strategic issues and
possible solutions to improve targeting of human resource services to
the poor. The Project objectives categories are:
Major Sector: Human Resources (RR) (100)t
Public/Private (25) .
Sector Reform (50)t
Poverty (25)t
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
- 4-



Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 5 -



