Page  1
                                                         CONFORMED COPY
                                                  LOAN NUMBER 4030 IND
                                Loan Agreement
            (Social Sectors Strategy and Capacity Building Project)
                                   between
                           REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                               AND DEVELOPMENT
                             Dated August 12, 1996
                                                   LOAN NUMBER 4030 IND
                                 LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated August 12, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the
Bank).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the
Project; and
     WHEREAS (B) the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and condi-
tions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                  ARTICLE I
                        General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
     (a)  The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
     (b)  The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
          "Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree,
          no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures
          in the territories of any country which is not a member of
          the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from,
Page  2
          such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
          persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such
          payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited
          by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken
          under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
     (c)  In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph
(l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
          "(k) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which
          any further withdrawals under the Loan would be inconsistent
          with the provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's
          Articles of Agreement."
     Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective meanings
therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
     (a)  "BAPPENAS" means the Borrower's National Development Planning
Agency;
     (b)  "Fiscal Year" means the Borrower's fiscal year commencing April
1 and ending March 31;
     (c)  "Line Ministries" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education
and Culture, Ministry of Religious Affairs, Ministry of Health, Ministry
of  Social Affairs, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Home Affairs,
and "Line Ministry" means any one of the Line Ministries;
     (d)  "PMU" means the Project Management Unit established in BAPPENAS
in accordance with paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (e)  "Project Implementation Manual" means the operational manual
adopted in accordance with paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (f)  "REPELITA VII" means the Borrower's seventh five-year develop-
ment plan;
     (g)  "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement; and
     (h)  "Sub-projects" means the studies, research and advisory services
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and selected pursuant to the
provisions of paragraph 2 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, and "Sub-
project" means any one of the Sub-projects.
                                 ARTICLE II
                                  The Loan
     Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various
currencies that shall have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount
of twenty million dollars ($20,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of
the proceeds of the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of
the date of such withdrawal.
     Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services required for the
Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan.
     (b)  The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and
maintain in dollars a special deposit account in Bank Indonesia or in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank,
including, in the case of a commercial bank, appropriate protection
against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 6 to this Agreement.
Page  3
     Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or such
later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify
the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
     Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a
rate for each Interest Period equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
determined in respect of the preceding Semester, plus one-half of one
percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of
this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the principal
amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at
the rate applicable during such Interest Period.
     (b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank
shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined
in respect of such Semester.
     (c)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the
               date immediately preceding each date specified in Section
               2.06 of this Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
               in which this Agreement is signed.
          (ii) "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reason-
               ably determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage
               per annum, of the outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn
               down after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings or
               portions thereof as the Bank has allocated to fund: (A)
               the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may be made by
               the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates
               determined otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
               this Section.
         (iii) "Semester" means the first six months or the second six
                months of a calendar year.
     (d)  On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months'
notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section
shall be amended to read as follows:
          "(a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of
          the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate
          for each Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
          determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus one-half
          of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in
          Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest
          accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the pre-
          ceding Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
          during such Interest Period."
          "(b) As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the
          Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified
          Borrowings determined in respect of such Quarter."
          "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on
          January 1, April 1, July 1 or October 1 in a calendar year."
     Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-
annually on February 1 and August 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule
3 to this Agreement.
                                ARTICLE III
Page  4
                          Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, educational,
and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this
Section and except as the Borrower and the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement
of consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
     (a)  prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank,
and furnish to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing
Date or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the
Borrower and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the continued achieve-
ment of the objectives of the Project; and
     (b)  afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on said plan.
                               ARTICLE IV
                           Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be main-
tained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
               of this Section including those for the Special Account for
               each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
               auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
               auditors acceptable to the Bank;
          (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case
               not later than six months after the end of each such year,
               the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
               and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
               requested; and
         (iii) furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said
               records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall
               from time to time reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the
Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the
Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
               paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
               reflecting such expenditures;
          (ii) retain, until at least one year after the Bank has
               received the audit report for the fiscal year in which
               the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was made, all
               records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
               and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
Page  5
         (iii) enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records;
               and
          (iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included in the
               annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section
               and that the report of such audit contains a separate
               opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements of
               expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together
               with the procedures and internal controls involved in
               their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
               related withdrawals.
                                  ARTICLE V
                                 Termination
     Section 5.01. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the
General Conditions.
                                 ARTICLE VI
                   Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The Minister Finance of the Borrower is designated as
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the
General Conditions.
     Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes
of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          c/o Directorate General of Budget
          Jalan Lapangan Banteng Timur 2-4
          P. O. Box 1139
          Jakarta 10710
          Indonesia
          Cable address:                Telex:
               FINMINISTRY              45799 DJMLN-IA
               Jakarta                  44319 DEPKEU-IA
     For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                Telex:
               INTBAFRAD                248423 (MCI) or
               Washington, D.C.          64145 (MCI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
               REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
               By /s/ Arifin M. Siregar, Ambassador
                                                Authorized Representative
Page  6
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
               By /s/ Russell Cheetham
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                                    East Asia and Pacific
                                 SCHEDULE 1
                   Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to
each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                              Loan Allocated           % of
                              (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Overseas training:                            100%
     (a) Parts A and B           600,000
         of the Project
     (b) Part C of               300,000
         the Project
(2)  Local training:                               40%
     (a) Parts A and B           200,000
         of the Project
     (b) Part C of             1,000,000
         the Project
(3)  Project                   3,000,000           100%
     administration
(4)  Consultants'
     services and
     studies:
     (a) Parts A and B         8,300,000           80%
         of the Project
     (b) Part C of the         5,900,000           100%
         Project
(5)  Unallocated                 700,000
                               _________
          TOTAL               20,000,000
                              ==========
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "Project administration"
means expenditures on account of the Project incurred by the Project
Management Unit for travel, per diem, allowances, supplies, maintenance,
office accommodations (but excluding salaries) and consultants' services
contracted by the PMU for Project administration purposes.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to
the date of this Agreement; and (b) payments made for expenditures in
respect of Category (4) (a), until the Borrower has provided evidence,
acceptable to the Bank, that the Borrower has established the PMU as set
out in paragraph 1 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
4.   The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) training
and administration expenditures; and (b) contracts for the employment of
Page  7
consulting firms valued at less than $100,000 equivalent each and
contracts for the employment of individual consultants valued at less
than $50,000 equivalent each; all under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in formulat-
ing sector strategies and building institutional capacity for social
sectors, including: (a) improving sector strategies for health and
education, (b) building capacity in BAPPENAS and planning units of Line
Ministries to develop strategies, and monitor and evaluate sector
performance and programs, (c) building capacity in the provinces to
design and implement provincial programs, and (d) supporting provincial
efforts to prepare sector priorities and investment plans.
     The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from
time to time to achieve such objectives:
PART A:    BAPPENAS
     Development of the institutional capacity of BAPPENAS in (a) the
formulation of sector strategies and investment priorities, including
plans for further decentralization of the social sectors and design of
enabling environments to encourage private sector development, (b) the
review and appraisal of investment plans, (c) the monitoring and
evaluation of social sector performance, and (d) the provision of
technical inputs in the formulation of REPELITA VII, through: (i) the
carrying out of Sub-projects, including sector analysis, review of
planning frameworks, development of models for assessment of provincial
sector needs, and pre-feasibility studies, (ii)  the development of
training programs, and  (iii) the training of staff.
PART B:    LINE MINISTRIES
     Development of the institutional capacity of the Borrower's Line
Ministries in defining and operationalizing sector strategies and
carrying out sector studies, through: (a) the carrying out of Sub-
projects, including review and improvement of monitoring and evaluation
systems and capacities, pilot research studies and feasibility studies;
(b) the development of training programs, and (c) the training of staff.
PART C:    PROVINCIAL LEVEL
     Development of the institutional capacity of the Borrower's provinces
in the planning, designing, implementation and financing of provincial
programs, through: (a) the carrying out of Sub-projects, including sector
assessments, feasibility studies, and project preparation activities, and
(b) the training of staff.
                               * * *
     The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
                        Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                         (Expressed in dollars)*
February 1, 2002                                 390,000
August 1, 2002                                   400,000
February 1, 2003                                 415,000
August 1, 2003                                   430,000
February 1, 2004                                 445,000
August 1, 2004                                   460,000
February 1, 2005                                 475,000
August 1, 2005                                   495,000
Page  8
February 1, 2006                                 510,000
August 1, 2006                                   530,000
February 1, 2007                                 545,000
August 1, 2007                                   565,000
February 1, 2008                                 585,000
August 1, 2008                                   605,000
February 1, 2009                                 625,000
August 1, 2009                                   650,000
February 1, 2010                                 670,000
August 1, 2010                                   695,000
February 1, 2011                                 720,000
August 1, 2011                                   745,000
February 1, 2012                                 770,000
August 1, 2012                                   800,000
February 1, 2013                                 825,000
August 1, 2013                                   855,000
February 1, 2014                                 885,000
August 1, 2014                                   915,000
February 1, 2015                                 945,000
August 1, 2015                                   980,000
February 1, 2016                               1,015,000
August 1, 2016                                 1,055,000
___________________
*    The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined
     as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See General Conditions,
     Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the premium
payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the Loan to be prepaid
shall be the percentage specified for the applicable time of prepayment
below:
     Time of Prepayment                   Premium
                                  The interest rate (expressed as
                                  a percentage per annum) appli-
                                  cable to the Loan on the day of
                                  prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years                      0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                      0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                        0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                 0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                1.00
     maturity
                               SCHEDULE 4
                          Consultants' Services
Section I.  Employment of Consultants
1.   Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Page  9
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications thereto as shall have been agreed by the
Bank. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be used.
2.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Bank review or
approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters of
invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts, shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for the
employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less than $50,000
equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior Bank review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-
source selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical
nature, as reasonably determined by the Bank, (d) amendments to contracts
for the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$100,000 equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the
employment of individual consultants raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                         Implementation Program
1.   (a)  The Borrower shall establish and, thereafter, maintain until
completion of the Project, a Project Management Unit with functions and
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, and with competent staff in
adequate numbers, including a qualified and experienced project manager
and a treasurer.
     (b)  The PMU shall be assisted: (i) on substantive Project related
matters and the selection of Sub-projects, by technical committees which
shall comprise representatives of BAPPENAS, the Line Ministries,
provincial level agencies and other technical experts, and (ii) on the
design and implementation of studies and capacity building activities at
the provincial level, by provincial project secretariats which shall
comprise representatives of relevant provincial agencies.
2.   The Borrower shall, through the PMU:
     (a)  not later than April 30, 1997, adopt a Project Implementation
Manual, acceptable to the Bank, to assist the PMU and the implementing
agencies in the implementation of the Project.  Such Manual shall
include a description of the criteria and procedures for the selection of
Sub-projects;
     (b)  select Sub-project proposals in accordance with criteria and
procedures agreed with the Bank; and
     (c)  not later than September 30 in each year, commencing September
30, 1996, furnish to the Bank, for approval, Sub-project proposals and
training programs, including terms of reference, for the following Fiscal
Year.
3.   The Borrower shall:
     (a)  maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
satisfactory to the Bank, the carrying out of the Project and the
achievement of the objectives thereof;
     (b)  prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and
furnish to the Bank, by not later than April 30, 1998, a report
integrating the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities
performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding
the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to
ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
Page  10
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
     (c)  review with the Bank, by July 30, 1998, or such later date as
the Bank shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report
and the Bank views on the matter.
4.   The Borrower shall, with respect to selected completed Sub-projects
and training programs:
     (a)  carry out technical audits aimed at reviewing the performance
of the consultants therein, in accordance with terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank; and
     (b)  promptly thereafter, furnish to the Bank for comments the
recommendations of the audits.
                               SCHEDULE 6
                            Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (4)
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to
$2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided,
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized
Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $600,000 until
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or
exceed the equivalent of $4,000,000.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the
               Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall
               specify.
          (ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower
               shall furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence
               required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
               payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is
               requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank
               shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan
               Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount
Page  11
               as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have
               been shown by said documents and other evidence to have
               been paid out of the Special Account for eligible
               expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the
               Bank from the Loan Account under the respective eligible
               Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as
               shall have been justified by said documents and other
               evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request,
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special
Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the
General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
     (b)  if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank,
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the
Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records
and accounts for the Special Account;
     (c)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower of
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower
to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to the provisions of
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
     (d)  once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the
eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equiva-
lent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter,
withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of
the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such proce-
dures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further
withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an
amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii)
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an
amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not
so eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further
payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank
all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
Page  12
