Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RePortNo. 8158
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LOWER SXO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17290-BR/17291-BR)
NOVEMBER 6, 1989
Agriculture Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribation and may be used by recipients only in the perfonnance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CUR1ENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Cruzado Novo (NCzS)
USS.00 - NCz$1.0O
WEIGHTS AND MEAS¢ES
The metric system is used throughout the report.
FISCAL YEAR
Government of Brazil  = January I to December 31



WAl OFCIAL UK OLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washigton. D.C. 20433
US.A.
OUt of Diwet"rvC.ruat
OperM*m0 GatWWt
November 6, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Brazil Lower Sao Francisco
Irrigation Project (Loans 17290-BR/17291-BR)
Attached, for information is a copy of a report entitled
"Project Completion Report on Brazil Lower SAo Francisco Irrigation
Project (Loans 17290-BR/17291-BR)" prepared by the Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office. Further evaluation of this project by
the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by remipients only In the perfomance
of t4eir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloseeA without World Bank authorizstion.



FOR OMCIUL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
L'ntER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(lOUl: 17290-LR/17291-BR)
ClossarY of Acronyms
CHESF           Companhia Hidroel6trica do Sao Francisco
(SAo Francisco Hydroelectric Company)
CODEVASY        Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(SAo Francisco Valley Development Company)
DNOCS           Departamento Nacional de Obras Contra as Secas
(National Department of Drought-Related Works)
DNOS            Departamento Nacional de Obras de Sanoamento
(National Department of Sanitary Works)
EHATER          Empresa de AssistOncia T4cnica e Extensao Rural
(Agricultural Technical Assistance and Extension
Agency)
EMBRAPA         Empresa Brauilaira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Braziliau Agricultural Research Agency)
PAO             Food and Agriculture Organization
*FUKAI           Funda9io Nacional para Indio'
(National Foundation for Indians)
GOB             Government of Brazil
INCRA           Instituto Nacional  de Coloniza$ao e da Reforma
Agr*ria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agraridn
Reform)
IRGA            Instituto do Rio Grande do Sul  para Araoz
(Rice Institute of Rio Grande do Sul)
PETROBRAS       Petroleo Brasileiro S.A.
(Brazilian Petroleum Company)
AP              Special Action Program
SAM             Staff Appraisal Report
SF              SAO Francisco River
SP1             Lower SAO Francisco Polders Project (Loan ll!1-BR)
srF             Lover Sao Francisco Irrigation Project (Loans 17290-BR
and 17291-BR)
UNDP            United Nations Development Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT CONFLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LOWER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17290-BR/17291-BR)
TABLE Or. CONTENTS
Page No
PREFACE                                                                L **.--....  L
EVALUATION SUMMARY *...................................... *......    ii
PART I
A.  PROJECT IDENTITY        .............................................   1
B.  BACKGROUND        .................................................  1
C.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION .....     .....................2 
D.  PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION ......    .......................   3
E.  PROJECT IMPLDENTATION .       ....................................   3
F.  PROJECT RESULTS          .     ...... ...................          6
G. PROJECT SUSTAINADILITV .......................................      9
H.  BANK PERFOMACE           ............................................   10
*. BORROWER PEUFORMANCE .... ....................................   11
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS    ........................................  11
K.  CONSULTING SERVICES .. ....................................       12
PART II ......................................                        13
PART III ......................................    16
List of Annexes and Tables
Annex 1.  Table 1 - Related Sank Loans .......................... .   17
Annex 2.  Project Timetable ......................................  19
Annex 3.  Disbursements        ..........................................  24
Table 1 - Scb:dule of Bank Disbursements .............. .  25
Table 2 - Total Disbursements (Appraisal Estimates
vs. i1ctual) .......   ...........................  26
Annex 4. Key Indicators ..........................................   27
Annex 5.  Costs  ..............      36
Table 1 - Project Costs  ........*.........................   37
Table 2- Actual Project Costs per Varzea ........... ...  38



Table of Contents (Cont'd)
Annex 6.  Table 1 - Production (Paddy) by Varzea ..................   39
Table 2 - Economic Analysts ........         ....................   41
Table 3 - Farmer tncomes .........................                 4Z
Annex 7.  Compliance with Covenants .............................. 43
Annex 8.  Table 1 - Staff Inputs           .................................   44
Table 2 - Supervision Missions ..........................   45
MAPs       IBRD No. Z1587



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LOWER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17290-BR/17291-BR)
PREACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Lower Sao
Francisco Irrigation Project for which Loan 17290-BR in the amount of
US$28.0 million was approved on June 19, 1979, and Supplementary Loan
17291-BR of US$7.7 million was approved on December 7, 1983 as part of
the Bankls Special Action Program. Loan 17290-BR was closed on
June 30, 1987 two years behind schedule and Loan 17291-BR was closed
on June 30, 1988. The last disbursements under Loan 17290-BR an-d
under Loan 17291-BR were made on April 18, 1987 and on February '4,
1989, respectively. The remaining undisbursed balance of Loan
17291-BR of US$211,901.26 was cancelled.
The PCR was jointly prepared by tho; Brazil Agriculture
Operatios Division of the Brazil Department of the Latin America and
the Caribbean Regional Office (Preface, Evaluation Sumary, Parts I
and III). and the Borrower (Part 10).
Preparation of the PCI started during the last supervision
mission of the project in September 1987 and is based- inter alia, on
the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project Agreements,
supervision reports, correspondance between the Bank and the Borrower,
and internal Bank memoranda.



- LL -
BRAZIL
LOwER Sko FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
.LQANS 17290.ERh7291-BR)
1.       In  .978, when thLU projct was appraised, the Bankcs le1ing
objectives were toa  (a) help Intensify the efforts of the Goernmt to
delop projects that vl   Increase productLvity and ince  of the lowest
income segmts of the population of the. country, broaden t *con .am.c
opportunities open to those groups, and Improv their living conditions:
and (b) support institutional development and policy refoms designed to
develop rational policies and procedures, establdih adequatc coordination
and control, and help public savings and ensure their most economic use.
The project was designed to meet these objectives (para. 1.01).
ii.      The project included four components& (a) construction of three
irrigation schemes (full. water control) In thee small flood plains
(varzeas) located along the S6o Francisco rLver (total irrigated area of
about 8,115 ha), feeder roads, paddy storage and processing faeclities;
(b) Institution building activLties including support to farmer
associations, trainLng of CODILSF staff and technical assistance to
CODIVASY and famers; (c) constructLon of social Infrastructure
facilities including houses, schools, health posts and water supply
systemes and (d) studies, monitoring and evaluation of the project
(paras. 1.06 and 1.07).
Imalemetat4o_n exmerlence
111.     Project scope and design for works changed substantlally
(paras. 1.14 to 1.21) during the implementation of the project (e.g.,
provLding for the constructLon of the Boacica regulatory dam was added
and the development of the Brejo Grands varsea was eliainated).  CODEVASI
efforts focussed on the implementation of the irrlgatLon works and lees
on the various aspects of agricultural development.
iv.      Agricultural production (paddy and cash crops) has been laggLig
behind because of continuous shortage of agricultural credit and
Inadequate extension services (paras. 1.24 and 1.25).
v.       Because of unsatisfactory agricultural development results,
CODEVASF (and the Goverrment) declded ln 1986 to transfer to the farers
some activLties it used to carry out on their behalf (e.g. provLsLon of
extension services and training) and to confine Lts role mainly to the
constructLon of clvil works. It emphasized Instead the urgency of
developing farmer cooperation through the build-up of technLcally end
financially autonomous cooperatives. To achleve thLs ambitLous goals
CODEVASP provided technical and financial support to the cooperatives.
This change in pollcy appears to have worked as paddy yields have
increased murkedly (pars. 1426), slnce 1988.



- iii -
Results
vi.      The project benefitted 1823 small farmers, or 67S of the
appraisal target (para. 1.27).
vii.     Farm budgets show net returns varying from about US$1,430 to
about US$2,550 on 3.5 ha farms, which compares with pre-prcject incomes
of US$700 to US$1,023 (para. 1.27).
viii.    Thirty four new schools were built, 36 schools were upgraded
(the objective was to build 34 schools, including 13 new ones, to
accommodate 2,700 pupils on a double shift basis). Ten health centers
were built (two more than the appraisal target), as well as 8 water
supply systems (para. 1.2b).
±1.      Although paddy yields increased considerably Ju recent year. and
have reached satisfactory levels (average of 4.0 tons per ha in two
varzeas in 1988), total production is still much below appraisal
expectations (22.2 tons in 1988, or 27S of the appraisal estimate of 83.0
tons). Production of cash crops, as well as horticulture and livestock
aativities, remain also well below expectations (para. 1.32).
X-.      The cost of the project has been re-estimated at about US$75.1
millian which is close to the appraisal estimate of US$74.7 million.
Vhile irrigation works faced cost overruns of about US$16.7 million or
55Z of appraisal estimate the total project costs remained as estimated
at appraisal, because of a reduction in the scope of the project. In
December 1983, the Bank approved a supplementary loan of US$7.7 million
in the context of a Special Action Program, which increased the Bank's
financing share from 37S to 472.
xi.      The ex-post economic analysis of the project indicates an
aggregate rate of return of about 7Z, substantially below the appraisal
estimate of 22: (pare. 1.34).
xii.     Farmer cooperation progressed markedly during project execution.
through the creation of farmers associations and the establishment of
cooperatives. The project played a pioneering role in starting this
process in the Northeast (para 1.39).
Sustainabilitv
xiii.    At the time of project completion, the financial sustainability
of the project remains to be proven. Th6 projeat can be expected to
become self-sustaining once the process of building financially and
technically sound cooperatives is completed. Fully operational
cooperatives are likely to lead to higher paddy yields and further crop
diversification. Operation and maintenance of irrigation works will
remain complex and expensive, requiring strict enforcement of colLection
of water charges if financial viability is to be accomplished
(paras. 1.42 to 1.44).



- iv -
Findins
xiv.     The most important findilgs of the es-post evaluation are the
need tot
Ci) ideutify more explicitly the social objectives and
justifications for the project;
(ii) ensure that the preparation of detailed engineering is of
satisfactory techaLcal level in order to avoid the need for
later design modifications reulting in delayed project
implementation and cost overrus;
(iii) shift responsibilities for providing agricultural support
services fram the irrigation authority (CODEVASV) to the
beneficisries (farmer associations and cooperatives); and
(iv) agree during project preparation/appraisal on a procuremen. plan
whic'h forma  an integral part of the project's implementation
schbdule.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LOWER ShO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(L0ANS 17290-BR/17291-BRI
A. PROJECT !DZNTITY
Names                      Lover SAO Francisco Irrigation Project
(52).
Loans:                     17290-BR and 17291-BR.
ReSlonal Vice Presidencys  Latin America and the Caribbean Region.
countrys                   Federative Republic of Brazil.
Sectors                    Agriculture.
Subsector:                 Irrigation.
Amount:                    US8 35.7 million 'Loan 17290-BR of US$28.0
million and supplemental Loaw 17291-BR of
US$7.7 million)..
B. BACKGROUND
1.01     In addition to providing part of the substantial medium and long
term capital inflows needed for sustaining Brazil$s development. the Bank's
main lending objectives in 1978 were to (a) help intensify the efforts of
the Government to develop projects that will increase productivity and
incom of the lowest income segments of the population, broaden the
economic opportunities opened to those groups, and improve their living
conditions; and (b) support institutional development and policy reforms
designed to develop rational policies and procedures, establish adequate
coordination and control, and help public savings and ensure their most
economic use. The project was designed to meet these objectives.
1.02     The project was a follow-up of the Lower Sgo Francisco Polders
Project, supported by Loan 1151-BR (SF1) which previded for the basic
infrastructure (protection dikes, main pumping stations for irrigation and
drainage) for varzeasl located in the Lower S80 Francisco Valley.
1.03     The basic rational for developi- these varzeas was to compensate
for the losses of agricultural producta.__ *esulting from the new flow
regime of the Sao Francisco River (SF) following the constructlon of the
Sobradinho and Pxulo Alfonso dams some 1,400 kma upstream. The majority of
the varzea land bolonged to large farmers who used to rent their land to
1/ Varz.at a flood plain located along a river.



sharecroppers growing paddy under flood recession conditions. Production
was small and fluctuated each year according to flood levels of the SY.
C. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.04     The project aimed at the production of paddy and, to a lesser
extent, contemplated the production of high-value crops through sprinkler
irrigation. Paddy was to be produced mainly for local consumption in the
tegion and cities of the northeast coast.
1.0t    Although implementation difficulties could not be excluded because
of the need for politically sensitive land redistribution, the project was
a priority for the Government of Brazil (GOB). The Project authority was
the SA0 Francisco Valley Development Company (CODEVASF).
1.06     The objectives of the project as appraised were toa
(a) increase incomes of about 2.720 low-income farmer familiess
(b)  improve health and education facilities in the project areas
(c)  increase rice jfroduction and improve its quality- and
(d)  strengthen CODEVASF management.
1.07     The project included the following components:
(a)  Works:
si)  implementation of irrigation works2  in three varzeas
located along the SF (Boacica, Cotinguiba-Pindoba. Brejo
Grande);
(ii) construction of a feeder road network; and
(iii) construction of paddy storage and processing facilities.
(b) Institution buildings
(i) support to farmer associations (buildings, equipment,
incremental operating costs over a fLve-year period);
(ii) training of CODEVASF staffs and
(iii) technical assistance to CODEVASF and farmer associations.
(c)  Social infrastructure:  housing, education, health and sanitation
facilities:
(d)  Studies. monitoring and evaluation.
21 According to the Brazilian Irrigation Law of 1979, irrigation works
include irrigation, drainage, and elsectrical works.



-3-
D. PROJECT DESIGN AND ORGANIZATION
1.08     The project. following earlier developed concepts. aimed at the
creation of polders with full water control. The use of sprinkler
irrigation by the project beneficiaries was new. The technical package
proposed to intensify paddy production wos well known at the time of
appraisal. One of the more challenging and innovative aspects of the
project was the building of associations among the small farmers.
1.09     The project was geographically quite limited and confined to only
three varzeas covering a net irrigable area of about 8,780 ha. The varzeas
had been selected from a list of varzeas located along the Lower SF. Host
of the others were found to be uneconomical to develop.
1.10     The project was prepared by reputable foreign consulting firras.
However, while in general satisfactory, the preparation suffered from an
incomplete analysis of the risk of floods from the SF and from other
streams of the catchment area.
1.11     There was no probleuq with the project implementation schedule and
the period of four years estimated at appraisal to implement the project
seemed appropriate. Tho scope of works to be execi...ed was modest, although
they were scattered over three different locations. The nature of the
works was not complex and no difficulties were encountered to hire
qualified local constructing companies.- Although the pr,.zotion/
establishment of fa _er associations anl the traiaing of farmers in
sprinkler irrigated crops proved more difficult, the time envisaged at
appraisal for that purpose was adequate.
1.12     The institutional arrangements for the project proved adequate.
CODEVASP, the implementing agency, had already gained considerable
experienca in implementing SF1 through its Fourth Directorate (offices in
Aracajti).  The Fourth Directorate was to be strengthened to cope with the
additional responsibilities under SF2. In addition, a resident engineer
was to be recruited to coordinate activities iL the field. State agencies
were responsible to operate and maintain the social facilities to be
constructed under the project (schools, health posts, rural electrical
works and roads). Agreements (convenios) were to be entered into between
the project authority and these State entities. Finally, FAO was expected
to provide technical assistance for training of CODEVASF and cooperative
personnel.
1.13     At the time of appraisal in 1978, the Government of Brazil
supported small-scale irrigation schemes, such as SF2, mainly on social
grounds. Accordingly, the beneficiaries were small-scale farmers, many of
them with little experience in irrigation agriculture. To compensate for
their lack of capital and expertise. CODEVASF's interventions were highly
paternalistic. It was not only responsible for implementation of
Irrigation works, but also for the provision of technical and social
assistance to the farmers.
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
l.l4     Some significant changes in the project scope were agreed upon
during execution. These included the redesign of irrigation works in most



-4-
varzeas, the elimination of the Brejo Grande varzea and of the rainfed
cultivation component. and the introduction of a pig-rice-fish"
('suinorizipiscicultura*) activity. The latter proved to be a substantiai
source of animal protein for the people of the region.
1.15     A large number of works underwent substantial design
modifications. For the Cotinguiba-Pindoba varzea these changes included:
(i) redesigning the main pumping station and the sprinkler irrigation
system: (ii) dredging of the main river (Mossuipe), which took more
resources than envisaged because of insufficient geotechnical
investigations mads in the river bed (the contractor found rock instead of
alluvions)i (iii) building an additional outlet into the SF. Changes in
the Boacica varzea includedt Mi) the design of main pumping station and
irrigation system; and (ii) provision for the construction of the Boacica
dam upstream of the varzea to provide a seasonal regulation of the Boacica
river (to prevent the flooding of some 70Z of the varzea during the rainy
season). These modifications resulted in delays in project execution and
in cost overruns. Floods were underestimated, and they severely damaged
the irrigation works during the construction period which obliged CODEVASF
to implement a special progr4a and to obtain additional financing.
1.16.    In 1980, the project authority requested, and the Bank agreed, to
eliminate development of the Brejo Grande varzea from the project.   This
major change in the scope of the project reduced the area to be developed
under the entire project by about 1,875 ha or 21Z. The reason for the
elimination was that the Brazilian petroleum company (PETROBRAS) was
carrying out oil investigations in the varzea which was not expected at
appraisal. The corresponding financing was reallocated mainly to cover
cost overruns in Boacica and Cotinguiba-Pindoba and, to a lesser extent, to
rehabilitate a4.d repair irrigation works in the varzeas ot Iti6ba and
Boacica.
1.17     In the Ititba varzea, the project'financed minor rehabilitations
which consisted of redesigning the irrigation water supply system (pumping
from the SF instead of a reservoir receiving water from upstream of the
varzea), and delivering irrigation water through a new main canal with
embankuents to be used as a dike along the reservoir. Works started in
early 1983 with the construction of the pumping station and were almost
completed by end 1983. Land levelling progressed slowly and was completed
in 1987.
1.18     In the Boacica varzea, CODEVASF repaired damages caused by the
Boacica River floods to newly constructed irrigation works in addition to
the program of new irrigation works to be built under the project.
1.19.    CODZVASF executed only minor rehabilitation works in the varzea of
Propria (lining of canals, rehabilitation of minor hydraulic structures).
but the project provided technical assistance and social infrastructure
facilities to farmers.
1.20     SF1 had included the construction of dikes to protect the Boacica
varzea against the floods of the SF. Neither SF1 nor SF2 analyzed at
appraisal the issue of crop and works damages by the Boacica river floods
originating from upstream of the varzea. However, these floods had a major
adverse effect on the development of the varzea by precluding double



-5
cropping on about 702 of the varzea (para. 1.15). As early as 1980, before
the start-up of any works. the project documentation indicates that
CODEVASF had commitsioned a study of the Boacica dan.  During supervision.
the  ank insisted that the damn be built.  Its construction with counterpart
funds was a condition of the Special Action Program associated witb the
second extension of the loan closJng date. CODZVASF had difficulties to
proceed with the study because of the opposition by land owners controllivg
the land of the future reservoir; they obstructed the drilling of the
needed geStechnical boreholes and succeeded in delaying the expropriation
process (dispute over the price of the land) until 1987. The Bank reviewed
closely the study which was finalized in 1988. Construction started in
1988 and is expected to be completed in 1989 (Annex 2, pg.2).
1.21     The project initially envisaged to improve rainfed cultivation on
highlands (tabuleiros*) adjacent to the varzeas. It was expected that the
introduction of an adequate technical package would increase substantially
cotton and maize yimlds. This was a reasonable assumption given the
prevailing climatological conditiont (annual rainfall of 800 to 1.200 m).
However, the rainfed area war, small (867 ha or 92 of the total net area to
be developed under the project) and the related production increase modest.
Rainfed farming on the tabuleiroso was not compatible with paddy
cultivation in the varzias in terms of quantity and timing of manpower
requirements. The sub-component vas thus dropped. Furrow irrigation on
the "combros'3 was abandoned in favor of sprinkler irrigation.
1.22     CODSVASF made strenuous efforts to implement the irrigation works
and apparently put less emphasis on developing agricultural production.
This can be explained by the fact that CODZVASF's main expertise is in
civil engineering and construction management rather than in agricultural
production development.
1.23     Paddy yield developments have been lagging substantially behind
schedule (Annex 6). because (a) difficulties on the part of the farmers to
obtain credit (general issue in rural development projects in Brazil during
the period); (b) poor extension services; and (c) lack of experience of
farmers in irrigation.
1.24     Credit was either not available at the right time, or if
available, not in sufficient volume or at terms unacceptable to the
farmers. The project authority and the supervision missions agree that
lack of credit has been a major cause for delays in introducing a second
paddy crop per year, and thus to achieve the project's production
objectives.
1.25     CODEVASF provided extension services during the initial years of
the project. Later the technical assistance and rural extension companies
(EHMTERs) of the States of Sergipe and-Alagoas substituted for CODEVASF.
However. because of poor perfoLmance (little progress in yield increases
and cropping intensity), and following insistence from the Bank, the Rice
Institute of Rio Grande do Sul (IRGA) was engaged to provide technical
assistance to the farmers. IRGA is a cooperative from the south of the
country with a long experience,in paddy cultivation. Thb into;rvention of
IRGA was a breakthrough. Its experts were qualified and succeeded in
31 Combrot high part of a varzea not suitable for paddy cultivation.



introducing an adequate technical package and in monitoring agricultural
practices closely. Paddy yields rapidly increased to levels higher than
appraisal estimates (above 4 tons per ha in 1988) wherever credit was
available. Since 1986, the involvement of IRGA has been reduced because of
financial constraints and. as a result, the production is still lagging.
Cooperatives recognize that the increase in cropping intensity is a major
task they face. In the context of the new GOB policy, they are recruiting
their own technical assistance including e:xperts from IRGA.
1.26     Because progress made in improving yields and in establishing
farmer associations was slower than anticipated, CODEVASF abandoned its
paternalistic approach (para. 1.13). Starting in 1986, it confined i7s
interventions mainly to implementation of works and technical/financial
support to the cooperatives and to increased farmers involvement in the
development of these varzeas. The Bank supparted this change, insisting
however, that it be done carefully given the challenges that were ahead of
these cooperatives. The consequences of this change in policy on the
institutions involved (staff reduction in CODEVASF, strengtheaing of the
cooperatives) are being addressed to-day, and constitute an important
aspect of the Bank's current.dialogue with GOB.
F.  PROJECT RESULTS
1.27     Farm budgets show annual net returns from 3.5 ha paddy farms of
about US$1,808 in Boacica; US$2,550 in Cotinguiba-Pindoba; US$2,520 in
Iti6ba; and US$1,430 in Propria for the average family of five. This
compares with a pre-project income of US$700 in Boacica and USUi,025
elsewhere. It does not include the additional income originating from
livestock activities (suinorizipisciculturag), which remains modest in the
aggregate (in 1987, the value of livestock activities in Iti%ba represented
about 72 of the value of paddy production), but increases substantially the
income of the 102 of farmers involved in such activities. Incomes derived
from livestock activities are expected to increase as these activities
expand in the varzeas.
The project benefitted 1,823 small farmers (67Z of the objective):
I                           l    No. of Settled
Varzea                      Farmers          l
I                          I                           I
Boacica                             779            l
Cotinguiba-Pindoba      I           508            l
Itidba                  |           226            l
Propria                 I           310            l
Total                          _1823
1.28     Thirty four new schools were built, 36 schools were upgraded (the
objective was to build 34 schools, including 13 new ones, to accommodate
2,700 pupils on a double shift basis).  This sub-component was completed by
end-1981. Ten health centers were built (two more than the appraisal
target), as well as 8 water supply systems (Annex 4).



1.29     PAO provided effective technical assistance.  The FAO team
included a general coordinator and experts in rural development. rice post
harvest-storaga-milling, irrigation, fisheries, on-farm irrigation,
procurement. cooperative development, and 30 man-months of short term
consultants. FAO experts had oinly advisory functions and were responsible
for training CODEVASF and cooperative personnel. At appraisal, a condition
of effectiveness was that a project document be entered into between lAO
and UNDP. Originally, UNDP was to finance this part of the project, but
because of financial difficult!es faced by UNDF, loan funds substituted for
the UNDP contribution.
1.30     The project's paddy production has been substantially lagging
behind appraisal forecasts as indicated below:
I                                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
I_______           Agricultural Production  (T00O)
Year   I1981   1982   19                98986         1987I19j
I   ~  I      I       I      I       I      I       I      I     -I
A.R.    1S.8 I7.7 245.4 1 64.1 17.2 180.8 182.6 183.0 I
_A.-     4.7     7.4     9.3     6.1    10-2 L14.2  1 2.7   L2.22_
A.E. = Appraisal Estimates
A.   - Actual
1.31.    However. yields have been improving considerably in recent years.
sometimes reaching values higher than appraisal estimates. For example. in
1987 yields achieved in the varzeas have been the followings 4.2 t/ha
(Boacica): 4.0 t/ha (Itidba); 3.1 tlha (PropriA); 2.1 tlha (Cotinguiba-
Pindoba). These figures compare with those of the *without* project
situation of 1.6 t/ha and an appraisal objective of 4.0 t/ha. The
shortfall of production is due largely to a lower than expected cropping
intensity.
1.32.    Production of crops other than rice remained also below
expectation. Rainfed cultivation was deleted from the project
(para. 1.21). Irrigated cotton, maize, peanuts, watermelon and bananas
were eventually introduced, but .-ith delays, lower yields and on smaller
areas than originally anticipated. For example, in the varzeas of Proprih
and Cotinguiba-Pindoba such crops were cultivated in 1987 on an area
representing only 102 ef the paddy area, instead of 232 envisaged at
appraksal, and their value compares to only 62 of the value of paddy
production.. Private initiatives to develop horticulture failed to reach
significant proportions because credit was not available. Livestock
production associated with paddy production is progressing. However, it
still represents only a minor fraction (para. 1.27) of the value of paddy.
1.33.    The actual total cost of the project has been re-estimated at
about US$75.1 million which coppares to the appraisal estimate of US$74.7
million., Overall irrigation works faced cost overruns estimated at about
US$16.7 million or 55Z of appraisal estimate. Project expenditures
remained nevertheless close to appraisal levels because of a reduction in



the scope of the project (Annex 5). In December 1983. the Bank approved in
the context of a Special Action Program to ease counterpart funding in
Brazil. a supplementary loan of USS7.7 million which allowed an increase in
the Bank's sharing of project cost from 37.5Z to 47.3Z.
1.34     The ex-post economic analysis (Annex 6) indicate an economic rate
of return of about 7Z, substantially below the appraisal estimate of 22%.
It is a weighted average rate for costs and benefits of the varzeas of
Boacica, Cotinguiba-Pindoba. Iti6ba. and Proprit. It masks sigaificant
differences between varzeas. It has been computed using the following
assumptions:
(a) Benefits: production of paddy, crops other than paddy and
livestock. Benefits accruing from the Boacica dam (paddy during
the rainy season) were taker. into account. No indirect benefits
from the investments in social infrastructure were taken into
account. The without project, situation considered was the one
prevailing following construction of the protection dikes and main
pumping stations under SF1.
(b) Cost8s The cost of the Boacica dam, expected to be completed by
end 1989, was included in project costs.
1.35     The lower than anticipated rate of return is the result of:
(a) a level of paddy production substantially lower than appraisal
estimate (para. 1.30);
(b) a level of production of crops other than paddy much below initial
appraisal estimates (para. 1.32); and
(c) cost overruns (para. 1.33).
1.36     The construction/rehabilitation of about 7.340 ha (Annex 4) for
irrigation is relatively insignificant for Brazil considering that the
country's total irrigated area amounts to some 2.5 million ha. (including
some 300,000 ha in the Northeast) and increases at a pace of about 250,000
ha annually. Similarly, the resulting irrigated production and employment
from the project is small both in the context of the Northeast and the
country.
1.37     The purpose of the project was to compensate farmers in the
varzeas of the Lower SF for the losses in income from agricultural and
livestock production and fishing, caused by the construction of the
Sobradinho and Paulo Alfonso dams. The GOB decided on the project
primarily to offset the adverse effects of developing the power sector on
rural activities carried out by a majority of poor people in the lower
valley of the SF. It is against this multisectoral and social background
that the impact of the project must be measured.
1.38     The actual impact has been the settlement of about 1,820 rural
families (about 15,000 direct and indirect beneficiaries), the majority of
whom would have moved to urban areas without immediate employment
opportunities. Farmer incomes have increased substantially and continue to
progress. Although still subject to uncertainties regarding availability



-9-
of agricultural credit and fluctucting agricultural prices. the
beneficiaries are less exposed to natural production risks such as low
rainfall and floods.
1.39     Strengthening of farmer associations and cooperatives was a major
goal to be achieved under the project. The creation of farmer associations
and the establishment of an agreement between CODZVASF and a cooperative
were two conditions of effectiveness of the project. CODEVAS? assisted
farmers in enhancing farmer's cooperation through social assistance teams
throughout project implementation. Indeed. cooperatives progressed
substantially in getting organized and assuming increasingly
responsibilities for operating the project facilities and farm development.
CODEVASF's recent policy in that respect has been to accelerate this
process of emancipacoo (para. 1.26), whose final objective is for the
cooperatives to achieve full financial and technical autonomy.
Cooperatives are working towards that end. A major impact of the project
has been to prepare these farmers for absorbing increasingly those
responsibilities which the public sector institutions had exercised for
initiating the settlement and production development. While such farmer
cooperation still has a long way to go before it can fully absorb the
public sector functions, the project has played a pioneer role in starting
this process in the Northeast.
1.40    -The project has not caused pollution of any aquifer or run-off.
Currently, the use of fertilizers and pesticides on paddy is limited and if
later applied more intensively, the flow of the SF is so enormous that it
would not produce detrimental effects on its water quality. Similarly, the
project did not include land clearing or cause in any other way
environmental problems through erosion. The education and health
conditions improved in the project area with implemeatation of the social
infrastructure component. CODEVASF had some difficulties to settle forty
amerindian families in the Ititiba varzea (some 176 ha) because these
amerindians either rented their lots or did not irrigate them. The
abandoned lots became a problem for the rest of the community because of
infestation by rats. To solve the issue, CODEVASF consulted with the
National Foundation for Indians (FUNAI) and it is now proposed to resettle
some of the amerindians in the indigenous reserve of *Porto Real do
Col4gio. 
G. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
1.41     Development of the varzeas ^f the Lower SF has so far been a
difficult and lengthy process because of the complexity to operate the
project facilities and the limited experience of the beneficiaries in
irrigation and production management. Other factors which slowed down
project implementation and impact included the scarcity of basic hydrologic
data which required works to be redesigned and additional works to be built
(Boacica dam, dredging works in Cotinguiba-Pindoba). The process of
building financially and technically self-sustaining cooperatives is
underway, and once completed, the project can be expected to become self-
sustaining.
1.42     At full development, more paddy production will have to be
marketed. Market outlets will continue to be in the Northeast. The level
of paddy production and the degree of crop diversification that will be



- 10 -
achieved in the future will largely depend on how the credit issue will be
addressed and resol'ed. This. in turn, will be determined by the ability
of the cooperatives to provide and to facilitate access to credit.
1.43     At full development, the operation and maintenance of the works
that have been built under the project will be extensive given their
magnitude and varieties ,dams, protection dikes, rivers to be dredged,
pumping stations, irrigation works). In addition. operating procedures of
certain works (notably pumping stations) will remain a complex task.
Operation and maintenance costs will therefore remain substantial and
production by the project beneficiaries will have to be high and collection
of water charges strictly enforced in order to ensure the financial
viability of the schemes.
1.44     At the time of project completion, the financial sustainability of
the project needs still to be proven.
H. BANK PERPORHANCE
1.45     When the project was prepared. SF1 was having major start-up
difficulties. Under these circumstances, the Bank could havp waited with
the appraisal. Instead,"it decided to provide additional financing for a
second phase of the project because the economic viability of SF2 (22Z) was
expected to be better than that of SF1. The Bank, therefore, justified
proceeding rapidly with SFZ as this would partially compensate for the cost
of the initial delays of SF1.
1.46     The Bank followed preparation adequately.  It wvs aware that good
data for assessing flood risks were not available and that technical
conditions required learning by doing. The Bank was correct in going ahead
with SF2 as it was satisfied with its economic viability.
1.47     The Bank supervised the project regularly from August 1979 until
end 1988 through 18 supervision missions. Host missions were led by an
irrigation engineer assisted by various other specialists. While it was
adequate to put the emphasis on irrigation expertise, an equal importance
should have been given to the production aspects (two missions only
included an agronomist). However, the Bank insisted on the project
authority provLding adequate extension services, and eventually, on the
recruitment of IRGA. The Bank was flexible in accepting many of the
changes that became necessary (para. 1.14). It insisted forcefully,
however, that the Boacica dam be built with counterpart financing.
1.48     Most of the problems which surfaced during project implementation
could hot have been avoided. Nevertheless, in light of the relative weak
data base, the risk analysis could have been more thorough, in particular
as regards the natural conditions (climate, soils. hydroloby) and their
possible consequences on the viability of the project. Therefore, the risk
to design a project of marginal viability was much greater than perceived
at appraisal. The appraisal report mentions only the flood risk but fails
to highlight all other risks associated with the insufficient data base for
designing the project. On the.other hand, it needs to be recognized that
the overriding objective of compensating the farmers for the negative
effects of the Sobradinho dam, did not allow to engage in a lengthy data
gathering process (meaningful hydrological data for example would require



- ll -
about a decade). An in-depth risk analysis might have led the Bank to
abstain from financing the project.
I. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
1.49     Overall, CODEVASY has been strongly comitted to the project
during preparation and its implementation. It was successful in obtaining
federal support and counterpart funds. CODEVASF proved also to be open.
flexible and innovative in dealing with the changes that had to be made to
the scope and technical design of the project. CODEVASF handled with
success the difficult social situation which prevailed in the project area
during the implementation of the project. Finally, CODEVASF managed
recently to delegate most of its operational responsibilities to
cooperatives. It thus initiated and participated actively in the build-up
process of these farmers' institutions. CODEVASF must be commended for
having undertaken this initiative to enhance farmer participation in
irrigation operations, which later became an official Government policy.
1.50     There were some weaknesses in CODEVASF performance:
(a) Insufficient expertise in preparation of irrigation projects and
in supervising"irrigation works. As a result, consultants did not
receive all guidance they had the right to expect. In addition:
CODEVASF interventions in the field have not always been
technically appropriate, although this has to be seen in the light
of the numerous technical difficulties that the project faced.
(b)  Insufficient expertise in the area of agriculturil development:
CODEVASF was poorly staffed with igriculturalists and more
construction than production-oriented when the project started.
This exp&ains, to some extent, the unsatisfactory level of
production and of crop diversification achieved by the project.
(c) Operation and maintenance of the irrigation works had been
neglected during the first years of project implementatio.t. The
main reason seems to be that CODEVASF was already overstretched
building the works and could not devote enough time to these
tasks. It is interesting to note that the last procurement under
the project (shortly before closing of the loan), was the purchase
of operation and maintenance equipment. During the last years of
the project implementation, however, the situation improved
markedly. This trend was directly linked to the building-up of
the cooperatives' autonomy, and direct involvement of farmers.
J. PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
1.51     The Bank and CODEVJ&SF maintained satisfactory relations during
project preparation and execution. This does not mean that there had not
been extensive discussions, and, at times, disagreements over such
contentious issues as the supply of agricultural credit, construction of
the Boacica dam and post-harvest activities (storage and rice-milling).
Compliance with Bank procurement procedures has occasionally raised some
difficulties (i.e., cancellation of the financing of sprinkler irrigation
equipment because it had not been procured under international competitive
bidding), and some covenants (Annex 7) have not been fully complied with.



- 12 -
The Borrower, not CODEVASF, was reiponsible for the difficulties resulting
from the inadequate supply of agricultural credit, and the failure to
determine water charges.
1.52     Relations between CODEVASF and the farmers have been tense during
most of project implementation. The latter felt frustrated initially
because of the unsatisfactory performance of works built under SF1. i.e.,
flooding because of inadequate drainage and breakdowns of pumping equipment
which resulted in substantial losses of production. In 1980, the situation
was so tense that farmers would not allow Government/Bank officials to
enter into the neighboring varzea of Betume. CODEVASF addressed the issue
by recruiting social assiRtant- to inform farmers about the measures it
intended to put into practice to solve these problems. The social
assistants did an outstanding job and progressively obtained farmer's trust
and cooperation. By the end of project implementation, relations between
CODEVASF and the farmers had normaalzed.
1.53     The State agencies for education. health, agriculture, and public
works of Sergipe and Alagoas involved in the project perceived CODEVASF as
being too powerful and entrusted with responsibilities which they
considered their own. Because CODEVASF did not always ensure an adequate
coordination between air participants, the relation between the agencies
and CODEVASF was, at times, less cooperative than desirable.
K. CONSULTING SERVICES
1.54     Various consultants were irn charge of preparing the final design
of the irrigation works in the various varzeas to be developed under the
project: Although CODEVASF supervised the works directly, consultants
remained invol.ed during the execution phase to specify works to be done by
the contractors when necessary or to undertake additional complementary
studies. Consultants played a major role in devising technical solutions
for irrigation works, adjusting the design of works and assisting CODEVASF
in supervising contractors. CODEVASF disagreed with a number of proposals
made by consultants (technical norms, location of some pumping stations).
The project felt the absence of consultants when they left the project
area. Consultants performed well, given working circumstances, notably the
scarcity of basic data for the design of irrigation wo-ks.
1.55     CODEVASF accepted the FAO experts reluctantly.  They performed
satisfactorily and progressively gained CODEVASP's recognition.
1.56     The contractors for earthmoving and concrete operated under
difficu't conditions. because of frequent revisions of construction plans
and because of adverse rainfall conditions and floods. CODEVASF had
difficulties with one who left the project area, and another who filed
bankruptcy while under contract.  However, the quality of the works
remained good.



- 13 -
PART 1I4
2.01     The objectives of this project as well as its background have been
described in Part I of this report. This Part II refers only to thes
(a) preparation and implementation cf the project;
(b) evaluation of CODKVASF's performance during project
implementation; and
(c' evaluation of the Bank's performance during project
implementation.
2.02     In general terms, the project was well conceived.  Due to lack of
detailed information, some engineering plans were not properly executed.
This resulted in difficulties to meet project targets during the
implementation phase of the Project (see Part IU., Annex 4 - Key
Indicators).  Howeve'r, the project objectives described in Part I
(para. 1.1) were achieved. 
2.03     Due to emergen4', there was no time before project execution to
sensitize the population of the project area to the project. This caused
tensions which disappeared oncs irrigation works were completed and
irrigation farmers were settled. CODEVASY's failure to inform future
beneficiaries was due to its lack of experience in implementing projects in
densely populated and cultivated areas. The construction of irrigation
works caused a reduction in agricultural activities during project
execution. Project beneficiaries were mainly share croppers cultivating
land which belonged to large land owners. Their survival depended on the
level of their production and their activities were used to be monitored
(planting, production, marketing) by the owners of the land. They were not
used to manage their own land, operate with banks, and market their
products. They also had limited experience in irrigation and did not know
how to intensify their production. Floods of the SF and its tributaries
governed irrigation activities. Because these floods were irregular and
unpredictable, irrigated production did not help stabilizing the
agricultural production of the region and productivity cemained low.
Finally, these sharecroppers had no experience in cooperative activities or
an appreciation of the benefits (training, marketing) they could expect
from associating themselves.
2.04     Government agencies (federal and state organizations) that were to
participste in project implementation did not perform well both in terms of
quality as well as the quantity of services they provided. This led
CODEVASF to assume practically all project related tasks, such as
irrigation engineering, technical assistance, constrzction of roads,
electrification, farmer cooperation and construction of social facilities.
Because of shortcomings of other institutions, CODEVASF could not play the
catalytic role it was originally expected to play. For these reasons and
because of lack of experience in some of the activities mentioned above,
CODEVASF adopted a somewhat paternalistic and authoritarian attitude. This
4I  This is an English translation of Part II of the Report which CODEVASF
provided in Portuguese.



- 14 _
facilitated project execution but delayed the fccmation of management
capabilities amongst farmers.
2.05     Difficulties referred to above were solved though actions taken by
the beneficiaries themselves, CODEVASF, and the World Bank during the
entire phase of project implementation. Quality of CODEVASF's technical
staff improved markedly through on-the-job training and through compliance
with the requirements of the Bank. CODEVASF and the beneficiary population.
FAO also provided technical advice (limited training of cooperatives).
CODEVASF set up a monitoring system ("Monitorial) following a Bank
requirement. which was subsequently applied to other CODEVASF's operations.
2.06     Other difficulties remain or are only in the process of being
solved. Among those aru the lack of national counterpart funds: the lack
of a cost effective implementation system and deficiencies in the supply
and terms of agricultural credit.
2.07     In spite of the difficulties, incomes improved in the region.
especially those of project beneficiaries (former share croppers) who in
1988 reached average incomes ,of USS2,550; US$2,520 and US$1,808 in the
Cotinguiba-Pindoba. Itilba and Boacica projects, respectively, without
considering incomes orijinating from the processing of crops and pig-
paddy-fish' and duck production activities. Also, the development of
cooperatives and/or associations can be expected to improve the credit
supply. Furthermore, the establishment of economic and financially viable
cooperatives and associations with effective management capability shows
promising results.
2.08     Social facilities built uider the project were transferred to
federal, state and municipal agencies responsible for education, health.
sanitation, electrification and roads. These facilities contributed to a
2.4t decrease in mortality rate for children with less than 1 year in the
project area (15.5Z in 1988 versus 17.9? in 1977) according to the
Instituto Joaquim Nabuco de Pesquisas Sociais - IJNPS and *Projetos Propria
e Cotinguiba-Pindobas pela Assessoria de Planejamento e Coordenacao da 4a.
Diretoria Regional da CODEVASF." Concerning education, the literacy rate
increased from 32.4Z (IJNPS) in 1977 to 522 in 1988 (CODEVASF, 4a. DRP).
2.09     CODEVASF's Performance.  In general terms, CODEVASF tried to
develop and implement the project in the best and most efficient way.
Then unsuccessful in this, it was mainly beyond its control. Its alleged
authoritarian attitude (para. 2.04), was dictated by the specific project
circumstances and complexity. CODEVASF improved its knowledge during
project implementation. It was persistent in searching for scarce federal
counterpart funds, acting in all directions to try to achieve the targets
of the project and to play its catalytic role in the Lower Sao Francisco
Valley. There is no doubt that in the long run CODEVASF has learned by its
mistakes, always trying to find solutions adapted to the political and
socio-economic conditions of the population and project area. The
strengthening of cooperatives, for example, constituted a new experience in
the Northeast.



- 15 -
2.10     Bank Performance.  The Bank provided resources for SF2. as a
follcw-up of SF1 to assist CODEVASF in completing tha development of
varzeas. It had a flexible approach to solve problems in cooperation with
CODEVASF. This greatly facilitated project implementation. It did not
exercise exclusive control. but provided essentially guidance. The Bank
remained conetructive during project execution and has accepted many
changes to the original project. During the entire project execution there
were no significant delays in disbursement of funds by the Bank. The Bank
routinely supervised the project through missions. Supervision reports
dealt in detail with engineering aspects and were more general concerning
agricultural development. The structural change which occurred in CODEVASF
with the introduction of a monitoring system is worth mentioning.
2.11     The effectiveness of the Bank would be enhanced if one or two
project officers could be stationed in Brasilia to follow u#n planned
activities on a continuous basis. This would facilitate to take decisions
more rapidly. Such suggestion is all the more justified with arx increasing
portfolio of irrigation projects including Upper and Middle sao Francisco
Irrigation Project (Loan 2719-BR): Irrigation Engineering and Technical
Assistance Project (Loan 2680-BR); Irrigation Subsector Project
(Loan 2950-BR); and the,_upcoming Jaiba Irrigation Project (Loan 3013-BR).
Finally, Brazil being one of the major Borrowers of the Bank. adopting
Portuguese as an official language of the Bank would also facilitate
communications between Government organizations and the Bank.



- 16 -
BRAZIL
LOW  S3AO FRANCISCO IRBGATION ROJECT
(LOAWS 17Z90-BR/17291-BR)
PROJECT COMPL TION REPORT
PART III



- 17 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
LOlMR SAo FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17Z90-BR/17291-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Related Bunk Loans
AMV#E. .71               .U
.Lower s6   raeeo Poms     oldet,        137        Cso*lted    61The  ro -qeed I roject would be an          Coaeletion report (Dec. 5. 1964)
(=OLoso UJ6lSO0                                             rn  g4s Dart of the6.'  asr                  rjc  Perfersemec  Audit Resort
II ion "Nivele")                                     -t    e effort of the   =- -.3-am   fa  26. 1935).
raito Chevist. overty  isa*;a er
paiful enomly t.  odediriibute
.eane, anricr                *frare
arodve 1lty.  The  1ejet woud  oleo
afett e awrs  effect.a an
Agriculture in the  Sa SFr Up Preiao
Valley. resiting fra  the cimletion
aof hrelectric facilities at
Sobradimbe nd P ule Alfeounn.
der the -* _s   Profe". two of the
varzeadj aI II reed,. and re-
iatribcle a   full irriapbtia  aChna
ermittifge o uble croeriag of rile.
gao  rood an  socsil i;fraatrnture.
teu Alal a    rg     alel *emiat"e. a
.  _rta    rr,i t                            3         udrw           n the loger perasctiwe. the                This Projec  is te,e  ful
nglerin.          at'l cr                                             e  prm; ct would *1i  et raising       in  -iating wae-ious ceirtien
Anlntame Projet                                                 rural income  and incresas form             authoritiea in prepring ivest-
(Low   Ui-   eqtivalent)                      eoutt by *w na the "ortheat I e                               mat preoJet.
the vegarlie of ralnfai t. a
moiwtde  objetivea wouwl be tot
(I) create an adequte stoc  of
thorouhly studied aN well deaigned
irrigtion projects. the cnructtion
of which amld be launched es own as
the neceasary finoacing baa been
red  nd (Ii) prowide tenical
i-vo-ano an  braining to the staff
of the Escutiv- Setretarietj.
COOEAS., iNOCS. and iONS. witlh
5 view to ewnhafting  rofeaioai
akidS ls  and eanagrial tOepeton  and
efficriony. As a point of deprture
for feanibility  tudiel  nd
"ineering for specific Irrigation
projeta. aevera, secetr etudie Ewold
e- erried out to Complete anw  ref l
the lnforwetion evallabia to th
Oow* nat.
3. Upper an 14Id4de SU Preec               19i6       ibderway      'Hejor projec  objctives wold itIrlude   The Project. after a aloe a trt
Irrigation Projec                                               lepwing the  nebrncm   of about 9.200       folleed by an  sateestieonl 
(LA". 2719-11I)                                                 rural famlilies antd ingoresing             quick ewetutiow of work.,  a
(_i mIllion eivalent)                                            gricultural  arodtion to allevlate         facing aerloue e gecters"
r eginl bue  food *   efiits and to         ,undleg problesw (196).
increase vluew   avai labie for epert.
Tme preject would *v tot
(a) lncreaae the ecnomic rt%urn of
Daet inveatoant  In eavsto  a=e  where
the irrlgAtion infrastructure is
Iready buit buts wher  cro"pin
iAt"4ity a"d yielde rnain  below
ccrstable leewl.; (b) develee now
irrigation scheman pubic I lnd.
with *ewected high rfetrn. in Govern-
m vtm  lt (c) Ingrean
-e-onomi r turn tn-bhrough ay-tetic
sopr"eeeat  in fares technolgy and
prowielon to fa rer  of egricul turl
production and oclul aervices,
(d) atronthe  CIVASP's capacity to
plan, construct. goo eserate NW
enintoin ;rription and drainae worka;
end (a) tranaffr to fe* urs Eet Of the
remepnaibilitest for the oeration and
eiatorna       of t-terml irrition an
dr inaee networ..  Projec  objectives
aro conalatewt with the, Sank' strategy
for te ocanowicully disadvantaged
Northeata.



- 18 -
ANNEX 1
Table 1
Page 2 of 2
WAL  STmU                                                                      Cw eni
.  Ztae.ic,   o len  en                  1dThe        objective of the   *e                                The srojica  is dRGgaf  suba"nt el
Zrrtil*ion Project                                          Proect Is to restere ad ipov, the                overrs. Sank is preparing
(Loa  2 - t1                                                 llveng astanderds, of the faslie to bo    causiementary fiaencin  to
(958132 millieron amuslVei)                                 r*eetlw of * recult of the ta*pas    aassst in Completing th  project
Kydrolectric Project. The project
mlid permit resetlelod f*-ilige  :o
(a) renuo  and then inreae thir
:9rieulturel stodutloen (b) enjoy
**"o ihclrn  In _mI   rural centers
= Ht)-, and  b) b*nf  *eo
I*as saursFoK II'. u"be
oIuain, the objectives are to
r.ale l* tke poplation ;f nrly
ealished ton s ehich have bee
PeAi ad deeilpe  to mode, teen
plaing stndards ad which "mid
providle adequte  nilcip,l seicee,.
5. Irrigation Sector Proeict             19WI      Undera        '    eroje          tao rloted dielve    About SiO eiII Ion *ill be
Loan 290-)                                                   (1) By helcing to ovcm    mict            ftinnced retroctively shortly
1tlW  million euivalent)                                    craint  te ra-fer  irigtin                (June 1969). The *reject includes
devel_tm lit-I lulled availabilIty ef    cthe" cooponent  (a) eussly of
ectPlrlolty and Invesest credllb          *lealrlcel eum_ent (703 of
would *ccalercte near-r--et. increea      the proceed. of the loan)l
n agricultural Productlon  an farmer    (b) construction of hydralic
ince.                                     woriks (20111): and (a) atudies
(2) It amid sat the  ste for              (101).
eotinued eaxpnion af private
Irrigation by helping PRW4t and the
at-stow to: develo. scund irntltu-
tions  policies and lega  fr ame. ,"
fer lrrigation develcameat and eatse
reource s meag,mt; decantiral I as
irrig0tion plannming and ipsentetion
to the *a-tes; pr_e irrialtin-
focuse  reserch and training; ad
teghnfarmwr aerv ices vor
*rigtie        r onc*o
O. Jstba treigation Project              198         ot yet        hStar u of _he Project Se*s
(Low 301-E)                                      fei        Iojctio dnceasin   gricultural             dcl yed by  deliv    forma
71 m IIIon eIealent)                                        rCle. iprovlng _11-                      whieh took place In early 19  at
aajlus-aia* farm_r.' Incr_es ond         the Fedeal Gave r         lval
creating esloymant o_iortuict-es in       (aolition of the minii e. of
po irtIon of -the State    Irlrmatlion  acth  le, tabon eover
of NIna. Coral..  Zn addition  a             Uby the Ministry of Agriculture).
fundamental objective    to f       teWr tn Iad      . Citi         tho Sank
irrigatlen institutional devel_pmntt    had differences of opinion an the
isrovedf rijct *  n gsn ad                 alection of consltante to
operation and mintenace *rrarg_ente    oreare the final engineering
woud be tested through the creation       atodles and the Suerviaion of the
of * *rIvote irrigation district the      irrigation works.
fir"t of its hind. In Beall.
|/ Sobeadl_b, end Paul. Alfa       two dac_ usatre- of the Project area. on the S"i Frnciace Rlver.
2/ VW        floo  pein, usully lented alon  rivera.
i beventve Om erwtrlot: of the itlistry of Irrigation.
I/  ItSrwica 0am  locat  en the Middle SUi Pialoco. downrre   of Sobralnho.
/ Sttas:  the fourteenr  tAtet  (pilu  the Fedeal Oietrict of BreetlaI) which are to benflt f roe the  orcd, of tho Loan.
{/      a Eaicrptm from  _MmOVRAndo of the Preident.



-19 -                        ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
LOllER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17Z90-BR/17Z91-DR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ProJect Timetable
This Annex provides the timeframe in which the project took place,
from its identification in 1976, to its conclusion in 1988.-
The Project timetable below indicates two one-year postponements
of the project completion and loan closing date.
The Implementation Schedule on page 2 of this Annex shows the
delays incurred in executing the works envisaged in the varzeas of Boacica
and Pindoba-Cotinguiba. It Jndicates the execution of rehabilitation works
in Iti6ba.
Finally, the addendum on page 3 of this Annex provides an overview
of the issues at (a) Appraisal, (b) Negotiations, (c) Board Presentation.
Date           Dat.             Date         Supplemental
item                Planned         Revised          Actal            Loan
Identfic ation              -               -            Nov. 1976
(Executive Project
Summry)
Preproation                  -              -            Nov. 1976
May 1976
Appraisal Mleaion 1         -               -            May 1976
Appraisal Mission 2         -               -            Aug. 197¢
Loan Negotlations           -               -            Jan. 1979
Poard Approvel              -               -           June 19, 1979     ee. 7, 1968
Loan Slnsture              -               -           June 20, 1979    Deo. 14, 1968
Loan Effectiveess           -               -           Jan. 23, 1980    May a0, 1964
Loan Closing           June a0, 1985    June go, 1986
June 30, 1987    JUt 30, 1968    June 80, 1966
Project Comletion      Dec. 51, 19q6    Dec. 81, 1986   DOe. 31, 1987    DOc. 31, 1987
Dee. 31, 1967



-20 -                                                2
Page 2 of 5
LO0R SAO FRANCISCO PoROJECT
(LOANS 17290-DR/17291-IR)
PROJECT CWEPLETIOR REPOT
IuPlwmntation Schedule
2               ',
A. E.        _   .
A.1L ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~        ~       ~       ~        .1~~~
I      I       I      I       I      I      I       I              I      I       I ,   I
sonI  g s9mt Iw £wz 1 so p sio p agoS I so.. g 5w I wo ! '  s1w
A      I       I      I       I 1 .                               AT      t
I      I       I      I      1       1      1       L ' l'/i~-            I       I     I
F.z.I 1                                    _    __     __            I      I                -st1                 I     I
A.J                                                          I I  I                        I      I      I
A. S
;.  3wti*1- ;f-j^**I                      I'  I          I       I      I      I                  I                  I     I/
A. .
I a  :a               1 3   7  6. -.                                     I
I      I       I      I       I _           I                                     I,-"     A  I  _
A.. I_                                              I      I       I      I       I      I      I             -r ,     I      I      I
A.E...  A     .A                          I       I      I       I      I      I       I AI                                 I     |
a.~~ ~~~~~ e *                                                p-  '    '                .-   i      _                   a
heel.. he                          I      I       I      I       I      i      I       V                   
1.~~~~~~~ 1                                1          I       _      I  _I          I              I      I      I 
a.   S      o. imets (w,$.ddy)     date.
I      ,       I      I      I       I      I       IC- vr        *       I      I t
ia. .ewam                                 '       '      '       '--dat-                                       ' 
I      ,       ,      I.    I        ,      I        , /      I)          1      I      I
|"    e                            |~~ I          I      I       I      I      I     L.'..f. J               I       I     I
SwIm ~       ~                 I       I       I      I              I      I       i-/j..-               I      I 
Igwi Ne.                                      t      I       I      I       "I            I       I r  -I.'. I,                 I     I
I      I       I      I      I       IA    I   /f.I.-,                    I,
I~~~ ~ ~ /   A.I                                           I       I,gg    Is.is.   I..  F*/ Re.m   Ieuu  Is...e   A.IA
*eium    I..       Ie.*.w                                 I              ,      I  t                  1        I      I.  
Aet...I~~ ciet.e  Id                                              J.r  i'...J                              I 
rAut.weD  f zeetiu  I  II  II./..I 



-21 -                    ANNX 2
Page 3 of 5
Apgriaial. Rexotiations, and Board Presentation
Agpraisal
The appraisal took place in June 1978. The mission included seven
professionals (Bank staff and consultants) covering the areas of irrigation
eng.neering, agriculture, institutional development, rice processing, and
project management. Three major issues remained unsolved following the
appraisal missiont
(a) Land awnership and system of cooperatives: whereas CODEVASF was
favoring a solution whereby the land would belong to a unique and
large %xisting cooperative. the Bank's position was that the land
should belong to individual farers and that cooperatives be
spread over the various varzeas.- CODEVAS? accepted the Bank's
view on the land issue. but the decision as to the number of
cooperatives and their role was taken only during the
implementation of the project following the execution of various
studies.
(b)  Strengthening of CODEVASF's management:  The Bank's concern in
that respect was related to deficiencies at the middle management
level and in the field of rural development, and to the necessity
to strengthen the Fourth Directorate (Aracaj ).  This
institutional and management issue was resolved satisfactorily
during the post-appraisal August 1978 mission.
(c) CRZSF5s compensations to CODEVASF for losses of production due to
the construction of the Sobradinho and Paulo Alfonso dams. The
SFI Irrigation Project Loan Agreement calls for CHESF to provide
such compensations. This requirement was reiterated in the SF2
Loan Agreement. However, the Borrower failed to comply with the
relevant covenant.
It is also interesting to note that the Bank raised the question
of the advLsability to appraise a follow-up project to t project (SF1) the
execution of which had been delayed because of technical difficulties and
was just beginning. The Bank consciously decided to appraise the project
on the basis that technically, it could not be dissociated from the SF1
project (protection dikes against the SF floods and main pumping stations
were designed under Sn assuming that the varzeas would be fully irrigated)
and because of the social unrest and expectations created by SF1.
Keaotiations
Matters of substance that were negotiated were the following:1
l/ Source: Summary Minutes of Negotiations dated February 5. 1979.



-22 -                    ANN    2
Page 4 of 5
(a) Loan Agreement:
- Water rates
- Cooperatives organization
- Camurupim participation in the project
- Legal opinion on import licences
- Effectiveness
- Disbursements and allocation of loan proceeds
- Research on irrigated farming
- Interest during construction
- Dissolution of CODEVASF
(b)  Project Agreement:
- Land acquisition
- Cooperative organization
- Study on post-harvest operations and settler relocation
- Monitoring and evaluation
- Water supply systems
- Water rates
- Re-evaluation of capital investment
- Procurement schedule
Although the above topics were discussed at negotiations, only minor
changes were made to the legal documents.
Board Approval
CODEVASE was to fulfill six conditions of Board Presentation:
1. CUSP compensation to CODETASF: CRESP had been expected to compensate
CODEVASF for the works that it had to execute in order to offset the losses
of production in the varzeas due to changes in the flow regime of the SF
following the construction of the Sobradinho and Paulo Alfonso dams. Such
requirement was incorporated in SF1 in the form of a covenant in the Loan
Agreement. In 1978, three years following the appraisal of SF1, this
covenant had not yet been fulfilled. During negotiations of SF2. the Bank
insisted upon CHESF to fulfill its obligation, the Brazilian delegation
agreed to comuunicate to the Bank assurances (telex followed by letter)
that CUESP would credit CODEVASF with a USS amount equivalent to the cost
amount of electricity to be consumed during the life of the project.
Project documentation refers to difficulties in resolving the issue during
the implementation of the project. We understand that finally, CHESF did
indemnify CODEVASP, but through the construction of irrigation works
(pumping station) of an irrigation scheme (Nilo Coelho). The Bank was
right to impress upon CHESF, to put compensation as a condition of Board
presentation, to accept the Brazilian negotiation proposal, and more
importantly to follow up on the issue during project supervision. However,
it seems that the issue was not satisfactorily resolved.
2. Land Purchase: Land expropriation had been a serious issue under SF1
(i.e., in the Betume varzea), hampering the execution of the project. The
social climate in the project qrea was very tense in 1979. CODEVASF was
facing discontented farmers who, because of lack of information, thought it
was responsible for the change or the flow of the SF. The Bank insisted



- 23-                    2.NNEX2
Page 5 of 5
that Government allocate resources for expropriation and that-CODEVASF
strengthen its capacity for expropriation. In addition, the Bank put as a
condition of disbursement that all land under the project be acquired by
March 31. 1980.. Finally, the first supervision reports indicate that the
Bank did follow-up closely on the subject at the project start-up. All
this reflects the concern of the Bank about this issue. The land
acquisition was much less of a problem in SF2 as compared to what is had
been in $F1.
3. Appointment of a reeident engineer: Within the overall organization of
the project. the Fourth Diractorate of CODEVASF based in Aracaj* had first
responsibility to implement the project. Headquarters in Brasilia were to
provide administrative and technical assistance. Given the distance
between Aracaj4 and the project area (some 300 kms), it was indispensable
to appoint a resident engineer close to the project area (in Propria), thus
the condition of Board presentation. CODEVASF was not able to fulfill that
condition (difficulty to attract a qualified professional to live in a
remote area, without salary incentive), it was changed into a condition of
effectiveness. During project implementation, CODEVASF recruited a
consultant to fill that position.
4.  Signature of major agreements:  These were several agreements to be
entered into between CODEVASF and the entities involved in the project
(mainly various ministries and electric companies of the states of Alagoas
and Sergipe). Because some agreements were not be ready for Board
presentation, their signatures were accepted as a condition of
disbursement. There would seem no good reason that these documents should
not have been ready for negotiations. Fulfillment of that condition was
not easy and signatures of similar agreements should remain conditions of
effectiveness.
5. Availability of bidding documents related to the irrigation works of
the Cotinguiba-Pindoba varzea.
6.  Signature of an agreement between CODEVASF and GAMURUPIM:  The Bank
insisted from the outset of project-preparation that farmers be more
involved in the project than they had been so far, directly and through
cooperatives. Although CODEVASF agreed, there has been many differences of
opinion with the Bank as to the number, location, and the roles the
cooperatives should play in the project. An agreement between CODEVASF and
the existing cooperative of the project area was to set up the rules and
procedures for sharing the responsibilities with the cooperatives. It is
interesting to note that this was to become the official Government policy
some ten years later.
Most conditions of Board presentation were changed into corditions
of disbursement or effectiveness because CODEVASF could not meet them on
time. Obviously, CODEVASF had some difficulties to prepare the project
adequately, at lepst for those components other than the irrigation works.



- 24 -
ANlEl 3
Page 1 of 1
BAIL
LOVER SAO FRANCISCO IUIGTION IPROJECT
(LOAN 17290-8R/17291-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Dlubursemtu
1.       The attached table indicates (a) disbursemeat estimates made at
the timie of a praisal and revised in December 1983 following the approval
for the supplemental loan; (b) actual disbursements; sb) and the
percentages actuallestimated disbursements.
2.       First disbursements were made during the second quarter of FY81
instead of the third quarter of FY80, or with about nine months delay.
Actual disbursements wore systematically below appraisal estimates. At the
original date of completion eDecember 1985), actual disbursements
represented about 87S of appraisal estimates. Loan 17290-BR of US$28.0
million was fully disbursed by end 1986/early 1987, or about 15 months
behind schedule (appraisal estimatet September 30, 1985).
3.       The approval of a supplemental lean to ease counterpart funding
was part of the Special Action Program of 1983-1984 to accelerate
disbursements for the Bank's agricultural portfolio in Brazil. Loan
17291-BR of US$7.7 mlllion was effective on May 30. 1984.  First    -
disbursements were made in early 1987. The closing date was December 31,
1988. On March 6, 1989, the date of the last disbursement. US$0.2 million
remained undisbursed which are in the process of being cancelled.



- 25 -
BRAZIL                        ANNEX 3
Table.l
LOWER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17290-BR/17291-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(USS IMillion)
DISBURSEMENT
BANK FISCAL            ACTUAL                               AS PERCENTAGE
YEAR AND              TOTAL              APPRAISAL        OF APPRAISAL
QUARTERS          DISBURSEMENTS           ESTIMATES          ESTIMATE
197911980
eiarcn 41                0.0                  0.75                0.0
June 30                  0.0                  2.00                0.0
198011981
0.0                  3.75                0.0
Dec. 31                  1.3                  5.75               22.6
March 31                 3.6                  8.05               44.7
June 30                  5.8                 10.05               57.7
198111982
bept. 3U                 7.0                 12.4                56.4
Dec. 31                  8.2                 13.9                59.4
March 31                 9.2                 16.1                57.1
June 30                nf.2                  17.9                62.6
198211983
bept. JU                12.4                 19.8                62.6
Dec. 31                 12.8                 21.1                60.7
March 31                14.8                 22.5                65.7
June 30                 15.4                 23.8                64.7
1983/1984
a.pL.-84                16.4                 25.2.   65.'
Dec. 31                 17.0                 25.7                66.1
March 31                17.1                 26.3                65.0
June 30                 18.1                 19.3**              93.8
198411985
ziept. 3U-              20.7                 22.0**              94.1
Dec. 31                 21.6                 24.7**              87.4
March 31                23.3                 27.5**              84.7
June 30                 24.1                 30.3**              79.5
198St1986
aept. Ju                24.3                 31.7**              76.7
Dec. 31                 21.6                 33.1**              65.3
March 31                23.3                 34.4**              67.7
June 30                 24.1                 35.7**              67.5
198611987
aept. Ju                26.8                                     75.1
Dec. 31                 27.5                                     77.0
March 31                28.7*                                    80.4
June 30                 30.8*                                    86.3
1987/1988
tiept. Isu-             31.2*                                    87.4
Dec. 31                 31.2*                                    87.4
March 31                32.2*                                    90.2
June 30                 32.5*                                    91.0
1988/1989
ziept. 7u-              34.2*                                    95.8
Dec. 31                 34.8*                                    97.5
March 31                35.5*                                    99.4
*   Disbursements bf proceeds from the supplemental loan of USS7.7 million.
approved on December 8, 1983.
** Revised disbursement estimate following approval of supplemental loan.



BRAZIL
LOWER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATIOW PROJECT
(Loan 1729-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Total Disbursements (Appraisal Estimates vs. Actual)
(US$ equivalent)
Appraisal
Estimate                       Actual
Ln 17290-BR                                       Total
Category                 (a)       Ln. 17290-BR   Ln. 17291-BR/         (b)           (b)l(a)
(1)  Civil works (includ-    22,900,000   25,089,142.25   6,43t,125.02   31,526,267.27            1.38
ing supervision of
construction) and
machinery  equipment
and vehicies (other
than pumps ana motors
for Part A.1 of the
Project) for Parts
A,n   C, D.2. D.3
and.4 of the
Project, and training
under Part E.2 (b)
of the Project
(2)  Pumps and motors            500.000       123,793.98                       123,793.98        0.25
For Part A.1 of the
Project
(3)  Consultants' services,   1.800.000    2,800,761.72   1,042,699.14    3,843.460.86            2.14
Technical assistance,
overseas training,
studies and monitoring
(4)  Unallocated               2,800,000         --                --                --            --
TOTAL                  28,000,000   28,013,697.95   7,479,824.16   35,493,522.11          1.27
11 Appraisal estimate by category not available.
a          ... * .--N



- 27 -                    ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 9
BRAZIL
LOVER SAO FRANCISCO IRRICATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17Z90-BR/17291-BR)
PROJECT COIIPLETION REPORT
Key Izdicators
This annex illustrates the status of the project at completion. as
compared to appraisal objectives. Key indicators have been establlshed
which refer to irrigation works, social infrastructure. production, and
beneficiaries.  The indicators show that physical works objectives have
been fully met. Objectives concerning farmer organization have been
partially met but progress is taking place in the development of
cooperatives. Production is lagging behind schedule, however, there is
scope for improvement with a recent trend of cooperative capitalization,
which may solve the agricultural credit issue.
The annex conursts of:
(a) the key indicators list;
(b) 'a note on key indicators; and,
(c) an appendix on social infrastructure facilities built under the
Project (health posts. classrooms,water supply systems).
Project                    Accomplished Z
Obiective     Executed       December 1988
A. Key Indicators List
1. Irrigation eauipped area (ha)
la. Submersion (paddy)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba       1,160         1,126                97
Boacica                    3,930         2,659                68
Iti(aba                       5501         88S               161
Propria                     1,1802       1,187               101
Subtotal la              6,820         5,857                86
1/ Rehabilitation area (substituting for Brejo Grande).



-28-                       ANNtX 4
Page Z of 9
Project                    Accomplished Z
Ob1ective     txecuted       December 1988
lb. Sprinkler irrigation
Cotinguiba - P$.doba           695           1,077              155
Doacica                        640             414               65
Subtotal lb                1,33S           1,491              112
Total la and lb            6.133           7,339               91
2. Settlement of Farmers (no.)
Cotinguiba - Pldoba           596             508               85
Boacica                        970           7792                80
ItlVba                         220             226              103
P*opri                         290             310              107
Total               ,      2.076           1,823               88
3. Area Esorooriated dia)
Cotinguiba - Pladoba         3,382           3,083               91
Boacica                      6,026           5,008               83
ZtLJba                         940           2.064              220
Total                     10.348          10.155               98
4. Physical Infrastructure
4a. Pumping Stations (no.)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba           5              16              320
Boacica                        3               2               67
Iti6ba                         2               5              250
Total                       10              23              230
4b.  New Surface Irrigation Networks (am)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba          57              57              lOC
Boaeica                      104             l22              117
Iti6ba                        32              40              125
Total                      193             219              113
1 12C are cessionary ('cesSo de uso').



-29 -                     ANfK 4
Pag' 3 of 9
Project                    Accompllshed I
Obiective     necuted        December 1988
4c.  Nw Draixage Networks (ha)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba          63             63              100
Boacica                      105            115              109
ItiGb.                       34              71              208
Total                     202             249             .123
4d.  Sprinkling Irrigation Networks (k)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba          37             75              203
Boacica                       28             30              105
Itiaba                        _                               _
Total                      65             105              151
4e.  New Rural Roads (km),
Cotinguiba - Pindoba          49             48               99
Boacica                      104            123              118
Iti6ba                       25              46              193
Total                     178             219              123
5.. Post Harvest Infrastructure
a. Rice Drying   (tlh)        30             42              140
b. Rice Storage  ('OOOt)    26               12               46
c.  Rice Milling  (t/h)       19             11               55
6.  Farmers OrKanization
6a. Pre-cooperative Groups (no.)
Cotihsuiba - Pindoba          23              9               39
Boacica                       35            154              440
ItiWba                       12              17              142
Total                      70             180              257
6b. Famers Participants (no.)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba        596             438               73
Boacica                     856             190               22
Ititlba                     120             290              242
Total                   1.572             918               58



_30                       ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 9
I'oject                    Accomplished 7
Objective      Executed       December 1988
7. A.ricultural Extension Services
7a.  Fanmer Assisted (no.)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba         826              508               62
Boacica                      856              779               91
ItiGba                       293              391              133
PropriA                      290              310              107
fotal                    2,265           1,988                86
7b. Technical Extensionist (no.)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba           20              i8               90
Boacica                       33                8              133
Iti6ba                        33               14               42
Propri6                        6               10              167
Total                       65               50               77
8.  Social Infrastructure
es.  Basic Health Units              8              10              125
Sb. Water Supply Systems
- installed systems           10                a               s0
Sc. Elementary Schools
- new                         13               34              261
- upgraded                    21               36              171
Od.  Rural Electrification
Systems                     16               12               75
Se.  Houses for farmers          1.000             410               41
9.  Agricultural Devel2L=ent
9a. Paddy Productivity (kg/ha)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba       4,000           3,338                83
loacica                    4,000           4,326               108
Iti*ba                     4,000           3.680                97
Propril                    4,000           3.303                83
9g.  Polyculture Paddy Cropped area (ha) (1988)
Cotinguiba - Pindoba            -             403                -
Boacica                         _             138                -
9d. Cropped sprinkler irrigated area
Cotinguiba - Pindoba       2.090           1.106                53
Boacica                    7,075           2,629                37
Itiaba                     1,100           1,236               112
Propria                    Z,125           1,319                62



-31 -                      ANNEX 4
Page S of 9
b. Note on ley Indicators
Area under irrigation. This represents the harvested area. All
along project implementation, it has been markedly below appraisal
estimates. This is due to the following factors: ti) flooding of a
substaptial portion of the planted area because of deficient drainage or
protection against floods (i.e., it has been estimated that in the Boacica
varzea, and as long as the Boacica dam is not in operation, some 7OZ of the
varzea could not be cultivated in winter because of damages expected to be
caused annually to crops by the Boacica river floods); (ii) deficient
supply of agricultural credit, notably to buy fertilizers which are
indispensable to achieve high yields given the low fertilizy of the soils
of the varzeas (it was proven that the varzeas of the left bank of the
river sao Francisco were achieving higher yields than those of the right
bank simply because they had an easier access to credit); and (iii) poor
extension services and thus lack of a comprehensive technological package
to bring to the faruers, at least until IRGA intervened.
SettleP:ent of farmers. Tlke project did not face difficulties to
settle farmers or_e all lands were acquired.
Area exprovriated. Acquisition of land by CODEVASF had to be done
in a tense social climate because settlers in Betume were not satisfied
with the quality of the works performed under SF1 (deficient drainage
system).  Medium and large land owners took advantage of the situation and
resisted expropriatione strongly (the state of Alagoas had to intervene),
and because there was an overall misunderstanding among farmers who
believed that CODEVASF was responsible for the change of the flow regime of
the river 510 Francisco. As a result,, the process of expropriation was
slow and completed only in 1984. But the total area finally expropriated
was close (98Z) to the appraisal estimate.
Physical infrastructure. The infFastructure referred to here is
that envisaged at appraisal (for the varzeas of Boacica and Cotinguiba-
Pindoba) complemented by that included during project implementation
(rehabilitation works for the varzea of Itiiiba, repairs of irrigation works
in Proprit and Boacica). Objectives concerning the irrigation works
(gravity and sprinkler irrigation systems) drainage works, rural feeder
roads, were achieved.
Post-harvest infrastructure. The Bank and CODEVASF had
differences of opinion as to the number, capacity, and location of paddy
storage, drying and processing facilities needed under the project.
Finally, two units were built in Betume. These units proved to be much
under-used during the execution of the project because of the lower than
expected level of paddy production and the resistance of farmers to sell
their paddy to rice mills when purchase prices were below market level.
The Bank insisted during supervision, with some success, that rice mills
operate more efficiently.
Farmer organization. Farmers initially opposed the creation of
pre-cooperative groups because of the bad reputation cooperatives had when
the project started (most existing cooperatives had poor technical and
financial records). Given the importance of this project component and the
urgent need to reverse farmer negative attitude, CODEVASF dispatched



-32 -                    ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 9
"social assistants" teams in each varzea of the project. These teams
(usually one to three female social assistants per varzes) initiated the
creation of the farmer groups. counselling these groups on matters related
to education, health and domestic activities. They adequately paved the
way to what was to become the official government policy concerning farmer
participation in irrigation projects, i.e, and increased involvement
through cooperatives. At project completiotn, each farmer had the
possibility to be a member of a cooperative, and the number of members was
steadily increasing (55? of appraisal estimate). Cooperatives are still
weak institutions and need technical and finanicial support from CODEVASF.
However, should they succeed in reaching a full or reasonable autonomy,
this would have been a major achievement of the project.
Aaricultural extension services. The appraisal objectives, in
terms of the ratio of extension specialist per farmer, were not met. The
states extension organization, CODEVASF, and finally IRGA, provided these
services. IRGA's performance was excellent. It did introduce the
technical package which had been missing. IRGA's involvement is a good
example of the use of skills existing in one region of the country (the
South) in another region (the Northeast).
Social infrastructure. Despite some controversy between CODEVASF
and the Bank (i.e., on health norms), or the sometimes difficult
cooperation between CODEVASF and the state agencies, the Qbjectives of thf.s
componeht have been mostly achieved. The project included the ccastruction
of 10 new health posts, 34 new classrooms, 36 rehabilitated classrooms, and
8 water supply systems. Operation and maintenance of the social facilities
built under the project, are satisfactory.
Agricultural development. Following initial delays during start-
up, paddy yields have reached satisfactory levels. However, the project's
paddy production is much below appraisal estimates. Cooperatives, with the
assistance of CODEVASF, are introducing new crops to be cultivated under
sprinkler irrigation. The rice-fish-duck production system is progressing
but still represents only a minor economic activity.



- 33 -                  ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 9
C. Social Facilities Built under the Project
Health Posts (LI Type)4
Health
Varzea                    Post (n)          County           City/Village
Boacica                       1      Igreja Nova            Tapera
1      Igreja Nova            Lagoa Grande
1      Igreja Nova            Palmeira dos Negros
Cotinguiba/Pindoba            1      Ne6polis               Mussuipe
ItiAba                        1      P. Real do Coldgio    Barra do ItiAba
1      P. Real do Coldgio    Carnaibas
,1     P. Real do Col4gio    Tapera do Girau
1      P. Real do Colegio    Girau do Itieba
Betume5                       1      Pacatuba               Ponta de Areia
1      NeOpolis               FlOr do Brejo
T  T A L                  10
4/ LI Type u one doctor (one day per week), one paramedic visitor, and one
nurse.
51 Does not include rehabilitation of the existing Betume health post,
built under SF1.



- 34 -                           ANNEX 4
Page 8 of 9
Schools
Class.room(                                              Worsk
Verses             mR1eh T1SE              City/Vil l age    Crooa   extenslon  RotlabilitatIon    Equtpfn
Sselce             2          -         Igro3e  Nove             1           -             -               1
2         -         Sop de Ci                            -             -               1
1         -         It pecuu                1           -             -               1
2         -            le Vita               1           -             - 
1         -         Sorreris                 1           -             -               1
1         -         CanoBrov                 1           -             -               1
2         -         Ipirangs                 1           -             -
1         -         Mal                      1           -             -               1
1         -         S$11Joa                  1           -             -               1
a              Xlinar                   -           -             1-
-         1         Cap   de Crutz           -           -             1
-         1         R_.insd                  -           -             1I
-         1         1Les  Orand.             -           -             1-
-         1         Ilho da oAntes           -           -             1
1         -                oPaimire deo  Nogeoo    -     1             -               1
1         -         TTaper                   -           1             -               1
Sante Eliza             -                         -                1
Cotingi be/
2tndobe           -          1   -    Co  EaePrnga             -           -              1
2         -         Silo ul                  -           1             - M1
-         1         So Vicente               -           -             1               1
-         1         Sant   Cruz              -           -             1               1
-         2         Pindoebst                -           -             1               1
2         -                   2              -           1             -               1
-         2         Soldoiro                 -           -             1
_         1         Muernufpes1              -           -             1               1
1         -                    2             -           1             -.              1
_         I         Colt6                    -           -             1 
Itiuba              2          -        Carnsbe                  1           -             -                1
1         -         Laoe Fund                1           -             -               1
2         -         Olrou deltlub            1           -             -               -
1         -         Toper do raw             1           -             - I
-         1         CstIo                    -           -             1C-
-         1         Ilha do ConceigSo        -           -             1
2         -         Taper* do Itiba          -           1             -
Propri-  -                     -         Tlhe                     -          -             -                1
1         1         Saco Ceprido             -           1             1               1
Gets",             0-          S        Brjo Grand               -           -             1
1         1         Aroeeras                 -           1             1               1
1         -         TTerm Vermlha            1           -             -               1
1         -         Serelio                  -           1             -               1
-         2         Je ipapo                 -           -             1               1
1         -         Ponta de Arol            -           1             -               1
1         -         Mun   de Ong*            1           -             -               1
T         6TSetsL.43                                     -            1        -
tO0TA L          84         84                                16          10            10              29



- 35 -                    ANNEX 4
Page 9 of 9
Water Supply Systems (W.S.S.)6
Varzea                     W.S.S          County            City/Village
Boacica                       1       Igreja Nova             Tapera
1      Igreja Nova             Ipiranga
1      Igreja Nova             Quebra Costa
Cotinguiba/Pindoba            1       Ne6polis                Pindoba
1      Ne6polis                Hussuipe
Itifba                        1       Igreja Nova             Carnaibas
1      Porto Real do Colegio  Castro
Betume                       '1       Ilha das FlOrei         Serrao
T   T A L                  8
61 "Domicilar type: individual water supply.



- 36 -
ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 1
BRAZIL
LOMER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17290-BR/17291-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Costs
1.       The attached table indicates the appraisal and the actual costs of
the project. The actual project, however, is significantly different from
the one appraised. Therefore, any comparison of the estimated and actual
project cost can only be done with this fact in mind.
2.       The appraised projeqt included the construction of the
irrigation/drainage works in the three varzeas of Boacica. Cotinguiba-
Pindoba, and Brejo Grande. The actual project includes only the
irrigation/drainage works in the two varzeas of Boacica and Cotinguiba-
Pindoba, and some rehabilitation of the irrigatiQn/drainage systems of the
varzeas of Itikba and Propria. The development of the varzea of Brejo
Grande was deleted from the project. The area to be developed under the
Brejo Grande varzea was estimated at 1,870 ha or 212 of the area initially
included in the project. The cost to develop this varzea was estimated at
some US$19 million or 25? of-the total initial project costs of
US$74.7 milliti. Most of these freed funds were used to cover the cost
overruns for the irrigation works in the varzeas of Boacica and Cotinguiba-
Pindoba and US$2.7 million were utilized to rehabilitate the varzeas of
Ititiba and Propria.
3.       The actual costs do not include the cost of constructing the
Boacica dam of about US$7.0 million which is financed entirely from
Government resources and expected to be completed by end-1989.
4.       The actual costs of the project are given in Table 1 of this Annex
and amount to US$75.1 million. Table 2 provides a cost break down by
varzea.



- 37 .
ANNEX 5
Table i
BRAZIL
LOWl  SAO FANCISCO IRRUGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17Z90-BRl 17291-B5)
PROJECT COMPLZTON REPORT
ProJect Costs
CUSS '000)
Apsriusl Eotil*tesl/               Actual
Productive Ca!itel Exondi"tur
Irrigation and Drainage                          20,175.9                       46,39   8/
Electrical Network                                    68.8                           32
Network QOW Equipe_t                                 242.5                        2,073
Agricultural Machinery                             1,174.0                       4,952
Agricultural Services                                214.3                       2,741
Paddy Drying and Storage                           89,72.8 a,01
RIce Mililng                                       4,077.7
Transoert Equl pent                                  509.0
Ace s  Roeda                                         894.0                          257
Technical Assistance                                09t0.0                          172
Farmer, Organization                                 243.3                          198
Compensation for Hervest Losses                    1,641.7 ?
Technical Assistance (FAO)                             -                         1,39
84,738.5                      60,600
IncremeAtal Recurrent Expendtureo
Agricultural Services                              5,320.0
Project Adainistration                               56.0,
arerer Organization                                1.161.6
Totnl                                            7,545.5                      10,800  4
Social In? rstrueture end Studies
Houoing-    2,420.7                                                                   -
Education                                          1,110.9                         210
Health and Sanitation                              1,si0.6                         470
Rural Electriflcation                              1,187.2                            -
Further Studies and 'onitorlng                       750.0                       J.450
Total                                            7,229.8                       4,130
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS1/                                 49,556.8                            -
Physical Contingenclsl                             7,407.1                      75,110
Price Contingencies                               17,600.5                           -
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                    74,0655.9
1/ At January 1978 prieao.
2t 10% except for irrigation network, access roads and rural *lectrification (203)
and Cotinguiba irrigation network (25).
31  Cost overrun of Irrigation and drainags Actual .46.6
Appraisal .          0.0
Cost overrun ..      l    (55x of 80.0)
Excluding the construction of the locicea dam (about USno.0 million).
4/ Estimate.



- 38 -
ANNEX 5
Table 2
BPAZIL
LOWER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17290-BRU17291-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REORT
Actual Project Costs Per Varzea
(US$'000)
Cotingui b
Soacica    Pindoee       ItlGba    Pr6pria   Totel
Productive Capital ExpnLdIturVe-
Irrigation and Drainge                   2t,160     11,680 cOO                     -   46,590
Electrical Network                           30          -             -           -        30
Nework OUM Equipment                        870      1,710             -           -    2,030
Agrioulturei Msahinoryo                   2,870        840           400         640    4,950
Agricultural Services                     1,830      1,410             -           -    2,740
Paddy Drying and Store i/s                  970        250           130         260      1,660
Rice Ml ling
Transport Equip_mt
Accoe  Roads                                200         s0             -           -       2C0
Teclnical Assistneo (FAO)2(e              1460         370           170         370     2,170
Farmes Organization                         150         60                         -       200
Consation for Harvet Losses                   -                        -             
Totl                                   8418U0     2a.2S0         1.800       1.490   -80 68
Ineremel Recurrent Expenditures
Agricultural Services
project Administration
Farmer Organizatlon
Total                                   56 90      1.750           620       1t750    10,300
Social Infrastructure and Studies
How ing
EduzstYon                                   100         60            s0          10       210
Hlelth and Sanitation                       160         60           230           -       470
Rural Electrification                         -          -             -           -         -
further Studies and Monitoring            1,990        690           200         60      3,460
Total                                   2.270        700           SW          fE      4.180
TOTAL COSTS                                   42,590     25,700         2.980       3Je40    TS71O
5TX        84S            4X          6s      100X
US$ I a Cri 16.15
t grejs nova (810W000) and eetume (USs1,6000oo).
2/  FAO (US2.0 millon) and local technticl egsostnncs (US2170,000)
Values per verges established using tl* following welghts:  0.56 (Boscica),
0.17 (Cotinguiba-Plndobe); 0.06 (ItlGbe); 0.17 (Proprid).



ION      low      1063      1964     16       106       10e7     low     1t9        1900     1011     10        10       104       1995
1. Co.a.b-..aa(1.160he
14m,.es"d *.*r   (116)     l CO              Ns6      900      lo0b     70        4        go       760    1.000    1.00    1.600    1.00         2.00    2.100    2.321
Yield           CT/h.)             ..7      2.0       2.C 2.1           2.1        S.      2.1      3.3       3.7      4.0      4.C       *.2                         4.5
Pr.ductioe       tn)               170    1.110    2,5     20 so1.19615 .305              .900    2.810    2,700    1.200       .560    LU.0    8.600      9.240   10.40
8. 0:!/                             1,635    1.000    2.920 2.0          SI6       2.100    2.1      2.20U     2.250    2,10    0    2.20    2.210   2.20    2.10    2.220
a. Ircrmeml       CT)
V -                                  0        0        7         0        0        0         0      310    1.450    2.G000    4.240    5.240    6.280    .020    *,U0
2. o"jil           (20=hb)
1~~~~~~~~~
w.:tJ                       .,                                                                      ;
brvAt.d ar"    (ha)                 n       "50        3        Pe      4VS       810      IN     2.4SD    3.lWO  O5.00M        500    6.0w      6.80       .000    7..v
viol#           ktVbe)             2.5      1.0       1.9         .     4.5       3.?      4.2      4.1       4.5      4.6      4.7       4.7      4.7      4.7       4.7
Production      CT)               ."50     1.1105   1S77M            1.740    2,09      19,es  10,765   17.100   23.000   25.00   2S.200   30.050   22.900   36.90
b. B: !/4                               -    2.960    3,O0      3,210D    3.200    3.300    3.00    3,50       3,U60    3,60    8a.m       3.0       .60 3660 34        .60
e. lnrmi,te        CT)
to  U                                0        0         0        0        0         0 _            7.2     13.440   19.340   22.190   24.b40   2,00   29.240    V.20           a
a. Itia.a
lbrceehed ora   (he)                60      an2       570      on        us       970    1.0.1    1.235    &.ao    1.400    1.500    1.0          I'm,700    1.750    l.770
Wield            T/Wh)             2.5      2.9      2.9       3.5 .     0.       4.2      4.0      3.7       4.0      4.1      4.2       4.3      4.4      4.5       4.6
Production       CT)              w9        940    3.65    1,76       2.085    4.075    4.100    4.670    5.2e0    5.740    6.300    6.a50    7.4           , 7.675    70's
tr.ostod area      )360                     32s       70       135      635       700      750       o0o      aso       00    1.000    1,100D   &.MD    1.30    1,330
WVld            (Th)               2.5      2.9      2.9       3.0      3.0       3.1      1.1      3.2       5.2       .3      3.3       3.4      3.4      3..5      3.5
Produ;tieft   t  T)                "a9o40    1.655s   SIM.0            %.60     2.170    2,1      2.56      2.7      2.,70    3.20      5.740    4.060    4.550    4.6se
.a. .,..0l         CT)                                                                  j 
0        0        0       160      460    1.0,    1.775    2,010    2.400    2.r170    3.00    3.140    3.400    3.375    S.310
as*, . .
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 901A
'                                                      F aw~~~~~~~~~~~~10



lo61     1962       1963      1984      1965      19'6 1907           1         1969      30        19I       192       1993       994      1995
4. prggtg4       (1.160 he)
S_ W:
harc".td ores (be)                  1.176       960    1,510      1.375     1.675     10600       915     1.320     I.No      1.70eD    1.600     2.000     2.100     2.200      2.360
Yield         (/bA)                   1.6      3.6        2.2       3.0       3.1       3.6       3.1       3.3       3.7       4.0       4.1       4.2       4.3        4.4      4.5
Pb. dt ct.c    CT)                  2.115    3,455      3.32D     4,125    5.190      6,050    2.635      4.3SS     5. 55     6.D00     7.360     6.400    9.0I      0.600   10. 20
htr*#Ld aea (ha)                    1.175       960     1.000     1.050     1,100     1.150     3.200     1,250     1.300      I.40     1.500 1S0            I .60     1.700     1.770
Yi.ld         (T/ba)                  1.8 0      .6       2.1       2.2       2.3       2.4       2.6       2.7       a.0       3.1       3.2       3.3       3.4       3.5       3.5
P,o4.,ction    CT)                  2.115     3.4S5     2.100     2.310     2.530     2.760     3.UO      3.37S     3.r00     4.340     4.e00      5.1t5    5.44O      5.950     6.195
c. locresmatal    CT)
0         0     1.22D     1.615     2.600     3.290         0       900     1.650     2.460     2.b0      3,2B.25   S.WO      3.730    4.425
_________________________________   I           _______ ~    ~    I         I                                                                                    1  42
5. Total 1.c..m.nt..I p.od..ct.o.             0         0     1.790     3.975     3.140     5.195     2.260    10.665    16.960    27.470    32.010    36.205    40.360    43,215    4.3
1/ V . aith U.. project, V * .U.rout theo projct
A/ awici  the loAcia dam is cosvlat.d bp *od 19d9.
3s  "e'  DO * croppin  int n..itr of 200 by 1995. 
WI; area: 1.830 he yild  increasing from 1.6 to b'  T/lh.
I/ W; ara-. 3.150 he Yield iaroeasing from 1.6 to 2.0 T/ha.
I/ V; sm;ing * crePoPng ;esnsity increoang to 1.5 and ysidl  inc,e.ano to 3.5 T/he.
Li Pe: naglig,blD,.
IV NDt taking account of negatie, i;ncr.ental prodmetion caused by floods or/and contr.ction of werki.
0
Ptt
Ila-1



IM     am    awa   IM       IM3   3964   1965  aq I _S     1                 I0   191  1i2   01168   164   t1o   am    Am    gm    1940   a000
(I) Zacreee  Prodvoties                                                                                                           .                
*     PeMg1z                                                              428    97 MY     m    "    480  2.4,  41.11  5.201 7.170  0413  6.8  11S,2 I     ..7M   8.037  8a.017  8.070 15.070  3a.01
other ceed                                                                                      140   1o0   000  I,.N   2,30  1.000 *.00  1.100  8.30   4.00  5.000  0.00   g.m0 20.100
Utl ssiockO                                                                                    t1 5)    ("=  1.100  1.,10  1.500  1,400  0.0 0  *.m 08.00  4.    4.501  a.ea  *.Oi
(I)Predealle Crete
Paddy4                                                              154    141   241   249   1W1    071  1.720  2.100  2.11  8.000 5.542 8.67 4,105  4,705  4.705  4.10   4.105  4.105
oti r                                                                                             4 -  -  - _   -  -   -  24   424   50    76    65   1.    a.1   1.6,  2,19  2.0  3.380  4.20  5.56
Li.eboAG                                                                                         Of    00   dIG    440    M  i            700      O  1.040  1.400 _.60, 1.0    2.200  3.53
Wea, dv Volvo of lecrs.mestiPrdct
Liveate"
1.8.1 t.)                                          _274   25    425   4421                     5  1.06 S.014 4.43  5.014   1U  047             1 0,S1 t iJ.lIf 13."  1S.42t 1.Q9C
b. &am
(1) Ietma                                        2.511 12.001 3O.t17   1.7  5.485  2440  8 a. 59    S ga  4.90    1W          O.0 W1
(11) oerree_t Ceet7=                                        710    I1   1_0     1 t    2o      1 m      no    _      0    40    470   510   am       aw      owl  ow0   .              _       _ l
ToteI (b)                         I       2.511 12.11 10.237  1.171 5.47M  2.79 1.851 oa   .018  0.8t      21    4 *0, 5.410  S10    n80      8o0m             12.US    so    u        no
C. 4O        #      _         _U_   _I_ _          4m'10.    -7,44  *4.4   -                  4.41   4.               U l 435  .1    318   4.44I -am  a5   7.4!  am 1  11   Ml   55013.80  14.045 1.6.18
- Urw. of           f ,d  Pric es  (3) for h  Wi4CJ 1961-19Ss the  sre U.. IndICA     the reowt eatilJd Stell-Agricltural Seco  ltsre.dwo  IWO.   I. LAC); Tab#l A 11-10 (hoode.
of Arieterel PVrdmCe Slkt pted e ";  A   reicon   mm oh"" sd       . thenslo rates 19w l (II)  lo1    a" aleerd. Ua.y IWO dorived from tlrig. Projectie. fo  Major Primery
"6ils"(1114topork lb. 01410, N, ie      I
- Ptedd Predectle.,  (by Fear and by Vera") one proidd bp CUDeVAf.
V1   3a.re.     tre  61 (67 to 206 (199) eN  006 to 2    of the vales of pudy prod1ctieo.
IV  lacmrees   fnee  O(6   to    (195,   ned" 801 1u So6a  of the vSe. of pedd  prodtl1eUa  .
3/    1 of v.lvo of iccr_weL1l predectiea.
AP  3M of velee of Pr'dctiet.
Al1  d0 of dots. of preductte.
Z/   bcreselig free 0.1U  (1961) to 1U (1995) of esite mwd _ qlp.t .
IV   blrel aetn of Return of  et  77.                                                                                                                                                                



42 -
ANNEX 6
Table 3
BRZIL
LOWR SiO FRANCISCO IRGATION  PROJECT
(LOANS 17290-BRI 17291-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Awr^ae Anual FValr Incoms (1988)
(us$)
Mat            ~~~Ave..g.
Ores.             ~~~~Vale of              Peramw
value of.    Plod" fee   Preduetlee   fPmrs    I nca.
Yarns           Crops       pi redu bl1/      Coob2/         (a)         (a)!/    ()/(n)
Poperid       Arrox          T7i;117.90    366,3ml.00     416,764.00      291     1,428.71
feacica       Arroz        1,9Z0,242.40    723,233.00   1,192,009.40      659     1,509.32
ItUba        Arroz          894,089.62    342,372.00      551,717.52      219    2,519.20
Cotinguiba/
Pindeba     Fijo             3,216.25      1,39B.12       1,821.13
Arreo        1,636,913.10    451,144.45   1,186,700.66
Mllho          109,667.62     70,961.15      30,726.47
AI d@o          11,192.35      4,716.58       6,473.77
Qulabo          51,489.09     12,389.16      39,099.91
Soto" Deo       27,179.32      9,486.33      17,692.09
mIlanela         0,446.36     4,190.01        4,250.15
Caonee           5,448.60      1,741.69       3,701.61
Reoiho           2,866.12        988.67       1,484.66
Inhbow          15,978.10     10,146.95      5,824.15
moracujd         2,141.44     2,760.30        -626.60
t 0 T A .               1,076,070.46    579,633.68   1,296,168.61    5081/    2,551.56
/  Valued at market prices using th- curr nt offletxl exchange rats.
2/ Excluding coat of land.
I/ 0. not Include the lpig-paddy-f lih producerx.



- 43 -
ANNEX 7
Page I of 1
BRAZIL
.LOVER SAO FRANCISCO IRRIGATION PROJECT
(LOANS 17Z90-BRI17291-BR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Co2Mliance with Covenants
Most of the covenants. agreements and obligations of the Borrower
in the Loan Agreement and the Project Agreement (Loan 1729-BR) have been
observed by CODEVAS?. However, the following obligations-remained
unfulfilled.
Clauses                                     COMMENTS
Loan 1729-BR (Lower Sao Francisco Irrigation
Proiect
LOAN AGREEMENT
Execut'on of the Proiect
-Section 3;.02.  The Bank and the Borrower agree      Credit continues to be the
that in order to be able to make full produc-        main restriction for
tive use of their land and the Project facili-       increasing the cropping
ties, farmers and cooperatives of farmers in         intensity throughout the
the Project Area must have access t; agricul--       project area.
tural credit or reasonable terms. To this end,
the Borrower shall take all steps. including
the provision of refinancing facilities to
credit intermediaries, which may be necessary
to ensure the availability, promptly as needed,
of an adequate volume of such credit from banks
in the public as well as the private sector.
PROJECT AGREEMENT
Execution of the Project
Section 2.07(a).  CODEVASF shall by October 31       CC0)EVASF has not submitted
in each year during the execution of the             this document to the Bank
Project and starting on October 31. 1979.            in a timely and regular
furnish to the Bank CODEVASF's proposed budget       fashion
for the Project for the next fiscal year4 and
Section 2.07(b).  CODEVASF shall promptly upon       CODEVASF has repeatedly
its approval by the Borrower, furdish to the         submitted this document
Bank its budget for the Project for the next         too late.
fiscal year.



.44.
ANNEX a
Table .
LO=   810 nAC2SCo IR             nOu PROJECT
(LOAN 1729-Il)
PROJC? Ceow'ON REPOT
Staff uputs'
STAFF       LAST      LW   LIMA   WM    LP    PAD    PCR    PER    5P            TOTAL
NO         mm        no    5w(   81         NS   smS  SW    8*         SU        Ms
AUR                  13.66  21.U1      .5    ,      .      .      .      0.77    62.70
At$                     .      .   ,  ,      ,          .      .          .24      .24
AP2494                  .      .          .      .      .      .         1.50     1.50
AP4159                  .   '.         .            .      .      .      1.10     1.10
APU4W                   .      ,       ,     ,      ,      .      .      2.40     2.40
cuP                     .11.   .       .     .      .      .      .       .26      .48
DCt                     .      .       .47.         .      .      .       .81      .76
F.CM     Ecoomulst    70.07  11.40    7.24   .      .      .      .       .4   11.12
BmC      Educator       .15        .      .         .      *      *       3.       .40
Eon                   47.20  19.94   6.24        .      .     .   .    45.60   119.10
ETR                     .30  1.79      .     .      .      .      .       .       2.30
FA                      .               04                 .      .      759      7.0
FSE                     .90    .       .     .      .      .      *       *        .90
F`282    Spi.r                                             .      .      2.00     2.00
Mpg                     .      .       .     .             .      .       .03       .05
LOf                     .      .       .   9.92   2.77    .       .       .      12.08
MOS                    4.75   S.50     .     .      .      .      .       .90   11.21
usO                    0.74    .05     .     .04    .      .      .       .       6.9
USP                    7.87  10.24     .     .      .      .      .      1.33    27.24
XXX                    2.47        .      .         .      .      .      1.09     8.N
002 U    Vinet n               .             .      .07           .       .        .07
02186    Uhlli          .      .       .     .      .    1.00    .        .       1.00
04775    Lcuon.                                     .52    .      .       .        .52
05872    Olanns         .      .       .            .    6.57    .       9.47    16.04
07672    von Pogrel             .        .     .           .      .       .41     1.41
07981    Floyd                        .                    .              .24      .24
098O7    Tonesll        .      .       .     .      .             * a.14           .14
10480    Serthlr        .      .       .     .      .      .      .       .14      .14
11400    Pao  ants      .      .       .     .      .      .      .       .76      .70
12287    Emanuol                   .     .                 .      .10    7.44     7.54
*TOTAL 1D  URAPAOS1  1l4.61 llJ.1   14j.4  %M    fAiL   Lii   a..  105.35   484.44
1t A. of Juno 9, 1919.



4'3
AkNt4X 6
Table 2
LOllER SLAO FPANCISO IRRIGATION PROJEPCT
(LOANS 17290-DR/17291-Ul)
PROJECT COf1=0N SSO3
8uoerv1iiou Missions
Date
Mieeion          Date                 m z di          n2        SPY Report
1       August 1979                      7          2       October 3, 1979
2       January; abruary 1980          21           1       March 24, 1980
3       July 1980                        5          3       August 29. 1980
4       February 1981                   4           3       March 20. 1987
5       July 1981                       9           2       September 23. 1961
-       February 1982                    6          2       March 30. 1962
7       September 1982                   4          1       October 15. 1982
a       March 1983                       3          1       March 31, 1983
9       August 1983                      3          2       September 27, 1983
10       February 1984                    5          2       March 15, 1984
11       November 1984                    4           2      December 3, 1984
12       May 1985                         7           1      June 20. 1985
13       April 29-May 2. 1985                         1      July 10, 1985
14       December 1985                    3           1      January 26. 1966
15       March 1986                       6           2      April 14, 1986
16       December 1986                    6           1      February 13. 1987
17       April 1987                      10           I      May 6. 1987
16       September 1987                   4           1      November 18. 1987
1/ m x d - man x days.
2/ n - number of professionals participating in mission.



;                       ' t,,To Re        r             >°Q         To Maco                  0 'Toaej                                 CAR Pt,EAN SEA
Olho D'~AguaO                                   0., 
Gran de
OA ~    ~     w-                                                                            BRAZ!L
100.                                                                                                                                       1     <         B'S,
M8lb~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~ .a }                                                                                        a,eoaoy <-/     - 
Sio Bris                  reja Nova~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~areia
le2/<   IJ  <--- ;1(071 + AMER iCTU8A P LOT PR MAI w-
ITIU°BA3lpifanga                                           MARANDE P         OJ          |     |DE
Teth~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
~~~~~~~i//-APHATROPRI
B       AZI     rit  CGAELT ROWADScIV
B-A Z                                                                                                            GRAILROADS
LOWER  SAO  FRANCISCO  POlDERS PROJECT                                       AeA r                                                      RIERS e
PROJ ECT    lOCATION                               /*-- STATE BOURDOARIES.
3B4oM/ARIT



