Document of
The World Bank  F
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2265a-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
SXO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 4, 1979
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                       -           Brazilian Cruzeiro (Cr$)
US$1                                '           Cr$16.15 (January 1978)*
CrSI                                -           USSO.062
CrSl million                        -           US$62,000
Average  Exchange Rates (Selling):                    Oct.    Jan.    May       Sep.    May
1975    1976    1977    1978    1978    1978    1979
1US$ - Cr$                   8.13   10.73    15.00   16.15   17.27   19.15  24.64
*The January 1978 rate was used throughout the report and price contingencies
computed accordingly.
GOVERNMENT OF BRAZIL FISCAL YEAR  -  January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         -           3.28 feet
1 kilometer (Li)                    -           0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)                      -           10,000 m2 * 2.47 acres
1 square kilometer (km2)            -           100 ha - 247.1 acres - 0.386 sq. miles
1 cubic meter (m3)                  -           1.31 cubic yards - 264.2 US gallona
1 kilogram (kg)                     .           2.2 pounds
1 ton                               .           1,000 kg - 2,205 pounds
GLOSSARY OF ABREVIATIONS b SPECIAL TERMS USED IN THE TEXT
BB           -  Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brazil)
BN'B          -  Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
BNCC         -  Banco Nacional de Credito Cooperativo (National Cooperative
Credit Bank)
BNH           -  Banco Nacional de Habitacao (National Housing Bank)
Camurupim    -  Cooperativa Agricola Mista e de Colonizaqao do Camurupim,
Ltda. (Mixed Agriculture and Settlement Cooperative
of Camurupim, Ltd.)
CEHE          -  Central de Medicinas (Medicine Center)
CHESF         -  Companhia Hidroeletrica do Sao Francisco (Sao Francisco
Hydroelectric Company)
CIBRAZEM         Companhia Brasileira de Armazenagem (Brazilian Storage
Company)
COBASF        -  Cooperativa Mista de Irrigacao do Baixo Sao Francisco (Lower
Sao Francisco Irrigation Cooperative)
CODEVASF     -  Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco (Sao
Francisco Valley Development Company)
Combro       -  Irrigable river banks
Conv;nio     -  Contractual agreement between Goverrment institutions
DER           -  Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (Department of Roads)
EMATER (SE)  -  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural (Sergipe)
or (AL)    -    or (Alagoas)  (Technical Assistance & Rural Extension
Company)
EMBRAPA       -  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuiria (Brazilian
Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER      -  Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia TIcnica e Extensio Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance & Rural Extension Company)
FSESP         -  Fundacao Servicos de Saude Publica (Public Health Service
Foundation)
FUNRURAL      -  Fundo de Assist^ncia ao Trabalbador Rural (Rural Workers
Assistance Fund)
IJNPS        -  Instituto Joaquim Nabuco de Pesquisas Sociais(Joaquim
Nabuco Social Research Institute)
INAN          -  Instituto Nacional de Nutri,ao (National Institute of
Nutrition)
INCRA        -  Instituto Nacional de Colonizacao e Reforma Agr;ria
(National Institute of Colonization and Agrarian Reform)
PIN           -  Programa de Integracio Nacional (National Integration
Program)
POIWNORDESTE -  Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
ST I          -  Lower Sao Francisco Folders Project
SF II        -  Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project
SUCAM        -  Superintendencia de Campanhas Medicinais (Superintendency
of Public Health Campaigns)
SUDENE        -  Superintendincia de Desenvolvimento do Nordeste (Northeast
Development Superintendency)
SUVAIE        -  Superintendencia do Vale do Sao Francisco (Sao Francisco
Valley Superintendency
UEPAE         -  Unidade de Execur,ao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual
(Agricultural Research Station at State Level)
V;rzea        -  Flood plain



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page
I.   THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   The Sector in the Economy ............................      1
B.   Government Policies ..................................      1
C.   Agriculture in Northeast Brazil ......................    2
D.   Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector .... ......    3
II.   THE PROJECT AREA
Introduction                    ...   3
Location   .........................................        4
Climate .........................................           4
Soils .......   ..................................         4
River Regime   .........................................    4
Population and Income ........... .................         5
Land Tenure .........................................       6
Cropping Systems  ......................................    6
Present Rice Production ...... .....................        7
Agricultural Support Services    .      ................    7
Communications and Urban Facilities ..      .................    9
Social Support Services .     ......................    9
III.   EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.   The Sao Francisco Valley Development Company (CODEVASF)   10
B.   Supporting Agencies             . ..........   11
IV.   THE PROJECT
A. Background .12
B. Brief Description .13
C. Detailed Features .14
Productive Capital Expenditures .14
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures .19
Social Infrastructure and Studies..                      19
The report is based on the findings cf appraisal missions in May and August
1978 staffed by Messrs. Y. Pret, M. Asseo, C. Vidalon and A. Tobelem (Bank)
and Messrs. E. Calderon, F. Damborenea, F. Gariboldi and R. Moreno (Consultants).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
PaRe
D.   Cost Estimates       ................... .....................   20
E.   Financing    .............................................   22
F.   Procurement    ..................... ......................   22
G.   Disbursement ......         ....................................   23
V.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management ...........................   23
B.   Farmer Cooperatives ...................................   26
C.   Agricultural Support Services .........................   28
D.   Social Support Services ...............................   29
E.   Network Operation and Maintenance .....................   30
Network Operation ........        ...........................   30
Irrigation Water and Other Development Charges ......  30
F.   Project Implementation Schedule .......................   32
G.   Accounting and Auditing ...............................   32
H.   Monitoring ..........        ..................................   33
VI.   TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS
A.   Farm Development ......................................   34
B.   Rice Processing ........................   36
VII.   PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND MARKETING
A.   Production ........................    36
B.   Markets and Prices ..           ......................    37
C.   Marketing ........................    38
VIII.   FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A.   Farm Budgets ...........                  .............    39
B.   Paddy Storage and Processing ............. .............   40
C.   CODEVASF Budget    ................... ....................   40
D.   Fiscal Impact of Project ............... ...............   41
IX.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A.   Economic Rate of Return ......         .........................   41
B.   Project Beneficiaries ......         ...........................   43
C.   Environmental Impact            ..................................   44
D.   Project Risks and Uncertainties ..................            .   44
X.   SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....          .......   45



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES                                                                         Page
1.   Implementation Schedule ......................................    50
2.   Cropping Pattern ....        ........................... .................    51
3.   Supporting Tables:
Table  1:  Present Land Use and Crop Production          .............   52
2:  Proposed Development of Project Area ....        ........    53
3:  Irrigation Efficiencies .........................    54
4:  Annual Distribution of Project Costs ............          55
5:  Foreign Exchange Component of Project Costs   .....    56
6:  Sample Unit Costs ..................     .. ...........    57
7:  Proposed Bank Disbursement Schedule ... ..........         58
8:  Rent Recovery and Cost Recovery Indices ... ......    59-60
9:  Distribution of Farms by Model and Land Use                61
10:  Summary of Yields., Area Planted and Output ......         62
11:  Expected Evolution of Paddy Production .         .........    63
12:  Projected Rice Prices ...........................    64
13: Border Prices for Various Project Inputs and
Outputs   .......................................        65
14:  Farm Budgets .....      ......................  .........    66-69
15: Financial Analysis of Paddy Drying, Storage
and Milling ...................................    70
16:  CODEVASF Cash Flol .....................                    71
17:  Draft Loan Amortization Schedule ................    72
18:  Fiscal Impact of Project .....        ...................    73
19:  Paddy Processing Unit Economic Cash Flow .... ....   74
20:  Agricultural Component Economic Cash Flow .......           74
21:  Aggregate Project Economic Cash Flow ....        ........    75
22:  Analysis of Unit Investment Costs ..............      .    76
4.   Related Documents Available in Project Files ................    77
MAP
Map of the Project Area (IBRD-11565 R)






BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A.   The Sector in the Economy
1.01      Agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a lower rate
than the GDP as a whole. Agricultural output decreased by 1.8% in 1978 due
to the drought which strongly affected crop production (-7.3%). Yet agricul-
ture continues to be an important sector in the economy, providing 11% of the
net internal product of the country. The national agricultural work force
numbers 12.8 million, or 39.5% of the economically active population, and
43.1 million ha (out of a national territory of 8.5 million km2) are in agri-
cultural use. About 56% of merchandise exports originate in the agricultural
sector, with coffee, soybeans and sugar alone generating about 40% of the
country's export earnings. Brazil is the world's largest exporter of coffee,
the largest producer of cane sugar, and the third largest producer of soybeans.
It is also a major supplier of cotton, peanuts, cocoa, orange juice, castor
oil and sisal.
1.02      The most important crops for the domestic market include cassava,
maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus fruit, dairy
products, poultry, beef and swine; coffee, sugar, soybeans, cotton, and cocoa
are also important for the domestic market. With the exception of wheat,
Brazil is largely self-sufficient in basic food production, although some
staples (such as garlic, onion, potatoes and even beans) are imported seasonally.
Half of the wheat consumed in Brazil is still imported.
1.03      Over 1967-74, the agricultural sector performed well in meeting
domestic demand for food and fiber as well as supplying a rising volume of
export commodities, with output growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse
weather conditions in three of the seven years. Farm output increased 4.2%
over 1975/76, an increase due more to productivity gains with livestock
(12.2%) than with crops (0.4%, though 9% if coffee is excluded). Until 1977,
the value of output increased steadily, more as a result of an expansion of
production area than of improved productivity. Despite increased attention to
productivity and increasing market integration, subsistence and semi-commercial
production and use of rudimentary technology continue to be widespread,
particularly in the Northeast, North and Center West. Real wages in agricul-
ture have been rising sharply in recent years, suggesting that the traditional
pattern under which the sector was a source of surplus labor for the rest of
the economy, may not continue indefinitely.
B.   Government Policies
1.04      The agricultural development strategy of Brazil's Second National
Development Plan (1975-79) aims at more efficient exploitation of the country's



- 2 -
agricultural potential by increasing agricultural output by 40% in real terms
during the 1975-79 period. This goal reflects the Government's intention to
provide an increasing share of Brazil's growing domestic requirements for food
and fibers as well as to increase agricultural exports. In addition, the
Government has acknowledged the gravity of the country's income distribution
problems. Major measures to increase agricultural output have included:
(a) utilization of substantial public resources to incorporate new areas into
production, (b) significant expansion in the supply of agricultural credit,
most of it at subsidized rates, (c) reorganization of federal research and
extension services, and (d) special regional programs, such as the Development
Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), that focus on
poorer regions and smaller scale farmers.
C. Agriculture in Northeast Brazil
1.05      The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about 35
million, two-thirds of whom live in rural areas, and growing at a rate of
800,000 inhabitants per year. Much of the region has a semi-arid climate,
with periodic serious droughts and extensive areas of poor soils. Nonetheless,
the Northeast is a significant agricultural region, with 40% of the agricul-
turally employed population of Brazil usually accounting for 20% of Brazil's
agricultural production and a major share of the national production of cocoa,
cotton, cassava, beans and sugar. In 1977, 26.9% of the area harvested in
Brazil was in the Northeast. Throughout the region, much of the food and
industrial crops is produced by small farmers, technology is unsophisticated
and yields are poor, farming systems are adjusted to conditions prevailing:
lack of credit for working capital or investment, limited agricultural exten-
sion services, market isolation and weak linkages with the regional economy,
insecurity of land tenure and, in some areas, a difficult physical environment.
These problems are compounded by a highly skewed distribution of land ownership.
Less than 1% of the total number of farm establishments account for 40% of the
area, whereas in some areas up to 80% of the rural labor force owns no land at
all. Among Northeastern states, the proportion of land holders who have under
10 ha ranges from 49% in Ceara to 87.6% in Maranhao.
1.06      Numerous Government programs have been directed at speeding economic
development in the Northeast. The Government operates a special agency, the
Northeast Development Superintendency (SUDENE), and a special development bank
for the Northeast, Bank of the Northeast of Brazil (BNB).  Substantial
fiscal and monetary incentives have been made available over the past decade
for both industry and agriculture. Programs to generate jobs in the industrial
sector have not kept pace with population increases, and continuous emigration
from rural to urban areas has been coupled with considerable emigration to the
more industrialized Center South of Brazil. Past Government programs directed
to the rural population have often been in the areas of public works, with
substantial efforts in drought-prone areas to develop dams and ponds. The
present Government has moved toward the reorientation and strengthening of the
institutions offering the services required to develop more productive labor-
intensive small scale farming, particularly under the POLONORDESTE program (in
which the Bank is involved).



D.   Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
1.07      The Bank has so far made 13 loans, totalling US$480.4 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two, amounting to
US$60.5 million, for livestock development; two, amounting to US$137 million,
for agro-industries; one, of US$18.2 million, for grain storage; one, of US$40
million, for an agricultural research program for the Northeast, North and
Center West of Brazil; one, of US$100 million, for the development of agri-
culture extension services; and six, totalling US$124.7 million, for various
settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, five of which are
located in the Northeast. Bank loans for a nutrition project and a secondary
and feeder road project are also providing benefits to the rural population.
Additional agricultural and rural development projects and a rural education
project, all in the Northeast, are under consideration for possible future
Bank financing. A combined Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) has been
issued on the two livestock development projects. It shows that the second
project was cancelled after a major part of the loan had been disbursed,
because of disagreement between the Government and the Bank on relending
conditions. A Project Completion Report has been submitted on the grain
storage project and the corresponding PPAR is expected shortly. The project
had to face difficulties similar to those of the livestock projects.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
Introduction
2.01      The proposed project would be located in the Lower Sao Francisco
Valley, which is that part of the Sao Francisco River basin lying downstream of
the Paulo Afonso Rapids (see Map 11565R). The Sao Francisco River is 2,600 km
long. Its basin covers an area of 640,540 km2, much of which is in the North
East. The river has an energy potential of the order of 13,900 MW, of which
4,500 MW are in the Paulo Afonso complex alone and another 900 MW at Sobradinho.
Preliminary surveys conducted in the Sao Francisco Basin have shown that some
two million hectares of the basin are potentially irrigable, of which govern-
ment aims to develop some 500,000 ha by the year 2000. The Paulo Afonso IV
hydroelectric works, financed in part by a US$81 million Bank loan, have
modified the downstream regime of the Sao Francisco river, threatening to
leave the lower parts of a number of fertile flood plains (varzeas) permanently
under water, while production in their upper fringes would no longer benefit
from natural seasonal floodings. To protect the modest livelihood of some
4,500 families growing paddy on some 15,000 ha of varzea land, the Bank
approved in 1975 a US$23 million emergency loan (Lower Sao Francisco Polders
Project - SF I) to the Sao Francisco Valley Development Company (CODEVASF),
responsible for the development and utilization of the water and land resources
of all the Sao Francisco basin. The main objective of the SF I project is to
restore the varzeas' original agricultural potential by building dikes and
pumping stations around them to create hydraulic conditions similar to those
prevailing before the change in river regime. SF I also provides for full
irrigation development of two of the eight larger varzeas. The proposed
project is a continuation of the SF I project.



-4-
Location
2.02      The Lower Sao Francisco area, within which the proposed Sao           2
Francisco II Irrigation project would be sited, covers an area of 13,300 km
It includes 47 municipalities in the states of Alagoas and Sergipe on the left
and right banks of the river, respectively. The region does not form a homogen-
eous unit, and, because of limitations of topography and soils and a lack of
groundwater, opportunities for irrigation are limited mainly to the few flood
plains or "varzeas" near the mouth of the river. There are nine large varzeas
downstream of Propria (see map) ranging in size from 1,300 ha to some 9,000 ha,
and 67 small varzeas upstream from Propria, with areas ranging between 1 and
400 ha. The area of the SF II project would consist of four of the large
varzeas (Boacica in Alagoas, Cotinguiba, Pindoba and Brejo Grande in Sergipe)
with a combined gross agricultural area of some 11,000 ha, of which 9,645 ha
net would be cultivated.
Climate
2.03      The climate of the area is semi-humid tropical with rainfall de-
creasing gradually away from the coast. The mean temperature is around 25°C,
varying from about 22½C in August to 27 0C in January/March, with absolute
maximum and minimum temperatures registered at Propria of 40.8 0C and 150 C,
respectively. Relative humidity varies from 85% at the height of the rainy
season to 70% in the dry season. Downstream of Penedo, average rainfall
exceeds potential evapotranspiration from April to September, when rainfed
annual crops can be grown with a high degree of security. Annual rainfall
varies between 800 and 1,200 mm in the downstream zone, which comprises
the main varzeas. Seventy to 75% of the total rain falls from March to August.
The period from September to February is dry, with rainfall less than 50 mm
per month, although precipitation varies considerably from one year to another.
This rainfall pattern is in marked contrast to that in the upper part of the
river basin, where the main period of rainfall is from December to April.
Soils
2.04      The soils of the Sao Francisco basin in general are quite poor
except for the alluvial flood plains, or varzeas, which consist of low-
lying basins formed where tributary rivers and streams join the Sao Francisco.
Such lands represent 70% of the project area. The lower parts of the varzeas
are flooded every year. Soils of the varzeas are heavy clays of low permeabil-
ity with moderate amounts of organic matter (1 to 3%), poor in phosphate but
with good levels of potash. Within present agronomic and social constraints,
these soils are suitable only for rice cultivation. The rest of the area
consists of (a) river banks (combros) of gently undulating topography with
mainly fine textured silty or sandy clays suitable for most field crops (20%
of the area), and (b) plateaus (tabuleiros) with deep well-drained latosols
of low natural fertility, better suited for tree crops or pasture (10% of the
area).
River Regime
2.05      The Sao Francisco River has an annual average discharge of almost
100 billion cubic meters. Monthly discharges varied from a minimum average
flow between 700 m 3/sec and 1,850 m 3/sec in September to a maximum between



- 5 -
2,500 m /sec and 11,250 m /sec in February before upstream regulation for power
projects.  Minimum flow is now increasing to about 2,100 m /sec.  The Sao
Francisco River would be the main source of irrigation water for the SF II
project. Ample water of good quality for irrigation 1/ will continue to be
available in the lower valley from the Sao Francisco River well beyond the
assumed project life, irrespective of future water use increases upstream.
Irrigable land is the limiting factor. The river normally has only one
large flood crest in the lower valley, peaking during the January/March
period, then slowly receding to minimum levels in August-September.
Occasionally a second, smaller flood occurs after the main peak, due either
to the Sao Francisco or its tributaries, forcing farmers to replant their
crop. The floods are governed by the rainy season in the interior river basin,
which precedes by a few months the lower valley rainy season.  This unusual
combination of floods preceding rains in the project area has made possible
the traditional cultivation of rice on the varzeas.
Population and Income
2.06      The entire basin's population is about 10 million (of which 1.5
million live in Belo Horizonte), growing at 3% per year. Fifty-five percent
is under 20 years of age. Fifty-four percent of the total population is in
the state of Minas Gerais, 20% in Bahia, 16% in Pernambuco, 8% in Alagoas and
2% in Sergipe. Rural population of the Lower Sao Francisco increased at about
2.2% per   year between 1950 and 1970, but more rapidly on the Sergipe side
(3.1%) than   on the Alagoas side (0.8%) 2/.  Meanwhile, urban population on
both banks has grown at 4.7% and 2.6%, respectively.
2.07      Because most of the people living in the project area have been
sharecroppers, tenants or salaried workers, there is no reliable information
concerning their number. Experience from previous projects has shown,
furthermore, that a number of these families, mainly large land owners,
prefer to move out after adequate compensation, rather than stay and comply
with the land ownership and use structures and size limitations imposed
by a project.  No survey has been conducted on the intentions of the present
population, but, with 3-ha plots in the combros, 3.5 ha in the varzeas and
5 ha in tabuleiros (+ 1 ha of varzea land), which would meet: minimum income
criteria, it is estimated that some 2,700 families, probably all former
small- to medium-scale land owners, farmers and shareholders, would be settled
as farmers in the project area.
1/   USDA Salinity Laboratory class ClS1, with low salinity and low sodium
content during the whole year.
2/   Source:  Anuario Estatistico do Brasil, 1952, 1961, 1972.  FIBGE, Censos
Demograficos-Sergipe e Alagoas.



2.08      A recent survey showed per capita income in the Lower Sao Francisco
region in 1977 to be around US$250 to US$300. Though this range is much
higher than the 1968/69 figure of around US$80, it still represents no more
than 35% of the average national income and is below the relative poverty
income level, considered to be around US$465 per capita in urban areas and
US$332 per capita in rural areas of Brazil. If the project varzeas are
considered alone, per capita income is lower still (US$190 per year), with
three-quarters of the population, including the project target group, below
this figure and some 40% below the US$100 mark. The Boacica varzea, the
largest and most heavily populated, has the lowest average per capita income
(US$130 per year).
Land Tenure
2.09      Traditionally, most of the landed property in the area has been
of two types: (a) a few very large farms cultivated through sharecropping
arrangements, and (b) very small farms cultivated by their owners. Recent
cadastral surveys show that there were 1,982 farms in the four varzeas in 1977
with a total area of 15,066 ha (average size: 7.6 ha). Some 44.5% of these
farms had less than 1 ha (2.8% of the total area), 63.5% had less than 2 ha
(6.4% of area), 82.5% had less than 5 ha (14.2% of area) and 93.6% had less
than 20 ha (27.9% of area), whereas 0.9% had more than 100 ha with 41.2% of
the total area. This analysis does not reflect the further subdivision of
agricultural properties among sharecroppers. The following table provides
further details.
Area of
Number of  Cadastral Survey  Average gross   Cultivable   Cultivable
Varzea       farms           (ha)        area/farm (ha)   area (ha)  area/farm(ha)
Pindoba          154          1,478             9.8              1,143          7.6
Cotinguiba       430          2,502             5.8              2,009          4.7
Boacica        1,190          6,026             5.1              4,958          4.2
Brejo Grande    208           5,062            24.7              2,600         12.5
Total          1,982         15,066             7.6             10,710          5.4
Cropping Systems
2.10      Rice is the dominant crop in the area.  It covered about 58% of the
cropped area of the varzeas in 1976. Paddy production was then estimated at
about 6,500 tons cropped over 4,100 ha with an average weighted yield of 1.6
tons/ha. The average yield of SF I assisted farmers has been about 4 tons
per hectare in their first harvest under the project. Production of the
other crops--beans (18% of the area), maize (20%), cotton (5%) and some
cassava--is relatively insignificant, especially considering the very low
yields achieved. Table 1 of Annex 3 provides detailed area and production



- 7 -
data per varzea. The prevailing cultural practices are primlaitive due mainly
to the land tenure situation and climatic risks which do not favor capital-
intensive agriculture. Rice is transplanted at the beginning of the rainy
season on lands previously prepared at the end of the seasonal flooding
(March). Because of the heavy textured soils, plowing must be done by
tractor, and little work is done after planting until harvesting time in
August. Combro lands, where most of the population lives, are used for a
subsistance type of farming in small areas during the rainy season.
Present Rice Production
2.11      The present variety of paddy (SUVALE 1), locally produced by CODEVASF,
is of a long grain type with remarkable thickness. It has a 150-day vegetative
cycle. However, chalky and unriped grains reach 30% by weight in some samples,
mainly because of lack of good levelling of the fields, improper spacing of
the seedlings, inadequate fertilization practices, water logging and the wrong
choice of harvesting time. The present system of paddy cutting causes further
breakage and fermentation. Threshing machines provided by contractors are not
of the proper design or power. The climate, soils and proposed availability
of controlled irrigation and technical support suggest, however, that rice
produced in the Lower Sao Francisco varzeas could be among the best in the
country.
2.12      After threshing, the grain is bagged and left in the open until it
is moved by truck to the mill. The mills are equipped with dryers originally
designed to dry coffee beans, and there is no grading system nor testing
equipment. Paddy prices are established on the basis of the area where it has
been grown. Storage capacity is limited. However, present milling technology
is reasonably good and compares favorably with several Asian countries where
rice is the staple food. The main deficiencies of the local mills stem from
their design as small, standard and compact units which cannot be adapted to
process different varieties or to ensure a constant flow of the product.
Yields vary considerably from one mill to another. An approximate composition
of milling recoveries based on a limited number of samples shows that 64%
of the paddy is transformed into a highly broken low grade rice. Bran is
mixed with pulverized husk for use as animal feed. The remaining husk creates
a disposal problem.
Agricultural Support Services
2.13      The agricultural support services (research, extension, mechanization,
storage and marketing, farm inputs supply, credit) in the project area are
weak. There is also a duplication of efforts between agenciLes. Limited
research facilities are available at a small regional station, "Unidade de
Execucao de Pesquisa de Ambito Estadual" (UEPAE), operated by the Brazilian
Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA). It conducts research in tropical
crops including rice, with special attention to fertilizer use. The Alagoas
Extension Company (EMATER-AL) is just starting to assist the Itiuba irrigation
area. EMATER-AL and its Sergipe counterpart (EMATER-SE) have seven offices in
the project area, the main ones being at Penedo and Propria. all understaffed.
Both institutions require major strengthening before they can become usefully
involved in project activities to replace ongoing CODEVASF assistance, espe-
cially in the field of irrigated agriculture.



- 8 -
2.14      There are now some 81 tractors in the Lower Sao Francisco area, all
privately owned, and 19 threshers. However, only 13 of the threshers are in
usable condition. State mechanization companies do not provide such services
in the area.
2.15      There are two cooperatives in the immediate project area:  the Lower
Sao Francisco Irrigation Cooperative (COBASF) and the "Cooperativa Agricola
Mista e de Colonizacao do Camurupim, Ltda.," hereafter called Camurupim.
COBASF, with headquarters in Propria, was restructured by CODEVASF as the
farmer organization around which to develop all the Lower Sao Francisco
irrigation projects and to implement the simultaneous land reform exercise.
COBASF was planned to be, at least in a first phase, the sole owner of the land
now being purchased by CODEVASF for allocation to member farmers of COBASF.
Farmer members subscribe shares of Cr$ 10,000 per hectare allocated, payable
in 20 years. In August 1978, COBASF served 478 small farmers, 367 of whom
were in Propria, Itiuba and Betume. COBASF establishes cultivation plans
and supplies its members with farm inputs, channels institutional credit at
preferential rates and markets all their output. It is equipped with storage
space of varying quality that can accommodate up to 3,600 tons of paddy in
bags, plus a bag storage unit planned to have a capacity of 9,000 tons now
being set up on some 30,000 m2 of levelled land in the vicinity of Propria.
The unit has electric transmission lines and a link to the city water and
sewerage systems. COBASF has an office staff of 10, eight of whom, including
the president, are CODEVASF employees seconded to COBASF. Many members of the
cooperative have not been paying their share annuities and have been defaulting
in their debts to Banco do Brazil because of poor initial crops, due in part
to weak cooperative management and in part to exceptionally bad weather
conditions. The cooperative has been kept solvent in its early years through
the injection of US$350,000 of CODEVASF funds. Full development of the SF I
and SF II projects would put excessive strain on COBASF by bringing its total
membership to some 4,600 farmers while spreading its involvement to new lines
of activities. A reformulation of the cooperative structures would therefore
be required under the proposed project.
2.16      The production cooperative of Camurupim was established in the
Cotinguiba and Pindoba varzeas by some 110 farmers sharing land sold to them
by the Church under special financial arrangements. It now has 195 members
growing mainly rainfed rice in the varzeas and some livestock in the upper
lands. Although the Camurupim cooperative is considered to be in a difficult
financial situation, and half of its land falls within the scope of the
proposed project, its members have in the past refused to merge with COBASF,
partly because of the poor image of the latter and partly because of conflict
between CODEVASF and local Church authorities. A cooperative formula preserving
Camurupim's identity and land ownership has now been devised and an agreement
along those lines has been reached between COBASF and Camurupim.
2.17      The Bank of Brazil's (BB) regional agency in Propria provides credit
for agricultural inputs of both COBASF and Camurupim. In November 1977, out-
standing credit to COBASF amounted to Cr$ 9,140,958 (US$592,000 at the
current exchange rate of 15.43) with Cr$ 4,537,085 (US$294,000) to Camurupim,
mainly allocated to finance recurrent costs. The local agency is, in principle,
authorized to approve directly loans up to Cr$ 5 million. BB reports no
limitation to credit to the cooperatives as long as they are backed by CODEVASF.



- 9 -
A 13% interest rate is charged to cooperative members and loans are processed
individually, although BB would prefer collective processing. BB can also
provide warrants on crops awaiting marketing, at 18% interest per annum.
Similar conditions can be obtained from the Bank of Northeast Brazil (BNB).
Communications and Urban Facilities
2.18      The project area already has an extensive road network.  Federal
highway BR-101 crosses the Sao Francisco River on a recently built bridge
between Porto Real de Colegio and Propria. It links the main towns of the
area to the state capitals, Maceio and Aracaju, and runs south to Salvador
and north to Recife. All varzeas in the project area have feeder links to the
main highways. The Sao Francisco river, navigable year round up to Pao de
Acucar, could link all project varzeas, especially for the transport of bulky
produce, if road access were available from the varzeas. A railroad runs
parallel to BR-101. There is a major airport at Aracaju, 80 km from Propria
or Neopolis, plus two landing strips at Propria (CODEVASF-owned) and Penedo
(owned by the road construction and maintenance services of Alagoas, DER-AL).
2.19      All urban centers of the region have electricity supplied from the
Paulo Afonso installations of the Sao Francisco Hydroelectric Company (CHESF)
through state electricity companies owning three sub-stations in Sergipe and
two in Alagoas. However, rural consumption is below 8 kwh per capita per
year, less than 1% of urban consumption. Postal services cover all municipal-
ities of the area through eight offices in the main towns. Telephones are
limited to Propria and Penedo. Penedo also has a telex link. From 60% to 70%
of urban houses in the area were linked to a water distribut-ion system in
April 1977, up from 13% in 1970, but there is no such system connected to any
of the rural houses. Most rural homes are built of adobe, and 65% require
major repairs to provide for adequate protection from the Barber bug, carrier
of Chagas disease. 1/
Social Support Services
2.20      The educational level of the area population is low.  Only 50% of
adults in the project area were considered as "literate" in 1977 (compared
to a national average of 64% in 1970). In the rural areas of Sergipe and
Alagoas, only 30% of the 7 to 14 year age group are at school, and 98% of
those are concentrated in the first four grades. Socio-economic conditions,
inadequate curricula and an inappropriate school calendar contribute to an 80%
dropout rate after the first grade. None of the teachers in the rural areas
has any pedagogical training. Physical infrastructure is also very poor and
more than 40% of existing schools need to be replaced.
2.21      The project area is characterized by a high incidence of communicable
diseases, widespread malnutrition, mainly in pre-school children, and a high
prevalence of parasitic infestation (schistosomiasis, trypanosomiasis and hook-
worms). Unless adequate measures are adopted, the introduction of irrigation
systems would further increase cases of schistosomiasis which, according
to the scant statistics available, already affects 13% to 59% of the population
in different varzeas.
1/   A parasitic disease causing severe damage to the heart and intestines
(tripanosomiasis).



- 10 -
2.22      The Alagoas and Sergipe State Secretariats of Health, responsible
for the formulation of health policy in the project area, have contracted the
Public Health Service Foundation (FSESP) to deliver preventive care and some
sanitation services in their areas. The Rural Workers Assistance Fund (FUNRURAL)
also finances some health services, hospitals and ambulatory care centers,
including those of FSESP and of COBASF. The latter serves SF I project
beneficiaries in two municipalities (Ilha das Flores and Betume). The Superin-
tendency of Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM) and FSESP are developing a special
Program for Schistosomiasis Control, which has up to now covered only a small
part of the project area. Other government agencies active in the project
area are (a) the Medicine Center (CEME), which produces pharmacological
products and vaccines to be distributed to all public services, and (b) the
National Institute of Nutrition (INAN), which is financing supplementary
feeding programs for breast-feeding mothers, preschool and school children.
Most agencies have concentrated their efforts in urban areas. CODEVASF has
funded the construction and equipment of rather costly health centers in
Marituba and Betume, and has provided some health screening services. Coor-
dination between CODEVASF and other health agencies has been insufficient in
the area.
2.23      There are seven hospitals in the region, with a total of 316 beds,
and 26 health centers, 60% of which have permanent medical services. Profes-
sional personnel number 42 physicians, 21 dentists and three nurses, almost
all employed by FSESP, to serve a regional population of 210,000.
III. EXECUTING AGENCIES
A.   The Sao Francisco Valley Development Company (CODEVASF)
3.01      The Sao Francisco Valley Development Company (Companhia de
Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco - CODEVASF) will be the main executing
agency of the project. It was established in 1974, as a public sector enter-
prise under the Ministry of the Interior to succeed the Sao Francisco Valley
Superintendency (SUVALE) in promoting the economic development and utilization
of the natural resources of the Valley, principally its water and soils.
SUVALE's main activity since its establishment in 1967 had been to identify
priority areas for irrigation and agricultural development and minor implemen-
tation of selected projects.
3.02      CODEVASF, with headquarters in the Federal District of Brasilia,
operates like a private sector development company, with planning, coordination,
and executive functions. It acts on behalf of the Ministry of the Interior as
the leading federal development agency in the Sao Francisco Valley. CODEVASF
objectives are to develop and utilize the water and land resources of the
Valley, either directly or through the public and private sectors, using them
whenever possible for the execution of projects through contracts or agreements
(convenios).



- 11 -
3.03      By mid 1977, CODEVASF was operating some 5,000 ha of irrigated land,
1,500 ha of which were in the Lower Sao Francisco and some 3,500 ha spread
among seven projects in the Middle and Upper Sao Francisco, six of which are
pilot projects. CODEVASF is carrying out construction work on nine projects
outside the Lower Sao Francisco with a total irrigable area adding up to
some 50,000 ha. CODEVASF's 1978 budget was of the order of Cr$ 1.9 billion
(US$116 million). Some 71% of the budget is financed through the National
Integration Program (PIN).
3.04      CODEVASF has a Board of Governors (Conselho Director) made up of one
representative each from the Department of National Planning; the Ministries
of Agriculture, Transportation, and Mines and Energy; and four additional
members appointed by the Minister of the Interior. The Board of Executive
Directors, appointed by the President of the Republic, is composed of the
Chairman of the Corporation and three Directors in charge, respectively, of
Planning and Finance, Operations, and Technical Activities. All four Directors
were changed in March 1979 when the new Federal Government itook office. A
team of FAO experts has been advising CODEVASF on essentially technical matters
for the past few years. There are four regional directorates with a certain
degree of statutory autonomy with field units under them.
3.05      The actual execution of the project would be the responsibility of
the 4th Regional Directorate, in charge of all Lower Sao Francisco Basin
projects. Its headquarters are at Aracaju, capital of the 'State of Sergipe.
The Directorate has two main divisions (Irrigation and Administration), plus
two smaller units (Production and Services). It is at present supervising
ongoing construction works, providing social assistance to area farmers,
closely assisting the COBASF cooperative, managing existing irrigation networks,
conducting expropriation activities, and, in some cases, preparing engineering
designs. While lower level staff has been increasing rapid:Ly, the office
remains understaffed in professional positions, 45 in all, half of whom are
agronomists, with an excessive concentration of responsibiliLties in the person
of the Regional Director. A new Regional Director was also appointed in
March 1979.
B.   Supporting Agencies
3.06      Some of the proposed project components would be implemented through
existing federal and state (Sergipe and Alagoas) agencies under operational
agreements (convenios) with CODEVASF to construct and/or operate schools (State
Secretariats of Education), roads (Departments of Roads), health services
(mainly FSESP and SUCAM) and electric lines (state electricity companies), and
provide agricultural services (mechanization companies, the Brazilian Technical
Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMBRATER), EMBRAPA, the Brazilian
Storage Company (CIBRAZEM), and such).  Agricultural credit would be provided
through BB, BNB or the National Cooperative Credit Bank (BNCC), without
requiring any special operational agreement.



- 12 -
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Background
4.01      Farmers in the Lower Sao Francisco varzeas have traditionally
relied on the variations of the river's discharge to flood their rice fields,
and on natural rainfall to grow their crops, without having had any control
over either. However, one or the other of the two sources of water have
frequently failed in the past, or else too abundant rains have caused the
local streams to flood, resulting in varying degrees of crop loss. Smaller
farmers and share croppers in the Lower Sao Francisco area have also lacked
technical assistance, credit, fertilizers, adequate seeds, proper storage and
rice processing facilities. They have been further hampered by skewed land
ownership structures, a buyers' market, lack of formal education and poor
health facilities. The construction of the Paulo Afonso IV hydroelectric
works, financed in part by a US$81 million Bank loan (1008-BR), has resulted
in further potential problems since the construction works modified the regime
of the main river and its tributaries, increasing the minimum flow of the
Sao Francisco river from 700 to 2,100 m3/sec, with peak flows of 4,500 m3/sec.
This would have left the lower parts of the varzeas permanently under water,
while rice production in their upper fringes would not have benefited from the
natural seasonal flooding which reached those areas one year out of two in the
past. In view of the circumstances, CODEVASF studied in 1973 and implemented
thereafter a protection cum irrigation project in two of the eight large
varzeas affected by the new river regime (Propria and Itiuba). To protect
the remaining six large varzeas and 63 smaller ones, the Lower Sao Francisco
Polders Project (SF I) was also prepared on an emergency basis and financed
partly by a US$23 million Bank loan (1153-BR), signed in August 1975.
4.02      The principal objective of SF I has been to build protective dikes
and pumping stations in the varzeas of Boacica and Marituba in Alagoas and
Cotinguiba, Pindoba, Betume and Brejo Grande in Sergipe. SF I is also
aiming at providing full irrigation development and supporting physical and
social infrastructure for the Marituba and Betume varzeas, a fish hatchery
and 64 km of feeder roads built or upgraded to all-weather conditions. The
four remaining large varzeas in the area (Boacica, Pindoba, Cotinguiba and
Brejo Grande), which are the subject of the proposed Sao Francisco II (SF II)
irrigation project, are being provided by SF I with only the dikes and pumps
capable of artificially recreating the seasonal flooding and draining pattern
prevalent before Paulo Afonso IV construction. However, during project
implementation, it was decided (with Bank agreement) to contain rapidly rising
investment costs by reducing the size of the dikes and especially the pumps to
the more modest requirements which the subsequent (SF II) construction of an
irrigation network would make possible. Local financing was provided for the
expropriation of project lands in view of their redistribution in 3- to 4-ha
plots under cooperative arrangements, to farmer, sharecropper and agricultural
worker families living in the area, thus avoiding an unequal distribution of
project benefits which would favor the larger farmers. Works at Propria were
completed in 1977, and, in August 1978, the varzea had already been cropped



- 13 -
twice under irrigation by 254 settlers. Another 20 families were expected to
be settled by the end of 1978, bringing their number close to the target 296.
Also 78 families of 231 planned for I'tiuba have already been settled.
4.03      A specially complex project; entrusted to a young and relatively
inexperienced agency, SF I has been proceeding with a number of implementation
problems. Some of these problems are of a managerial and political nature,
while others are due to untimely and unusually heavy rains, which, combined
with inadequate preparation, have been delaying construction works since early
1977, both in Betume and Itiuba. The whole project's development has further-
more suffered major setbacks from floods of highly exceptional intensity
(resulting from a flow of up to 14,000 m3/sec in the Sao Francisco River) which
have been covering the area since February and are only now starting to recede.
As a result, only 22 settlers had achieved a harvest up to August 1978 in Betume;
20 others have since taken possession of their plots, and 42 more are under
training on temporary plots, awaiting final settlement. Marituba civil works
are still at the drawing board stage, and construction work on the other varzeas
is just starting. Completion date of SF I, originally set for June 30, 1979,
is expected to be postponed by some three years. By completion, some 1,200 to
1,300 farmer families should be settled on SF I areas. The objectives of SF I
may have to be substantially reviewed in the near future to provide for the
rehabilitation of all Lower Sao Franc^isco varzeas which have suffered from the
recent floods.
4.04      Difficulties in the implementation of the Propria, Itiuba and SF I
projects, both in the technical and social fields (mainly in the expropriation
of owners and compensation of workers), precipitated strong complaints from
the local Church and politicians in 1977. However, a number of measures taken
since by CODEVASF, including the appointment of eight social assistants to work
in the project area, the elaboration of more appropriate settler selection
criteria, the establishment of work teams for unemployed farmers ("Frente de
Trabalho") and some compensation payments, have improved relations with the area
population, increased farmer awareness of and interest in CODEVASF activities
and opened the way for a smoother implementation of the proposed SF II project.
4.05      The SF II irrigation project was prepared by CODEVASF staff 1/ with
periodic supervisions from the FAO/W.B Cooperative Program, and more recently,
a number of visits by Bank staff and consultants. As a direct follow-up of
and complement to the SF I project, it has been conceived along lines very
similar to the irrigation works of Betume and Marituba since the physical and
social environment created by SF I have left little scope for fundamentally
different alternatives.
B. Brief Description
4.06      The SF II project aims at:  (a) increasing by 50% to 250% the income
of some 2,720 farmer families, today among the poorer segments of the area
1/   Preparation documents were based on pre-feasibility studies by SCET-SIRAC
and feasibility level studies for the various varzeas carried out by
Electroconsult, Geotecnica and Seebla/SB/Ilaco. The rice processing
component was prepared by a Brazilian consultant firm, Florencio
Engenharia, with direct assistance from the Bank consultant in post-
harvest operations.



- 14 -
population; (b) providing improved health and education facilities; (c) increas-
ing rice production and improving its quality; and (d) strengthening CODEVASF's
management capability. The project seeks to achieve the above goals by
(a) providing irrigation facilities; (b) developing cooperatively owned family
plots of more or less equivalent production potential (in most cases, 3.5 ha
of irrigated varzea land or 3 ha of irrigated combro land) to replace the
present skewed land tenure pattern; (c) providing cooperative production and
marketing structures and preparing local farmers to participate in cooperative
activities; (d) introducing technological improvements which would increase
yields through better input supply, farm mechanization, and reduced post-harvest
losses; (e) developing improved extension services and applied research in
small farm cultural and post-harvest practices; (f) developing better storage
facilities and a modern paddy processing plant which would increase the value
added in the region; (g) providing the area with improved social and support
infrastructure; and (h) reinforcing CODEVASF with locally recruited high-level
staff to be initially advised by FAO specialists.
4.07      Rice would be grown on all varzea lands under irrigation.  In combro
lands under irrigation, the project envisages fairly intensive crop rotations
including cotton, peanuts, watermelon, maize, and bananas until more profitable
cropping patterns can be identified through the proposed research activities.
Rice farmers are expected to gradually introduce fish ponds, which would
occupy up to 6% of the total rice area if the practice becomes generally
adopted and would help control the vector of schistosomiasis. Since, however,
little experimentation has been done up to now on fish farming, potential income
from this activity is not considered among project benefits.
4.08      The main production oriented components are an irrigation and
drainage network with the corresponding power lines and maintenance equip-
ment, agricultural machinery, rice storage and milling facilities, agricultural
research and extension services, access roads, reinforced project administra-
tion with complementary technical assistance, and a network of primary and
secondary cooperatives. Compensation for harvest losses during construction
is to be financed by the project as a cost inherent to the proposed works.
Agricultural credit is not included among project components since ample
credit is available through various local banks. Social components provided
under the project include housing, schools, rural health centers, sewerage,
water supply and rural electrification. The project would also finance
further studies. Land acquisition costs are not considered since this item
has already been included in the SF I project. The project would be imple-
mented by CODEVASF, assisted in specialized areas by existing federal and
state agencies.
C. Detailed Features
Productive Capital Expenditures
4.09.     Irrigation and Drainage Network.  The project is intended to cover a
net cultivated area of 9,645 ha of which 8,778 ha would be irrigated (Table 2
of Annex 3). Rice would be cultivated by flood irrigation over a net area of



- 15 -
about 6,887 ha (or 78% of the total irrigated project area), while 560 ha net
of a variety of crops would be furrow irrigated on combro lands. Subject to
favorable results from pilot plots, sprinkler irrigation would be installed on
1,331 ha net (15% of the irrigated area) on further combro lands where (a) a
combination of undulating topography and relatively light soils creates a
potential danger of erosion if irrigated by furrows; and (b) higher costs of
land planing and canal lining for furrow irrigation make sprinkler irrigation
competitive. The hydraulic infrastructure provided by the SF I project would
be used for SF II irrigation. It consists of 41 km of protective dikes and
four control structures, with pumps with a total discharge capacity of 45 m3/s
(8,090 hp) with heads between 3.30 aLnd 8 m.   Their timely and adequate comple-
tion is a prerequisite for the construction of the proposed irrigation network.
4.10      Individual paddy fields to be irrigated by flooding would be sub-
divided into plots by 35-cm-high bunds following contour lines 10 cm to 20 cm
equidistant, depending on the slope of the terrain. This method would minimize
land shaping costs. Paddy fields would be grouped into "irrigation units"
("modulos de irrigacao") of about 20 ha each, supplied through a single outlet
structure delivering a continuous flow.
4.11      Furrow irrigation in combros is limited by the micro-relief.  During
the months of major water demand, water would be applied to the field 24 hours
a day. The crops considered for furrow irrigation (Pindoba and Brejo Grande)
would have irrigation cycles of 10 clays, and each irrigation unit would cover
40 ha. The distribution network would convey the water to a feeder canal
from which plastic siphons would del,iver the water to the furrows.
4.12      Sprinkler irrigation of various crops in Cotinguiba and Boacica
would operate 22 hours a day during the months of maximum demand. Water would
be applied to irrigation units of about 16 ha in cycles of eight to 10 days.
The irrigation intensity would be of about 10 mm/hour. The final design
features would be adjusted to reflect the results of the sprinkler pilot plots.
Irrigation efficiencies by varzeas are shown in Table 3 of Annex 3.
4.13      New pumping stations would be installed as follows: 1/
(a) Cotinguiba: One pumping station of 120-hp installed capacity
located at the northwest corner of the varzea, to lift 0.6 m3/sec 6 meters
above the Sao Francisco River to irrigate 452 ha net of combro land by
sprinklers and 56 ha net of rice land by flooding; three 300-hp pumping
stations on canals for sprinkler irrigation (0.2 m3/sec discharge, each
with a 58 m head).
(b) Boacica: (i) Two pumping stations at the upstream (northern) end of
the varzea, to lift, respectively, 1.43 m3/sec (200 hp) and 0.5 m3/sec (50 hp)
of water for rice flooding 4 to 6 m above the channels of the Boacica River
and its tributary.
(ii) Three 225- ito 375-hp pumping stations located along
canals, with a total discharge of 0.58 m3/sec for sprinkler irrigation of
636 ha net of combro land in the southwest of the varzea.
1/   Technical features are subject to review during final design.  This
is not expected to affect significantly overall cost estimates.



- 16 -
4.14      The project would provide the varzeas of Cotinguiba-Pindoba, Boacica
and Brejo Grande with about 137 km of primary and secondary irrigation canals
(about 16 meters of canal per gross irrigated hectare), of which about 86 km
would be concrete lined and the remainder would be earth canals. Sprinkler
irrigation would require main and secondary pipelines of a total length of
about 36 km (about 45 meters per gross hectare of sprinkler area). Main
drains would have a total length of about 100 km (10 meters per gross irrigated
hectares). The internal road system along canals and some of the main drains
would cover about 230 km (23 meters per gross irrigated hectare).
4.15      Network and pumping capacities would be based on the water required
during the months of maximum demand (December and January), when round the
clock pumping would be necessary. The cropping pattern considered in the
combros allows for two to four months per year, between March and September,
of very low water demand when overhaul and repair works could be done on
equipment and network. However, maintenance time available under double
cropping of rice would be relatively short, unless a satisfactory short cycle
rice variety is introduced. The irrigation canals would have a trapezoidal
cross section and bank slopes of 1.5:1 (horizontal to vertical). The dimen-
sions of freeboards and berms would vary with the conveyance capacity 1/.
Longitudinal canal slopes would be designed to maintain water velocity at
or above 0.30 m/sec in order to limit excessive sediment deposition. The
justification for concrete lining, where advisable, has been studied in detail
and its economic merits compared with the alternative of unlined canals.
4.16      Since the rice crop would be lost if submerged seven or more conse-
cutive days, the drainage network would be dimensioned to limit the recurrence
of such floods to once in 10 years. On this basis, the network would be
designed for the discharge of 2.5 to 4.3 1/sec per hectare of surface water,
mainly rainfall runoff from both the project and outside areas, plus unavoid-
able operational losses and waste of irrigation water.
4.17      Irrigation and drainage network layout and designs have been carried
out by different consultants for each varzea, following their individual
criteria, which CODEVASF has not tried to unify. Detailed designs along more
acceptable criteria and standards would therefore be needed for each varzea
preceding work implementation to eliminate the present shortcomings and
heterogeneity. Those final designs are expected to provide for measurement
of water actually delivered to each irrigation unit (a) for the purpose
of adequate on-farm and overall water management, which would be further
improved by flow measurements at the head of major canals and by regular
monitoring of the water table and salinity content in sensitive areas; and
(b) so that water charges be applied on a volumetric basis as an incentive for
water and energy conservation.
4.18      Electrical Network.  Since most pumping stations are provided
through the SF I project, the proposed project would provide only about 3 km
of 13.8 KV lines to four new pumping stations in Cotinguiba and another 8 km of
1/   Following the standards of the "Secretaria de Recursos Hidraulicos de
Mexico."



- 17 -
13.8 KV lines, most of it from the main pumping station tco three sprinkler
pumping stations in Boacica. These transmission lines are being designed by
the state electricity companies of Sergipe and Alagoas.
4.19      Network Operation and Maintenance Equipment.  The equipment to be
provided under the project for the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
and drainage network would consist of three 100-hp crawler tractors with
various attachments (blades, excavat:or, ditchers, ripper, scraper); six
four-wheel-drive vehicles; five motorbikes for irrigation inspectors; and
129 bicycles for canal attendants. The equipment would be owned by CODEVASF.
Servicing, parking space and offices for O&M staff would be provided by COBASF
at its own facilities for agricultural machinery maintenance.
4.20      Agricultural Machinery.  'The project would provide 30 tractors, 30
threshing machines, 60 trailers and other implements, together with repair
shops and sheds, to be leased or so:Ld by CODEVASF to COBASF. Twenty-four more
tractors and 15 threshers required (luring peak periods would be rented from
local owners, as in the past. Such intensive mechanization is necessitated by
the heavy soils of the varzeas, by the short time available for harvesting and
land preparation in order to achieve two crops per year, and because of the
need for paddy transport out of the varzeas.
4.21      Agricultural Services.  The project would provide new buildings,
equipment and training for the agricultural staff of CODEVASF. It would
also finance incremental recurrent expenditures for services provided by
CODEVASF during the first five years of project development, as an institution
building cost.
4.22      Paddy Drying and Storage.  Three drying and storage units would be
installed, with a total storage capacity of 25,000 tons of paddy. The largest
storage unit (14,000 tons) would be at Propria, adjacent to the mill, while
the two other units would be located at Igreja Nova 1/ (5,000 tons) and Betume
(6,000 tons). These facilities would handle the production of all eight
varzeas of the Lower Sao Francisco. The production of Propria, Itiuba,
Cotinguiba, Pindoba, and half of Boacica would be stored at Propria; the other
half of the production of Boacica, together with that of Marituba, would be
stored at Igreja Nova, and that of Betume and Brejo Grande would go to the
Betume storage unit. All new storage units would be of the silo type, to store
paddy in bulk for better conservation. The existing storage building in Propria
would be adapted to house the milling plant, while silos and drying equipment
would be built on the adjacent industrial plot. The project would also provide
four rice grading laboratories (one in each drying center and another one for
the mill). All drying, storage, milling and transport equipment would be
managed by COBASF, either as direct owners or possibly under lease from CODEVASF.
4.23      Rice Milling.  The SF II project would aim at complementing the
existing milling capacity in the project area to meet the needs of all the
Lower Sao Francisco varzeas. Total milling requirements would be of the order
of 81,500 tons per year, excluding 1,500 tons for seed production. Available
1/   An alternate location, which would not affect project costs, would be
Penedo.



- 18 -
private milling capacity is estimated at 15,000 tons per year and arrangements
would be sought whereby such mills would process part of the cooperative's
production. The SF II project would, however, aim at providing an independant
capacity to process all 81,500 tons per year by working in three shifts 30 days
instead of 26 days during peak months in case these arrangements can not be
made. The mill would be in Propria (close to the national highway BR-101
and the railway), where the present storage unit of COBASF recently built by
the Brazilian Storage Company (CIBRAZEM) is located (para 2.15). It would
have three white rice modules with a total capacity of 12 tons per hour, the
last module to be built to also have parboiling equipment with 4 tons/hour
capacity. The mill would operate 11 months of the year, 24 hours per day, on
a three-shift basis, 26 or 30 days per month during the peak months of January
to April, and 23 to 25 days during the other months.
4.24      Transport Equipment.  Twelve trucks pulling 6-ton trailers each to
transport rice from the varzeas to the stores and between storage units and
the mill, two pickups and a jeep for maintenance services and three vehicles
for mill managers would be provided by the project. Within the varzeas, the
trailers would be hauled by tractors, thus ensuring the transport of each
farmer's paddy directly from the thresher to the grading and drying center.
4.25      Roads.  The project would finance about 12 km of gravel roads to
provide access from the lower part of the Boacica varzea to the paved road
(AL-110) between Penedo and BR-101, from where transport to the Propria mill
could proceed (see map). A second gravel road about 9 km long is included and
would link Betume (and therefore Brejo Grande) along the river to Neopolis
across from Penedo. The proposed roads are being designed by the Highways
Departments of Sergipe and Alagoas. Service roads would be built along the
irrigation canals and have been costed together with them (para 4.14).
4.26      Technical Assistance and Farmers Organization.  The project would
provide buildings and vehicles for a number of farmer associations that are
proposed under the project. It would also finance all operating costs of
those associations and half of the incremental operating costs of the central
cooperative and of the 4th Directorate of CODEVASF, the other half being linked
to the development of the remainder of the Lower Sao Francisco. The project
would also finance training abroad for CODEVASF staff, together with 13.5
man-years of technical assistance to be obtained from FAO (over and above 6.5
man-years already financed through the SF I project), all under cost-sharing
arrangements with UNDP (para 5.05) at standard FAO rates of US$5,000 per-month
including international travel, installation costs and other allowances but
excluding reporting and agency overhead costs. Other consultants employed
by CODEVASF should cost, all benefits included, between US$2,500 (junior
level) and US$9,000 (top senior level) per month.
4.27      Compensation of Harvest Losses.  Construction of the irrigation
network would result in the loss of one crop in all project areas to be
irrigated and of a second crop on half of that area. Since combro areas are
at present almost totally unutilized, these harvest losses would affect mainly
paddy production. As CODEVASF would be expected to compensate farmers directly
or indirectly for those losses, an amount equivalent to the value of the lost
production is included among basic project costs. In return, settlers would
be required to provide labor for the construction or improvement of individual
houses.



- 19 -
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
4.28      The project would finance as institution building costs those incre-
mental recurrent expenditures during the first five years of project implemen-
tation which are not recovered from project beneficiaries. These expenditure
items include services provided by CODEVASF to the project area and farmer
organization overheads. On-farm, network and agro-industrial operating costs
are excluded from project financing since they generate their own financial
returns. Bank loan funds would not be disbursed directly against project
recurrent expenditures, but disbursement rates on other project costs have
been adjusted slightly upwards to compensate for the foreign exchange component
(about 10%) of recurrent expenditures.
Social Infrastructure and Studies
4.29      Housing.  The construction of new houses for displaced farmers and
for farmers whose present houses are not considered usable constitutes the
main social support expenditure. Two-thirds of the houses now in the project
area are considered to be usable. Thus, of the 2,720 sett:Lers, it is
assumed that some 1,000 would require new houses. Of the remaining 1,720
settlers, some 1,000 would have their houses upgraded to meet minimum health
and comfort standards. The actual number of houses to be built or upgraded
can only be determined on the basis of final settler selection results.
4.30      Education.  The project would construct, furnish and equip 17 primary
schools, providing a total of 1,360 places accommodating, on double shift,
about 2,700 students from grades 1 to 8. This would permiit an increase of 30%
in enrollment (800 new students), priority being given to new students in
the seven- to ten-year-age group. Each school would have itwo classrooms for
multigrade teaching, one office for two teachers, a library/meeting room,
space for teacher housing, a canteen area and storage space. Twelve schools
would be replacements. The exact siting of the five new schools would be
determined before loan negotiations.
4.31      The schools would also be used to provide adult education covering
subjects such as the use and maintenance of the irrigation structures and
equipment, cooperativism, rural electrification, woodwork and construction,
mechanics and handicrafts.
4.32      Health and Sanitation.  The project would construct and equip
some eight rural health posts supported by the existing referral health
centers of FSESP in the main towns of the area. The project would also train
three health professionals, 10 outreach health auxiliaries, one laboratory
auxiliary and 10 water supply operators.   Water would be supplied to the
project families through the construction of 10 wells of an average depth of
100 meters, and an equal number of public fountains. Six of these would be
in Boacica, two in Cotinguiba/Pindoba and two in Brejo Grande. Each well
would be equipped with two 4-hp pumps, a 50-m3 storage tank and a distribu-
tion system to individual houses. Septic tanks or pit latrines would be
provided to all the houses occupied by project farmers and employees.



- 20 -
4.33      Rural Electrification.  A total of 25 km of transmission lines to
two villages in Cotinguiba/Pindoba, three in Boacica and one in Brejo Grande
would be built under the project. Distribution systems in the villages would
include street lighting. Individual house connections are not included among
project costs but would be provided upon request, at consumer expense.
4.34      Further Studies and Monitoring.  The project includes funds for the
following categories of studies: (a) technical and social studies for projects
under consideration by CODEVASF in the Sao Francisco basin; (b) a detailed
analysis of on-going CODEVASF operations in the Middle and Upper Sao Francisco;
(c) a review of the functions and structures of CODEVASF; and (d) a study of
the means to improve the Propria sewerage network, on which the industrial
component of the SF II project would be particularly demanding. CODEVASF
would implement the recommendations of the sewerage study out of its own funds.
4.35      CODEVASF is negotiating with the University of Vicosa for the estab-
lishment of an impartial monitoring unit, which, along guidelines approved by
the Bank, would monitor simultaneously SF I and SF II operations in the Lower
Sao Francisco area. Expansion of monitoring activities to SF II operations would
require, however, that new funds be made available over and above SF I alloca-
tions from the "Further Studies and Monitoring" item of SF II project costs.
D. Cost Estimates
4.36      The total project cost over the six year project period (mid 1979
through mid 1985) is estimated at US$74.6 million, which includes physical
contingencies equivalent to 14.9% 1/ of the baseline costs, and price
contingencies equivalent to 31.0% of baseline costs plus physical contin-
gencies 2/. Baseline costs have been estimated at January 1978 prices 3/,
1/   High physical contingencies, mainly linked to irrigation network con-
struction, reflect appraisal conclusions on (a) the possibility of
adverse weather conditions, such as the floods in February/May 1979,
which have delayed site progress or damaged completed works in the SF I
project; (b) the amount of field work that has been completed on topo-
graphical surveys and location of construction material sources; (c) the
possibility of design changes during construction; and (d) the status of
design of access roads and electric distribution lines, only now being
located in the field.
2/   Price contingencies were calculated in US dollars.  Since equipment
represents a minor share of project costs, an average contingency of
7.5X was applied between January 1978 and January 1979, and 7% per year
cumulated thereon, resulting in the following cumulated contingency
percentages: Year 1, 15%; Year 2, 23%; Year 3, 31.7%; Year 4, 40.9%;
Year 5, 50.8%; Year 6, 61.3%.  (The middle of Year 1 would fall around
January 1980.)
3/   Most baseline costs for the irrigation network and other local procurement
items are based on actual quotations for the on-going construction of
the SF I Project. Equipment that has to be imported is costed on the
basis of current international prices.



- 21 -
PROJECT COSTS
(Us$  000)
% of Total      % of
Baseline    Foreign
Local      Foreign         Total        Costs     Exchange
Productive Capital Expenditures
Irrigation and Drainage                 13,879.6      6,296.3      20,175.9       40.7         31
Electrical Network                          51.0         12.8          63.8         .1         20
Network 0 & M Equipment                     77.5        165.-         242.5         .5         68
Agricultural Machinery                     704.9        469.9       1,174.8        2.4         40
Agricultural Services                      150.0         64.3         214.3         .4         30
Paddy Drying and Storage                   977.0      2,995.3       3,972.3        8.0         75
Rice Milling                               567.5      4,110.2       4,677.7        9.4         88
Transport Equipment                         19.8        488.2         508.-        1.0         97
Access Roads                               618.8        265.2         884.0        1.8         30
Technical Assistance                         -          980.-         980.-        2.0        100
Farmers Organization                       146.5        102.-         248.5         .5         41
Compensation for Harvest Losses          1.641.7         -          1,641.7        3.3         -
18,834.3    15,949.2      34,783.5        70.1
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
Agricultural Services                    5,242.9        583.1       5,826.0       11.8         10
Project Administration                     511.2         56.8         568.0        1.1         10
Farmer Organization                      1,036.3        115.2       1,151.5        2.3         10
6,790.4        755.1       7,4.          15.2
Social Infrastructure and Studies
Housing                                  1,694.5        726.2       2,420.7        4.9         30
Education                                  777.6        333.3       1,110.9        2.2         30
Health and Sanitation                    1,609.0        201.5       1,810.5        3.7         II
Rural Electrification                      909.8        227.4       1,137.2        2.3         20
Further Studies and Monitoring             300.0        450.-         750.-        1 <         60
5,290.9      1,938.4       7,229.3      14.6
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS-                       30,915.6    18,642.7       49,558.3      100.0         37.6
Physical Contingencies-/                 4,791.8      2,615.3       7,407.1       14.9
Price Contingencies                     11,016.1      6,674.4      17,690.5       35.731
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                         49,723.5    27,932.4       74,655.9      150.6         37.4
US$ I.- = Cr$ 16.15
1/ At January 1978 prices.
2/  10% except for irrigation network, access roads and rural electrification (20%) and Cotinguiba
irrigation network (25%).
3/ 31.0% as percentage of baseline cost plus physical contingencies.



- 22 -
using where required an exchange rate of US$1.00 = Cr$ 16.15. The estimated
foreign exchange component is US$27.9 million, or about 37.4% of total project
costs. Main cost items are the irrigation and drainage network (40.7%)
and the paddy processing plant (18.4% including drying, storage, milling
and transport). The latter, however, would service the whole Lower Sao
Francisco area, where overall paddy production is double that of the SF II
project area. Project costs include about US$3.7 million of readily identi-
fiable taxes. The project cost summary follows and the yearly phasing is
given in Table 4 of Annex 3. The foreign exchange component of investment
costs is in Table 5 of Annex 3. Unit costs of main project inputs are shown
in Table 6 of Annex 3.
E. Financing
4.37      The proposed Bank loan of US$28 million would finance 37.5% of total
project costs, or approximately the direct and indirect foreign exchange
cost of project components, including a proportionate share of physical and
price contingencies, under the most probable procurement assumptions. The
balance of project financing would be provided by Government. Seasonal credit
would be provided directly by local banks, and are not considered among project
costs. Material for the construction of houses would be financed under credit
from the National Housing Bank (BNH). The Bank loan would be for 15 years,
including a three-year grace period, at the current Bank interest rate of 7%
per annum. The Federative Republic of Brazil would be the borrower and would
assume the foreign exchange risk. The closing date of the loan would be June 30,
1986. Assurances were received at negotiations from CODEVASF that it would
present to the Bank its proposed budget for the project for the following year
by October 31 of each year, and its finalized budgetary allocations for the
project each year as soon as its general budget had been approved.
F. Procurement
4.38      Contracts for the construction of the irrigation network and equip-
ment, agricultural machinery, drying storage and processing structures,
equipment and management services, and transport equipment (totalling in all
about US$46 million) would be awarded following international competitive
bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines. Brazil has a
well developed civil works contracting industry, and it is likely that most
civil works contracts would be won by Brazilian contractors or consortia which
include such contractors. Local manufacturers would be accorded a preference
of 15% or the customs duties, whichever is lower, in bid evaluation. Contracts
below US$50,000 equivalent and minor civil works, buildings, access roads,
sanitation and educational infrastructure (totalling in all about US$7 million)
would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally and
in accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory to the Bank. An
exception would be the health posts which would be constructed by FSESP along



- 23 -
its own standardized procedures and in accordance with a contract negotiated
with CODEVASF, for a total estimated base cost of US$183,000 (paras. 5.04 and
5.15). As far as possible, family labor would be utilized iEor the construction
of individual farmer houses during the period when irrigation network construc-
tion impedes agricultural activities in the area. Minor civil works with an
aggregate cost not exceeding US$500,000 would be carried out by force account
when not suitable for carrying out through contracting.
G. Disbursement
4.39      The Bank would disburse over a period of six years.  Disbursements
would be made against normal documentation at the rates of (a) 47% of total
expenditures for civil works, equipment and vehicles for the irrigation and
electrical network except for pumps and motors, irrigation operation and
maintenance, rice drying, milling and transport, agricultural machinery, access
roads, agricultural support services, the farmers organization, education,
health and sanitation, and rural electrification; (b) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures or 90% of total expenditures for irrigation pumps and motors, depending
on source of procurement; (c) 100% of foreign expenditures for CODEVASF's cost
share of FAO Technical Assistance, training, further studies and monitoring.
Disbursement for minor civil works tc, be carried out by force account would be
made against a certificate of expenditure, the documentation for which would
not be submitted for review by the Bank, but would be available for inspection
by the Bank during the course of project supervision missions. There would be
no disbursement on operating costs, compensation of harvest losses and housing.
No retroactive financing is envisaged. Loan disbursements are expected to
extend until June 30, 1986. The schedule of disbursement is given in Table 7
of Annex 3.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.   Organization and Management
The 4th Regional Directorate
5.01      The 4th Regional Directorat:e of CODEVASF would be the unit respon-
sible for the implementation of the project. Since CODEVASF would remain the
owner of the irrigation network, the 4th Directorate would provide for its
operation and maintenance and ensure liaison with local farmer cooperatives
and other agencies. A number of measures to strengthen the Directorate's
ability to implement both the SF I and SF II projects are already being
introduced. An assistant to the Regional Director has been appointed to plan
and supervise all CODEVASF assistance to area farmers in production and
social activities. The new structures of the 4th DirectoraLte are to comprise
three units oriented to project execution on the field. ThLe Rural Development
Unit will have four sections of (a) assistance to agricultural production;
(b) assistance to processing and markceting operations; (c) assistance to the



- 24 -
cooperatives; and (d) social support to area farmers. The Operations and
Management Unit would take responsibility for all irrigation and drainage
structures in the Lower Sao Francisco area as they become operative. The
Construction Supervision Unit would be headed by a high-level Resident Engineer
to control and supervise contractors and consultants working for CODEVASF in
the area. Appointment of qualified staff as Chiefs of the Rural Development
Unit and its four sections and as Resident Engineer would be conditions of
loan effectiveness. The Chief of the Operations and Management Unit is
expected to be appointed soon after that. All staff of the project implemen-
tation units would be stationed within the project area (Penedo or Propria).
Assurances were received at negotiations that CODEVASF would, at all times
during the implementation of the project, employ a suitably qualified resident
engineer within its 4th Directorate and a chief and at least four suitably
qualified specialists within the Rural Development Unit of its 4th Directorate.
Land Acquisition Procedures
5.02      All project lands are to be acquired by CODEVASF at SF I costs, as
authorized by a Government decree dated March 1975. The decree provides for
all land expropriations in the Lower Sao Francisco to be completed within five
years of its signature, that is by March 1980. Since, however, much of the
social disturbances observed in the project area have been attributed to the
long periods of time elapsing between the purchase of land by CODEVASF and
its full development, and in view of the delays resulting from recent weather
conditions in the project area, the following modifications would be introduced
to the original land acquisition schedule: (a) acquisition would be completed
by March 1980 in the varzeas of Betume (already almost fully acquired), Boacica
(60A already acquired) and Cotinguiba/Pindoba (where a large share of the land
already belongs to Camurupim which has agreed to put it at the disposal of the
project for development and more intensive settlement purposes); and (b) after
a period of one year beyond March 1980, required by law before a new expro-
priation decree can be promulgated on lands which were within the scope of the
first decree, a new decree would authorize CODEVASF to acquire lands in the
Brejo Grande varzea, which is planned to be developed starting only in 1982.
CODEVASF's budget for land purchases has been increased to meet the March 1980
deadline. Approximately Cr$ 210 million (US$11 million) have been allocated
in the 1979 budget for that purpose. The 1978 budget provided only Cr$ 68.3
million. Assurances were received during negotiations that CODEVASF would take
all action necessary to acquire all land and rights in respect of land required
for the carrying out of the Project and would furnish to the Bank evidence that
land and rights in respect of land are available for project purposes.
Acquisition of all project lands in the varzeas of Boacica, Cotinguiba and
Pindoba by March 16, 1980 would be a condition for Bank disbursements beyond
that date. Acquisition of project lands in the varzea of Brejo Grande would
be a further condition for Bank disbursements relative to Brejo Grande beyond
that date. Assurances were received from Government during negotiations that
measures would be taken by March 1981 authorizing expropriations in the Brejo
Grande varzea.
Settler Selection and Eviction Criteria
5.03      Initial selection criteria established by CODEVASF on the basis
of conventional standards of the National Colonization Institute (INCRA) did



- 25 -
not meet the specific requirements of the Lower Sao Francisco, where land has
to be redistributed rather than colonized. CODEVASF has now substantially
modified the original criteria, giving absolute priority to area farmers over
other candidates, dropping the condition of literacy, accepting candidates
with Chagas disease once their houses have been improved, and accepting women
who are family heads as potential settlers. These new criteria will be
publicized before project implementation, after including specific medical
standards. Eviction criteria have not yet been established. Assurances
were received at negotiations that CODEVASF would complete by December 31,
1979 a settler relocation study which would include a census of landless
farmers entitled to relocation by the project and a sample survey of movement
intentions of the various segments of the area population.
Operational Agreements with Supporting Institutions
5.04      Negotiations are under way with most institutions whose contractual
participation in project development is envisaged. A general agreement has
been reached between the Ministries of Health and of Interior ensuring FSESP
and SUCAM participation in project activities. CODEVASF has signed general
agreements (convenios) with the State Governments of Sergipe and Alagoas for
the operation and maintenance, at state expense, of support and social infra-
structure developed with CODEVASF funds, such as roads, rural electrification
and schools. More detailed "convenios" have already been signed with the
Secretariats of Education of Sergipe and Alagvas. Conditions of disbursement
would be that CODEVASF had signed detailed agreements ensuring continuous
operation and maintenance of project financed facilities with (a) the State
Road Departments (DER) of Sergipe ancd Alagoas for the construction and mainte-
nance of project feeder roads; (b) the local electricity companies for the
construction of the transmission and distribution lines and the power stations
required by the project; (c) FSESP for the construction and operation of
health posts; and (d) SUCAM for the :implementation of a campaign against
communicable diseases in the project area. An agreement exists between
CODEVASF and BNH for financing housing construction in the project area.
CODEVASF would provide agricultural extension services through its own agents
until arrangements are worked out for the local extension services (EMATERs)
to be responsible for irrigation extension. Assurances were received during
negotiations that CODEVASF would maintain contractual arrangements satisfactory
to the Bank with all above institutions. Assurances were received at nego-
tiations from Government that it wouLd (a) take all steps, including the
provision of refinancing facilities to credit intermediaries, which may be
necessary to ensure the availability to project farmers of adequate credit
from banks in the public as well as the private sector and (b) take action
required for the prompt issuance to CODEVASF of import and other permits and
licenses necessary for the acquisition and importation of goods and services
required for the carrying out of the project.
Technical Assistance
5.05      Strengthening of CODEVASF and the cooperatives' administrative
capacity is to be achieved mainly through local recruitment. There remains,
however, during the first years of project implementation, a need for technical
advice which CODEVASF intends to obtain through UNDP/FAO under cost-sharing



- 26 -
arrangements by which UNDP would finance the cost of the FAO project manager
(four man-years), and CODEVASF would meet all other foreign exchange or local
costs. Local costs are to be provided through the standard budget of CODEVASF.
Only CODEVASF's share of foreign exchange costs are considered among project
costs and would be paid out of the proposed Bank loan. The FAO technical
assistance team would consist of a team leader specialized in rural development
(four years), one rice post-harvesting/storage/milling specialist (three years),
one irrigation engineer (three years), one fisheries specialist (one year),
and 30 man-months of various consultants. Three specialists in on-farm irri-
gation, procurement and cooperative development provided by FAO under SF I
and UNDP cost sharing would also join the team for the remainder of their
contract. The last two would be further extended 2-1/2 and 1-1/2 years
respectively at SF II costs. The cooperatives specialist is only now being
recruited. FAO experts would have only advisory functions and would be
responsible for training CODEVASF and cooperative personnel. All FAO staff
should be based at Aracaju rather than Brasilia, with the possible exception
of the procurement specialist. Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that
a draft UNDP/FAO project document, comprising detailed terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank, had been prepared by CODEVASF and approved by all
parties and that the cooperatives specialist had been recruited.
B. Farmer Cooperatives
Proposed Structures
5.06      Farmers would be encouraged to participate fully in the development
of the area. This objective would initially be achieved by some 20 local
farmer associations with statutes acceptable to the Bank ("Associacoes de
Agricultores"), to be established according to the project's geography,
cropping pattern and implementation schedule. Twelve of these would cover
the SF II project area, while the rest would be located in the Propria,
Marituba, Itiuba and Betume varzeas. The associations would be transformed
within four years of their establishment and after consultation with their
members into primary cooperatives, owning their own land and statutorily
linked to a secondary regional marketing and processing cooperative also
providing inputs and technical assistance. Assurances were received during
negotiations that such a secondary cooperative would be established in the
project area by June 30, 1981, with statutes acceptable to the Bank. The
Camurupim cooperative, which already owns land within the proposed project
area, is being integrated into this structure but would retain its identity
and land ownership. The COBASF and Camurupim cooperatives have signed an
agreement for collaboration between the two cooperatives. Minutes of an
agreement between CODEVASF and the Camurupim cooperative have already been
drafted, defining the conditions of participation of the latter in project
activities. Signature of this agreement would be a condition of project
effectiveness. All project farmers would be members and shareholders of the
established cooperative system and would be allocated family plots of a
specific size (paras 5.22 and 8.01). Their rights to the use of the land
would be negotiable to third parties within certain limits and would be
transferable by inheritance. The harvest would be the farmer's personal
property, the only condition being that it be processed and marketed exclu-
sively through the cooperative. The new CODEVASF management is studying the
possibility of providing each project farmer with personal title to his land.
In such a case, the number of primary cooperatives in the area could be
reduced below the number envisaged at present.



- 27 -
Function and Staffing of the Farmer Associations
5.07      The "Associacoes de Agricultores" would (a) represent and assist
the farmers in their relations with the secondary cooperative and in all
social, productive and commercial aspects related to project implementation;
(b) train farmers to function productively as members of a cooperative;
(c) prepare (with the secondary cooperative) and supervise the implementation
of the annual production plan, including harvesting and threshing; (d) colla-
borate in the irrigation network 0 & M; (e) supervise paddy grading on behalf
of its members; and (f) initiate eviction actions against settlers who do not
fulfill their contractual obligations. To perform these functions, each local
association would elect a five- to seven-member committee, assisted by one
agronomist acting as operational manager (Gerente), and one accountant to keep
the books of each settler and of the local association. Establishment of
farmer associations in already settled Propria, Itiuba and SF I areas would be
a condition of loan effectiveness. Assurances were received at negotiations
that CODEVASF would (a) organize project farmers into about 12 farmer associa-
tions with statutes acceptable to the Bank, to be gradually established as
settlement proceeds, with not more than 400 members in any single association;
(b) carry out appropriate education and training programs designed to prepare
these farmer associations to be converted into primary cooperatives within
about 4 years of their establishment; (c) upon a decision of the members of an
association to convert into a primary cooperative, take all necessary steps
within its competence to enable the association to be so converted, and ensure
that at the time of conversion, title to the land cultivated by the members of
the association concerned is transferred to the new cooperative; (d) subject
to the decision of the members of the primary cooperative, take all necessary
steps within its competence to ensuLre that primary cooperatives in the project
area become members of the secondary cooperative, and that the latter provides
adequate supply, processing and marketing services to such primary cooperatives;
and (e) periodically in the course of project implementation, review with the
Bank the arrangements referred to above in the light of monitoring results,
the recommendations of special studLies and consultations with farmers.
Further assurances were received that Government would take all necessary
measures to facilitate the conversion of farmer associations into primary
cooperatives and would, through its competent agencies responsible for coopera-
tive organization, participate, as appropriate, in the periodic reviews
referred to above.
Functions and Staffing of the Secondary Cooperative
5.08      The secondary cooperative would act mainly as a marketing agency
and an input supplier. Its main function would be to: (a) channel seasonal
credit from financial institutions to the primary cooperatives or directly to
their members; (b) provide technical assistance in cooperative operation to
each association as required; (c) operate a tractor and thresher pool; (d) own
and operate the rice drying and storage facilities located in each varzea; (e)
ensure efficient marketing of members' production; (f) operate or contract
transportation facilities for that production; (g) own and operate or contract
agro-industrial processing; and (h) represent the area population on issues
relating to social needs (schools, health units, and such) in the project
area. The secondary cooperative would recruit qualified staff to manage and
operate its processing and marketing units (para 5.10 and 7.10).



- 28 -
CODEVASF Assistance to Farmer Organizations
5.09      CODEVASF, being a shareholder of all cooperatives in the area, would
select the settlers for each local organization, take final actions in eviction
processes, supervise the development of each local organization, assist the
secondary cooperative in its internal strengthening process, provide the
guarantees when necessary for credit to be supplied to the settlers and to the
cooperatives, and assist the latter in internal staff training. To ensure that
CODEVASF's initial role in cooperative management would not become permanent
or impede adequate farmer involvement, (a) cooperatives personnel would not be
kept on CODEVASF payrolls beyond a transitional period lasting no more than
three years; and (b) the presidents of the cooperatives and of the farmers'
associations would be elected solely from among farmer members. CODEVASF
assistance to the farmer organization would be managed by the Development Unit
of the 4th Directorate.
Management of Post-Harvest Operations, Processing and Marketing of Rice
5.10      Post-harvest operations would be managed by the cooperative organiza-
tion. Mobile threshing equipment owned by the secondary cooperative would be
loaned to local farmer organizations in accordance with their harvest schedules,
for operation by the farmers. Threshed paddy would immediately be transported
to the drying and storage centers where the cooperative would formally take
delivery of the farmers' production after the paddy was graded. Farmers would
be paid when their paddy was delivered to the drying center.
5.11      Since neither the cooperatives nor CODEVASF have the necessary experi-
ence or expertise to manage the complex and risky industrial and commercial
operations which follow on-farm production, two semi-independent units would be
set up linked to the secondary cooperative and fully staffed with professionals
qualified to take over the responsibility. One unit would be in charge of
storage and processing, the other in charge of sales. Industrial management
talent would be imported, either from the south of Brazil, where the rice
industry is mainly located, or possibly from abroad. The sales and distribu-
tion unit is discussed in paragraph 7.10. The proposed management system would
(a) maintain the cooperative organization as principal or sole owner of the
transport, drying, storing and milling facilities; (b) provide for independent
technical and commercial decisions; and (c) distribute the profit derived from
processing and selling the rice to farmer members. Executive staff of the
processing unit would comprise one general manager, one mill manager, one
maintenance manager and three managers for the storage centers. They would be
assisted by an FAO specialist (para 5.05).
C. Agricultural Support Services
Agricultural Research and Extension
5.12      Agricultural research and extension activities would be intensified
by CODEVASF under the project. The project would provide three research
agronomists who would work in close contact with the extension agents and with



- 29 -
the EMBRAPA research staff at the UEPAE at Penedo.  Agricultural extension
would be provided by CODEVASF during project implementation with special
attention to irrigation practices. Each agricultural extens,ion agent would
assist about 30 farmers in the first year of development and 40 farmers
thereafter. The local extension agencies of Alagoas and Sergipe (EMATERs)
would gradually take over according to an agreement between CODEVASF and the
federal extension organization (EMBRATER). Similarly, each social extension
agent would assist about 50 families for two years, at which time the EMATERs
would take over the activity. A total of eight agricultural graduates, six
home economists, 55 agricultural technicians and 33 home economics assistants
are expected to participate in these activities during the peak years of
project implementation.
Input Supply
5.13      Improved seeds, fertilizers and pesticides would be supplied on
credit by the secondary cooperative. Maize, and cotton seeds would be
produced by a group of farmers in Cotinguiba. Foundation seed would be
supplied by EMBRAPA for processing and multiplication by CODEVASF on area
farms (rice) and the Camurupim cooperative (cotton, maize, banana and water-
melon).
Credit
5.14      Seasonal credit would be financed by BB and BNB and provided to all
project farmers through the cooperative system, on the basis of individual
cropping plans.
D. Social Support Services
Health and Sanitation
5.15      The health and sanitation components of the project would be imple-
mented, maintained and operated by FSESP through its local offices using
its current standards and procedures. The campaign against communicable
diseases would remain under SUCAM. FSESP would contract additional staff to
meet supervision and administrative support requirements. FUNRURAL would
finance the incremental recurrent costs of FSESP. COBASF would transfer its
existing health services to FSESP. FSESP was selected as executing agency
because it is the only agency with an operational network in the area, and
because its rural programs have a higher cost effectiveness than those of
State Health Secretariats, notwithstanding the fact that they have higher
overall costs. These higher costs, however, reflect better installations and
more intensive medical coverage with full-time doctors.
5.16      The water supply systems would be constructed by CODEVASF and either
be contracted to the state water supply companies, which would use their own
infrastructure, including offices in Propria and Penedo, to operate and maintain
the systems or be entrusted directly to the farmer associations. Assurances were
received at negotiations that CODEVASF would maintain contractual arrangements



- 30 -
with the water supply companies for the above activities, if they were entrusted
with them. A condition of disbursement on the health and sanitation component
of the project would be that CODEVASF had completed a water supply pre-invest-
ment study, satisfactory to the Bank.
Rural Electrification
5.17      Electricity distribution lines to project area villages, branching
off from the network supplying the SF I and SF II pumping stations, would be
provided and operated by the state electricity companies.
Education
5.18      New school buildings would be constructed by CODEVASF using standard
specifications accepted by the Bank for other education projects in Northeast
Brazil. The State Secretariats of Education, through existing convenios with
CODEVASF, would be responsible for improving teaching quality, budgeting of
adequate teacher salaries in accordance with State rather than municipal
criteria, and for the general maintenance and operation of project-financed
schools. Non-formal training would be provided by various agencies and
CODEVASF itself. Implementation of this program would be preceded by a study
of population characteristics and appropriate communication channels, by the
Federal University of Sergipe or a similar institution. Assurances were
received from CODEVASF that it would maintain contractual arrangements with
the above agencies for project purposes.
Housing
5.19      Houses would be constructed or improved in accordance with technical
and financial norms used elsewhere by the national health institution, FSESP.
Construction labor would be provided by the farmers as far as possible.
Financing of construction material would be ensured by CODEVASF through BNH
or other sources.
E. Network Operation and Maintenance
Network Operation
5.20      The dikes, pumping stations, irrigation and drainage systems, and
the internal varzea farm and maintenance roads would be operated and maintained
by CODEVASF. Maintenance equipment would be provided under the project.
CODEVASF would require further equipment to measure actual water consumption
by the farmers.
Irrigation Water and Other Development Charges
5.21      National guidelines established by decree No. 75,510 of March 19,
1975, provide for water charges to be the sum of two fees: the first essen-
tially based on the capital invested adjusted to the ability of the farmer to
pay, and the second based on annual O&M costs and the quantity of water used.



- 31 -
CODEVASF already has experience in assessing and collecting water charges,
based on a fee per cubic meter of estimated water use. Farmers in the Lower
Sao Francisco are currently required to pay Cr$ 30 per thousand m3. This
corresponds to some Cr$ 600, or US$35 per hectare planted in rice 1/. Since
water from the Sao Francisco River is not a scarce resource., making its
efficiency price equivalent to marginal transport costs to the farm or,
conservatively, to network O&M expenditures, and since the level of income
of project farmers justifies a certain degree of subsidization (see para 8.02),
it is proposed by full development, to charge project farmers water rates which
would enable CODEVASF to recover all incremental O&M costs 2/ related to the
SF II irrigation network, and, subject to a determination that water users
have the capacity to pay, at least 30% of the capital investment costs. The
project's financial. and fiscal effects have been computed on that basis.
Brazil being, however, a country comraitted to a high growth. rate, these water
rates should be periodically reviewed to take into account possible increases
of farmer incomes in real terms. Assurances have therefore been received
at negotiations from CODEVASF and Government that (a) water charges would
be gradually introduced which would recover full incremental O&M costs and,
subject to a determination that water users have the capacity to pay, at least
30% of capital investment costs of the irrigation and drainage network
included in the project once individual farms reach full development; and
(b) the water rates would be reviewed periodically with a view to determine
whether water rates could be increased to recover an additional share of
the investment cost, giving due regard to the ability of water users to pay
and the need to maintain an incentive for them to make the best use of the
land and water available to them. Further assurances were received from
Government that it would cause its agency or agencies responsible for the
setting of water rates under the project to take all such aLction as shall be
necessary or advisable (including approval of water rates proposed to be
introduced from time to time in the project area), to enable these conditions
to be met. No benefit taxes beyond the water charges, a 2.5% FUNRURAL tax and
the cooperative shares discussed in the next paragraph would be levied on
farmers.  It is expected that the proposed rates would, if adequately metered
(see para 4.17), be sufficiently high to discourage farmers from excessive
consumption which would both affect pump operating costs arLd raise the water
table, with ensuing salinity problems.  Identical water rates would be charged
to SF I farmers. Rent recovery indices have been computed in Annex 3,
Table 8a for rice and combro farms at a full development year, including
dividends from rice milling in the rient of rice farmers. Considering the
respective incomes of rice and combro farmers, capital recovery has been
charged exclusively to rice farmers, with 8 years of grace plus 22 years of
payment at 8% interest. The rent recovery index from these direct charges
would thus be 36.9% for rice farmers and 36% for combro farmers. The resulting
direct cost recovery index at a 10% discount rate, would be of the order of
1/   In other projects along the Valley, CODEVASF has been charging between
US$25 and US$80 per hectare.
2/   Farmers would be expected to pay only O&M costs incremental to those
which, in the absence of the project would be incurred to restore in
the project area a hydraulic regime similar to the one prevailing
before construction of the upstream hydroelectric works.



- 32 -
60% over 30 years of project life (Annex 3, Table 8b). Public savings,
however, would not be negatively affected by the project since the Government
would capture part of the increased benefits through the sales ta   on
processed rice, which corresponds to about Cr$ 185 per thousand m of water
used in rice cultivation. The total cost recovery index of the irrigation
network at a 10% discount rate would thus be about 160% over 30 years. It
would allow Government to break even on all project costs (of both productive
and social investments) by the 17th year of the project (para 8.06).
5.22      Besides the water charges, the farmers would be expected to reimburse
loans on house construction or improvement material and to pay Cr$ 500 per
hectare (US$31) per year during 20 years, without monetary correction for
their cooperative shares. The latter is a nominal contribution which corres-
ponds approximately to the value of undeveloped land, but does not cover
the improvements brought about by the project.
F. Project Implementation Schedule
5.23      The project would be implemented over a six-year period.  Most of
the storage and milling facilities would be built in the last years of imple-
mentation for optimal modular development parallel to the increase in paddy
production. By year 7, when the last modules would start operating, paddy
production in te Lower Sao Francisco area would have virtually reached full
target production.
5.24      Construction work would start in the Pindoba varzea (years 1 and 2),
expanding then to Cotinguiba (years 2 and 3), Boacica (years 2 to 4) and Brejo
Grande (years 3 to 5). This schedule reflects both the need for priority
attention to the financial and social difficulties of the Camurupim cooperative
located in Cotinguiba and Pindoba and the relative state of progress of SF I
infrastructure construction (dikes and pumps) in the various varzeas. An
implementation schedule is provided in Annex 1. The tight schedule of the
project requires that bidding documents be prepared for the irrigation network
of the Cotinguiba/Pindoba varzea and that corresponding tenders be issued
before the project actually starts. Assurances were received at negotiations
that CODEVASF would complete by June 30, 1980 a study of post-harvest operations,
satisfactory to the Bank, including drying, storage, milling and qualitative
and quantitative rice transport requirements in the Lower Sao Francisco area.
Completion of this study would be a condition of further Bank disbursements
against the storage, milling and rice transport components of the project.
G. Accounting and Auditing
5.25      Assurances were received at negotiations that CODEVASF would have
its accounts, including a separate account for the project, and financial



- 33 -
statements for each fiscal year audited in accordance with sound auditing
principles by independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank. Further assurances
would be sought at negotiations that certified copies of CODEVASF's financial
statements and the report of such audit would be furnished to the Bank not
later than four months after the end of such year.
H. Monitoring
5.26      Monitoring of the SF II project would, through adequate sampling and
correlation techniques, pay particular attention to:
(a) Farmgate water consumption;
(b) Water table levels and salinity control;
(c) Agricultural inputs, yields, areas cropped, farmer income, and
hired labor use;
(d)  The time harvested paddy remains in the field before threshing;
(e) Conflicts arising between farmers and the cooperative on
paddy quality controls, price determinations, timing of inputs
and machinery and marketing procedures;
(f) Problems arising from contracting privately owned agricultural
machinery and transport facilities;
(g) Farmer contributions to cooperative shares and operating costs;
(h)  Maintenance of social infrastructure provided by the project
and demand for such infrastructure;
(i) Significant organizational problems of farmer associations,
the central cooperative and the CODEVASF project unit;
(j) All storage, milling and marketing operations;
(k)  Project accounts, sub-accounts, cost recoveries and, especially,
recovery of water charges.
5.27      Assurances were received at negotiations that a detailed document
describing the project monitoring program, its staffing requirements, tech-
niques and cost would be prepared by CODEVASF and the monitoring unit and
would be presented for approval by the Bank by August 31, 1979.



- 34 -
VI. TECHNICAL COEFFICIENTS AND SPECIFICATIONS
A.   Farm Development
Cropping Intensity
6.01      As a result of the project, and assuming that most of the farmers
would continue to grow the traditional rice variety under controlled flood
irrigation conditions, the annual cropping intensity would reach 180% in
Cotinguiba, Pindoba and Brejo Grande at full development -- 100% during the
rainy season, plus 40% of a ratoon crop and 40% of a second crop during the
dry season. In Boacica, due to severe flood risks between May and July and
the lack of well-adapted early varieties with acceptable yields, it is ex-
pected that rice transplanting would take place in August and harvesting in
December, followed by a ratoon crop on 80% of the area. Limiting factors to
full double cropping are the traditional rice variety with a long growing
cycle (1.50 days), the lack of farmer experience in handling a second crop on
time, and possible delays in tractor services for land preparation. Cropping
intensity in irrigated combros, where a continuing crop rotation is feasible,
would be around 150%. Dry farming of other temporary crops under the project
would remain at 100% cropping intensity. Land use data is provided in Table 9
of Annex 3.
Farm Labor
6.02      Farm labor is expected to remain the main agricultural production
input in the area under the project. Due to heavy textured soils, land
preparation (plowing and harrowing) must be done by tractor, but labor is
required for all other farm operations (sowing, transplanting, fertilizing,
pest control, weeding and harvesting). Annual labor requirements would
average 80 man-days/ha, or a 116% increase over the 37 man-days/ha currently
used. Hired labor would be used only during rice transplanting and harvesting
and cotton picking. It has been costed at the 1978 minimum wage of Cr$ 40
(US$2.5) per man-day.
Cultural Practices
6.03      The present rice variety (SUVALE 1) would be utilized under the
project, although new ones would be tested (IR-841 is promising because of
its high yield). Detailed fertilizer recommendations have been worked out,
based on agronomic practices in Propria and Itiuba and on preliminary recom-
mendations by the local EMATERs for other crops. Crop pests and diseases are
common in the area. Their control, already regularly practiced, is expected
to improve under the project.
Mechanization
6.04      Land development works, including land leveling and construction of
farm ditches would be provided before the farmers are resettled. This is
expected to have a substantial impact on rice yields as has recently been



- 35 -
demonstrated in Betume. On well leveled fields, farmers would have their land
disc-plowed once and harrowed twice and their land preparation completed with
one puddling before transplanting. Land preparation for other crops on combro
soils would also be done by tractor. Because the demand for tractor services
is restricted to a few months during land preparation and crop harvesting,
their utilization factor would be only about 57%. The use of stationary
threshers would continue under the project, but each step of the harvesting
operation would be improved as practicable.
6.05      While it appears that privately owned machinery has been sufficient
in the past to cultivate most of the rice fields in Propria, Itiuba and part
of Betume, occasional shortages have been reported because tractor and thresher
owners serve other farmers only after having cultivated their own land. Since
farmers owning machinery are expected to disappear under the project, project
farmers will have to rely on new mechanization services for timely plowing and
harvesting. The project would provide a machinery pool which would be made
available to the cooperatives.
Crop Yields
6.06      Yields are assumed to increase gradually, mainly because of land
leveling, controlled irrigation and the adoption of improved techniques.
Without-project yields reflect current experience in undeveloped farms of
the area, whereas projected yields are based on results achieved in Propria,
Itiuba, Betume and elsewhere in the valley where similar conditions prevail.
Assumed yields are 25 to 40% below experimental results in the area for various
crops (Annex 3, Table 10). Risks invDlving severe flooding, damage to irriga-
tion structures, and failure to receive the necessary inputs on time have been
taken into consideration in determining future rice yields. Thus, a gradual
increase of 150% over four years, from 1.6 tons per ha to 4 tons per ha has
been assumed. Present dry-farming maize yields are very low, about 0.7 ton
per ha, but yields of 2 tons per ha are attainable. Under irrigation, and
employing improved hybrid varieties, yields of 4 tons per ha have been assumed.
Present dry-farming cotton yields are extremely low (0.3 ton/ha) due to poor
cultural practices, including lack of fertilization and pest control. With
better practices, yields of 1.6 tons per ha of rainfed cotton and 2.4 tons per
ha of irrigated cotton can easily be obtained.
Water Requirements
6.07      Farmgate water requirements have been computed on the basis of the
monthly consumptive use of the propos(ed cropping patterns arnd corresponding
effective rainfall with a 75% probability. Those requirements would be of the
order of 20,000 m3 per year per hectare on rice lands (somewhat higher in the
Boacica varzea), and between 5,000 and 6,500 m3 per year per hectare on sprinkler
and furrow irrigated combros. Peak demand would occur for all crops in December
and/or January. The project would provide diversion capacities of the order of
2.0 to 2.8 1/sec per ha for rice land and 0.9 to 1.2 1/sec per ha for irrigated
combro land in the various varzeas. These capacities inclucle an allowance for
possible future changes of the proposed cropping pattern to more demanding crops.



- 36 -
B. Rice Processing
6.08      Two-thirds of the paddy would be processed into white rice, the
remaining third into parboiled rice. In both cases, yields would be of the
order of 60% of high quality (10% broken) rice, 9% of brokens, 10% of bran and
21% of husk. Brokens would be mixed to one-third of the high quality rice to
meet the needs of less demanding markets.
VII. PRODUCTION, MARKETS, PRICES AND MARKETING
A. Production
7.01      Agricultural production has been projected on the basis of illustra-
tive farm types reflecting different sizes, cropping patterns, cropping in-
tensities and crop yields. The increase would result from an expansion of
about 78% in cropped areas, an improvement of yields of more than 150% over
the respective pre-project levels, and the introduction of new crops, all
due mainly to irrigation under controlled conditions. Annual incremental
and total agricultural production at full project development are estimated
as follows:
Incremental         Total
Production        Production
I(tons)             (tons)
Rice                           36,517            43,095
Cotton                          3,762             3,861
Maize                           1,927            2,872
Maize (earcorn)                 2,280            2,280
Peanuts                           888              888
Watermelon                      2,250            2,250
Bananas                         9,450            9,450
Beans                           - 508                0
7.02      At full development, marketed rice production would amount to 21,600
tons of high quality (10% broken) white rice, 10,800 tons of high quality
parboiled rice, 15,700 tons of lower standard rice, 2,500 tons of brokens (for
breweries), 8,150 tons of bran and 2,550 tons of husk ashes. About half of
the marketed rice and sub-products would come from SF II areas. Table 11 of
Annex 3 shows the expected growth of paddy production in the Lower Sao Francisco
area between 1980 and 1988.



- 37 -
B. Markets and Prices
Rice
7.03      Rice is by far the major production item of the project.  Rice pro-
duction in Brazil increased in an irregular fashion from 6.6 million tons in
1973 to 8 million tons in 1977 1/, at an average growth of 4.8% per annum.
Longer term growth prospects are of the order of 3 to 4% per annum, to reach
a total production of 9.2 million tons by 1985. Compared to these figures,
the incremental production resulting from the SF II project (about 25,000
tons of processed end product) is marginal, around 2% of the increase of
national production through the project development period. Ihe production
of all the Lower Sao Francisco, which the cooperative would have to market
(54,000 tons), still represents less than 0.7% of the expected national produc-
tion in 1988, or 4.5% of the increase in production between now and 1988.
7.04      Brazil is a marginal rice exporter, the quantity exported (about
50,000 tons per year) always remaining below 1% of the total production, except
in 1977 when the sale of subsidized Government buffer stock surpluses resulted
in exports equivalent to 8% of that year's production.  Northeast Brazil
produces little more than 20% of the rice it consumes. Seventy percent comes
from the South where che main production areas are located, and almost 10%
from the Central West. The preference for rice from the South comes from
(a) the cooking characteristics of Sout:hern rice; and (b) lower transport costs
resulting from coastal shipping.
7.05      The traditional market for Lower Sao Francisco rice used to be
the area itself, Aracaju, Maceio, Salvador, Recife and their hinterland.
Almost all the production is sold unprocessed at prices prevailing during
the harvesting season. As the quantity and quality of rice produced in the
Lower Sao Francisco area declined during the last few years, due in part
to many varzeas remaining inactive for a long period of time, the main
market was gradually reduced to the Recife urban area.  It is expected
that the project would reopen the tradiLtional markets. An extrapolation of
consumption trends in those areas shows an increase from 140,000 tons in
1979/80 to 212,000 tons in 1987/88. Through the same period, Lower Sao
Francisco production would grow from 7,700 tons to 54,000 tons, or from
5.5% to 25% of the total target market., Incremental Lower Sao Francisco
production would cover 65% of the expected consumption incremtent of the
target market.
7.06      Economic prices for rice have been computed on the basis of Bangkok
fob prices for 5% broken, forecast by the Bank's Commodities Division, adjusted
successively to account for 10% broken (- US$30 per ton), cif Recife (+ US$38
per ton), handling (+ US$5 per ton), two months' average wait (+ 2%) and
transport from the Propria mill (- US$10 per ton), in constant 1978 values
(Table 12, Annex 3). Based on average expected milling yielcls and average
1/   The Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics and the Ministry of
Agriculture, cited in L. Harlan Davis, "The Current Position of Agricul-
ture in Brazil."



- 38 -
prices relative to standard white rice (= 100) of 114, 90, 38 and 39 for
parboiled, below-standard white, bran and husk ash respectively, revenues per
ton of dry paddy would correspond to 71.1% and 79.2% of the market price per
ton of whole milled rice (10% broken) for white and parboiled rice, respec-
tively, or an average of 73.8%. The market value of unprocessed paddy, trend
adjusted, is assumed to be equivalent to its economic value since the downward
adjustment required to express it in border prices (- 20%) is approximately
offset by the upward adjustment needed to compensate for subsidized credit and
water rates.
7.07      With no indication of pending changes in the domestic production
or market structures, trend adjusted retail prices at Recife have been
projected proportionally to world prices, after accounting for retail, whole-
sale and transport margins, to establish the price of ex-mill rice for the
financial analysis of mill operations. Since the mill would also be purchasing
paddy outside the SF II area, the market value of paddy observed in 1978 has
been adjusted along the same lines (Table 12, Annex 3).
Other crops
7.08      Among secondary project crops, cotton is the most important, followed
by corn. Seventy percent of Brazilian cotton is planted in the South, and the
remainder in the Northeast, for a relatively stable total production of 550,000
tons per year. Domestic and world prices have increased recently but farmer
response has been weak because of rising cultivation and harvest costs. Ex-
ports involving 2 to 10% of the production, have often been subsidized. Fob
values ex-Recife have been adjusted from lint to raw cotton for an economic
value of US$500 per ton (Table 13, Annex 3). Going market prices were used to
compute value added to the farm budgets, as for all other crops except rice.
7.09      Corn production has increased rapidly in Brazil since the early
1960s to reach 18 million tons by 1977, through cyclical supply/price
adjustments. Exports are of the order of 1.3 million tons per annum, with
a sharp drop in 1978 due to the draught. Fob values are used for grains,
adjusted for cob maize. Cotton, corn and other secondary project crops have
little impact on national production or exports and are intended mainly for
local consumption.
C. Marketing
7.10      The only product requiring organized marketing is rice.  This would
be handled by the secondary cooperative through a semi-independent sales and
distribution unit it would establish for that purpose (para 5.11). Specialized
staff would be recruited within the Northeast for best knowledge of the regional
market. The sales and distribution unit would consist of five departments
covering (a) sales by contract; (b) sales to retailers and main consumers;
(c) transport and distribution; (d) stock control; and (e) marketing and
promotion. Potential clients would be wholesale dealers, supermarkets, indi-
vidual or grouped retailers, caterers and direct consumers such as hospitals.



- 39C -
7.11      Limited seasonal variations of rice prices in Northeast Brazil
(maximum 11%) would not justify concentration of rice milling during the
high price months of January - April, since interest on the capital in-
vested in paddy procurement, plus amortization of the additional storing
and milling facilities, together with the losses due to longer storing would
largely exceed the potential difference in income between the low and high
milling seasons. Furthermore, the sales organization would need a continuous
contact with its customers during the whole year. Paddy would initially be
allocated between two milling alternatives -- white and parboiled, besides
the possibility of contracting existing mills. Some head rice may be combined
with brokens for sale as a below-standLard rice, bringing a higher return than
sales to breweries. Bran would be sold for animal feed and rice husk ash to
chemical industries.
VIII. FINANCIAL ANALYSIS
A. Farm Budgets
8.01      Farm budgets have been established for four illustrative farm types
of different size, location, farming system and cropping pattern, as follows:
(a)  Farm type 1:  1,124 farms in Boacica of 3.5 ha each, growing
one full rice crop plus a ratoon crop on 80% of the area, under
controlled flood irrigation (Table 14a, Annex 3).
(b)  Farm type 2:  291 farms in Cotinguiba/Pindoba plus 504 in
Brejo Grande, of 3.5 ha each, growing two full rice crops on
40% of the area, a full crop plus a ratoon crop on another
40% and a single crop on the remaining 20%, under controlled
flood irrigation (Table 14b, Annex 3).
(c)  Farm type 3:  143 farms in Cotinguiba/Pindoba and 30 farms
in Brejo Grande, growing 1 ha of rice under controlled flood
irrigation, and 5 ha of dry--farmed cotton, maize and peanuts
during the rainy season (Table 14c, Annex 3).
(d)  Farm type 4:  392 farms in Gotinguiba/Pindoba, 212 in Boacica
and 27 in Brejo Grande, rotating cotton, maize, peanuts and
watermelon on 3 ha under controlled gravity irrigation (Table
14d, Annex 3).
8.02      Potential financial results of each farm type are summarized in the
following table:
Gross Prod.  Prod. Costs  Family  Net Prod.  Total Family -income  Income Increments
Farm Type   Area (ha)  (Cr$)  (Cr$)  Labor   (Cr$)   (Cr$)   iLs$  Boacica   Others
1      3.5   74,760     43,194   7,472  24,094   31,566   L,954   179%   -
2      3.5   82,236     47,626   8,144  26,466   34,610   2,143    -    108%
3      6.0   65,132     44,390   11,032  9,710   20,742   L,284    83%   25%
4      3.0   59,082     32,902   10,664  15,516  26,180   L,621   132%   58%



- 40 -
Rice farms have positive cash flow balances from the year of establishment.
Combro farms have financial rates of return of at least 50%. However, since
the pre-project reference situation used to compute financial returns is
theoretical inasmuch as farms of the proposed size and tenure do not exist
today, the financial impact of the project can best be appraised by comparing
"iwith project" family incomes to present average rural incomes of US$700 in
Boacica and US$1,025 elsewhere in the area for an average five-member family.
Project-induced increments would thus be between 83% (combros) and 179%
(paddy farms) in Boacica and 25% (dry-farming) and 108% (paddy farms) else-
where. It is to be noted that family income of rice growers at full develop-
ment (year 9 of project) would reach Cr$ 47,300 in 1978 prices, including
milling dividends of the order of Cr$ 13,000, or US$800 per year (after
allowing for marketing and management uncertainties).
B. Paddy Storage and Processing
8.03      Paddy storage and processing is expected to provide a major source
of value added in the project area. The cash flow of the mill is detailed in
Table 15 of Annex 3 which shows that mill profits would reach US$5 million
by the sixth year of the project and climb to US$7.5 million five years later,
once the mill has repaid its initial investment debts. This could result in
dividends of Cr$ 26,000 (US$1,600) by the sixth year of the project and
GrS 37,000 (US$2,200) as from year 11, for each of some 3,300 rice growers in
the Lower Sao Francisco area. These profits, however, have a high inherent
risk,, since they would be reduced approximately by half if ex-mill rice
prices were to decrease by 10% as a result of market fluctuations, inadequate
mill or marketing management or improper agronomic practices affecting the
quality of mill output.
8.04      Mill profits are, in any case, substantial enough to warrant that
CODEVASF relending of storage and mill investment funds to the secondary
cooperdtive exclude elements of subsidization. Current interest rates charged
by domestic lending institutions for similar investments are of the order of
16% per annum for middle sized enterprises of agro-industries. This is a
highly subsidized rate, bearing in mind that the rate of inflation was 28%,
41% and 43% in 1975, 1976 and 1977, respectively, and is expected to remain
around 40% in the coming years. The financial analysis of the mill assumes
that at least the full constant dollar value of the corresponding investments
would be recovered from the cooperative.
C. CODEVASF Budget
8.05      CODEVASF is expected to recover its irrigation network operating
costs plus 30% of capital investments in network construction through water
charges. The shares it holds in the farmer organization do not entitle it to
dividends on the profits. CODEVASF will initially bear the totality of both
productive and social investment costs, plus the costs of the extension
services and social assistance it will provide in the project area. Its main



- 41 -
sources of funds would be Government allocations and the Bank loan, the latter
being later repaid directly by Government. The corresponding cash flow is
shown in Table 16 of Annex 3. Land purchase costs, which require specific
Government funding, are not shown in that table since they have already been
formally committed under the SF I project.
D. Fiscal Impact of Project
8.06      Government would finance the major part of the CODEVASF project
budget and ultimately repay the Bank loan.  Against these expenditures, it
would derive an indirect income from an average 12.5% sales tax on processed
rice besides recovering US$3.7 million of taxes on project investments plus
the totality of investments in rice storage, transport and milling facilities.
Operating costs of educational and health facilities have not been considered
since Government would have to provide similar services whether the project
were implemented or not.  From year 9 onwards, it would save on its partici-
pation to the overall CODEVASF budget as the project's cash-flow becomes
positive through higher water charges incorporating 30% of capital recovery.
At full project development, Government gross income would lbe of the order
of US$5.5 million per annum, without distinction between Federal and State
Governments. Government's annual cash flow becomes positive as from year
6 of the project, to reach a surplus of US$3.7 million per year from year 17
onwards, once the Bank loan is totally repaid (Table 17, Annex 3). The net
present value of project impact on Government cash-flow would be about
zero at a 0% discount rate in constant dollar terms over the first 17 years
of project life. Fiscal impact data are summarized in Table 18 of Annex 3.
IX. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Economic Rate of Return
9.01      The economic rate of return of the project has been computed on the
basis of a cost stream including all directly productive capital and recur-
rent expenditures, the working fund immobilized to meet operational require-
ments and capital renewal costs. The cost stream also includes the purchase
of paddy from outside the SF II area for processing at the mill. The benefit
stream comprises all incremental production, processed (rice) or otherwise
(all other crops), generated by the project. Social infrastructure costs,
justified by benefits which are mostly non-quantifiable, have been excluded
from rate of return computations.
9.02      Both cost and benefit streams have been computed in border prices,
using the following assumptions:
(a) The project's economic rate of return would not be sensitive to
the use of a shadow rate of exchange since such a rate would affect
to a comparable degree the present value of both productive costs
and main outputs of the project;



- 42 -
(b) Cif Recife prices based on Bank projections of fob Bangkok
prices were adjusted ex-Propria mill as the border price for
processed rice, since (i) present domestic production of rice
is practically equivalent to present demand, (ii) incremental
project production at full development corresponds to 65% of
the growth of Northeast demand by that time, and (iii) this
incremental demand would have to be met through imports unless
domestic production were to increase through projects such as
the one proposed;
(c) Cotton, maize and peanut production border prices were established
on the basis of fob prices derived from Bank projections and
adjusted ex-Propria;
(d) Unskilled labor such as construction workers or hired farm hands
have been shadow priced at 50% of their actual wages because of
heavy regional unemployment; skilled labor has been shadow priced
at full wages;
(e) Farm family labor has not been considered among project costs,
since (i) the actual number of family laborers is not expected to
increase as a result of project activities, and (ii) more intensive
farm activities are not expected to reduce ancillary employment
opportunities enjoyed before the project, such as family gardening
or fishing;
(f) Indirect benefits, such as increased trade resulting from improved
economic conditions in the area, have not been considered;
(g) Taxes and other transfer payments were not charged to the
project; and
(h) All dikes and pumps constructed or to be constructed under
SF I financing have been excluded as sunk costs, since their
primary purpose is to protect the area from Paulo Afonso IV
effects. As a corollary, "without project income'" is computed
on the basis of the production level achieved before the river
regime was modified. This income reflects the opportunity
cost of land protected by SF I works.
9.03      Under all above assumptions, reflected in the data shown in the
following table, the economic rate of return of the project is estimated
to be of the order of 27% for the processing component (Table 19, Annex 3),
the cost of which is US$13 million, and of the order of 17% for the agricul-
tural component, the cost of which is US$54 million (Table 20, Annex 3). The
economic rate of return on overall productive expenditures, which have a
combined share of 86% of total project costs, is of the order of 22% (Table
21, Annex 3). This rate decreases to 17.8%, with a 10% relative decrease of
production value, and further to 14% if at the same time all costs were to
increase by 10%. A 10% relative increase of output prices would, on the other
hand, raise the economic rate of return to 27%. Those figures show that the
project is not highly sensitive to relative price variations.



- 43 -
Economic Cash Flow
(million US$)
11
Year              1    2     3    4    5   6    7     8    9    10  Onward
Investment Costs    6.2  13.3  11.4  9.8  5.7  2.6  -         -    -
Renewal Costs        -    -     -    -    -    -   0.4  0.2  0.1   -    0.6
Operating Costs     0.8  5.0   7.4    11.7  14.6  16.5  16.7  16.8  16.8  16.8  16.8
Total Project Expenditures  7.0    18.3  18.8    21.5    20.3    19.1  17.1    17.0    16.9  16.8  17.4
Project Production
Rice ex-mill       0.9  5.1   9.3  15.4  Z1.7  27.7  29.3  30.0    30.1  30.1  31.2
Other crops        0.3  0.3   0.8  1.8  2.8  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3  3.3   3.4
Total Project Production  1.2  5.4  10.1  17.2  24.5  31.0  32.6  33.3  33.4  33.4  34.6
Without Project Produiction  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5  1.5
Incremental Project Production  -0.3  3.9  8.6    15.7  23.0    29.5    31.1  31.9    31.9  31.9  33.1
Net Value Added by Project  -7.3   -14.4    -10.2    -5.8    +2.7  10.4    14.0  14.9  15.0  15.1  15.7
B. Project Beneficiaries
9.04     The project would benefit directly some 2,700 farmer families plus
about 300 network, store, mill and cooperative employees, adding up to
about 3,000 families, all with present income levels well below the absolute
poverty level. Education and health facilities would benefit at least another
500 neighboring families, although thLeir precise number cannot be ascertained.
Another 1,800 families growing rice in the area would benefit from the paddy
storage and milling facilities. Baseline costs of productive and social
investments 1/ of US$43.7 million, including physical contingencies, repre-
sent an expenditure of about US$14,570 per family, or US$4,530 per hectare.
Baseline costs of the irrigation facilities (network, electric lines and
maintenance equipment) correspond to an expenditure of about US$2,800 per
irrigated hectare, including physical contingencies.  These figures compare
favorably with recent Bank projects, in which costs of irrigation facilities
have varied between US$1,600 and US$6,200, and total base costs are anywhere
between US$13,500 and US$44,500 per family (Table 22 of Annex 3).
9.05     The project is intended to resettle families already employed in
agriculture in the project area. As such, it will have no appreciable effect
on overall employment. However, the intensity of employment of the project
population will radically increase from an average 37 man-days per hectare
to 80 man-days per hectare, or 280 man-days per family cultivating a 3.5 ha
rice plot. Indirect employment is expected to be consideralbly enhanced by
the overall improvement of economic conditions in the project area.
1/  Excluding (a) half of the cost of paddy stores, mill and transport
facilities, which do not directly relate to the SF II project and (b)
project financed recurrent expenditures.



- 44 -
C. Environmental Impact
9.06      Thirty-six percent of the project area, at present idle or under
low-yield natural pasture, would be recuperated for intensive, mainly irri-
gated agriculture, while the use of the remaining land would also be intensi-
fied and improved. Widespread schistosomiasis in the project area, which
could tend to increase under the proposed irrigation activities, would, on the
contrary, be reduced through the area-wide endemic disease control program to
be developed by SUCAM. Improved housing, sanitation and health facilities are
expected to have a major impact on overall health conditions of the area
population. As with the SF I project, CODEVASF would advise farmers on the
selection of pesticides that would not be harmful to fish resources, other
crops or health, and would help initiate control programs to monitor applica-
tions of agricultural chemicals.
D. Project Risks and Uncertainties
9.07      The Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project is a difficult project to
implement. CODEVASF has limited experience in such multifaceted operations,
and quantitative and qualitative staff limitations at middle management level
have hampered CODEVASF in its supervision of engineering consultants and
contractors in other projects. However, considerable technical assistance and
institution strengthening is built into the project to help overcome present
shortcomings.
9.08      The central role played by the cooperative organization at all
stages of agricultural production, harvesting, storage, processing and market-
ing considerably increases the dependence of favorable project results on the
professional level of the cooperative staff and management, and on the depth
of involvement of the area farmers in cooperatives established through outside
initiative. Careful attention must therefore be given to the proper staffing
and motivation of all farmer organizations, especially for processing and
marketing activities, and a rigorous monitoring system of cooperative activi-
ties must immediately be set up.
9.09      Project risks may also result from exceptional floods such as those
which occurred early in 1979 and more possibly from unpredictable rainfall,
which reached in 1978 the highest level recorded since measurements were
started some 50 years ago and has been delaying implementation of the SF I
project. The tight schedule already resulting for the SF II project (which
cannot be implemented until SF I works are completed in the corresponding
varzeas and the area is effectively protected from flood risks) could be
further strained if exceptional rainfall were to continue during SF II imple-
mentation.



- 45 -
X. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
10.01     Assurances were received at: negotiations from Government that:
(a)  it would take the necessary measures to ensure expropriations
in the Brejo Grande varzea after March 31, 1981 (para. 5.02);
(b)  it would take all steps, including the provision of refinancing
facilities to credit intermediaries, which may be necessary to
ensure the availability to project farmers of adequate credit
from banks in the public as well as the private sector (para 5.04);
(c)  it would take action required for the prompt issuance to CODEVASF
of import and other permits and licenses necessary for the
acquisition and importation of goods and services required for
the carrying out of the project (para 5.04);
(d)  it would take all necessary measures to facilitate the conversion
of farmer associations into primary cooperatives and would, through
its competent agencies responsible for cooperative organization,
participate, as appropriate, in the periodic reviews of the
development of the cooperative system (para 5.07); and
(e)  it would cause its agency or agencies responsible for the setting
of water rates under the project to take all such action as
shall be necessary or advisable (including approval of water
rates proposed to be introduced from time to time in the project
area), to enable the recovery of all O&M costs and at least
30% of the capital cost of the irrigation network, subject to
the financial capacity of project farmers (para 5.21).
10.02     Further assurances were received at negotiations from CODEVASF
that:
(a)  it would present to the Bank its proposed budget for the
project for the following year by October 31 of each year,
and its finalized budgetary allocations for the project each
year as soon as its general budget had been approved (para 4.37);
(b)  it would, at all times during the implementation of the project,
employ a suitably qualifiedl resident engineer within its 4th
Directorate and a coordinator and at least five suitably
qualified specialists within the Rural Development Unit of
its 4th Directorate (para .5.01);
(c)  it would take all such action as shall be necessary to acquire by
all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be required
for the carrying out of the Project and would furnish to the
Bank, evidence that such land and rights in respect of land are
available for purposes related to the project (para 5.02);



- 46 -
(d) it would complete by December 31, 1979 a settler relocation
study which would include a census of landless farmers entitled
to relocation under the project and a sample survey of movement
intention of the various segments of the area population
(para 5.03);
(e) it would maintain contractual arrangements satisfactory to the
Bank with:
(i)  the State Road Departments (DER) of Alagoas and
Sergipe for the construction and maintenance of project
feeder roads;
(ii)  the local electricity companies for the construction,
operation and maintenance of the transmission lines and
distribution systems required by the project;
(iii) the National Housing Bank (BNH) for purposes of
financing house construction materials;
(iv)  the Public Health Services Foundation (FSESP) for
construction and operation of the health posts;
(v)  the Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns (SUCAM)
for the implementation of a campaign against communicable
diseases in the project area (para 5.04);
(vi)  the water supply companies of the States of Alagoas and
Sergipe (or other institutions satisfactory to the Bank)
for purposes of operating and maintaining the water supply
systems included in the project, unless these activities
shall be entrusted by CODEVASF to the farmer associations
to be established in the project area (para 5.16); and
(vii) the Secretariats of Education of the States of Alagoas
and Sergipe, FSESP, and the Federal University of Sergipe
or a similar institution for purposes of carrying out
the education component of the project (para 5.18);
(f) it would ensure the establishment of a secondary marketing and
processing cooperative in the project area with statutes
acceptable to the Bank by June 30, 1981 (para 5.06);
(g) it would:
(i)  organize project farmers into about 12 farmer associations
with statutes acceptable to the Bank, to be gradually
established as settlement proceeds, with no more than
400 members in any single association;
(ii)  carry out appropriate education and training programs
designed to prepare these farmer associations to be
converted into primary cooperatives within about
four years of their establishment;



- .47 -
(iii)  upon a decision of the members of an association to
convert into a primary cooperative, take all necessary
steps within its competence to enable the association
to be so converted, and ensure that at the time of
conversion, title to the land cultivated by the members
of the association concerned is transferred to the new
cooperative;
(iv) subject to the decision of the members of the primary
cooperatives, take all necessary steps within its competence
to ensure that primary cooperatives in the project area
become members of the secondary cooperative, and that the
latter provides adequate supply, processing and marketing
services to such primiary cooperatives; and
(v)  periodically in the course of project implementation,
review with the Bank the arrangements referred to above
in the light of monitoring results, the recommendations
of special studies and consultations with farmers
(para 5.07);
(h) it would:
(i)  take all such action within its competence (including
action with respect to the filing of appropriate
applications with respect to the setting or adjustment
of water rates in the project area), as will result in
the gradual introduction in the project area of water
charges adequate to recover at full farm development
the incremental operation and maintenance costs of
the irrigation and drainage network included in the
project and, subject to confirmation of the capacity of
water users to pay, at least 30% of the capital
investment cost of the irrigation and drainage networks
over a period of not more than 30 years, at a rate of
interest of 8% per annum; and
(ii) periodically review the water charges to be introduced in
the project area on the basis of the results obtained from
the monitoring and evaluation carried out under the project
with a view to establishing the capacity of users to pay
such charges and determining whether a larger share of
the capital investment cost of the irrigation and drainage
network can be recovered (para 5.21);
(i) it would complete a study of post harvest operations, satisfac-
tory to the Bank, including drying, storage, milling and
qualitative and quantitative rice transport requirements in
the Lower Sao Francisco area by June 30, 1980 (para 5.24);



- 48 -
(j) it would have its accounts, including a separate account for
the project, and financial statements for each fiscal year
audited in accordance with sound auditing principles by
independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank (para 5.25);
(k) certified copies of its financial statements and audit reports
would be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after
the end of the fiscal year (para 5.25); and
(1) a detailed document describing the project monitoring program,
its staffing requirements, techniques and cost would be prepared
by CODEVASF and the external monitoring unit and would be
presented for approval by the Bank by August 31, 1979
(para 5.27).
10.03     Conditions of loan effectiveness would be that CODEVASF had:
(a) appointed qualified staff as Chiefs of the Rural Development Unit
of its 4th Directorate and its four sections and as Resident
Engineer in the project area (para 5.01);
(b) prepared a UNDP/FAO Technical Assistance Project Document acceptable
to the Bank and all parties concerned and recruited an FAO coopera-
tives specialists (para 5.05); and
(c) established farmer associations with statutes acceptable to the Bank
in settled areas of Propria, Itiuba and Betume (para 5.07).
10.04     Conditions of disbursement would be that CODEVASF had:
(a) acquired all lands under the project in the varzeas of Boacica,
Cotinguiba and Pindoba by March 31, 1980 as a condition to disburse-
ments after that date (5.02);
(b) acquired all lands under the project in the varzea of Brejo
Grande as a condition for Bank disbursements relative to Brejo
Grande (para 5.02);
(c) signed with the Camurupim cooperative an agreement defining the
conditions of participation of the latter in project activities
(para 5.06);
(d) signed detailed agreements with:
(i)  the State Road Departments (DER) of Sergipe and
Alagoas for the construction and maintenance of
project roads;
(ii)  the local electricity companies for the construction
of the transmission and distribution lines and the
power stations required by the project;



- 491 -
(iii)  the National Housing Bank (BNH) for financing housing
construction;
(iv) the Public Health Services Foundation (FSESP) for the
construction and operation of health posts;
(v)  the Superintendency for Health Campaigns (SUCAM) for the
implementation of a campaign against communicable diseases
in the project area (para 5.04); and
(vi) the State Secretariats of Education, agencies providing
adult education, FSESP, and the Federal University of
Sergipe or similar institutions, to ensure the adequate
implementation of the education component of the project
(para 5.18);
as conditions of disbursement on the respective project components;
(e) completed a water supply pre-investment study, satisfactory
to the Bank as condition of disbursements on the health and
sanitation component of the project (para 5.16); and
(f)  completed a study of rice storage, milling and transport
requirements, satisfactory to the Bank, as condition of
disbursement on the corresponding components of the project
(para 5.24).
10.05     With the above assurances aLnd conditions, the project is suitable
for a Bank loan of US$28 million for a term of 15 years with a grace period
of three years.
May 21, 1979



-  50  -                                                                           ANNEX  1
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
YEARS
1             2              3             4              5              6             7              8              9
IRRIGATIONW S1979  1980  1981           1982          1983           1984          1985           1986           1987          1988        1989
IRRIGATION WORKS-                                        -J 98
Cotinguiba-Pindloba
SF I Infrastructure                                                                                                                     0  t          o d
Boacica                                      | Constrction |        Installation
SF I Infrattructure 
SF 11 Irrigation Works                                                                                                       -       - 1  7         23, 600 tons/year of paddY
Area Irrigated & Poddy Production
Hrejo Grandeo                                                                                              
SF I Infrastructure
SF I Infrastructure l l | | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~11,800 tons/year of paddy
SF II Irrigation Works                |                          &                  _                                                                      tons/year t  lp |dy
Area Irrigated & Paddy Production
ESTABLISHMENT OF LOCAL FARMER
ASSOCIATIONS
Piridoba                                                                                                                                                 2
Cotinguiba
Boaci- ma=
Brejo Grande                                                                          - r_                                                                                        2
l l l 4 i -~~~~~~~~~~~~Farmers Associations- tPrimary Coopeavs
PADDY STORAGE AND PROCESSING
Drying Modules:
Propria
Igreja Nova
Betume  Y      
Propria                                            Q&I                                        M          =    3c s
Igreja Nova                                          =K E                                                =2                            x
Betum
Mil irg:
Common Equipment
White Mill ng Equipment
Parboiling Equipmentm
World Borik  19735



- 51 -                        ANNEX 2
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO 11 IRRIGATION PROJECT
CROPPING PATTERN
IJ J_AlII JAISOINIDiJIFiMIAIM  J IJ IA ISOINID J I FIM,A M JI
Seed and
Transplant-                     Harvest
Period                        Period
RICE IN COTIN-
GUI BA/PIN DOBA
AND BREJO GRANDE
Platoon Crop
RICE IN                                 PI                           P
I                  . L0LII.PL LIIEPl
BOACICA
l~~~~~~~~~~0  Cot4n                     M        t Ze0 0" Cotton   0 01+     *
GRAVITY AND                                         0     1     0
SPRINKLER
IRRIGATION           _           Ornuts
|~~~~~~~~~10  m                   T        S Ear        1c11         rn' 
DRY
FARMING
World Bank - 19592
RAINY SEASON



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 1: Present Land Use and Crop Production
Yields    Cotinguiba/Pindoba              Boacica               Brejo Grande                  Total
t/ha    Area (ha)   Prod (t)   Area (ha)   Prod (t)   Area (ha)   Prod (t)   Area (ha)   Prod (t)
Flood
Irrigation (varzea)
Rice                  1.6       1,161        1,858       1,830        2,928       1,120         1,792       4,111        6,578
1,161                    1,830                    1,120                    4,111                    1
Dry Farming                                                                                                                            >
Cotton                  .3          70           21         200           60          60           18         330           99       t
Beans                   .4        300          120          730          292         240           96       1,270          508
Maize (grain)           .7        300          210         750          525          300          210       1,350          945
670                   1,680                       600                    2,950
Pasture                             720                      960                       300                    1,980
Unutilized                          864                       780                      315                    1,959
TOTAL                        3,415                    5,250                    2,335                   11,000



BRAZ IL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 2: Proposed Development of Project Area
(hectares)
GROSS
IRRIGABLE DRY FARMING
VARZEEA  STATE            NET IRRIGABLE AREA                AREA        ARE_ A     PROJECT AREA
,ur' ro,c'   \xTh'T.q
~NL.J.  '~\NW )J  r ______ u.
VARZEA         COMBRO                     VARZEA
(Flooding)(Furrouws)   (Sprinkler) TOTAL  +COMBRO   TABULEIRO
Cotinguiba-                            1/            2/
Pindoba    Sergpe    1,161       480-          695-   2,336   2,590    717   825  3,053    3,415
Boacica      Alagoas    3,933       -            636    4,569   5,250        -     -   4,569    5,250
Brejo Grande Sergipe    1,793       80            -      1,873   2,160      150   175  2,023    2,335
TOTAL             6,887      560        1,331      8,778  10,000     867 1,000  9,645   ll OG
1/ :n Pindoba
^/ In Cotinguiba
Lo



- 54 -                               ANNEX 3
BRAZIL                               Table 3
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 3: Irrigation Efficiencies 1!
(%)
Flooding        Furrow         Sprinkler
COTIUGCITBA
Field application efficiency              43                              70
Conveyance efficiency                     80                             /95-/
Overall irrigation efficiency             34                              67
PINDOBA
Field application efficiency              46              75
Conveyance efficiency                     81             95-
OveKall irrigation efficiency             37              71
BOACICA
Field application efficiency              38               -             70
Conveyance efficienc)                     70                             85
Overall irrigation efficiency             27                             60
BRE_O GRAND)E
Field application efficiency              32              75
Conveyance efficiency                     gs2/            952
Overall irrigation efficiency             30              71
1/ Field Application Efficiency (Ea) = Irrigation requirement at crop root
Farmgate demand
Conveyance Efficiency (Ec) = Farmgate demand
Diversion requirement
Overall Irrigation Efficiency = Ea x Ec = Irrigation requirement at crop root
Diversion requirement
2/ High conveyance efficiency resulting from lined canals.



- 55 .
Si. Fh5CICO 11 IRRICATION MWEC,
I.bls 4:  Project Coats
0         2           3 --5--ad-o s-s----a--------------     - -- -
A. Pe9duce8ve Ca9ital Oo1rtdlturro            1979/90    1980/8I    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84   1984/85           Coat     Corsoosiaola Tslj   70.1                 Fpres=
1. Oeusatoooe Natoork
P-d.obs                              1,435.6    1.866.6
Coodogulba                                       2,769.4    1,868.3.
eatles                                         2,963.7    2 497.5    1,917.3
Breo Oor _d.                                                1,656.6    1.635.9    1,565.0
1,435.6    7,599.7    6,022.4    3,553.2    1.565.0                  20,175.9       4,266.8       24,442.7    7,627.8         32
0. eLiatoleal Netwotk
Cdthsiguba/Plodobo                       16.7
Dotoles                                 47.1
63.8                                                                  63.8           4.4           70.1       14.0         20
3. Netoork 0L1H loulpoarI
Cotl,guia/Pldubs67.0                               13.7        2.3
Joaties                                             63.0        68.2        5.5        13.2
Breo  raGde-d                                                              63.7         2.5      10.2
63.0       81.9        71.7       15.7       10.1         242.5         24.2          266.7       181.5        68
4. Aooieeloeool h37ehioaer
Tr- oe sard Oheshero                               132.3      528.0       163.5
eeks.hepa sod Tools                                350.0
482.3      529.0       163.5                            1,174.8         117.5        1.292 3       516.9        40
5, Asrlcultural Saroocas
Cot-oguiba/Pfi6dbs                       60.7        7.1
ostles                                             z92.5        10.5
Orajo Oraode                         ___                        37.0        3.1
63.7       99.6        47.5        3.5                               214.3          21.5          235.8       70.7         30
6.  Paddy 9r7it8 & Storota
Peoptia                                791.8                              233.2        63.5     153.3
igoaja jots                            791.8                              196.0        49.2     204.8
9Etuo 827.8                                                   109.0      227.2                 314.7
2,411,4                  119.0      656.4       112.7     672.8       3,972.9         397.2        4,569.5    3,294.3         75
7. Rote tllOirso                              809.8                1,504.8    1,216.4    0,126.7                  4,677.7         467.8        5,7145.5    4,521.1        bd
8. T          Eses-ot louioooot               228.0       30.0        50.0        75.0       50.0       75.0        508.0          53.8          558.5      537.0         97
9. At-ros lods                                220.0      66s.0                                                      884.0         106.8         0,060.8      518.3        30
10.  Leelniesl Asaits.aee                      270.0      295.0       255.0       160.0                              980.0          98.0        1,078.0    1,078.0        100
10. PFsrtars' Oetsoutioron
Othtbds                                  12.3       08.2
eotxgiuobs/Pidobs                                  18.2        36.3       18.2
jt                                                               86.3      36.3        36.3
Oc-jo Acard                          ___                                   18.2        18.2
01.3       06.4        72.6       72.7        54.5                   248.5          24.6          273.1       112.2        41
02.  e-soo-tsa-ioo foe OA,vo-t L.otRR
OotlsoulbalPOodoba                      100.6      243.9        96.5
joseles                                            231.8       220.0      200.8        77.4
frejo Geande                                 _                 97.7       153.2       156.1      52.6
100.6      477.7       416.3      361.0       253.5      52.6       1,641.7         164.2        1,b05.9        -            O
Subtot l A                           5,626.2    9746.7    9,108.5    6,333.4    3,158.1         810.6      34,783.5       5,155.8       40.599.3   18,172.4         45
S.  Reo-rrart E..d.di-tr
05. Aoeleultsiral battles,
CotOoguOls/Pirdoba   .                  175.3      471.6       568.5      568.5       239.5
jostles                                            442.2       857.8      904.4       762.8
-rejo Gersd.                                                   175.3     350.0        351.1
175.3      913.8    2,600.6    1,762.9    1,352.4                   5,826.0        582,4        6,408.4       641.4        10
14.  freot Ad=iooatroliot                      113.6       015.6      103.8       013.6      015.6                   568.4          57.e         625.0         62.5       10
IS.  Foessro' Orgatirotiro
etoreal Coopseratia                      60.7       67.7        67.7       67.7        67.7
Co.esiuiba/fitdoba                                  30.1        90.3      020.4       010.4
rustle.                                                         60.3      120.4       080.6
boeJe Cost/a                                    ________                   30.1        60.3
67.7       97.8       218.3      338.7       429.0                 1,151.3        115.1        1,266.6       016.7        10
So/strool 8                            356.6    1,135.2    1,933.5    2,235.2    1,895.0                   7,545.5         754.5      86300.0         830.6       t0
C. Seteol Otfoastuetires 4 Studies
06. ORutosl
Ns- Hos...                               88.3      560.1       488.0      313.1        99.0
lopoorel Oouoea                          49.6      315.8       274.0      175.7        55.7
137.9      876.9       762.2 2     88.8       154.9                 2,420.7        242.1        2,662.8       798.8        30
17.   dutatuo..                                373.6      618.7        40.0       40.0        38.6                 0,100.9        111.2        1,222.1        366.6       30
Lo.   ssitth ..d Satotute                      261.8      638.2       635.5      274.7                             1,810.5        181.1        1,991.6       220.7        11
13.  rural ltcttitif tostt                    432.2       593.8      111.2                                        1,137.2        227.4        1,364.6       272.9       80
20.  Further Studiest 4 Oiououe                          250.0       250.0      250.0                               750.0         75.D          825.0       495.0       60
Syb-tel C                            1,205.5    2,977.6    1,799.2    1,053.5         193.5                 7,229.3        836.8       8,066.1      2,055.3       07
basolier Coats                       7,188.3   13,849.5   02.k41.2    9,622 1    5,246.6        810.6      49,358.3      7,407.0      56,965.4    21,258.0        37.3
Oat Jiousts 0378 erucers
Pss-it-I eutitiottias                  927.9    0,409.0    1,990.8    1,317.3         681.0       81.0      7,407.1
Subtotal                          8.116.2   16,258.5   14,832.0   10,939.4    5,927.6        891.7      56,965.4
tries eertuteeiea                   (155)       (230)    (31.75)    (40.940      (50.83)   (61.3i)       7
1,017.4   03539.4    4,701.7    4.474.2     5.000,2        546.6      57,699.5
WTAL 9O-JTCT COSTS                  90333.6   22,13.6   20,049.8  10,540.5   10,419.8   0,438.3             74,655.9
Osrotio E-terog. C-op--st            4,600.0    5,903.9    7,131.5    5,814.5    3,314.5   1,168.0                                    27,930.4
Propeted dotk Floattg                 4,300.0    8,000.0    7,40. 0     5,400.0    2,200.0      620.0                                 28,000.0
0/  I00  airept Ltr f rrigs-toatoorl. sat, roads a-d  ursl js -jtrefleasljo (20%) sd Coti3uiba i-rasitot r-toork (252).



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 5   Foreign Exchange Component of Investment Costs
(incl. physical contingencies)
('000 US$)
Foreign         % of
2                         3--Years-                                 Exchange   Total
1  2          3          4    ~     ~    ~    ~~ 5  6-  Component      Project
A.  Productive Capital Expenditures
Irrigation Network                              576.8    2,883.1   2,279.4   1,325.1          563.4                 7,627.8          31
Electrical Network                                14.0                                                                 14.0          20
Network O&M Equipment                                         55.5       61.0       57.7         4.7        2.6       181.5          68
Agricultural Machinery                                       212.2      232.8       71.9                               516.9         40
Agricultural Services                            21.0         32.8       15.7        1.2                               70.7          30
Paddy Drying & Storage                        1,835.9                   127.3      568.0      124.6       639.0    3,294.8           75
Rice Milling                                    612.9                 1,568.3   1,188.2   1,151.8                   4,521.2          88
Transport Equipment                             228.8         33.2       55.0       82.5        55.0       82.5       537.0          97
Access Roads                                     79.6        238.7                                                    318.3          30
Technical Assistance                            297.0        324.5      280.5      176.0                            1,078.0         100
Farmers' Organization                             6.0          9.0       35.4       35.4       26.4                   112.2          41
Subtotal A                                3,672.0    3,789,0   4,655.4   3,506.0    1,925.9           724.1   18,272.4           45
B.  Recurrent Expenditures
Network O&M                                                    6.5       28.2       48.8       58.5                   142.0           6
Agricultural Services                            19.3        100.6      176.3      196.3      148.9                   641.4          10
Project Administration                           12.5         12.5       12.5       12.5       12.5                    62.5          10
Farmers' Organization                             7.5         10.8       24.0       37.2       47.2                   126.7          10
Subtotal B                                    39.3       130.4      241.0       294.8      267.1                   972.6
C.  Social Infrastructure & Studies
Housing                                          45.5       289.4       251.5      161.3       51.1                   798.8          30
Education                                       123.3       204.2        13.2       13.2       12.7                   366.6          30
Health and Sanitation                            15.8        85.0        86.5       34.4                              221.7          11
Rural Electrification                           103.7       142.5        26.7                                         272.9          20
Further Studies & Monitoring                                165.0       165.0      165.0                              495.0          60
Subtotal C                                  288.3        886.1      542.9       373.9       63.8                2,155.0                        b 
TOTAL (Baseline and Physical Cont.,)   3,999.6    4,805.5   5,439.3   4,I74 7   2,256.8               724.1   21,400.0           36            Ln Lo
TOTAL (Incl. Price Cont.)                 4,600.0    5,910.8   7,163.6   5,882.1    3,403.3   1,168.0   28,127.8



ANNEX 3
- 157 -                             Table 6
BBAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 6: Sample Unit Costs
(January 1.978 prices)
Unit        US$       Cr$
100-hp track mounted tractor, without
implements                                                     21,800   352,100
Four-wheel-drive vehicle                                           8,200   132,400
13.8 KV transmission lines                            km           6,200   100,000
Access roads                                          km          42,100   68Ql000
Clearing, up-rooting and cleaning of areas             m2                         1.4
Loading and unloading of earth for embankments,
back-fill and disposal                              m                          3.1
Transport of earth for embankments, back.-fill       3
and disposal                                     m  x km                       7
Excavating canals, drains and pits in earth
material of category 1                              m3                        18
Back-fill in pits, pervious or impervious              m3                        30
Compacted fill                                         m3                        10
Concrete lining, canals (class 2 concrete)             mn3                    1,500
Rip-rap lining, drains                                 m3                       200
Gravel surfacing, roads                                m3                        45
Concrete and form works for reinforced concrete          3
structures with concrete class 1                    m                      3,500
with concrete class 3                   __m3                   1,078
with concrete class 4                   m3                       900
Reinforcement bars, steel CA-50                        kg                        25
Water proofing joints, canal concrete linings          m                         20
Placing concrete pipe;
Diameter    400 mm                                  m                        640
Diameter    600imm                                  m                        947
Diameter    800 mm                                  m                      1,336
Diameter  1,000 mm                                  m                      1,931
Tractor                                                                     210,000
Plow                                                                         76,000
Harrow                                                                       38,000
Trailer                                                                      18,000
Thresher (incl. motor)                                                       84,000
Rice silo                                (500 ton  unit)           34,000
Column dryer                             (9 tons/hour)  2          28,000
Boiler for paddy drying                           (106.m )        124,000
L-1 health center                                                  16,800
Two-class-room school                                              46,270    747,200
House construction material                           house                    25,000
House improvement                                        "                     14,000
Labor
Unskilled labor                                    man-day             2.5      40
FAO Consultants                                   man-month       5,000
General managers (mill)                            man-year      60,000
Managers (industrial units)                        man-year      30,000
Deputy Managers (industrial units)                 man-year      15,000



ANNX 3
- 58 -                                Table 7
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table. : Proposed Bank Disbursement Schedul_
('000 US$)
----------------------------Years---------------------------
1          2           3           4           5           6        Total
Irrigation Network (excl. pumps & motors) 1,435.6    7,583.9    5,896.1    3,301.4    1,565.0
Contingencies, Physical                     287.1    1,654.3    1,269.4        660.2       313.0
Electrical Netwozk                              63.8
Contingencies, Physical                       6.4
Agricultural Machinery                                    482.3       529.0       163.5
Contingencies, Physical                                 48.2        52.9        16.3
Agricultural Services                           63.7        99.6        47.5         3.5
Contingencies, Physical                       6.4         9.9        4.8          .4
Access Roads                                   221.0       663.0
Contingencies, Physical                      44.2       132.6
Farmers' Organization                           12.3        36.4        72.6       72.7        54.4
Contingencies, Physical                       1.2         3.6        7.2         7.2         5.4
Education                                      373.6      618.7        40.0        40.0        38.6
Contingencies, Physical                      37.4       61.9         4.0         4.0         3.9
Health & Sanitation                            261.8      638.2       635.8       274.7
Contingencies, Physical                      26.2       63.8        63.6        27.5
Rural Electrification                          432.2       593.8       111.2
Contingencies, Physical                      86.8       118.8       22.2
Network O&M  Equipment                                      63.0       81.9        71.7        15.7        10.2
Contingencies, Physical                                  6.3         8.2         7.2         1.5         1.0
Paddy Drying & Storage                       2,411.4                  119.0       656.4       112.7       672.8
Contingencies, Physical                    241.2                    11.9        65.6        11.2        67.3
Rice Milling                                   819.8                1,514.8    1,216.4    1,126.7
Contingencies, Physical                     82.0                   151.5        121.6      112.7
Transport Equipment                            228.0        30.0       50.0        75.0        50.0        75.0
Contingencies, Physical                      22.8        3.0         5.0         7.5         5.0
Sub-total                                7,164.9   12,911.3   10,698.6    6,792.8    3,102.9           833.8   41,504.3
Sub-total with Price Contingencies       8,239.6   15,880.9   14,090.0    9,575.7    4,679.1    1,344.9   53,810.2
47% B. F.                            3,872.6    7,464.0    6,622.3    4,500.8    2,199.2          632.1   25,291.0
Irrigation Network(pumps & motors)                          14.1      112.4       224.1
Contingencies, Physical                                  3.6        25.3        44.8
Technical Assistance                           270.0       295.0      255.0       160.0
Contingencies, Physical                      27.0       29.5        25.5        16.0
60% of Further Studies & Monitoring                       150.0       150.0       150.0
Contingencies, Physical                                 lS---  15.0  15.0       15.0
Subtotal                                     297.0     507.2       583.2       609.9                            1,997.3
Subtotal with Price Contingency = B.F.    341.6        623.8       768.1       859.3                            2,592.8
TOTAL BANK FINANCING                       4,214.2   8,087.8    7,390.4    5,360.1    2,199.2          632.1   27,883.8
Rounded to                    4,300.0   8,100.0    7,400.0    5,400.0    2,200.0          600.0   28,000.0
B.F.= Bank financing



ANNEX 3
- 59 -                                   Table 8a
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 8a: Rent Recovery Indices±'
(Cr.$)
Rice Farmers    Combro Farmers
1.  Gross value of farm production at farm gate               82,236           54,057
2.  Dividends from rice milling                               26,433              -
3.      less production (cash) costs                          18,309           26,580
4.  Net cash income                                           90,360           27,477
5.      less imputed value of family labor                     8,144           10,684
6.            value of management services-2/                  6,088            3,994
7.            allowance for risk/uncertainty3/                13,216              -
8.  Rent/surplus                                              62,912           12,799
9.  Rent as a percentage of net cash income (8-4)               70%              47%
10.  Water charges                                            19,450             1,807
11.  Benefit taxes:  purchase of cooperative shares             1,750            1,500
12.  Benefit taxes:  2.5% tax for FUNRURAL                      2,029            1,331
13.  Total direct charges and taxes (10+11+12)                23,229             4,638
14.  Rent recovery index (13.8)                                36.9%             36.2%
15.  Farmer income (8+5-13)                                   47,827            18,845
16.  Farmer income per capital/4/                               9,565            3,769
17.  Estimated per capita critical consumption level 1/5/               12,300
18.  Estimated national per capita income- 1/ 5/                        28,000
1/ 'At full development in project year 9.
2/ Cooperative commission of 7.5% on farm gate value.
3/ Half of assumed dividends, as would result from 10% lower
sales prices ex-mill.
4/ Assuming five members per family.
5/  Assuming a 3% per annum growth of national economy in
real terms.



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT-
Table 8b:  Cost Recovery Index
('000 US$)
C  O  S  T  S                                                                                     C  H  A  R  G  E  S
Investment Costs                            Total Costs                    Water Charges                                      Total Direct Charges                                Total Recovery
O&M           O&M                     Discounted                   30% Capital    Land           FUNRUL                      Discounted        Sales  Tax                    Discounted
Year      Network       Eqglipment       Costs      Actual         at 10%           O&M        Recovery        Sales         Taxes         Actual        at 10%           on  Rice        Actual          at 10%
1       1,722.7          70.2            -       1,792.9          1,629.9          -             -           -               23.7          23.7          21.5                             23.7           21.5
2       9,258.0          69.3           94.0    9,421.3           7,786.2          -             -                           26.9          47.3          39.1               640.0        687.3          568.0
3       7,320.2          90.1         405.9    7,816.2            5,872.4         20.4           -           -               87.5         251.0         188.6             1,164.7      1,415.7        1,063.6
4       4,263.8          78.9          799.8    5,142.5           3,512.4        163.5           -           -              158.1         453.4         309.7             1,919.6      2,373.0        1,620.8
5       1,878.0          17.3         932.1      2,827.4          1,755.6        295.3           -           -              207.3         693.3        430.5              2,717.7      3,411.0        2,118.0
6          -             11.2         932.1        943.3            532.4        486.0           -           -              244.5      1,178.9          665.4             3,462.2     4,641.1         2,619.7
7          -              -           932.1        932.1            478.3        662.5           -         271.9            247.8       1,381.6         709.0             3,669.9    5,051.5          2,592.2
8          -              -           932.1        932.1            434.8        861.9           -         271.9            247.8      1,506.1          702.6             3,748.4      5,254.5        2,451.2
9          -              -           932.1        932.1            395.3        986.4       1,346.9       271.9            247.8      2,936.6       1,245.4              3,762.2      6,698.8        2,841.0
10          -              -           932.1        932.1            359.4      1,070.0       1,346.9       271.9            247.8       2,958.8      1,140.8              3,762.2      6,721.0        2,591.3
11-25          -             -            932.1       932.1          2,733.3      1,092.2        1,346.9      271.9             257.5      2,968.5       8,705.0             3,900.8      6,869.3       20,143.9
26-30          -             -            932.1       932.1             326.1     1,092.2  _   1,346.9           -              257.5      2,696.6         943.4             3.900.8    6,597.4          2.308.2
25,816.1                                                                           15,101.0                                        40,939.4
'58.5%)                                      (158.6%)
0



- 61 -                                ANNEX 3
Table 9
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 9: Distribution of Farms by Model and Land Use
Farm Types                        Boacica        Cotinguiba/Pindoba        Brejo Grande          TOTAL
-------------Farm Units (no) ---------------------
Farm Type l
3.5 ha rice - 80% ratoon
cropped (Boacica)                1,124                                                         1,124
Farm Type 2
3.5 ha rice - 40% second
cropped and 40% ratoon
cropped (Sergipe varzeas)           -                  291                    504                795
Farm Type 3
1 ha rice and
5 ha dry-farming                      -                  143                      30               173
Farm Type 4
3 ha - irrLgated polyculture         212                 392                      27               631
TOTAL       1,336                826                     561             2,723
Land Use (ha)
Flood Irrigation (varzea)          3,933               1,161                   1,793             6,887
- Rice                             3,933               1,161                   1,793             6,887
Gravity/Sprinkler Irrigation         636               1,175                      80             1,891
(combro)
- Cotton/maize                       424                 784                      54             1,262
- Peanuts/watermelon/
earcorn                            106                 195                      13               314
- Bananas                             106                196                      13               315
Dry-Farming                            -                 717                     150               867
- Cotton                              -30                                         90               520
- Peanuts                                                143                      30               173
- Maize                                -                 144                      30               174
TOTAL     4,569               3,053                   2,023             9,645



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table lO: Summary of Yields;  Area Planted and Output
Cropped Area (ha)          Yields (ton/ha)            Production (tons)
Without    With                                       Without    With
Project l/Project   Increment   Present   Target   Project   Project   Increment
Flood Irrigation (varzea)
Rice                          4,111    12,395        8,284        1.6       2/       6,578    43,095       36,517
Gravity or Sprinkler Irrig. (combro)
Cotton                          -        1,262       1,262         -        2.4                 3,029       3,029
Maize                            -         631         631         -        4.0        -        2,524       2,524
Maize (earcorn)                  -         190         190                 12.0        -        2,280       2,280
Peanuts                          -         314         314                  2.0        -          628         628
Watermelon                       -         125         125                 18.0        -        2,250       2,250
Bananas                         -          315         315                 30.0        -        9,450       9,450
Dry-Farming p
Cotton                          330        520         190        0.3       1.6         99        832         733
Maize                          1,350       174    (-1,176)        0.7       2.0        945        348       (-597)
Peanuts                         -          173         173         -        1.5        -          260         260
Beans                         1,270        -       (-1,270)       0.4        -         508        -         (-508)
Natural Pasture                1,980       -       (-1,980)        -         -         -          -           -
Sub-Total                     9,041    16,099
Unutilized                     1,959     1,355
TOTAL                          11,000    17,454
1/ All dry-farming.
2/  4 ton/ha crop (7,768 ha) and 2.5 ton/ha ratoon (4,327 ha).
o .@
CO rw



BRAZIL
SXo FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 11: Expected Evolution of Paddy Production
(Tons of Dry Product)
CROPPING SEASONS          79/80    80/81    81/82    82/83    83/84    84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88
PROJECT         VARZEAS
SF II     Boacica                2,900    1,5'0    Ah300    9,900   16,400   21,200   23,000   23,600   23,600
SF II     Brejo Grande           1,800    1,800    1,200    1,800    3,900    7,400   10,200   11,400   11,8UO
SF II     Cotinguiba/Pindoba    1,200        800    3,400    5,900    7,200    7,700    7,700    7,700    7,700          1
SF I      Betume                 2,500    4,700    8,600   13,600   18,600   18,600   18,600   18,600   18,600
SF I      Marituba                                  1,300    3,200    5,800    8,500    8,500    8,500    8,500
Proprii                3,300    4,500    5,100    5,700    6,400    6,400    6,400    6,400    6,400
Itiuiba.               1,400    2,500    3,800    5,300    5,800    6,400    6,400    6,400    6,400
TOTAL                        13,100   15,800   27,700   45,400   64,100   76,200   80,800   82,600   83,000
p3Em



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 12: Projected Rice Prices
(1978 constant prices)
1978       1979        1980        1981       1982/4      1985/9      1990-  to
Substitution Prices (US$/t)
5%/o broken fob B'kok       1/                         308.-      335.7       358.7       366.8       383.3       410.3       425.6
10% broken ex-Propria Mill         2/                  317.4
Equivalent per ton of paddy input-                     234.2       255.]       272.0      278.5       290.9       311.3       322.8
(ex-Propria' Mill)
Financial Prices
Retail Recife (Cr$/t,                               11,000
Sale ex-mill (Cr$/t)-/             2/               6,080
Equivalent per ton of paddy input- (Cr$/t)          4,487
Equivalent per ton of paddy input (US$/t)             277.8       302.6       322.7       330.3       345.1       369.3       382.9
Farmgate price of unprocessed paddy(Cr$/t)0!61   3,400
Farmgate price (20% trend adjusted)(Cr$/t)          2,800       3,050       3,250       3,300       3,480       3,720       3,860
Farmgate price (US$/t)                                 173.4      188.8       201.2       204.3       215.5       230.3       239.0
Value of present paddy productio, v 6/                                                                                                            O
(Cr$/t)                   2,520       2,745       2,925       2,970       3,132       3,348       3,474
(US$/t)                     156.0       170.0       181.1       183.9       194.0       207.3       215.1
1/  10% broken ex-Propria mill (1978) = 5% broken fob Bangkok (1978) - $30 (10% broken) + $38 (CIF Recife) + $5 ( port handling)
+ 2% (interest on 2 months average wait) - $10 (transport from Propria to Recife).
2/ Considering specific mix proposed for mill production, 1 ton of 14% dry paddy input has an ex-mill processed value
equivalent to 73.8% of 1 ton of 10% broken white rice.
3/  Retail (Recife)                 11,000
Trend adjustment (20%)           2,200
Adjusted retail Recife           8.800
Wholesale  margin (20%)          1,760
7,040
Transport from Propria          _  200
Wholesale ex-Propria             6,840                                                                                                    dIx
Taxes (12.5% ex-sale price)        760                                                                                                     . 
Sale ex-mill                   6,080
4/  Based on average prices obtained by  SF I assisted tarmers for their early 1978 harvest.
5/ Present paddy, of much lower quality, is assumed t0% Delow unit value of future production.
6/ For simplified presentation, farm cash flows have been computed on an average farmgate value of Cr$3,560 for future production
and Cr$3,204 for present production.



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 13: Border Prices for various Drojeet Inputs and °utputs
(1978 constant prices)
Adjustment
factor      Unit
Maize  US no 2 fob   Gulf ports                       US$/t    115.0   131.5   141.7   142.0   144.3   148.9   149.9
ex-Propria                        - 15$/t                100     116      156      127      129      134      134
Groundnuts  ex-Nigeria CIF UK                                   538.0   462.9   426.0   469.5   435.3   487.8   494.8
shelled CIF Recife          - 15$/t                523.0   447.9   411.0   454.5   420.3   472.8   479.8
shelled ex-Propria             65%                 340.0   291.1   267.2   295.4   273.2   307.3   311.9
Cotton  Mexican CIF N. England                        ct/lb      71.0    72.3    74.4    76.9    78.1    78.1    77.8 v
ct/kg    156.2   159.1   163.7   169.2   171.8   171.8   171.2               a%
fob  Recife                      -35 c/kg. ct/kg    152.7   155.6   160.2   165.7   168.3   168.3   167.7
lint ex-Propria                   -2 c/kg.    "        150.7   153.6   158.2   163.7   166.3   166.3   165.7
raw ex-Propria'                    1/3 of lint "         50.2    51.2    52.7    54.6    55.4    55.4    55.2
Bananas                             )
Watermelon                                  at local market prices
Earcorn                             )
Urea   fob  Europe bagged                  +15SIt    usS/t    144.5   149.8   157.2   160.4   162.5   203.2   203.3
for cif equiv.
delivered Propri&                          +10$/t        "      169.5   174.8   182.2   185.4   187.5   228.2   228.3
for local transp.
TSP   fob  US gulf                                              105      119.7   128.4   133.7   136.0   171.1   171.2
delivered Propria                          +$20/t               125      139.7   148.4   153.7   156.0   191.1   191.2
Muriate of Potash  fob   Vancouver                       "       57       62       65.1    68.5    69.4    75.8    85.6             .
delivered Propria                          +$30/t        "       87       92       95.1    98.5    99.4   105.8   115.6           w



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 14(a): Farm Budget for Farm Type One
(Cr$)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR -------------------------______________
197B     1979      1>70      1981     1982      1983      1988      1993      1998     2003
(BASE YR)
GROS----  V- LUE----0------0--34,390--52,830---7--,27---74,760--     ___74,760___________74_____-   ________7_______760______74,7____-    ___0_
GROST   VALUE                               10,013         0   34,390   52,830   71,271   74,760   74,760   74,760   74.760   74,760
=TOTAL 'NFLOW                                  10,013         0   34,390   52,830   71,271   74,760   74,760   74,760   74,760   74,760
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        1,521.2        .0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2.246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0
= NET INFLOW                                     8,491         0   32,144   50,584   69,025   72,514   72,514   72,514   72,514   72,514
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                       4,253         0   10,544   10,869   10,981   11,261   11,261   11,261   11,261   11,261
HIRED LABOR COST                                .0        .0  1,840.0  2,280.0  3,120.0  3,364.0  3,364.0  3,364.0  3,364.0  3,364.0
INVESTMENTS 1/                                  .0        .0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0             .0
OTHER OVERHEAD COST 2/                         849         0    6,132    8,676   11,920   13,669   26,819   26,819   26,819   26,819
- TOTAL CUTFLOW                                  5,102         0   20,266   23,575   27,771   30,044   43,194   43,194   43,194   41,444
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                             3,389         0   11,877   27,010   41,254   42,470   29,320   29,320   29,320   31,070
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        1,521.2        .0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                       1,'21.2        .0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  2,246.0  C
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST               3,542.0        .0  6,168.0  7,016.0  7,464.0  7,472.0  7,472.0  7,472.0  7,472.0  7,472.0
NET FARM BENEFIT                               1,368         0    7,955   22,240   36,036   37,244   24,094   24,094   24,094   25.844
1/ Cooperative shares at Cr$ 500 per ha per year during 20 years.
2/ Includes (a) water charges, (b) 7.5% of the value of farm produce sales
for cooperative overheads, and (c) 2.5% of same sales for FUNRURAL.



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 14 (b): Farm Budget for Farm Type Two
(Cr$)
CALENDAR------------------------------------------------------------------------  CALENDAR ---------------------------__________
1978     1979      1 980    1991     1982      1983      1988     1993      1998     2003
(BASE YR)
-- - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - --__ _ _ _ _ _  - - - - - - --_ _- - - - - - - - --_-_- - - - - - - - - - - - - - --_-_- - - - - - - - - - --__ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
GROSS VALUE                                17,891        0   37,380   57,814   78,249   82,236   82.236   82,236   82,236   82,236
= TOTAL INFLOW                                 17,891        0   37,380   57,814   78,249   82,236   82.236   82,236   82,236   82,236
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         961.2        .0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3.204.0
= NET INFLOW                                   16,930        0   34,176   54,610   75,045   79,032   79,032   79,032   79,032   79,032
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                      7,479        0   13,579   13,993   14,049   14,441   14,441   14,441   14.441   14,441
HIRED LABOR  QST                          1,690.0        .0  1,944.0  2,608.0  3,672.0  3,868.0  3,86S.0  3,868.0  3,868.0  3,868.0
INVESTMENTS fI                                 .0       .0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0  1,750.0            .0
OTHER OVERHEAD COST 2/                      1,692        0    6,431    9,175   12,618   14,417   27,567   27,567   27,567   27,567
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                10,861         0   23,704   27,526   32,09   34476   47,626   47.626   47,626   45,876
- NET FARM CASH FLOW                            6,069        0   10.472   27,084   42,956   44,556   31,406   31,406   31,406   33,156
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                         961.2        .0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3.204,0
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                        961.2        .0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0  3,204.0   c
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR CCST              3,475.2        .0  7, 52.0  8,C88.0  8,424.0  8,144.0  8,144.0  8,144.0  8,144.0  8,144.0
- NET FARM BENEFIT                              3,555        0    8,324   22,200   37.736   39,616   26,466   26,466   26,466   28,216
1/ Cooperative shares at Cr$ 500 per ha per year during 20 years.
2/ TnrludeR  (a) water charges. (b) 7.5% of the value of farm produce sales
for cooperative overheads, and (c) 2.5% of same sales for FUNRURAL.



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 14(c): Farm Budget for Farm Type Three
(Cr$)
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR -----------------------___-_-
1978     1979        j 00   1 981     1982     1983      1988      1993     1998      2003
(BASE YR)
-------------------------------------------------------------__--_  _____________-___---
GROSS VALUE                                 9,822         0   24,124   43,868   61,422   65,132   65.132   65.132   65.132   855132
= TOTAL INFLOW                                  9,822         0   24,124   43,868   61,422   65,132   65.132   65,132   65.132   65,132
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                       1,521.2        .0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0
NET INFLOW                                    8,301         0   20,525   40,269   57,823   61,533   61.533   61,533   61.533   61,533
DIRECT PRODUCTION COST                      4,994         0   28,287   29,185   29,876   30,243   30.243   30,243   30,243   30,243
HIRED LABOR CQST                                .0       .0  1,120.0  1,120.0  1,160.0  1,200.0  1,200.0  1,200.0  1,200.0  1,200.0
INVESTMENTS 1/                                 .0        .0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0    500.0            .0
OTHER OVERHEKD COST 2/                        832         0    3,066    5,241    7,396    8,167   12,447   12,447   12,447   12,447
- TOTAL OUTFLOW                                 5,826         0   32,973   36,046   38.932   40,110   44,390   44,390   44.390   43,890
NET FARM' CASH FLOW                           2,475         0  -12,448    4,223   18,891   21,423   17,143   17,143   17,143   17.643
OCi-FARM CONSUMPTION                      1,521.2        .0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0
+ NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                      1,521.2        .0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0  3,599.0    1
LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                4,546         0    8.776    9,776   10,856   11,032   11,032   11,032   11,032   11,032   X
= NET FARM BENEFIT                               -550         0  -17,625   -1,954   11,634   13,990    9,710    9,710    9.710   10,210
1/ Cooperative shares at Cr$ 500 per ha per year during 20 years.
2/ Includes (a) water charges, (b) 7.5% of the value of farm produce sales
for cooperative overheads, and (c) 2.5% of same sales for FUNRURAL.



BRAZIL
SKO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 14(d): Farm Budget for Farm Type Four
(Cr$)
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- CALENDAR --------------- - -----------------------
1976     1979     1°80      1981     1982     1983      1988     1993      1998     2003
(BASE YR)
GROSS VALUE                                1,468         0   18,179   37,117   54,666   59,082   54-057   56,067   58,412   59,082
=     TOTAL INFLOW                             1,468         0   18,179   37,117   54,666   59,082   54,057   56,067   58,412   59,082
-   ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        560.0        .0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0
= NET INFLOW                                     908         0   17,383   36,321   53,870   58,286   53,261   55,271   57.616   58.286
DIRECT PRODU T ON COST                       647         0   24,495   23,103   24,026   24,213   26.580   24,213   24.213   24,213
INVESTMENTS  _                                .0        .0  1,500.0  1,500.0  1,500.0  1,500.0  1,500.0  1,500.0  1,500.0           .0
OTHER OVERHEAD COST 2/                      91.0        .0  2,349.0  4,393.0  6,448.0  7,189.0  7,133.0  7,338.0  7.572,0  7,639.0
- TOTAL OUTFLOW         -                        738         0   28,344   28,996   31,974   32,902   35,213   33,051   33,285   31,852
= NET FARM CASH FLOW                              170        0  -10,961    7,325   21,896   25,384   18,048   22,220   24,331   26,434
ON-FARM CONSUMPTION                        560.0        .0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0
* NON-PRODUCTION OUTFLOW                       560.0        .0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0    796.0
- LESS IMPUTED FAMILY LABOR COST                 9SO         0    '776    9,608   10,304   10,664   10,884   10,684   10,684   10,684  o
= NET FARM BENEFIT                              -230         0  -18,941   -1,487   12,388   15,516    7,960   12,332   14.443   16,546
1/ Cooperative shares at Cr$ 500 per ha per year during 20 years.
2/ Includes (a) water charges, (b) 7.5% of the value of farm produce sales
for cooperative overheads, and (c) 2.5% of same sales for FUNUURAL:



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 15: Paddy, Drying, Storage & Milling
Financial Analysis ('000 US$)
Year            1           2         3          4          5         6         7        8         9         10         11       12         13        14          15
79/80       80/81    81/82       82/83    83/84       84/85    85/86    86/87    87/88    88/89         89/90    90/91       91/92    92/93       93/94
Paddy milled (t)               (15,500)  (27,000)   (44,500)  (63,000)  (75,000) '79,500) (81,200) (81,500)-
Initial Investments
Drying & Storage          2,652.6               130.9      722.-      123.9     740.1
Milling                     901.8             1,666.3   1,338.-   1,239.4
250.8     33.-      55-         82.5      55.-      82.5
3,805.2    733-       1,852.2   2,142.5   1,418.3    822.6
Renewal Costs                                                                               168.3      66.2                           811.-               214.7    663.5      551.2
Operating Costs                                                                                                                                                                            0
Labor                                 703.8    833.0   1,146.-   1,244.8   1,366.0   1,393.2  1,393.2  1,393.2   '
Transport                               15.2     25.3       42.4       64.0      76.9       84.0     87.0      87.9 *
Spare parts($1.28/ton)                 164.4    286.5      472.1      668.3     795.8     843.5    861.5    864.7
Bagging ($9.33/ton) 
Maintenance                             18.6    18.6        18.7       28.2      29.9       30.1     32.3      32.3 -
Electric power 1/                       56.2    97.3       182.0      261.0     324.1      346.8    356.0    357.9  _
Overhead costs                         235.-   359.4       426.8      494.2     561.6      629.0    696.4    696.4  *
1,493.2 1,320.1   2,288.0   2,760.5   3,154.4   3,326.6  3,426.4  3,432-4
Purchase of Paddy                      3,166.6 5,818.5   9,589.8  13,576.5  17,272.5  18,308.8 18,700.4 18,769.4  18,769.4 19,478.5 -
TOTAL COSTS                 3,805.2  4,692.8 8,990.3  14,020.3  17,755.3 21,249.6 21,803.7 22,193.-  22,201.8  22,201.8 23,791.9 22,980,9 23,195.6 23,644.4 23,532.1
Income from Sales-/                     5,119.6 9,317.7  15,357.-   21,741.3 27,697.5  29.359.4 29.987.2 30,098.-  30,098-- 31,206.4 31.206.4  ~
ANNUAL CASH FLOW          - 3,805.2    426.8   327.4   1,336.7   3,986.-  6,447.9   7,555.7  7,794.2  7,896.2   7,896.2  7,414.5   8,225.5  8,010.8  7,562,0  7,674.3
CODEVASF FINANCING        + 3,805.2           1,852.2   2,142.5    1,418.3       822.6
PROPOSED REPAYMENT                                                             2,014.8   2,014.8  2,014.8  2,014.8    2,014.8
NET CASH FLOW                           426.8 2,179.6   3,479.2    2,567.7  5,255.7   5,540.9  5,779.4  5,881.4   5,881.4  7,414.5   8,225.5 8,010.8  7,562.0  7,674.3
1/ Including marketing costs.
2/  Sales of rice in bags.
- (A
U, 



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 16* CODEVASF Cash Flow
(in n78 constant dollars)  (000 US$)
Year          1          2           3           4          5          6           7          8        9       10
Expenditures                                                                                                                    Onward
Initial  investments: 1/2/ 8,022.2   15,946.6   15,438.1   10,857.1   6,027.6            9.6
Project administration                                                                 113.6      113.6  w
Network operation               94.0      405.9       799.8       882.1  ---
Agricultural extension                                                                 690.8      187.6       23.4
Renewal costs 0.&'M. Eq.                                                                           41.2       60.1      49.9      46.5*
8,116.2   16,352.5   15,237.9   11,739.2   6,909.7   2,578.2   1,224.5   1,079.2  1,045.6  1,042.2
Sources of Income
Bank loan  2                3,740.0    6,585.0    5,620.0    3,830.0   1,460.0         370.0
BNH credit   3/                137.9      876.9       762.2       488.8      154.9
Water charges 4/                           20.4       163.5       295.3      486.0     662.5      861.9      986.4  2,416.9  2,439.1
Governrant allocations        4,238.3    8,870.2    8,692.2    7,125.1   4,808.8   1,545.7          362.6       92.8 -1,371.3 -1,396.9
8,116.2   16,352.5   15,237.9   11,739.2   6,909.7   2,678.2   1,224.5   1,079.2  1,045.6  1,042.2
*Average
1/ Including project financed operating costs during first five years of project implementation.
2/ Excluding price contingencies, since figures are based on constant 1978 prices.
3/ To be repaid by the owners of the houses
4/  O&M costs up to year 8 included;  O&M plus 30% investment recovery from year 9 onwards
a,E



ANNEX 3
Table 17
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 17: Loan Amortization Schedule
('000 US$)
Government Amortization Schedule
Assumed
Bank Dis-       Capital         Interestj/ Commitment',/
bursement        Repayment       on Loan-    Charges -  Total
March 15, 1980             750.0            _             -           105.0     105.0
September 15, 1980      3,000.0            _              29.6        102.2     131.8
March 15, 1981          4,300.0             _            148.1         90.9     239.0
September 15, 1981      4,350.0            _             318.0         74.8     392.8
March 15, 1982          3,700.0             _            489.8         58.5     548.3
Septemlber 15, 1982     3,700.0            -            636.0          44.6     680.6
March 15, 1983          2,700.0         1,165.0          782.1         30.7   1,977.8
September 15, 1983      2,700.0         1,165.0         842.7          20.6   2,028.3
March 15, 1984          1,100.0         1,165.0          903.4         10.5   2,078.9
September 15, 1984      1,100.0         1,165.0         900.8           6.4   2,072.2
March 15, 1985            300.0         1,165.0          898.2          2.2   2,065.4
September 15, 1985        300.0         1,165.0         864.1           1.1   2,030.2
March 15, 1986             -            1,165.0          829.9          -     1,994.9
September 15, 1986         -            1,165.0          783.9          -     1,948.9
March 15, 1987             -            1,165.0          737.9          -     1,902.9
September 15, 1987         -            1,165.0          691.8          -     1,856.8
March 15, 1988             -            1,165.0          645.8          -     1,810.8
September 15, 1988         -            1,165.0         599.8           -     1,764.8
March 15, 1989             -            1,165.0          553.8          -     1,718.8
September 15, 1989         -            1,165.0         507.8           -     1,672.8
March 15, 1990             -            1,165.0          461.7          -     1,626.7
September 15, 1990         -            1,165.0         415.7           -     1,580.7
March 15, 1991             -            1,165.0          369.7          -     1,534.7
September 15, 1991         -            1,165.0          323.7          -     1,488.7
March 15, 1992             -            1,165.0          277.7          -     1,442.7
September 15, 1992         -            1,165.0          231.7          -     1,396.7
March 15, 1993             -            1,165.0          185.6          -     1,350.6
September 15, 1993         -            1,165.0          139.6          -     1,304.6
March 15, 1994             -            1,165.0           93.6          -     1,258.6
September 15, 1994         -            1,205.0           47.6          -     1,252.6
28,000.0       28,000.0           -            -         -
May 1979
1/  At 7.9% per annum on amount disbursed
2/ At 0.75% per annum on amount awaiting disbursement



- 73 -
ANNEX 3
Table 18
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 18: Fiscal Impact of Project
(constant 1978 prices)  (000 US$)
Project Years                 1          2          3          4          5         6          7          8         9          10
Government share in
CODEVASF expenditure-'    4,238.3    8,670.2   b,692.2   7,125.1   4,808.8   1,545.7           362.6       92.8
EMATER services                                                             430.6   1,092.2   1,595.4   1,759.6   1,783.0   1,783.0
Renewal EM&TER cars   2/                                                                 3.9      15.5       15.5       .3.9
Repayment of Bank loan-                                          887.1   1.774.2   1 3774.2   1 5774.2   15774.2   1,774.2 13 774.2
Sub-Total A              4,238.3    8,870.2   8,692.2   8,012.2   7,013.6   4,416.0   3,747.7   3,642.1   3,551.7   3,557.2
Capital Recovery on
Water Charges                                                                                                     1,371.3   1,396.9
Government income from
rice sales tax                           640.-   1,164.7   1,919.6   2,717.7   3,462.2   3,669.9   3,748.4   3,762.2   3,762.2
Income taxes                                                                      200.-      200.-     200.-      200.-      200.-
Repayment of milling
investment by COBASF-                                                             2,014.8   2,014.8   2,014.8   2,014.8   2,014.8
Tax returns on project
inveStments                  264.5    1,378.1   1.176.9        633.5     268.6        2.2
Sub-Total B                264.5    2,018.1   2,341.6   2,553.1   2,986.3   5,679.2   5,884.7   5,963.2   7,323.9   7,323.9
Government Cash-flow         -3,973.8   -6,852.1  -6,350.6  -5,459.1  -4,027.3   1,263.2   2,137.0   2,321.1   3,711.2   3,816.7
Project Years (cont'd)        11         12         13         14         15        16         17
onward
EMATER services               1,783.0    1,783.0   1,783.0   1,783.0   1,783.0   1,783.0   1,783.0
Renewal EMATER cars               3.9        15.5      15.5        3.9                   3.9      15.5
Repaymetnt of Bank loan      1.774.2    1.774.2   1.774.2   1.774.2   1.774.2         887.1
Sub-Total A              3,561.1    3,572.7   3,572.7   3,561.1   3,557.2   2,674.0   1,798.5
Capital Recovery on
Water Charges   -           1,396.9
Government income from
rice sales tax             3,900.8  -c
Income taxes               200.-   -
Sub-Total B               5,497.7 -
Government Cash-flow          1,935.6   1,925.0   1,925.0   1,935.8   1,940.5   2,823.7   3,699.2
1/ As established in table 15
2/ Excluding price contingencies and interest paid to the Bank since figures are given in constant 1978 prices and the rate of
interest on the Bank loan (around 7.5X) is very close to the expected rate of inflation in dollar terms.
3! COBASF repayments to CODEVASF automatically reduce Government contribution to overall CODEVASF budget.



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Tahle 19: Paddy Processing Unit Economic Cash Flow ('000 US$)
Year:         1           2         3            4           5           6          7           8          9          10          11        12        13
Investments & Renewals    3,419.9          25.0    2,069.9    1,520.9    1,269.6         732.1       153.0       60.2                              737.3                 600.0
Working fund                           4,623.1    2,466.2    4,720.3    4,442.4    4,065.8    1,202.1           491.4        75.                   709.1
Operating costs                        1,456.5    1,270.8    2,219.8    2,675.5    3,045.3    3,211.1    3,310.9    3,316.9    3,316.9   3,316.9
Purchase of paddy                      3,166.6    5,813.5    9,589.8   13,576.5   17,272.5   13,308.8   18,700.4   18,769.4   18,769.4  19,478.5
T OTAL COSTS          3,419.9    9,271.2   11,625.4   18,050.8   21,963.9   25,115.7   22,875.0   21,562.9   22,161.3   22,086.3  23,577.8  22,795.4  23,395.4
T OTAL BENEFITS                   5,119.6    9,317.7   15,357.    21,741.3   27,697.5   29,359.4   29,987.2   30,098.0   30,098.0  31,206.4
Annual Cash Flow          3,419.9    4,151.6    2,307.7    2,693.8         222.6    2,581.8    6,484.4    8,424.3    7,936.7    8,011.7   7,628.6   8,411.0   7,811.0
Table 20:  Agricultural Component Economic Cash Flow
('000 US$)
Year:       1           2           3           4           5          6           7           8           9          10        11       12         13,
Investments & Renewals    2,051.6    9,114.1    6,903.6    3,936.6    1,592.              22.3        58.2      103.4        75.7        32.6    22.1       213.1    800.0
Working fund                  768.5       237.6    1,147.5    1,477.6        521.1       244.3
Operating costs               768.5                            3,631.2    4,152.3    4.396.6    4,471.2    4,471.2    4,471.2    4.471.2 4,471.2
TOTAL COSTS            3,588.6   10,347.8   10,204.7    9,045.4    6,265.4    4,663.2    4,604.0    4,574.6    4,546.9    4,503.8 4,493.3   4,706.4  4,693.3
TOTAL BENEFITS          -321.0       - 42.4    1,164.0    4,038.8    7,067.7   10,029.1   11,057.2   11,558.1   11,627.1   11,627.1 12,332.7
-3,909.6  -10,390.2   -9,040.7   -5,006.6         802.3    5,365.9    6,453.2    6,983.5    7,080.2    7,123.3  7,839.4  7,626.3  7,639.4



BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 21: Economic Cash Flow
('000 US$)
Project Years                        1            2            3            4           5           6            7 -                       9             10          11           12          13
onward
7 Econ.
Cost Investments and Renewals
807   Irrigation Network                     1,405.7      7,554.5      5,973.3      3,483.3      1,532.4
Electrical Network                        63.2
Network O.& M. Equipment                               61.0         76.4        68.0         12.8         8.2         39.2         54.6       46.2           12.8        8.2         61.0
05,  Agricultural Machinery                                 424.4        465.5        143.8                                                                                                116.4
90%   Agricultural Services Buildings           59.6         75.2         33.1
80%   Agricultural Services Cars                 3.1         12.4         12.4          3.1                     3.1         12.4         12.4         3.1                       3.1         12.4
Paddy Drying & Storage                 2,387.2                     117.8                    111.5       666.1
Rice Milling                             835.1                  1,908.1        805.0      1,i14.1                    153.-         60.2                                737.3
80%   Transport Equipment                      197.6         25.-         44.-         66.-        44..-       66.-
807O  Access Roads                             212.2        636.5
100%   Technical Assistance                     297.-        324.5        280.5        176.-
90%   Farmer Organization Buildings                           9.-         36.-         36.-         27.-
807%  Farmer Organization Cars                  10.8          6.6         26.4         26.4         19.8       10.8          6.6         26.4        26.4          19.8        10.8          6.6
Working Fund                             768.5      4,211.5      2,426.1     4,323.0      2,851.7    1,872.3         240.4          9.8         6.-
TOTAL INVESTMENTS & RENEWALS         6,240.3    13,345.6    11,399.6       9,780.5      5,713.3    2,626.5         451.6        162.4       81.7           32.6      759.4        196,4       tO.O
operpatig Costs
O.& M. Network                                         66.8       288.2        567.9        697.3       728.0 -
90%   Agricultural Services                    175.3        914.4        602.8        784.3        825.4      825.4 -
Project Administration                   125.-        125.-        125.-       125.-        125.-       125. -
100%   Farmer Organization                       74.5        107.6        240.1        372.6       471.9       471.9 -
Transport & Processing                              1,456.5     1,270.8      2,219.8      2,675.5    3,045.3       3,211.1     3,310.9    3,316.9
Purchase of Outside  Paddy                          2,002.1     3,986.7      5,883.1      7,758.-    9,016.2 -*
On-farm Operating Costs                  398.7        312.6       897.5      1,781.4      2.032.7    2,246.3       2,320.9 e
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                  768.5     4,985.0      7,411.1    11,734.1    14,585.8   16,458.1    16,698.5    16,798.3   16,804.3           16,804.3 -_
TOTAL EXPENDITURES                 7,008.5    18,330.6    18,810.7    21,514.6    20,299.1   19,084.6    17,150.1    16,960.7   16,886.0            16,836.9   17,563.7    17,00).07   17,404.3
Project Production
Rice                                     891.4      5,119.6     9,317.7    15,357.-    21,741.3   27,697.5    29,359.4    29,987.2   30,098.0           30,098.0   31,206.4  -
Cotton                                    41.4        136.5       454.8      1,102.5      1,729.6    2,057.6       2,133.4      2,133.4    2,133.4       2,133.4    2,125.8 -
Maize                                    131.8         59.9         78.2       185.5        296.2       370.1        383.8        383.8
48.3   Earcorn                                     -            -          37.3         71.4         95.0       106.9       109.9        109.9 _
Peanuts                                    -           42.2        100.5       172.1        217.5       266.7        272.9        272.9      272.9          272.9      277.-
35.9   Watermelon                                  -            -          22.8         47.5         68.2        78.3        80.7         80.7  -
41.5   Bananas                                     -            -         122.0        239.0        328.5       379.-       269.7        379.-       379.- _ 
222.9   Beans                                     100.5        40.3           2.4
TOTAL PRODUCTION                     1,164.8     5,398.5    10,135.7    17,174.9    24,476.3   30,956.1    32,609.8    33,346.9   33,457.7            33,457.7   34,562.6 -                                R
Without Project Production                1,485,8 -94
Incremental Production                  (321.0)   3,912.7       8,649.9    15,689.1    22,990.5   29,470.3    31,124.-    31,861.1   31,971.9           31,971.9   33,076.8 -
Net Value Added by Project              (7,329.5)  (14,417.9)   (10,160.8)   (5,825.5)   2,691.4   10,385.7    13,973.9    14,900.4   15,085.9            15,135.0   15,513.1   16,076. 1   15,672.5



- 76 -                                  ANNEX 3
Table 22
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table 22: Analysis of Unit Investment Costs
(at 1978 prices)
Total      Per ha                 Per
cost      Cost              Family Cost!'
us$x1o6      US$                  US$
SF II Project:
Irrigation Network,electric lines and
O&M equipment, incl. physical contingencies        24.8    2,8251/                 8,270
Directly Productive Capital Expenditures
incl. physical contingencies 3/                    35.5    3,68O4/               11,860
Total Project Base Cost 3/ 5/
incl. physical contingencies                       43.7    4,530-/                14,570
Sample Bank Projects
Irrigation Works 6/                                         1,600 to 6,2007/
Total Base Cost at 1978 prices 8/                           2,250 to 4,750       13,500to44,500
1/ 3,000 families including direct, non-agricultural employment
2/  Per irrigated hectare (8,778 ha)
3/  Excluding half of the cost of paddy stores, mill and transport facilities,
which do not relate to the SF II area and population.
4/  Per net cultivated hectare (9,645 ha)
5/  Excluding project financed recurrent costs
6/  F. Hotes, Memo on Irrigation Projects Investment Costs,World Bank, 08/21/78
7/  Projects with areas below 30,000 ha
8/  "Settlement of Agricultural Lands.  An Issue Paper,"
Annex 1, Table 2, World Bank, June 1977.
Updated to 1978 prices by mission.



- 77 -                        ANNEX 4
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
Related Documents Available in Prolect Files
A.   Supplementary Staff Working Papers
1.   Irrigation Network
2.   Agricultural Development
3.   Agricultural Extension and Research
4.   Paddy Storage and Processing
5.   Project Administration and Farmer Organizations
6.   Health
7.   Education
B.   Documents Prepared by CODEVASF or Its Consultants
1.   Preparation Report by CODEVASF
August 1978
Relat6rio Basico Vol. I (incl. Annexes I & II)
Relatorio Basico Vol. II
Annex II, Vol.I
Annex II, Vol. II
2.   Preparation Report by CODEVASF
October to November 1977
Annexes I-XIV
3.   Preparation Report by CODEVASF
May 1978
Resumo e Conclusoes
Fichas Tecnicas
4.   Feasibility Report for the Cotinguiba Varzea
1977, by Electroconsult do Brasil, Ltda., in 8 volumes
5.   Feasibility Report for the Pindoba Varzea
June 1978, by Geotecnica S.A., in 6 volumes
6.   Feasibility Report for the Boacica Varzea
September 1978 Pre-minuta do Relatorio Final, by Seebla,
SB Engenharia, Ilaco
7.   Feasibility Report for the Brejo Grande Varzea
January 1978, by Geote'cnica S.A., in 5 volumes



- 78 -                       ANNEX 4
(cont'd)
8. Feasibility Study for Rice Storage, Processing and Transport
(a) Preliminary Report, August 1978 by Florencio Engenharia
(b) Reformulated Preliminary Report: October 1978
9. COBASF Organization and Operating Manual (CODEVASF)
10.  Project Administration and Farmers Organization!/
(a) Functions of Coordinator of Rural Development Activities
of 4th Directorate
(b) On Farmer Associations and their Members
(c) Farmers Organization
(d) Organization Chart of 4th Directorate
11. Plans for School Constructions
1/ Documents prepared by CODEVASF reflecting organization principles
agreed to with appraisal mission.



To Reci e300ToMeiToacejo360
Olho D'AguaO
Gr nde
)  N S b    (,/ U B  A               ;             ' a ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ /RSIIA               lo
S5o Br's                                               geaNv
C,t11f   kb.  Xfoct>#  -,- I
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|Mlolo,Crabea                                              \      >     /     p i_ i0rIang EP
Teth ~ ~       ~        ~       ~       Paau 00, ICA                                                           /" RC  POE5N
/\P/ROREJ0/GRANDEPR_,- \   /                                                  PROPOSEDTROADS
.xw1 e  C;; OT3 INGITIA CODEVASF    DEvassagemEHT  0030
9                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Burreiros                RA1 tf f*myf
timob  it ma r,od R O
Feliz Dese-ciaroho,,.r6
B  R  A   Z   I L  |                       <       -           A S~~~~~~~~~~~~~E t,            ,,,,,  RAILROAD5
e,-.W ed Me,                          
Corropicho    .                                                                              map$, orma.
d~~~~~~  a~~~~~~~~~abuilqda                 0000.0    0
o Aracai6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ytgyare aowa
S'AO FRANCtSCO It PROJECT
F LLDEVELOPMENT UNDER
To Salvador                                                                                       l5ha0 FRANCISCO I
Flore  ~~~~~~~~~~*PADDY STORAGE
Pacatub                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RICE PROCESSING
BREJO  RAND                                    PROPOSED ROADS
ME INITIAL CODEVASF DEVELOPMENT   10030%
10030'                                                                            BEUEu-                                                                        DIKE$ BUILT UNDER PREVIOUS PROJECTS
ASPHALT RtOADS
GRAVEL ROADS
B   R   A    Z    I  L                                           T ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~III--4RAILROADS
SAO  FRANCISCO  II IRRIGATION  PROJECT                                                                                                              ==;--VERSM 
PROJECT LOCATION
36~~~~40 / ~~~~~KILOMETERS                                       CVO
I                            I                                                                          36o20~~~~~~~~~3640



