Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY    FILE  COPY
Report No.P-2583-ER
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A
SAO FRANCISCO SECOND IRRIGATION PROJECT
June 6, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents ma) not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Calendar 1978               May 10, 1979
Currency Unit               Cruzeiro (Cr$)                    Cr$
US$1                        Cr$18.3                          24.65
Cr$1            =           US$0.06                          0.041
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BB              -  Banco do Brasil (Bank of Brasil)
BNB             =  Banco do Nordeste do Brasil (Bank of the Northeast of Brazil)
CAMURUPIM       -  Cooperativa Agricola Mista e de Colonizacao do Camurupim
(Agricultural Cooperative of Camurupim (Boacica Varzea))
CODEVASF        -  Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(Sao Francisco Valley Development Company)
Combro         =  Irrigable river banks
Convenio       =  Contractual agreement between Government institutions
DER             -  Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (Department of Roads)
EMATER(SE)      =  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural (Sergipe)
or (AL)           or (Alagoas) (Technical Assistance & Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA         =  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER        =  Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance & Rural Extension Company)
FAO             =  Food & Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSESP           =  Fundacao de Servico de Saude Publica
(Public Health Service Foundation)
FUNRURAL        =  Fundo de Assistencia ao Trabalhador Rural
(Rural Workers Assistance Fund)
LSF I           =  Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project
POLONORDESTE   =  Programa de Desenvolvimento de Areas Integradas do Nordeste
(Development Program for Integrated Areas in the Northeast)
SF II           =  Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project
SUCAM           =  Superintendencia de Campanhas de Saude Fublica
(Superintendency of Public Health Campaigns)
SUDENE          =  Superintendencia de Desenvolvimento do NDrdeste
(Northeast Development Superintendency)
UNDP            =  United Nations Development Programme
Varzea          =  Flood plains
FINANCIAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
The exchange rate used in the Staff Appraisal Report (US$1 = Cr$16.15) corre-
sponds to the cruzeiro buying rate as of January 23, 1978.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BRAZIL
SAO FRAN(CISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:            Federativie Republic of Brazil
Beneficiary:         Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco
(CODEVASF)
Amount:              US$28 million equivalent
Terms:               Repayment in 15 years, including 3 years of grace,
at 7.9% interest per annum
Project
Description:       The project is designed to raise agricultural production
and farm incomes of some 2,700 farm families whose present
annual incomes are mostly below the absolute poverty level
(US$150 per capita), living in the Lower Sao Francisco
valley, encompassing portions of the states of Alagoas
and Sergipe. It provides for irrigation facilities, the
development of cooperatively owned family farm plots, the
strengthening of agricultural and social support services
and infrastructure, and institutional development of the
main local executing agencies.
The main risk faced by the project relates to CODEVASF's
institutLonal capacity to implement it. Accordingly, the
project :includes a substantial technical assistance compo-
nent des:igned to strengthen its capabilities, particularly
in such areas as rural development and cooperatives manage-
ment. A second risk is the recurrence of exceptional
floods such as those of early 1979 or, more possibly, the
continuation of the exceptionally heavy rainfalls which
have occurred in the last two years (the highest measured
since observations began some 50 years ago) and which have
significantly slowed the implementation of the first Lower
Sao Francisco project (Loan No. 1153-BR).
This docunent has a restricted distriibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Estimated Cost:
-----US$ Millions -----   % of
Baseline
Local  Foreign  Total    Cost
Productive Capital Expenditures
Irrigation and Drainage Network
and Ancillary Equipment            14.0      6.5    20.5       41
Agricultural Machinery
and Services                         .9       .5     1.4        3
Paddy Storage, Processing
and Transport                       1.6      7.6     9.2       18
Miscellaneous                         2.4      1.4     3.7        8
Subtotal                             18.9    15.9    34.8        70
Social Infrastructure and Studies
Housing and Rural Electrification   2.6         .9     3.5        7
Education, Health and Sanitation    2.4         .5     2.9        6
Studies and Monitoring                 .3       .5      .8        1
Subtotal                              5.3      1.9     7.2       14
Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
Agricultural Services and
Farmer Organization                 6.3       .7     7.0       14
Project Administration                 .5       .1      .6        1
Subtotal                              6.8       .8     7.6       15
TOTAL BASELINE COSTS                   31.0    18.6    49.6       100
Physical Contingencies                4.8      2.6     7.4       15
Price Contingencies                  11.0      6.7    17.7       36
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                    46.8    27.9    74.7       151
Financing Plan:                                US$ Millions       Z
Federal Government            46.7          62.5
IBRD                          28.0         37.5
Total                         74.7         100



- iii -
Estimated
Disbursements:                    ------------US$ Millions Equivalent        …
Bank FY        1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual          1.0    7.3    7.8    6.4    3.8    1.4    0.3
Cumulative      1.0    8.3   16.1   22.5   26.3   27.7   28.0
Rate of Return:      The economic rate of return is estimated at 22% for the
parts of the project with directly quantifiable benefits,
which represent 86% of total project costs.
Appraisal Report:   Report No. 2265(a)-BR, dated June 4, 1979.






REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
OF THE IBRD TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED LOAN TO THE FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
FOR A SAO FRANCISCO SECOND IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed loan
to the Federative-Republic of Brazil for the equivalent of US$28 million to
help finance a Sao Francisco Second Irrigation project. The loan would have
a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace, with interest at 7.9% per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        A report, entitled "Economic Memorandum on Brazil" (No. 2283a-BR),
dated March 19, 1979, was distributed to the Executive Directors on March 30,
1979. The following discussion and related annex tables are based on that
report and on subsequent information.
3.        A new Government, headed by General Joao Baptista de Oliveira
Figueiredo, took office on March 15, 1979 for a six-year term. In its
inaugural statements, the new Administration has emphasized the need to
reduce inlflation and limit the growth of aggregate demand in accordance with
Brazil's balance-of-payments constraint.
Recent Economic Performance
4.         From 1967 to 1973, Brazil enjoyed remarkable economic growth.  GDP
rose at a real rate of about 11% per year, with industrial value-added rising
13% per annum and agriculture 5%.  Income per capita increased at more than 7%
per year. This growth was achieved with no significant deterioration of the
external resource balance, despite significant trade liberalization, and there
also occurred a gradual decline in the rate of domestic inflation. Although
relative income growth was unevenly distributed, available data indicate that
most Brazilians did share in the absolute improvement of living standards that
was taking place. Among the sources of development were a rapid growth of
public sector investments, the expansion of Brazil's agricultural frontier,
the inflow of foreign capital and technology, and a more than 25% per year
annual growth of manufactured exports. The total external debt (public and
private) increased over this period from US$3.3 billion to US$12.6 billion,
but much of this accumulation was added to international reserves, which rose
from US$0.2 billion to US$6.4 billion.
5.         One by-product of this process was a growing dependence of Brazil's
industry and transport system on imported petroleum. Few large nations are
apparently so deficient in fossil fuels as is Brazil, and despite a major
exploratory effort, over 80% of its petroleum needs must be imported. Thus,
as a consequence of the oil price increase, the cost of petroleum imports
rose from US$711 million in 1973 to US$2.8 billion in 1974. With imports
also swelled by speculative stockpiling of other commodities, Brazil's current
1/   This part is reprinted from the corresponding part of the President's
Report for the Sergipe Rural Development Project (No. P-2554-BR,
dated May 16, 1979).



- 2 -
account deficit rose in one year from US$1.7 billion to US$7.1 billion, or 7%
of GDP. Coping with the trade-off between continued high growth and the sud-
denly tightened external resource constraint has been one of the basic problems
of Brazilian economic management since 1974.
6.        Brazil's capacity to manage the oil crisis has been enhanced by its
strong international reserve position; the continued rapid growth of its manu-
factured exports; the liquidity of international financial markets, combined
with widespread confidence in the nation's creditworthiness; and the opportun-
ities which its large domestic market offered for efficient import substitution.
Drawing upon all of these assets, and pressed by the high national growth
expectations generated by the 1967-73 experience, the authorities were initially
reluctant to restrain aggregate demand. The strategy shifted instead toward
increasing control over imports, which were held approximately constant in
nominal terms between 1974 and 1977. As a result of this effort, accomplished
through a variety of tariff and non-tariff trade barriers, a positive merchand-
ise trade balance was restored in 1977, and the current account deficit was
reduced to 2.4% of GDP. Meanwhile, GDP growth averaged 7.6% per year between
1973 and 1977, although with wide year-to-year variation.
7.        By 1976, however, the continued high growth of demand in the face
of constricted imports and increased protection of domestic industry had
resulted in a reacceleration of inflation above 40% per annum, and the
authorities acted to slow the expansion of public sector expenditures and to
tighten credit. This effort intensified in 1977, and the overall GDP growth
rate fell below 5% for the first time since 1966. Nevertheless, inflation
remained above 40%, stimulated in part by an accumulation of additional
international reserves totaling almost US$3 billion in 1976--77.
8.        The rate of GDP growth rebounded to 6.3% in 1978, despite a 2%
decline in agricultural output. The agricultural failure was caused by a
serious drought in southern Brazil which resulted in the loss of an estimated
30% of the soybean crop, 17% of corn output, 5% of rice, and 18% of cotton.
The resultant reduction of exports and increased need for imports cost the
economy an estimated US$1.5 billion in foreign exchange, about two-thirds of
which was attributable to reduced soybean exports. An important bright spot
in the picture was a 36% nominal increase in the export of manufactured
goods. Total merchandise exports rose only 3.5%, compared to a 13.4% increase
in imports.
9.        Interest payments abroad increased sharply as a combined result
of substantial borrowings and a steep rise in the London Interbank Rate (LIBOR),
to which most of Brazil's financial credits are tied. The current account
deficit thus rose to 3.0% of GDP in 1978. Total debt service on medium- and
long-term debt (public and private), net of interest earned on Brazil's re-
serves, rose to 59% of exports in 1978, from 49% in the previous year. Part of
this increase, however, was associated with a further US$3.8 billion increase
in international reserves. By the end of the year reserves had grown to
US$11.7 billion, or about 8 months of projected 1979 import equivalence
(including non-factor services). Inflation remained at about 40% in 1978,
for the third consecutive year, despite continued curbs on credit and public
sector investment. The drought-related contraction of agricultural output



and the rapid build-up of international reserves contributed to the price
pressures. These pressures intensified in early 1979, while labor disputes
which had occurred sporadically in 1978 affected much of the public sector of
Sao Paulo as well as teachers in the major cities. The new Government
responded l-o the rise in inf'lation by adopting a new package of measures during
April 1979. The major components of the package are a temporary price-freeze
on supermarket sales, stricter enforcement of existing price control regula-
tions, new restraints on private sector foreign borrowing, and severe limits
on domestic credit expansion.
Poverty Programs
10.       Although Brazil continues to be characterized by severe income
inequality, the Government has in recent years made serious efforts towards
the relief of poverty, and significant progress has been made in a number of
areas. Coverage of the social security program, for example, has been
expanded and extended to the rural population. More than 70% of the urban
population is now covered by the social security's health care system, and a
cash transfer program has bieen established for the rural elderly poor. Under
this latter system, rural households headed by persons over 65 years of age
are eligible to receive a monthly income supplement equivalent to US$30, an
amount which is almost twice the average per capita expenditure in the rural
Northeast. The urban population over age 70 is covered by a similar program.
Almost 2 million loans have been made by the National Housing Bank since 1964
for housing. A sites and services program was established in 1975 to
benefit the urban poor more directly, and this was complemented in 1977 by a
program to finance home improvement and building materials. High priority
has also been given to the extension and improvement of urban water supply.
Consequently, some 6 million households comprising about 30 million people
have been connected to public water supply systems since 1971, increasing the
proportion of urban dwellers who receive such services from 60 to 75%.
Efforts have also been made to attack the poverty-related problems of adult
illiteracy and malnutrition.
Future Prospects
11.       Since 1973, Brazil has undertaken major efforts to reduce the drain
on the economy of petroleurm imports. Investments in exploration have been
accelerated and foreign oi:L companies have been invited to drill under risk
contracts with PETROBRAS, the state oil monopoly. Investments have been acce-
lerated to develop the natLon's extensive hydroelectric potential, to initiate
nuclear power production, and to substitute alcohol for gasoline for automotive
use, while efforts have been made to induce energy conservation. The results,
however, have thus far been limited, and with oil now constituting 30% of
Brazil's merchandise imports, as compared to 11% in 1973, the trade-off between
growth an,d balance-of-payments viability will continue to be a principal
preoccupation of economic decision makers.
12.       The Government that took office on March 15 has acknowledged
that the balance-of-payments constraint and the need to reduce the rate of
inflation mean that Brazil must undergo a period of carefully moderated
economic growth. As noted above, a number of measures toward this end have
already been announced, inLcluding some increases in taxes and further reduc-
tions of public expenditures, credit, and subsidies. To assure the efficient



execution of these and future fiscal and monetary policy decisions, several
important institutional reforms have been set in motion. These include:
consolidation and improvement of information flows and centralized control
over the public sector budget, integrating the operations of the far-flung
semi-autonomous agencies and public enterprises; incorporation also into the
budget of many of the subsidized credit programs currently handled outside
the budget through the Central Bank; and elimination from the Central Bank of
its gradually accumulated development banking functions. Important also in
this context, as well as to the efficiency of resource allocation, is the
decision to phase out over four years both the excess rebate of taxes to
exports and the prior deposit requirement on imports, and compensating these
actions through gradual real devaluation of the cruzeiro. Indications are
that Brazilian industry would be internationally competitive, even without
export subsidies, over a wide range of manufactures if an appropriate real
exchange rate is maintained.
13.       Growth is expected to average at most 5-6% per year in 1979 and
1980, as compared to 11% in 1967-73 and 7% in 1973-78. But barring further
unforeseen difficulties that would constrain the availability of external
resources, it might be possible in subsequent years to reaccelerate the
economy gradually to a growth rate of 7-8% by 1985. Such growth rates would
be compatible with a declining current account deficit in relation to GDP and
a falling debt service ratio.
14.       This prognosis depends heavily on the continued vigorous growth of
manufactured exports, though at a rate more modest than that of the past 15
years. The export of manufactures grew at a real average annual rate of 28%
in the decade 1964-74, this pace dropping off only during the world-wide
recession of 1975-76. The momentum resumed in 1977 and 1978 with real growth
rates of 29 and 20%, respectively. By comparison, the growth rates assumed
in the projections -- 18% per annum during 1978-80 and 12% per annum in
1980-85 -- do not appear unreasonable, particularly in view of the broad
diversification of Brazil's manufactured exports in terms of both products
and markets.
15.       Also assumed is the continuation of Brazil's vigorous import-
substitution effort. The present substitution program was initiated prior
to the oil-related balance-of-payments difficulties in recognition that the
growth and increasing sophistication of the domestic economy had made possible
the efficient production of many capital and intermediate goods requiring
large-scale operations and advanced technology. Major projects were conse-
quently undertaken for the production, inter alia, of fertilizers, steel,
aluminum, other basic metals, and petroleum. The installation of hydroelec-
tric capacity could also be properly viewed in this context. Although public
investments will be restrained in coming years as part of the new Government's
announced stabilization program, these sectors will continue to receive
priority.
External Assistance and Creditworthiness
16.       Despite the successful effort to restrict imports after the rise
in oil prices, the maintenance of high growth rates after 1973 has required a
substantial increase in Brazil's external indebtedness. By the end of 1978,



- 5 -
the total of public and private external debt outstanding had risen to
US$41.0 billion, as compared to US$12.6 billion at the end of 1973. As noted
earlier a significant fraction of this borrowing was added to Brazil's inter-
national reserves, which increased from US$6.4 billion to US$11.7 billion over
the same period. This "excess" borrowing occurred largely in response to the
steadily improving loan terms available to Brazil in 1977 and 1978, which
provided the economy relativ(ely low (net) cost insurance against future exter-
nal shocks and offered many private borrowers an alternative to expensive
domestic credit.
17.       A gross capital inflow of US$14.9 billion was required in 1978 to
cover the current account deficit (US$5.7 billion), amortization payments
(US$5.4 billion) and the reserve accumulation (US$3.8 billion). After
accounting for direct investments and short-term outflows, total medium- and
long-term credits (disbursements) amounted to US$14.3 billion. Financial
credits accounted for US$11.4 billion of the total.
18.       Erazil is expected to show a growing resource surplus beginning
around 198C, reaching US$2.0 billion by 1985. Rapidly increasing net factor
service payments abroad, emanating from both interest payments on its large
debt and royalties for imported technology, could reach US$7.5 billion by
1985, however, resulting in a continuing current account deficit through the
first half of the 1980s in the range of US$5.0-5.5 billion. But in proportion
to GDP, the current account deficit would fall to less than one percent by
1985.
19.       Gross borrowing requirements are expected to fall sharply to about
US$6.9 billion in 1979 as a combined result of the reduced growth rate and
the Government's announced intention to draw down reserves by about US$3
billion. Thereafter, gross borrowings would rise steadily from US$11.5 billion
in 1980 to US$16.1 billion by 1985. Net borrowing would grow from US$3.8
billion to US$5.8 billion over the same period. The need for external finan-
cing is thuis expected to grow somewhat more slowly than in recent years and
significanitly less rapidly than the rate of growth of exports. As a conse-
quence the net debt service ratio (including both public and private debt)
would peak at about 60% in 1980, falling steadily thereafter to 40% by 1985.
20.       In summary, Brazil is a dynamic, highly diversified, and resilient
economy in which policy makers have demonstrated repeatedly their ability to
adjust to changing circumstances when needed. After a period of very rapid
growth in the late 1960s and early 1970s, the sharply increased cost of pet-
roleum imports has forced the nation to moderate its growth expectations and
to adapt its economic structure to the changed terms of trade. This adjust-
ment process was eased by a strong reserve position, a solid image of inter-
national creditworthiness, aggressive expansion of its manufactured exports,
and the ample opportunities for efficient import substitution offered by its
large domestic market. Nevertheless, Brazil's continued heavy dependence on
petroleum imports, the resu-rgence of domestic inflation, and the rapid accumu-
lation of external debt in recent years indicate that the process is not yet
complete.  The new Government recognizes the need to restrain the growth of
aggregate demand for the next several years while continuing, with greater
selectivity than in the past, to make the investments necessary both to sustain



-6-
the progress of export expansion and import substitution and to alleviate
poverty. The task of economic management will not be easy, but the outlook
is favorable. The current analysis shows no diminution of Brazil's capacity
to service its existing and future debts. Moreover, the fact that imports
are small relative to GDP and that because of Brazil's size and diversity
most imports are residual in nature -- i.e., fill the gap between demand and
existing domestic production capacity -- means that relatively small changes
in the overall economic growth rate will generally suffice to adjust to
unforeseen shocks to the balance of payments. Brazil thus remains fully
creditworthy for continued Bank lending.
PART II - BANK OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
21.       By April 30, 1979 the Bank had approved 85 loans to Brazil, amount-
ing to US$4,178.2 million, of which 42 were not yet fully disbursed. 1/ During
FY70-75, disbursements averaged US$150 million per year, reaching US$202
million in FY76, US$267 million in FY77 and US$252 million in FY78. Dis-
bursements are expected to increase during the next few years. Annex II
contains a summary statement of Bank loans as of April 30, 1979 and notes
on the execution of ongoing projects.
22.       Over the FY75-78 period, Bank lending to Brazil ranged from US$425
to over US$700 million per year. In FY75, five loans were made totalling
US$426.5 million; in FY76, ten loans totalling US$498 million; in FY77 seven
loans totalling US$425 million and in FY78, nine loans totalling US$705 million.
So far in FY79, four loans totalling US$317 million have been approved: a
US$100 million loan for a water supply and sewerage project in the northeast,
a US$93 million loan for a sites and services and low-cost housing project, a
US$98 million loan for an aluminum project, and a US$26 million loan for a
rural development project in the state of Sergipe. The documents for a US$109
million loan for a power distribution project in the state of Parana, a US$70
million loan for a medium-sized cities project, a US$40 million loan for the
Pernambuco Rural Development Project, and a US$110 million loan for a second
feeder roads project have been recently distributed to the Executive Directors.
Work is relatively advanced on the preparation of an industrial pollution
control project in Sao Paulo, a power distribution project in the state of Rio
Grande do Sul, and a rural primary education project in the northeast, for
which we expect to propose loans in the near future.
23.       Of Brazil's external public debt outstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1978, amounting to US$24.7 billion, the Bank held about 7.3%. The
Bank's share of the service on this debt was about 5.2%. When Brazil's total
(public and private) external debt is considered, the Bank's share in the
total outstanding at the end of 1978 was 4.4%, and its share in Brazil's
external debt service was about 2.6%. By 1980, the Bank's share in total
outstanding debt is expected to rise very slightly, while its share in total
debt service falls to about 1.7%.
1/   Since April 30, 1979, the Executive Directors have approved one additional
loan of US$26 million.



- 7-
24.       As of April 30, 1979, IFC commitments to Brazil totalled US$460.2
million, of which US$320.6 million had been cancelled, repaid or sold. Of
the balance of US$139.6 million, US$103.5 million represents loans and US$36.1
million equity. A summary of IFC's investments as of April 30, 1979 is given
in Annex II.
Lending Strategy
25.       In its lending to Brazil, the Bank has sought to help the Government
achieve a number of important development objectives which are interdependent
and complementary. One important lending objective in Brazil is to help
intensify t:he efforts of the Government to identify and develop projects that
will increase productivity and income of the lowest income segments of the
population!, to broaden the economic opportunities open to those groups, and to
improve their living conditions. It is to these ends that the proposed Sao
Francisco II irrigation project, as well as the proposed Pernambuco Rural
Development Project presently before the Executive Directors, are mainly
directed. Previous loans for nutrition research and development, vocational
training, agricultural research, agricultural extension and polder construction
in the Lower Sao Francisco aIs well as for integrated rural development in the
States of Rio Grande do Norte, Minas Gerais, Ceara, Paraiba, Bahia and Sergipe
were all dasigned to assist low-income groups in rural areas. Additional
projects designed to assist low-income groups in rural areas are in preparation,
including a rural education project and several integrated rural development
projects in the Northeast. The loans for water supply and sewerage in the
State of Minas Gerais, Greater Sao Paulo and the Northeast, for urban transport
in five major cities, for s:ites and services and low-cost housing, and for
medium-sized cities development are assisting to improve the living conditions
of the urban population, particularly of the urban poor. Several projects to
reach low-income groups in urban areas are in preparation: a second urban
transport project, an integrated urban development project, a water supply and
sewerage project for three southern states and an industrial pollution control
project for Greater Sao Paulo.
26.       Another of the Bank's lending objectives in Brazil is to support
institutional development and policy reform designed to develop rational
policies and procedures, establish adequate coordination and control, and
help maximize public savings and ensure that they are used economically
through rational selection of investment projects. This institution-building
objective has been important in Bank assistance, for example, in the trans-
portation sector where there has been emphasis on the selection of invest-
ments, the strengthening of railway operations, and the improvement of
railways' financial performance. Institution-building is also an integral
part of the proposed project, which, among other things, provides for a
technical assistance team to train and advise key personnel of the main local
executing agency. Loans for electric power, water supply and sewerage,
industria:L finance, agricultural research and extension, and urban development
also have important institution-building objectives.
27.       Another lending objective is to ease the foreign exchange constraint
on development, a constraint that has become more critical since the increase
in petrol,eum prices, by supporting projects designed to increase Brazil's
export capacity and, where economical, to substitute domestic production for



- 8 -
imports. As a result of the deterioration in Brazil's terms of trade and
balance of payments which took place at the time of the 1974 energy crisis,
this objective was placed in the forefront of the Government's economic policy.
Lending for the electric power sector supports this objectiLve, since it is
based primarily on hydroelectric energy, and its development lessens the need
for petroleum imports. Bank support of fertilizer and petrochemicals projects
is assisting Brazil to substitute imports with large-scale efficient domestic
production and aid its balance-of-payments position. Bank lending for agro-
industries in the Center and South of Brazil is also supporting this objective
and much of the Bank-assisted investment in the transport sector -- railways,
ports and highways -- is designed to facilitate the smooth and economic flow
of exports. Support of the steel expansion program is helping Brazil to
expand domestic output of a traditional import commodity which can be produced
efficiently in Brazil in view of the country's ample supply of high-grade iron
ore and the scale of its internal markets. Likewise, the recently approved
VALESUL Aluminum Project would substitute aluminum imports with domestic pro-
duction relying on Brazil's abundant hydroelectric resources for power and on
Brazil's ample reserves of bauxite for raw material.
28.       A final objective which applies to all Bank lending to Brazil is to
provide part of the very large volume of medium- and long-term capital inflows
that Brazil has needed and will continue to need for some time in order to
sustain rapid growth and achieve its employment creation and regional develop-
ment objectives. Continued substantial lending by the Bank in Brazil is
regarded by the international financial community as an important sign of
confidence in Brazil and encourages them to continue their own programs there.
In some sectors, especially in electric power and industry, Bank participation
is helping Brazil obtain additional resources in greater amounts and on
more favorable terms from bilateral credit agencies and commercial financial
institutions. Since 1976, nine co-financing operations totalling more than
US$365 million have been concluded with private financial institutions and
several others are in preparation.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The Sector in the National Economy
29.       Although agricultural production in Brazil has been growing at a
lower rate than the GDP as a whole, agriculture continues to be an important
sector in the economy. The national agricultural work force numbers 12.8
million, or 39.5% of the economically active population, and 43.1 million
ha are cropped, out of a national territory of 850 million ha.  About 60% of
merchandise exports originate in the agricultural sector (including processed
agricultural goods), with coffee, soybeans and sugar alone generating about
40% of the country's export earnings. Brazil is the world's largest exporter
of coffee, the largest producer of cane sugar, and the third largest producer
of soybeans. It is also a major supplier of cotton, peanuts, cocoa, orange
juice, castor oil and sisal.



30.       The most importanit crops for the domestic market include cassava,
maize, rice, wheat, beans, potatoes, vegetables, bananas, citrus fruit, dairy
products, poultry, beef ancd swine. With the exception of wheat, Brazil is
largely self-sufficient in basic food production, although some staples
(such as garlic, onion, potatoes and even beans) are imported seasonally.
Half of thle wheat consumed in Brazil is still imported. Over 1967-74, the
agricultural sector performed well in meeting domestic demand for food and
fiber as well as supplying a rising volume of export commodities, with output
growing at 5.7% annually despite adverse weather conditions in three of the
seven years. With the exception of 1977, when agricultural output rose by
9.6%, the growth performance of the sector has subsequently fallen below the
1967-74 average. Owing mainly to severe droughts in producing areas, agricul-
tural output during 1978 declined by about 2%. Subsistence and semi-commercial
production and the use of rudimentary technology continue to be widespread,
particularly in the Northeast, North and Center West. Real wages in agricul-
ture have been rising sharply in recent years, suggesting that the traditional
pattern uader which the sector was a source of surplus labor for the rest of
the economy may not continmie indefinitely.
Agricultural Development Policy
31.       In recent years growth in agricultural production has been substantial
but has been due more to expansion of land under cultivation than to improved
productivity. However, the Government is now taking measures aimed at a more
efficient exploitation of Brazil's agricultural potential, which include not
only programs to increase the areas under production but also programs to
increase productivity, particularly among smaller farmers. Acknowledging the
urgency of increasing the productivity and incomes of the rural poor, as well
as to increase production generally, the Government has: (i) allocated
substantial public resourctes to incorporate new areas into production through
programs such as PIN (the National Integration Program) and PROTERRA (the
Program for Land Settlement and Stimulus to Agro-Industry in the North and
Northeast) and through development of regional development "poles" in the
North and Center-West, undier the POLAMAZONIA and POLOCENTRO programs; (ii) pro-
moted a significant expansion in the supply of agricultural credit (most of
it at subsidized rates), and of other production incentives; (iii) initiated
special regional programs such as the Development Program for Integrated Areas
in the Northeast (POLONORDESTE), established in 1974 to improve small farmers'
productivity in the Northeast through the preparation and implementation of
integrated rural development projects in selected micro-regions; (iv) promoted
specific crop and livestock production programs, such as programs for pasture
and herd development and programs to encourage cacao and sugar production; and
(v) reorganized the key federal research and extension services, and taken
steps to provide for their integration and strengthening.
32.       One important aspect of the Government's agricultural policy is its
practice of encouraging a large volume of agricultural credit at subsidized
interest rates. For most of Brazil these rates now vary between 13% and 21%
per annun without monetary correction, which in Brazil's highly inflationary
environment means that they are negative in real terms. In the POLONORDESTE
program, the standard rate is now 10% without monetary correction. Credit



- 10 -
for fertilizer purchase is interest free. The subsidized interest rate system
was originally introduced in Brazil some years ago as a means of compensating
the agricultural sector for adverse terms of trade resulting from high prices
for fertilizer, machinery and other inputs. The subsidized rates were also
intended to provide an incentive to expand agricultural production and, in the
case of the Northeast, to give special help to a disadvantaged part of the
country. The main institutions extending agricultural credit, the Banco do
Brasil and the Banco do Nordeste do Brasil, are able to extend this credit on
subsidized terms by virtue of large interest-free deposits which public
agencies place with them, so that the financial burden of the subsidies is
borne by the public sector as a whole, rather than by individual financial
institutions. However, the system has severe disadvantages, including possible
leakages from the agricultural sector into other sectors, the inequity of
granting large farmers access to subsidized credit, and, in the case of larger
agricultural enterprises, the encouragement of unduly capital intensive
techniques. In the case of credit to very small farmers, such as those being
assisted under POLONORDESTE, or under the proposed project, many of the
beneficiaries are below the poverty level and their individual programs are
being intensively supervised to ensure that the credit is used for the intended
purposes. Thus, the possible adverse effects of such subsidized credit are
substantially reduced. Bank staff have for several years conducted a dialogue
with the Government on this matter, and the Government is aware of the draw-
backs of the system. In the past year a few modifications have been made.
Larger farmers are now required to finance at least 25% of on-farm investments
with their own resources, and a sliding scale of rates has been established
charging larger farmers somewhat more than smaller farmers. The basic rate in
the Northeast has been increased from 7% to 10%.
Agriculture in Northeast Brazil 1/
33.       The nine states of Northeast Brazil have a population of about
35 million, two-thirds of whom live in rural areas, and it is growing at a
rate of 800,000 inhabitants per year. Much of the region has a semi-arid
climate, with periodic serious droughts and extensive areas of poor soils.
Nonetheless, the Northeast is a significant agricultural region, accounting
for 40% of the agriculturally employed population of Brazil. In 1977, 26.9%
of the area harvested in Brazil was in the Northeast. Throughout the region,
much of the food and industrial crops is produced by small farmers, technology
is unsophisticated and yields are poor, but farming systems are adjusted to
conditions prevailing: lack of credit for working capital or investment;
limited agricultural extension services; market isolation and weak linkages
with the regional economy; insecurity of land tenure; and, in some areas, a
difficult physical environment. These problems are compounded by a highly
skewed distribution of land ownership. Less than 1% of the total number of
farm establishments account for 40% of the area, whereas in some areas up to
80% of the rural labor force owns no land at all.
1/   Readers are directed to "Rural Development Issues and Options in Northeast
Brazil" (Report No. 665a-BR, dated June 23, 1975).



- 11 -
34.       To speed economic development in the Northeast, the Government
operates a special agency, the Northeast Development Superintendency (SUDENE),
and a special development bank for the Northeast, Bank of the Northeast of
Brazil (BNB). Substantial fiscal and monetary incentives have been made
available over the past decade for both industry and agriculture which have
transferred large amounts of fiscal resources from the wealthier regions of
Brazil to the Northeast. P'ast Government programs directed to the rural
population have often been in the areas of public works, with substantial
efforts being made in drought-prone areas to develop dams and ponds. The
previous Government had moved toward strengthening of the institutions offering
services to small scale farming, particularly under POLONORDESTE, and the
present Government has indicated an intention to intensify these efforts.
Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector
35.       The Bank has so far made 15 loans, totalling US$543.4 million, for
agriculture and rural development in Brazil. These include two for livestock
development, amounting to US$60.5 million; two, amounting to US$137 million,
for agro-industries; one, of US$18.2 million, for grain storage; one, of US$40
million, for an agricultural research program for the Northeast, North and
Center-West of Brazil; one, of US$100 million, for the development of agri-
cultural extension services; and eight, totalling US$187.7 million, for
various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects, six of which
are located in the Northeast. In addition, there have been three loans,
totalling US$196 million for fertilizer production, a loan of US$19 million
for a nutrition research and development project and a loan of US$55 million
for a secondary and feeder roads project, which are having a direct impact
on agricultural production and development of the rural sector. Additional
agricultural and rural development projects, mainly in the Northeast, and a
rural education project in the Northeast, are under consideration for possible
future Bank financing.
36.       A combined Project Performance Audit Report (PPAR) has been issued
on the twc livestock development projects. It shows that the second project
was cancelled after a major part of the loan had been disbursed, because of
a Government decision to introduce subsidized credit programs for this sub-
sector. A Project Completion Report has been prepared on the grain storage
project and the corresponding PPAR is expected shortly. The project faced
difficulties similar to those of the livestock projects. Implementation of
the several integrated rural development projects is progressing satisfacto-
rily, although there have been some delays, now being resolved, in the provi-
sion of counterpart funding.  The Agro-Industries credit projects have been
delayed as a result of the imposition of credit ceilings in 1977 as a part of
the Government's anti-inflation program, and the availability of competing
credit lines at subsidized interest rates. Commitments should accelerate in
in 1979 as a result of the Government's announced intention to restrict the
availability of subsidized credit. The agricultural research project has been
delayed due to hiring constraints imposed by the outgoing administration, but
is expected to improve now that the new Government has taken office. The
agricultural extension project is proceeding according to schedule.



- 12 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Introduction
37.       The proposed Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project (SF II) is designed
to improve the incQmes and productivity of about 2700 farm families in the
lower San Francisco valley whose present incomes are at or below the absolute
poverty level (US$150 per capita). The project was prepared by the Companhia
de Desenvolvimento do Vale do Sao Francisco (CODEVASF), the federal agency
responsible for promoting the development of the Sao Francisco river basin (see
para. 46), with the assistance of the FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme, and
Bank staff and consultants. The project would complement the works being
financed under the on-going lower Sao Francisco Polders Project (SF I) 1/, for
which a Bank loan of US$23.0 million was approved in 1975 (see para. 38). The
Bank's support for the SF II project was first requested in August 1977. A Bank
identification mission visited Brazil in November 1976, followed by prepara-
tion missions in August 1977 and November 1977, an appraisal mission in May,
1978 and a post-appraisal mission in August 1978. Negotiations took place in
Washington from January 16 to 22, 1979. The Brazilian delegation was led by
Mr. Fernando Antonio Rodriguez, Technical Director of CODEVASF, and included
representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Secretariat of Planning.
Subsequent to negotiations, during February and March 1979, exceptional floods
in the project area resulted in a decision to postpone the consideration of
the second loan until an assessment could be made of the impact of the floods
on both the on-going and proposed projects. Accordingly, a mission visited
the project area in early May 1979 after the floods had substantially receded,
and further negotiations were concluded in Brasilia from May 10-15, 1979 with
a new CODEVASF management and the new federal authorities which had taken
office on March 15, 1979. A supplemental project data sheet, including a
timetable of key events and a summary of special conditions, is presented in
Annex III. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report -- Brazil -- Sao Francisco
II Irrigation Project", No. 2265(a)-BR, dated June 4, 1979 is being circulated
separately to the Executive Directors.
Project Concept and Objectives
38.       The proposed project is located in the lower Sao Francisco valley
which is that part of the Sao Francisco River basin lying downstream of the
Paulo Afonso Rapids (see Map No. 11565R annexed). The Sao Francisco River is
2,600 km long. Its basin covers an area of 640,540 km2, much of which is in
the Northeast. The river has an energy potential of the order of 13,900 MW,
of which 4,500 MW are in the Paulo Afonso complex alone and another 900 MW at
Sobradinho. Preliminary surveys conducted in the Sao Francisco basin have
shown that some two million hectares of the basin are potentially irrigable,
of which government aims to develop some 500,000 ha by the year 2000. The
Paulo Afonso IV hydroelectric works, financed in part by a US$81 million Bank
1/   Loan No. 1153-BR of August 4, 1975.



- 13 -
loan, 1/ have modified the downstream regime of the Sao Francisco river,
threatening to leave the lower parts of a number of fertile flood plains
(varzeas) permanently under water, while production in their upper reaches
would no loniger benefit from natural seasonal floodings. To protect the modest
livelihood of some 4,500 families growing paddy on some 15,000 ha of varzea
land, the Bank approved in 1975 a US$23 million emergency loan for the SF I
Project. The main objective of the SF I project was to restore the varzeas'
original agricultural potential by building dikes and pumping stations which
would allow for the recreation of hydraulic conditions similar to those
prevailing before the change in river regime. SF I also provides for full
irrigation development of two of the eight larger varzeas.  The proposed
project is a continuation of the SF I project. Difficulties in the implemen-
tation of the works at the Propria and Itiuba varzeas (started before SF I)
and under the SF I project, both in the technical and social fields (mainly in
the expropriation of owners and compensation of workers), precipitated strong
complaints from the local Church and politicians in 1977 and 1978. However, a
number of measures taken since by CODEVASF, including the appointment of eight
social assistants to work in the project area, the elaboration of more appro-
priate settler selection criteria, the establishment of work teams for
unemployed farmers ("Frente de Trabalho") and some compensation payments, have
improved relations with the area population, increased farmer awareness of and
interest in CODEVASF activit:Les and opened the way for a smoother implementa-
tion of the proposed SF II project.
39.       The SF II project aims at:  (a) increasing the incomes of some 2,700
farmer families, today among the poorest segments of the Lower Sao Francisco
area population, by 25% to 1130% (depending on the farm model); (b) providing
improved health and education facilities; (c) increasing rice production and
improving its quality; and (d) strengthening CODEVASF's management capability.
The project seeks to achieve these goals by (a) providing irrigation facilities;
(b) developing cooperatively owned family plots of approximately equivalent pro-
duction potential to replace the present skewed land tenure pattern; (c) providing
cooperative production and marketing structures and preparing local farmers to
participate in cooperative activities; (d) introducing technological improve-
ments which. would increase yields through better input supply, farm mechaniza-
tion, and reduced post-harvest losses; (e) developing improved extension
services and applied research in small farm agricultural and post-harvest
practices; (f) developing better storage facilities and a modern paddy process-
ing plant which would increase the value added in the region; (g) providing
the area with improved social and support infrastructure, and (h) reinforcing
CODEVASF with locally recruited high-level staff which would initially be
advised by FAO specialists.
1/   Loan No. 1008-BR (Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Project):  US$81.0
million loan of June 17, 1974.



- 14 -
Project Description
40.       The project would provide an irrigation network comprising about
137 km of primary and secondary canals and 100 km of drains with corresponding
maintenance equipment. The network would provide flood irrigation for about
6,900 ha of flood plains where paddy would be grown, and furrow or sprinkler
irrigation for about 1,900 ha of surrounding river banks (combros) for inten-
sive crop rotations involving mainly cotton and maize. The project would make
use of the dikes and pumps of the SF I project, already sized to meet the
requirements of the irrigation network, except for three supplementary pumping
stations and three further stations for sprinkler irrigation, with correspond-
ing electric transmission lines. About 30 tractors, 30 threshers and 60
trailers would be purchased under the project for land preparation and land
harvesting. A total bulk paddy storage capacity of 25,000 tons would be
provided, as well as grading laboratories and a transport fleet. Column
driers and a modular white rice and parboiling plant with target annual capaci-
ties of about 80,000 tons of paddy--meeting the needs of the larger Lower Sao
Francisco area--would be gradually installed. Local farmer organizations
would be provided with office buildings and vehicles. Agricultural extension
services would be strengthened. Support infrastructure would comprise con-
struction of some 21 km of access roads, 1,000 new houses with full sanitary
facilities (improving another 1,000 houses to similar norms), 17 schools,
eight rural health posts and 10 deep wells or compact water supply stations
with fountains. Electricity would be provided to private dwellings upon
request. The project would also finance further studies in the areas assisted
by CODEVASF.
Project Costs
41.       Total project costs are estimated at US$74.7 million equivalent,
of which US$49.6 million equivalent would represent base costs and US$25.1
million physical and price contingencies. The direct and indirect foreign
exchange cost is estimated at about US$27.9 million equivalent or about
37.5% of total project cost. Project costs include institution-building
costs, such as incremental recurrent expenditures related to agricultural
services, project administration and farmers organization during the first
five years of project implementation, and also include about US$3.7 million
of identifiable taxes. A summary of project costs is set out in the project
summary above (see p. ii). Physical contingencies have been estimated at
14.9% of baseline costs and price contingencies at 35.7% of baseline costs.
Price contingencies were calculated in US$ terms. Since equipment represents
a minor share of project costs, an average price contingency of 7.5% was
applied for 1978 and 7% for following years. The high physical contingencies,
which are considered appropriate, reflect the possibility of continuing
adverse weather conditions (see para 59), the extent of completion of field
work and topographical surveys, the location of construction material sources,
the possibility of design changes during construction, and the status of
design of access roads and electric distribution lines.
Financing Plan
42.       The proposed Bank loan of US$28 million would be for 15 years
including 3 years grace and would finance 37.5% of total project costs,



- 15 -
equivalent l:o the direct and indirect foreign exchange cost of the project.
The balance of project financing would be provided by Government. Seasonal
credit would be provided directly by local banks and is not included in
project costs.  Materials for the construction of houses would be financed
under credit from the NationaLl Housing Bank (BNH). The Federative Republic
of Brazil would be the borrower and would assume the foreign exchange risk.
The proceeds of the loan and all other funds required for the project (with
the exception of relatively minor amounts to be contributed by BNH for the
housing component and the state power companies for rural electrification)
will be made available to CODEVASF by the federal government on a grant
basis through the regular budgetary process. CODEVASF would present to
the Bank by October 31 of each year its proposed budget for the project
for the folLowing year, and its final budgetary allocations for the
project each year as soon as its overall budget has been approved (Section
2.07 of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement
43.       Contracts for the construction of the irrigation network and related
equipment, agricultural machinery, civil works, equipment and management
services for drying, storage and processing facilities, and transport equipment
(totalling about US$46 million equivalent) would be awarded following inter-
national coampetitive bidding in accordance with the Bank's procurement guide-
lines. Brazil has a well developed civil works contracting industry, and it
is likely that most civil worcks contracts would be won by Brazilian con-
tractors or consortia which include such contractors. Local manufacturers
would be accorded a preference of 15% or the customs duties, whichever is
lower, in bid evaluation. Contracts below US$50,000 equivalent and minor
civil works, buildings, access roads, sanitation and educational infrastructure
(with a total cost not exceeding US$7 million equivalent) would be awarded on
the basis of competytive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank. An exception would be the health posts
which would be constructed by FSESP according to its own standardized pro-
cedures with a total base cost of about US$180,000 equivalent. As far as
possible, family labor would be utilized for the construction of individual
farmer houses during the period when irrigation network construction impedes
agricultural activities in the project area. Minor works with an aggregate
cost not exceeding US$500,000 equivalent would be carried out by force account
when not stLitable for carrying out through contracting.
Disbursement
44.       Disbursements would be made against normal documentation at the
rates of (a) 47% of total expenditures for civil works, equipment and vehicles
for the irrigation and electrical network (other than pumps and motors),
irrigation operation and maintenance, rice drying, milling and transport,
agricultural machinery, access roads, agricultural support services, farmer
organization, education, health and sanitation, and rural electrification
components;, (b) 100% of foreign expenditures or 90% of local expenditures for
irrigation pumps and motors, depending on source of procurement; and (c) 100%
of foreign expenditures for FAO technical assistance, consultants services,



- 16 -
overseas training, studies and monitoring. There would be no disbursement
against recurrent expenditures, compensation of harvest losses, and housing
construction. No retroactive financing is envisaged. Loan disbursements
are expected to extend until June 30, 1986. It would be a condition of
disbursement after March 16, 1980 that all project area land in the
Continguiba-Pindoba and Boacica varzeas had been expropriated or otherwise
acquired by CODEVASF and a condition for disbursement for expenditures in the
Brejo Grande varzea that all land in that varzea had been acquired (see para.
48). Additional disbursement conditions would be (i) for the roads, rural
electrification and health components, that CODEVASF had signed convenios
acceptable to the Bank respectively with the Alagoas and Sergipe state road
departments, the Alagoas and Sergipe state electricity companies, the Public
Health Services Foundation (FSESP) and the Superintendency of Public Health
Campaigns (SUCAM) (see para. 47); (ii) for the health and sanitation components,
that CODEVASF had completed a water supply preinvestment study satisfactory
to the Bank; and (iii) for rice transport equipment, and the drying, storage,
and rice milling components, respectively, that CODEVASF had completed the
studies referred to in para. 50 below (para. 4 of Schedule 1 to the draft
Loan Agreement). The closing date of the loan would be June 30, 1986.
Accounting and Auditing
45.       CODEVASF would have its accounts, including a separate account for
the project, and financial statements for each fiscal year audited in accor-
dance with sound auditing principles by independent auditors acceptable to
the Bank. Certified copies of CODEVASF's financial statements and the report
of such audit would be furnished to the Bank not later than four months after
the end of such year (Section 3.05 of the draft Project Agreement).
CODEVASF
46.       CODEVASF would be the main executing agency for the project.  CODEVASF
was established in 1974, as a public sector enterprise under the Ministry of the
Interior to succeed the Sao Francisco Valley Superintendency (SUVALE) in pro-
moting the economic development and utilization of the natural resources of the
Valley, principally its waters and soils. CODEVASF, with headquarters in the
Federal District of Brasilia, operates like a private sector development company,
with planning, coordination and executive functions. It has a Board of Governors
(Conselho Diretor) made up of one representative each from the federal Secretariat
of Planning, and the Ministries of Agriculture, Transportation and Mines and
Energy and four additional members appointed by the Minister of Interior. The
Board of Executive Directors, appointed by the President of the Republic, is
composed of the President of the company and three directors in charge, respec-
tively, of planning and finance, operations, and technical activities. A team
of FAO experts has been advising CODEVASF on technical matters for the past
four years. There are four regional directorates with a certain degree of
statutory autonomy.
Implementation
47.       The responsibility for the implementation of the present project,
as well as the SF I project, is with CODEVASF's fourth regional Directorate
with headquarters at Aracaju, capital of the state of Sergipe. Measures are



- 17 -
being taken to reinforce the rural development, land acquisition and construc-
tion supervision units of the 4th Directorate. An assistant to the Regional
Director at Aracaju has been appointed to plan and supervise all CODEVASF
assistance to area farmers in production and social activities. A special
rural development unit is being established within the fourth Directorate,
and within such unit four sections responsible respectively for agricultural
production, processing and marketing operations, cooperatives and social
support activities. CODEVASF would at all times during project implementation
employ adequately qualified specialized staff to head such unit and to head
each of such sections as well as a resident engineer with qualifications and
experience satisfactory to the Bank to supervise consultants and contractors
engaged under the project (Section 2.06 of the draft Project Agreement). The
appointmerLt of such specialized staff and resident engineer would be a condi-
tion of effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(e) of the draft Loan
Agreement).  CODEVASF would directly provide agricultural extension to the
farmers during the first years of project implementation.  This activity would
then be gradually transferred to the state extension services on the basis of
an existing agreement between CODEVASF and such extension agencies. CODEVASF
would share with UNDP the cost of 13 man-years of FAO technical assistance to
be provided on an advisory basis in rural development, rice post-harvesting
and milling, irrigation engineering, fisheries development and cooperatives
management, besides on-going assistance being provided under the SF I project
in procurement and on-farm irrigation. Preparation of an UNDP/FAO Technical
Assistance Project Document acceptable to the Bank and the parties concerned,
and the recruitment of a cooperatives specialist, would be conditions for
effectiveness of the proposed loan (Section 7.01(d) of the draft Loan Agreement).
CODEVASF's 4th Directorate would also ensure liaison with federal and state
institutions implementing project components such as extension and research,
health and education, and roads and transmission line construction. In this
regard general agreements (convenios) with the Alagoas and Sergipe state
government:s have already been signed for the operation and maintenance,
at state expense, of the roads, rural electrification and school facilities
included iLn the project, and a general agreement has been reached between
the Minist:ries of Health and of Interior ensuring the participation of FSESP
and SUCAM in the project. More detailed "convenios" have also been signed
with the Alagoas and Sergipe secretariats of education, and other convenios
required are expected to be signed shortly. CODEVASF would maintain contrac-
tual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank ensuring continuous operation and
maintenance of project facilities with:
(i) the state road departments (DER) of Sergipe and Alagoas for
the construction and maintenance of project roads;
(ii) the state electricity companies of Sergipe (ENERGIPE) and
Alagoas (CEAL) for the construction and operation of the
transmission and distribution lines and other power facilities
required by the project;
(iii) the National Housing Bank (BNH) for the financing of housing
construction materials;
(iv) FSESP for the cornstruction and operation of health posts;



- 18 -
(v) SUCAM for the implementation of a campaign against communicable
diseases in the project area;
(vi) the Sergipe and Alagoas state secretariats of education and the
Federal University of Sergipe or an equivalent institution for the
implementation of the education component; and
(vii) the Sergipe and Alagoas state water supply companies for the
operation and maintenance of the water supply systems included
in the project (unless these activities are entrusted to the
farmer associations to be established in the project area
(see para. 44)) (Section 2.11 of the draft Project Agreement).
Seasonal credit would be provided through Banco do Brasil and Banco do Nordeste
do Brasil to all project farmers through the cooperative system (see para. 44)
on the basis of individual cropping plans. Government would ensure the avail-
ability of such credit (Section 3.02 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Land Reform and Distribution
48.       As explained in the President's Report for the SF I project 1/, the
land tenure pattern in the project area was highly skewed, with about 7% of
farmers occupying about 80% of the land, and less than 100 owners controlling
practically 90% of the land. In order to avoid wind-fall profits accruing to
existing owners, to protect the employment opportunities of sharecroppers in
the area, and to provide farms to farmers displaced from lands which could not
be economically protected, it was necessary for CODEVASF to acquire all the
lands benefitting from the emergency works. Accordingly, a decree was passed
in 1975 authorizing CODEVASF to expropriate lands in the project area and
freezing land prices. CODEVASF's authority to acquire land by expropriation
expires on March 16, 1980. While it was originally envisaged that all project
area lands would be acquired by such date, the delays which have occurred so
far in project implementation now make this impractical. Accordingly, CODEVASF
would acquire, by March 16, 1980, all project area lands in the Cotinguiba-
Pindoba and Boacica varzeas, and would acquire, by March 31, 1982, under a new
Decree to be issued by March 31, 1981, the remaining project area lands
(Section 2.04 of draft Project Agreement). Government would agree to take all
necessary action to authorize CODEVASF to expropriate all lands in the project
area which shall not have been acquired by CODEVASF under the authority of the
present Decree (Section 3.04 of the draft Loan Agreement). The lands would
initially be held by CODEVASF, and at a later date, as the farmer associations
to be established under the project are converted into primary cooperatives
(see para. 49), lands would be transferred to the primary cooperatives.
CODEVASF's land expropriation budget has been substantially increased, from
Cr$68.3 million (US$4.2 million) in 1978 to Cr$210 milion (US$11 million) in
1979, which by present estimates will allow CODEVASF to pay reasonable compen-
sation for all project area lands remaining to be expropriated prior to the
March 16, 1980 expiration date of the present Decree. Farmers under the
project would be allocated plots of land (in most cases, 3.5 ha of irrigated
1/   See Report No. P-1610a-BR of May 23, 1975.



- 19 -
varzea land or 3 ha of irrigated combro land) their rights to which would be
transferable by inheritance. Land acquisition costs were included in the SF I
project and therefore are not included in the present project.
Cooperative Organization
49.       Some 12 local farmer associations (pre-cooperative organizations)
with statutes satisfactory to the Bank would be established in the SF II area
according to the project's geography, land use and implementation schedule.
Another eight such associations would group farmers under the other on-going
projects in the Lower Sao Francisco area. Within about four years after their
establishment, these associations would be transformed into primary coopera-
*         tives, owning their land and linked to a secondary cooperative to be estab-
lished in thLe project area by June 30, 1981, for marketing and processing.
CODEVASF would carry out appropriate education and training programs designed
to prepare farmer associations to be so converted into primary cooperatives,
and ensure that title to the land is transferred to the new cooperative when
established. These arrangements would be reviewed periodically with the Bank
to confirm their feasibility in the light of monitoring results (see para. 56),
the recommendations of special studies and consultations with farmers (Section
2.05 of the draft Project Agreement). Farmer associations in the Propria,
Itiuba, and Betume varzeas would be established as a condition for loan
effectiveness (Section 7.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). In addition,
the signing of an agreement between CODEVASF and the Camurupim cooperative
(the existing cooperative in the Boacica Varzea), in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank, for the participation of the latter in the project,
would be a condition of loan effectiveness (Section 7.01(f) of the draft Loan
Agreement). The secondary cooperative would purchase or lease from CODEVASF
the machinery and processing facilities provided under the project. It would
also channel seasonal credit to cooperative members, operate or contract
transport facilities and represent the area population on issues of a
social nature. CODEVASF, as a shareholder of all cooperatives in the area
and owner/operator of the irrigation network, would assist in management of
the cooperatives, select settlers for each local organization and take final
actions in eviction processes. Management of the rice mill and stores would
be kept relatively independent of other cooperative activities. The irrigation
network would be operated by CODEVASF and water would be charged to the
farmers at gradually increasing rates (see para. 53).
50.       The project would be implemented over a six-year period, with works
on each varzea lasting about three years. A given plot of land would not
remain out of cultivation for more than one year. The proposed order of
development of the varzeas (Cotinguiba/Pindoba (years 1 to 3), followed by
Boacica (years 2 to 4) and Brejo Grande (years 3 to 5)) is based on the status
of progress of SF I infrastructure and on the urgency to cope with the diffi-
cult financial situation of the farmers in the Cotinguiba/Pindoba varzea. To
ensure that sufficient progress can be made on works affected by the rains
before the start of the next rainy season in April 1980, tender invitations
for the irrigation network of the Cotinguiba/Pindoba varzeas have already been
approved by the Bank and are to be issued shortly. To ensure early implemen-
tation of the post harvesting components, CODEVASF would complete by June 30,
1980, a study of post harvest operations, satisfactory to the Bank, including
drying, storage, milling and qualitative and quantitative rice transport
requirements in the Lower Sao Francisco area (Section 2.08 of the draft
Project Agreement).



- 20 -
Production and Markets
51.       As a result of the project, cropping intensities would reach 180%
in rice fields, partly as a ratoon crop, and 150% in combro lands. Yields
of paddy, by far the main project output, would be of the order of 4 tons/ha
per harvest, or an overall 6.6 tons/ha per annum. Cotton yields of 2.4 tons/
ha under irrigation have been assumed. Agricultural practices would be highly
mechanized because of heavy soils and short land preparation and harvest
periods. Use of fertilizers and other chemicals would be generalized.
52.       Two-thirds of the paddy would be processed into white rice, the
remainder into parboiled rice. Favorable markets are available both for
the rice and by-products. Husk would be used as fuel for paddy driers.
About 21,600 tons of white rice, 10,800 tons of parboiled rice and 15,700 tons
of lower quality mixes besides brokens, bran and husk ash would be marketed
each year. Cotton production is expected to reach about 3,800 tons/year and
maize production, about 2,900 tons/year, plus 2,300 tons of earcorn. The rice
market would extend to the project area, the state capitals, and the regional
centers of Salvador and Recife, including their hinterlands. All of these
were traditional markets for the area's production until both its quantity and
quality started decreasing because of Paulo Afonso IV works and inadequate
post-harvest processing.
Financial Results and Cost Recovery
53.       Farm budgets for four illustrative farm types show that total annual
family incomes would vary at full production between Cr$ 20,740 (US$1,300) in
combro areas and Cr$ 34,610 (US$2,150) in paddy farms in January 1978 constant
prices. These represent increments varying from 25% to 180% over present
average annual family incomes in the area. These incomes would further
increase with paddy processing dividends of the order of Cr$ 13,000 (US$800)
per year (after allowance for marketing and management uncertainties) which
may accrue to farmers from mill profits which would reach about US$7.5 million
per annum once all debts resulting from initial investments had been repaid.
CODEVASF's budget would be balanced mainly from Government participation
through the Program for National Integration, BNH financing of housing costs
and the Bank loan until water charges collected from the project farmers
reached a level at which they met all irrigation recurrent costs and recover
about 30% of capital investment costs. Water charges for project beneficiaries
would be gradually introduced in the project area which would at full farm
development (a) fully recover incremental operation and maintenance costs of
the irrigation and drainage network included in the project, and (b) subject
to a determination that water users have the capacity to pay (which in the
aggregate it is expected they will have under present assumptions), recover
not less than 30% of the capital investment cost. Water rates would be re-
viewed periodically on the basis of the results obtained from the monitoring
and evaluation activities to be carried out under the project (see para. 51)
with a view to determining whether a larger share of the capital investment
cost of the irrigation and drainage network can be recovered through water
charges in light of the beneficiaries' capacity to pay and the need to provide
incentives for adequate land and water use (Section 2.12 of the draft Project
Agreement and Section 3.01(c) of the draft Loan Agreement). The rent recovery



- 21 -
index 1/ would be about 37% for rice farmers and 36% for combro farmers.
Government would finance the major part of the CODEVASF project budget
and ultimately repay the Bankt loan. Against these expenditures, it would
derive income from an average 12.5% sales tax on processed rice. At full
project development, government (state and federal) gross income would be
of the order of US$4.1 million per annum. Government's annual cash flow
would become positive from year 6 of the project and reach a surplus of
US$2.3 million per year from year 17 onwards (once the Bank loan is fully
repaid). The net present value of Government income from the project
would be about zero at a 0% discount rate in constant dollar terms over
the first 22 years of project life. Total project base cost would be
about US$4,530 per hectare and about US$14,570 per family at 1978 prices,
including physical contingencies. For this type of development, these costs
are considered reasonable and compare well with the cost range of recent
similar BarLk projects.
Project Beneficiaries
54.       The project would benefit directly some 2,700 farmer families plus
about 300 network, store, mill and cooperative employees, for a total of about
3,000 famiLies, mostly with present incomes below the absolute poverty level
(US$150 per capita). Education and health facilities would benefit at least
another 500 neighboring families. Another 1,800 families growing rice in the
area would benefit from the paddy storage and milling facilities. The project
is intendedl to resettle families already employed in agriculture in the
project area. As such, it would have no appreciable effect on direct employ-
ment. However the intensity of employment of the project population would
radically increase from an average 37 man-days per hectare to 80 man-days per
hectare, or 280 man-days per family cultivating a 3.5 ha rice plot. Indirect
employment is expected to be considerably enhanced by the overall improvement
of economic conditions in the project area.
Settler Selection
55.       Initial selection criteria established by CODEVASF on the basis
of the normal standards of the National Colonization Institute (INCRA) did
not meet the specific requirements of the Lower Sao Francisco, where land
has to be redistributed rather than colonized. CODEVASF has now substan-
tially modlified the original criteria, giving absolute priority to area
farmers over other candidates, dropping the condition of literacy, accepting
candidates with Chagas disease once their houses have been improved, and
accepting women who are family heads as potential settlers. These new
criteria will be publicized before project implementation, after including
specific medical standards.  CODEVASF would complete by December 31, 1979 a
settler relocation study which would include a census of landless farmers
entitled to relocation under the project and a sample survey of movement
intentions of the various segments of the area population (Section 2.09 of
the draft Project Agreement).
1/   The relationship of diLrect charges and levies recovered under the project
from farmers to rent surplus (net cash income less imputed value of
family labor and adjustments).



- 22 -
Monitoring and Evaluation
56.       About US$750,000 has been included in project costs for special
studies and monitoring. An external monitoring unit is to, be established
with the assistance of the University of Vicosa, which would monitor
simultaneously SF I and SF II activities. Monitoring of the SF II project
would, through adequate sampling and correlation techniques, pay particular
attention, inter alia, to farmgate water consumption, agricultural inputs and
yields, farmer income, maintenance of social infrastructure, storage, milling
and marketing operations, and organizational problems of farmer associations,
the COBASF cooperative and CODEVASF's 4th Directorate. CODEVASF would prepare
by August 31, 1979, for approval by the Bank, a detailed document describing
the project monitoring program, including staffing requirements, monitoring
methodology and detailed cost estimates (Section 2.10 of the draft Project
Agreement).
Economic Rate of Return
57.       The economic rate of return of the project is estimated to be about
27% for the paddy storage, transport and processing component, the cost of which
is US$13 million, and 17% for the irrigated agricultural production component,
the cost of which is US$53 milion including project financed recurrent expendi-
tures of the first 5 years. The average economic rate of return on these
components, which account for 86% of total project costs, is 22%. This
aggregate rate of return excludes the social support components of the project
such as health services, housing, education and rural electrification which
represent 14% of project costs and for which no meaningful rate of return
could be estimated because of the predominance of non-quantifiable effects.
Environmental Impact
58.       Widespread schistosomiasis in the project area, which could tend
to increase under the proposed irrigation activities would, on the contrary,
be reduced through the area-wide endemic disease control program to be devel-
oped by the Superintendency of Health Campaigns. Improved housing, sanitation
and health facilities are expected to have a major impact on overall health
conditions of the area population. As with the SF I project, CODEVASF would
advise farmers on the selection of pesticides that would not be harmful to fish
resources, other crops or health, and would help initiate control programs to
monitor applications of agricultural chemicals.
Risks and Uncertainties
59.       The Sao Francisco II Irrigation Project will be a difficult project
to implement. CODEVASF has limited experience in such multifaceted operations
and has both quantitative and qualitative staff limitations at the middle
management level. Progress in SF I implementation has been slower than
originally expected, mainly due to modifications of initial designs and
exceptional rainfall. Given the central role to be played by the cooperative
organization at all stages of agricultural production, harvesting, storage,
processing and marketing, favorable project results will also depend signi-
ficantly on the quality of cooperative staff and management, and on the depth



- 23 -
of involvement of area farmers in the farmer associations and cooperatives to
be established. These institutional risks are being addressed through the
technical assistance and ins,titutional strengthening which has been built into
the projecit. Also, the provisions in the project for monitoring and evaluation
(see para. 56) should alert the authorities to any need to take corrective
measures as regards the orgEnization and management of project activities. A
further risk faced by the project is the recurrence of exceptional floods such
as those of early 1979, or, more possibly, the continuation of exceptionally
heavy rainfall which has been recorded in the last two years (the highest
measured since observations began some 50 years ago) and which have signifi-
cantly delayed the implementation of the SF I project. SF II irrigation works
cannot be implemented until SF I works are completed in the corresponding
varzeas and the area is effectively protected from flood risk. Notwithstanding
this risk, it is considered essential not to delay the SF II project until SF I
implementation is further advanced, since a delay of SF II could result in
idling some of the most productive lands in the region, and exacerbating
social tensions in the project area. Additionally, the institutional improve-
ments being recommended under SF II are expected to contribute to the acceler-
ation of implementation and successful completion of the SF I project.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
60.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Federative Republic of Brazil
and the Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Bank and CODEVASF, and
the Report of the Committee provided for in Article III, Section 4(iii), of
the Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately.
61.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III. Special effectiveness conditions are described in paras. 47 and
49. Special disbursement conditions are described at para. 44.
62.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
63.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 6, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-24 -                                                       ANNEX T
BRAZIL - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SH3ET
BRAZIL                    REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACES
/a
LAND AtEA (ThOUSAND SQ. 0f.                                                - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL           8512.0                                                 SAME        SAME     NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTUMAL    2066.0                               HOST RECENT     CEOGRAPHIC   INCOME       INCOKE
1960 Lb    1970 Lb ESTIYATC /b      REGION L   GROUP /d   GROUP
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                 320.0      580.0    1390.0          1066.7    1796.4       2839.0
ENERGY CONSUNPTION PER CAPITA
(KZLOGCAS Of COAL EQUIVALENT)     332.0       474.0    670.0            911.1     1525.0      2376.4
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION. NID-TEAR
(MILLIONS)                       69.8        92.8     113.2
URBAN POPULATI0N (PSERCENT OF TOTAL) 44.5      55.7      61.4            57.9       52.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. EH.                       8.0        11.0      13.3            25.6       27.6        55.8
PER SQ. EN. AGRICULTURAL LAND    44.0        49.0      55.0            77.6      116.4        83.6
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PRCKNT)
0-14 nRS.                        43.0        42.0      41.7            42.0       34.8        40.0
15-64 YRS.                        54.0        55.0      55.1            52.2       56.0        55.3
65 nRS. AND ABOVE                  3.0         3.0       3.2             3.7        5.7         3.8
POPULATION CRtWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              3.0         3.0      2.8             2.7        l1.         2.9
URAN                              5.5         5.0       4.4             4.1        3.4.
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)    40.8        38.4      37.1            35.8       27.0        31.7
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)     11.7        9.9       8.8             9.i        9.9         7.9
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE             2.6         2.6       2.5             2.6        1.9         1.6
rAKILY PLAN5 INC
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)      ..       111.0    203.6
USERS (PERClUT OP IARtICD WOMEN)    ..        1.6        ..            I5.1       19.3
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OP POOD PRODUCTIUN
PER CAPITA (1970-100)            87.8       100.0    112.3            102.1      103.8       114.7
PZR CAPITA SUPPLY OP
CALORIES (PERCEDT OP
REQUIRNIEITS)                  102.0      104.0    105.0            103.9      110.4       113.4
PROTEINS (GRACS PER DAY)         61.0        64.0      62.1            60.3       77.7        89.9
OP WICE ANIAL AND PULSE        38.0        39.0      33.6            26.7       22.2        48.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4)  IttALITY XATE      ..          ..        ..             8.7        1.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    56.0       59.4      61.4            62.6       63.0        60.2
INFANT HORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                          180.0       110.0       ..            56.9       38.2        22.1
ACCESS TO SAn WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                               .         56.3      71.7          bhO1        67.7        83.0
URBAN                               .         77.1     83.2            78.0       83.5       100.0
MURAL                              ..        29.0      52.9            34.9       41.5
ACCESS TO CxCRETA DISPOSAI (PERCEINT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                              ..         59.9     65.5            t1.1       70.3        57.8
URSAN                               ..       86.1      86.3            80.3       90.7        99.3
RURAL                               ..       26.5      39.0            25.4       38.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         2170.0      1910.0   1650.0 LL        1899.3    1310.8        970.9
POPULATION PER NURSINC PERSON         ..     3220.0    2920.0  f        1220.1     849.2       676.1
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TDTAL                            275.0      260.0    260.0            422.    275.4          325.8
UR8AN                               ..         ..        ..           258.2      129.9       250.0
RURAL                              ..          ..        ..          2281.6      965.9       770.0
ADHISSIONS PER HOSPITAL RED          ..         18.0       ..            25.b       18.9        18.7
HOUSING
AVERAE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                              5.1        4.8        ..              5.2       3.9
URUAN                               *         4.6        ..
RURAL                              ..          5.2       ..
AVERAGE NmuBeR or PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                          1.1       1.1 /f         :.0        0.9
URBAN                              ..          1.0       1.2 7T         Z.1        0.8
RURAL                               .          1.2       1.2  f         2.7        1.0
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
Of OWELLINCS)
TOTAL                             38.7        42.6      55.1            51.2       59.2
URBAN                                         75.h      77.9           77.3       78.0
RURAL                                -        8.4      1,2.5           12.8        12.5



- 25 -                                               ANNEX I
~1 hdL -    . ff  _IDIfATORS IlATA 14.I:1
B AZIL                    REFERENCE CROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERACES
/a
- KOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME     NWlE HIGHER
MDST RECENT     GEOCXAPHIC    INCOKE       INCOFE
1960 Lb     1970 Lb ESTIMATE lb      REGION c   CGVO  td    GROUP Lo
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLHENT RATIOS
PRIMAXY:     TOTAL                 95.0        83.0       90.0           103.5       97.6        104.1
PEHALE               93.0         83.0      90.0            102.9       87.4       120.3
EC01DARY:  TOTAL                   11.0        27.0       26.0            37.2       47.8         44.7
FEMALE               10.0         27.0      20.0             37.9       42.6        46.0
lOCATIONAL (PtEtCDiT OF SECONDARY) 19.n        17.0      47.0 JA          14.7       22.7         18.7
PUIPtl.-TEACH   RATIO
1RIIrMY                            "1.-        28.0      Z2.0             32.7.      25.4         30.6
iECIDARY                           13.0        13.0      11.0             17 .       24.9         16.3
AD17LT LITTRACY RATE (PERCG  1)      61.0        66.0         ..            74.9        96.3
CO0SIUMPT ION
P*SSElfER CARS PER THOUSAND
PoPUtATION                          7.0        25.0       35.0            26.9       32.3         53.4
RADIO RECEIVERS PEA THiOUSAND
POPULATION                         66.0        60.0      60.0            173.        201.9       195.5
TV RCEtlVCERS PE  THOUSAND
POPULATION                         18.0        66.0      83.0             69.4       97.7        108.4
NEdSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
iATEREST") CIRCULATIONi PER
THiUSAtlD POPULATION                 54.0         37.0      39.0            72.8        70.9       108.0
CINEKA ANNUAL ATTUDAiCE PER CAPITA  5.0            1.9        ..             4.3         4.4
C2tPLOTKEIT
TOtAL LABOR  FORCE (THOUSANDS)    22700.0     29400.0   34100.0
FDIALE (PERCENt)                   17.5        20.4       21.6            21.4        17.4        26.9
AGRtCULTURE (PERCERT)              52.0        40.4       37.8            37.8        38.4        25.7
INDUSTRY (PERCEHT1                 14.8        18.3         ..
PARI'ICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TCOTAL                               32.0        31.6       31.5            30.8        33.7        40.1
:ULE                                 52.7        50.3       49.5            47.2        50.8        55.8
PtAALZ                               11.2        12.8       13.6            13.2        12.6        24.7
ECIOVOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.6         1.5        1.4             1.7         1.4         1.6
iNCCME DlSiT18UTION
PRRCDiT Of PRIVATE INCOME.
SRCCEIVCD SY
NIGHEST 5 PERCENT (Y NOUSEHOLDS   f1.7 /         4. J '4   t..                        20.2-
IUGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HtUSEHOLDS  54.4 T6      h2.2 /h      ..            *7..       4.9            ..
LOWEST 20 PZRCtNT OF HOUSEHOLDS    1.35 T;      3.2 7      ..              3..         3.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT Of HOUSEHOLDS   11.6 th      10.0  h                    10.1        13.7
POVERTY TAgGET GROUPS
ESTIMATD ABSOLUTE POVERTY INOIE
LEVEL (US$ PCJ CAPITA)
U7R..                                            ..         ..           251.9
RURAL                                ..           ..     150.0           200.6       157.9
S TIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INOME
LICVEL (US$ PFE CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..     465.0           403.i       44S.8
lURAL                                *-           *-     332.0           258.0       313.1
ESTIMATED POPULATION 8CLOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
UIIAM                                ..          ..       34.0            24.8        23.2
WRRAL                                ..          ..       55.0            65.2        54.5
Not avatlable
Not epplicebe..
/a    The adjusted group averages for each Lndicator are populetiom-welgted geomtric mane, excluding the extre_m
values of the indicator and the wet populated coustry in each group.  Coverage of countries ong the
indicators depends n availability of data and is not uniform.
lb    Unless othervLge noted. date for 1960 reotr to any year betwen 1959 and 1961; for 1970. between 1969
and 197I; and for Hoer Recent Eetiat.. between 1973 and I977:
Li    Latin A_rica & Caribbean;  /-d  Upper Middle Income ($1136-2500 per captt,. 1976);  /e High Incom
(over 52500 par .spite. 1916);  7f  1972;  Li lleginning 1973, duratie  of general .ducatlon reduced
from 7 to 4 years. therefore date may not be comparable to those of earlier years;  /h  Date refer
to econoelclly activ  popelatim.
September. 1978



- 26-                                                                   ANM  I
DEFINiC LONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                   Page 3
Kp.U:  The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weightad geometric means, excluding tha extrees values of the indicator and the most
populated couctry in each group. Coverage of countrisa among the indicators depends on availability of dlata and is niot uniform. Due to lack of data,
group averages for Capital Surplue Oil Exportere and indicators of access to veter and excreta disposal, houeing, income distribution and poverty are
simple population-weighted gaostric neews without the exclusion of extram values.
LAND ARE  (thousand sq. bm)                                                            Posuietion Der hospital bed - total, urbn.sa   ral- Population  (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                       urban, end rural) divided by their reeetive asler of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural er"a used temporarily                eweilable in public end private general sad specializedhosopital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitches gardens or to                  habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establihmenmts perommntly staffed by
lie fallow,                                                                           at least one physician.  Istablisbeemots providing principally custodial
care are not Included. Rural hospitals, however, fmclude health and sedi-
GN? PER CAPITA (U!1- GN? pa. capita satimatee at current marker prices.                    alcntrer  not permanentl  staffed by a phyeician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conwers: o method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);             sistent, nurse, miLdwife, etc.) which offer in-patient eccowsodation sod
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                            provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissionsa oar hospital bad - Total number of admissins tc or disoharge.
ENERY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA- Annual consumption of commercial energy                     from hospitals divided by the number of beda.
(coal and lignite, patrolsum, ntatral gas and bydro-, nuclear end geo-
thermal electricity) in kilograms of coal equivalent per capita.                  HOUSING
Averaze sire of household (persons per houeehold) - total, urban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                           A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quartere
Total PopuaIon. mid-year (milliona) - As of July 1; if not available.                    and their main ma.ls.  A, hoarder or lodger may or may nor be included in
average of Iitwo end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                       the household for statistical purpoass.  Statistical definitions of houae-
Irban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                   hold vary.
tion; diffarent definitions of urban areaa may affecte comparshility                Average number of persons Per room - total, urban, and rural - Averge  om
of data among countries.                                                              her of persons per room  in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                      dwellings, respectively.  Dwellings saclude 000-permanent structures and
Per so. kn. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                  unoccpied parts.
of total area.                                                                      Access to electricity (percent ofdwlis)-ta, urban, and rural -
per sq. kn.arcutr  land - Computed am above for agricultural land                      Convetional dwellings with elactricity in living quartsrs as percentage
only.                                                                                 of total, urban, end rural dwellings reapectively.
Population sace structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-sge
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-             EIDUCATION
year population.                                                                   Adjusted enro1llent ratios
Population crowth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                 Primary school - total, and female - Total ssd female enrollment of all ages
growth rters  of total and urban nid-year populationa for 1950-60,                    at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                 populations; oormally includee children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birti rate (per thousand) - Annual live births per thousan.d of                   different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edu-
eid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending io 1960 and                   c-tin enrollmet may eaceed 100 percent sioce some pupilo are below or
1970 sod five-year average ending in 1975 for most recant estimate,                   above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousan.d) - Annual dastha per thouaaod of mid-                 Secondary school - total. and female - Computed ma above; secondary educe-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages soding in 1960 and 1970                 ton requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
mand five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                       vides gae-ra1 voca.tional, or teacher training instructiona for pupils
loose reproduction care - Ae...gg  number of daughters a woman will bear                usually of 12 to 17 years of agp; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal. reproductive period if she experiences prasent age-                    ...luded.
specif to fertility rates; usua.lly five-year averages ending in 1960,              Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - vocational institutions, in-
1970, end 1975.                                                                       clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independenrly
PFmily olanning - acceptors, annul (thousands) - Annual number of                       or as departments of secondary institutions.
acceprora of birth-control devices under auspicea of nationtal family              Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning progren.                                                                     primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the corre-
Family plannina - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                      sponding level..
married woa  of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control              Adult literacy rate (percent) - Litarata adults (able to read and write)a
davices to all married cona  in san   g. group.                                       apercentage of total adult population aged 15 years and  -s..
POOP AND NUTRITION                                                                   CONSUMPTION
Indem of food production per capita (1970-100) - Index number of psr                 Passenger cars (per thousand pagulation) - Passenger cars comprise motor care
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                   seating less than eight persons; sexludes mambulances, hearose  and military
Per capita supply of calories (percent of requirements) - Computed from               vehicles.
energy equivalent of nat food supplies available in country per capita             Radio receivers (per thousand pooulaticm) - All typee of reteivers for radio
per day. Available supplies compriae domestic Production, imports less              broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; sexabeso unlicenaed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal fsed, seeds,            receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wmas in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in dierributiop.  Ee-                effect; dare for recent years may not h  aemper..bls since meet osutries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on phyeiological needs for nor-              abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering euvirtomeotal temperature, body                TV receivers (per thousand population) - TV receivers for broadcant to gemard.
weights, age and sax distributions of populatinn, and allowing 10 per-                public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV recaivers im coun-
cent for waste at household level,                                                    tries and in ye.ar  when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supplyo  pr?otedin (scams oar day) - P-ctein content of per               Newspaper circulation inp- thousse  suaio) - Shews the average circula-
capita netsupyo fon   e  day.  Net supply of food is defined asmino   diygnrlicre    esae~  defined as a periodical publi-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                cation devoted primarily to recording general news .  It is considered to
a minimum allowaoce of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 gramss                he "daily" if it appears at least foot times a wek.
of animal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be Animal protein.           Cinema annul attendance per rcaite per year - Based on the number of tickets
These s:andards are lower than those of 75 gramss of total protein and                sold during the year, including admissions to drive-in cinmas and aWhile
23 grams of animal protein as am average for the world, propose.d by                  units..
PAO in the Third world Pond Durvmy.
Per capita protein supply from animal end Pulse - Protein supply of food            EMPLOYMEN
derived from animals and pulses In gram  pint day.                                 Total la.bor force (thousands) - Kosnantoaly active person, inclding armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rats (pmer thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-              forces and unemplaoyd but excluding housewives, students, etc.  Oaf  i-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this aeg  group.-                          tions in various countries are met ca"areble.
Pmale (percent) - Pamle labor force as percentage of total labor force..
HEALTH                                                                                Aariculture (percent) - Labor force In farming, forestry, hooting and fishing
Life expectancy at birth (years) - Average number of years of life                      as percentage of total labor forces.
remaining at birth; usually five-year averages ending in i9go, 1970,               Industry (percent) - Labor force in miming, cnstruction, manufacturing and
and 1971.                                                                             electricity, water and gas ma percestage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                Participation rate (percent) - total. sale, and female - Total, sale, end
one year of age per thousand live birhts.                                             femal  labor force as paro...rtgas of their  opsre  popuolaron..
Access to safe water (percenit of population) - total, urban, and rural -                Thene are MD0's edjusted perticipotiom  races reflecting   e-o
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                   structure of the population. end long time trend.
safe water supply (includee treated surface waters or untreated but                Economic dependency ratio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and ovr to
uncontaminated water such as that from protected boreholee, springs,                   the labor force in age group of 15-64 years.
and san itary walls) as percsntages of their respective populations.
In en urban area a public fountain or standpost located not mere                  INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house nay be considered as being within re.-                Percentas. of privtet income (both in cash and kind) received by richest 57
sonabla access of that house.  In rural areas reaonable access would                   percent, richest 20 percent, poorstr 20 peprent, end poorest 40 perect
imply that the housewife or mebers of the household do not have to                    of households.
spend a disproportionate part of ths day in fetching the family's
water needs.-                                                                     POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to eacreta disposal (percent of population) - total, urban, and                EstimLated absolute poverty income level (00$ per capita) - urban and rural -
rural - Number of people (total, urban, and rural) served by excrata                     Absolute poverty iscoma level is that income level below which a minimal
dispoa  me I.  p.-aronrgas of their repective populations.  femrsta                    nutnitionally adquate diet plus essential no-food requirementa is not
disposal may include the collection end disposal, with or without                      affordable.
treatment, of human secrete and waste-water by water-borne, systems                Estimated relative poverty income level (UPS$ per capita) - urban and rural -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.,                                  Relative poverty Income level is that income level less than one-third
Population par physician - Population divided by number of practicing                    per capi ta personal incomev of the country.
physicians qualifisd from  a medical school at university level.                   Estimated population below poverty income level (percent) - urban and rEa 
Population par nursing person - Population divided by number of                          Pecn   fpplto    ura   n   ua)wooeeihr"bouepo~o
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                      "relative poor" whichever is greater.
onnistant nurses.
Efoon..io sod Sotia1 Data Division
foce...ic Anulysin and Projeotioon Depertertt



Pea 4
ECCONOMICC DEVELOPMEN8T DATA SHEET
A CT UA L                                                   P ROJ E CT ED                                          AnnualosallronGthoR.t.
1974         1975          1976         17            198           17           190            95           190        1975- 77   19718-0    1981-87    1986-90         1974      17          90       18 
A,        NATIONAL ACCOU18TS
fIiIueu  US$  c1975 pr-c-)                                                                                                                                                                                                             As Penn-t atOf
1.  CDP (Market Prices)                                    117,484      124,166       155,302       141.596       150.581      159.736       169,176      055,002       590,306         6.5         6.1         8.5        8.9        99.8       97.9    190.3      103        8.
0.  Gains fr-  TT                                              258          -           1,014         3,084           444            68         -436           624        2.781          ...                                .0.2                  2.1      -0.3       -0.3      8 7
3.  Cross Doneoic I.-n                                     117,742       124,166      136.316       144,680       131,025      159,804       148,740       254,578      393,087         7.1         5.3          8.8       9.1       100.D    100.0       180.0    100.0   1o00
4.  Import                                                  13,408        14,333        14,236       14,145        14,904        14,481       14,258        21,582        25,783       -2.8         0.3          0.6      10.6         13.1       8.8       8.5        8.5      9 
5.  Exprt-Volume                                             8,6651        9,427         9,:507       9,712        10,671       11,891        13,023        19,295       28,821         3.9        10.2         8.2        8.5          7.4       6.7       7 .7       7.6      7.4
6.Epors-T    dsrd893                                                   9407         1D,20         12,786       11,115        11,959        12,187       19.919        31,702         5 .7      -0.5          9.4        9.7         7.6        8.8       7.         7.8      8 
7.  Resorc  Cap (4-6)                                         4,45         4,906         5.715        2,349         3,889        2.522         1,071         1,663         4,9                                                          55        99         1.         .        .
8.  Consi_spion                                             87,195        87,53        106,515      111,391       121. 250     126,0179    1131,199        1693,99      296,85          86           .            .        8.9         74.1      07.1      77.8       76.2     7.
9.     ..rtmot                                          3702'         31479        33 516        34,438        33.636       36.307        39,12         62292        100,1303      -24          44           8.7      10.0         31.4      238        3.        245       55
10.  N.tional  SeVinge                                       20,220       24,471        27,170        79,7001      26,7106       30233         33.860        50,152       9008D0         0.7        40          1.          D1         2.          85       2.         21       2.
51.  Doe,etnit Iscings                 30547         26,373       29,801        33,089        29,767       33,785        37,341        60,29        96,222,2.7                 4.3010.1997                       15.9       22 9      21.2       2326    1
0   M ERCHANDISE TRADE
.tOli.,eo   0   tcuto    rcs                                                                                                                                                                                                             As Percent ofToa          era
Con-er C-ds                             ~~~~~~1,459   1,199         1.399         1.211         17,768       1.~748        1,900         3,624        4,595        -8.0         6.2         7.2        7 .7       121.5      10.1      121        11.4    10.0
Po-sle..n  Derlst-te-                                2,840         2,875         3,172         3,824        8.09          5,10          5 053        11,596       22,743         4.6       10.0          b.         9.1        22.5      31.7       37.       365    5.. 5
Other Isleomedlar  Goode                              3,223         4,212         3753          3,897        4,256         4,010        4,143         6,964        14,906        -3.1       .4.42                  13.:7        41.3      32.4       25.7      21.9     25.4
Capital Goods          3,119         3,934        3,619         3.111         3,522        3.685         3,905         9,577        19,685      -11.5         1.2         12.4      11.0        24.7       25.8      24.95      30.22 1,4  100  24.7 25.8  4.9  302 3999
Tsta1 (POB)                                    12,641        12,210        12,383        12,023       13.639        14.,5 54      15,701       31,761        15,947        -5.7         0.9          7. 7     10.8       100.0    100.0    100.0        100.0   100.0
2. E.p-l.                                                                                                                                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~As Percet of Toal aprc
Coffer                                 980         ~~~~         ~~~~~~       ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~         ~~934  2,398  2,425  088  2,51,96 343    530          93         2.            3.0       3.0         12.3      221.7      13.2        .        .7I.
Other AgcOcol1ur1 C.dOA                               3,415        3,41           3,0              80 a  :29  3883  3.8E    ,8           123         1,0           20,'33         8.7         5.7          5.9       6,1        63.8       32.0      3.        302        81                4
nOecrels                                  ~~~~      ~~~~~~         ~~~~~~         ~~~~641  1,22  1082  963  1.095  999    195           2,10          3,8951      -1.6         2.3          4.7       4.8          8.1       80.       4.3,       6.1      53
Sn..P.....o  Cood                                       634          645                          980        1,304         1,408        1,581         3,234         6,05        26.0         6.           7.7       7.780                  8.          .        8.       8.4I
-los -cscd  .sods                                   2,086        2,379          2,4-49       3,383         4,614         5,3951        6,747       15. 914       35,793        13.6       10.2         12.       12.          26.2      27.9       39,.0     43.8     4.4
Orhor Goods                                              195          709           301           278           181           327          356           539           778      -1.7          2.           2.        7.6          2.4       2,3       2.         1.5      1.
ToEd1 (POD)                                      7,951       8,670         10,128        12,220       12,651        14,967        17,288        36,350       72,453         3.9        10.5          2.8       8.5        100.      100.0     100.0      100.0    100 0
C.   SECTOR oOUPt!T
(Shar   fSP  tPcs  Cost.a  197) prIce)
1.  Aecloo-t-re                                                10.6        10.5          ID.0           10.5          101          10,5          10.3           0.8           7 .5       5.5         .5.         52         5 .2
2.  lodusery                                  ~~~~ ~ ~~~~          ~ ~~~~~~            ~~~~~39.2  394  405.1  39.7  39.  39. 3   39.2          39.5          390         49          5.7          8.7       9.0
3.  SerIces                                                    50,0        390.1         48,9           49 .0         50.0         50.1          50.5          517           52.         6.4          .           .          .
D.        PIICES (1975'.100)
1.Eaoc  Price Oe,de                                         99          100          112            133           127           133          140           202           747        10.4        I.,          7,        3 .7
2.IpotpieDdo9                                                            120           103            112          120           131           144          094           242         4.6        8.7          6.1       4.5
3  FTrt                                                                   IoTaeIda  0  0  109         119          106           102            97           10           11
s. eealPrieloe                                            78          10           141            202           78so.                                        
5.   oAge~ gobne  eac                                            84         100           131            174           222....
C.        SELECTED INDICATORS                                     1975-77    0978-80         1981-85       1986-90                                                   0.         ME -W1033E2T                         1970             1935
1.ICO                                                      4.231        3,124          2,925        2,979                                                           1.  Labor Pote,..     lon                29.4              34.1
2-  lopoer Elasrlolty                        -~~~~~ ~~~~~~~              ~~0.904  9.844  1.00  1.086                                                  2.  O-aplosmeet
3.  A-er9g  NAtional  as-ge Rsro                             0,213        0.193          0.212         0.228                                                                 (oF C.1.I                           7 .5             5.0
4.  M.arei-I fational Sa-iega Rate                           0.300        2.413          0,287         0,289                                                          3.  Employmer  itilin
s.  Iapota/GDP                                               0.1007       0.091          0.085         0,08                                                                  (, share)                         27.2              32.4
6.  Ieoeseo.tfGDP                                            0.248        0,220          0.239         0.252                                                        3.1.  Ag4rlfalsr                            43.8             39.5
7.  eaaource Oap/EDP                   0.025        0.017         ~~~~~~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0,008  0.008                                   3.2.   Industry                             180               19.8
a   3.3.   Sarvioca                ~~~~       ~~38.2  40.7
F.       PUBLLIC P1I(02E Al                                        1974         1975           1976         1977
TAs -er-ee Of CDP)
1.  Carrent Revenu                                             107           9.5          00,7          10.
1.1.  Ta.  R.-a-o                                                10.3          9.4         10.2            9.7
2.  Corre.ct Eapeaditu-re                                       9,5         8.7           9.6            9.
3.  Currat Saviege                                              1.2         0.8           1.1            1.2
4.  CaplcaI EPandi-tote                                         0.6          0.8          1.0            1.2
4.1.  Goa.- -teFiPled Capitol Por-to-                             0.4          0.4          0.4            0.4
a!Federl -I    rme                                                                                                                                                                                                                                April 5. 1979
so    ppl-cbie



ANNEX I
Page 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
(Million US$)
A C T U A L                           PRELIMINARY              P R 0 J E C T E D
1974          1975          1976           1977            1978           1979          1980           1985           1990
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
1.     Exports (incI. NFS)                         8,471         9,376         10,797        12,808           13,376        15,704         18,124        38,648         76,818
2.     Imports (incl. NFS)                        14,678        14,308         14,475        14,020           15,767        16,730         18,064        36,635         75,958
3.     Resource Balance                           -6,207        -4,932         -3,678        -1,212           -2,391        -1,026             60         2,013            860
4.     Net Factor Service Income                   - 916        -1,770         -2,339        -2,825           -3,420        -3,838         -4,297        -7,454        -11,589
A. Net Interest Payments                      - 652         -1,498        -1,809         -2,104          -2,500         -2,880        -3,234         -5,288        -8,145
B. Direct Investment Income                   - 248          - 235         - 380          - 455           - 575          - 542         - 590         -1,030        -1,775
c. Other Factor Service Income                -  16          -  37         - 150          - 266           - 345          - 416         - 473         -1,136        -1,669
5.     Current Transfers (Net)                         1              2             4            -                76              7             7              7             7
6.     Balance on Current Account                 -7,122        -6,700         -6,013        -4,037           -5,735        -4,857         -4,230        -5,434        -10.723
7.     Net Private Direct Investment                 887           892            962           810              800           770            760            750           750
8.     Medium- and Long-Term Loans
a. Traditional Sources_/
(i) Disbursements                       1,956          1,612         2,054          2,553           2,888          3,722         4,204          7,035         11,230
(ii) Amortization                         - 739         - 992        -1,350         -1,701          -1,842         -1,652        -1,960         -4,421         -7,048
(iii) Net Disbursements                    1,217           620            703           852            1,046         2,070          2.244         2,614          4,182
b. Financial Credits
(i) Disbursements                        5,103         4,524         5,978          5,940          11,364          3,168         7,247          9,088         17,765
(ii) Amortization                       -1,181         -1,194        -1,669         -2,426          -3,526         -4,150        -5,734         -5,920         -9,719                     1
(iii) Net Disbursements                    3,922         3,330          4,309         3,514            7,838         - 982          1,513         3,168          8,046
9.     Use of IMF Resources                          -                7           -             -                -             -              -              -             -
00
10.     Short-term  Capital and Capital n.e.i.    138               789          2,294         - 440            - 122            -             -              -             -
11.     Reserves (-= increasg)
a. Reserve Accumulation-                         958         1,062        -2,255          - 699          -3,825          2,999         - 287         -1,098         -2,255
b. Dollar Valuation Adjustment                   185           176         - 252          -  16           - 660            -              -             -              -
c. Changes in Reserve Levelc/                 1,143          1,238        -2,507          - 715          -4,485          2,999          - 287        -1,098         -2.255
12.     Foreign Exchange Reserves                   5,272         4,034          6,541         7,256           11,741         8,742          9,029        10,127         12,382
(End of Period)
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
1.     Total M&LT Loans                            7,179         7,005          9,482         9,738           15,349
1.1    I8BRD                                         242            426           498           425              705
1.2    IDB                                           203            167           186            270             300
1.3    Governments                                   518            512         1,251         1,184            1,311
1.4    Suppliers                                   1,088         1,376          1,300         1,100            1,186
1.5    Bonds                                          25            -             269           819            1,000
1.6    Financial Credits                           5,103         4,524          5,978         5,940           10,847
C. Memorandum Items
1.     Grant Element of Total Commitments              2.5            2.5           2.5            2.8              ...
2.     Average Interest (Percent)                       9.5           9.5            9.4           9.3             8.2
3.     Average Maturity (Years)                        9.0            9.9           8.3            8.9            10.6
a/ Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits and bond issues.
b/ IFS Line 79d.
c/  IFS Line Id.                                                                                                                                                                 Ari l 5. 1979
not available



-  29  -                                                i
Fcge 6
DEBT AND CREDITWORTHINESS
Actual                       Preliminary
1974         1975         1976         1977         1978
A. Nediu,- and Long-Term Debt
(Disbursed only)
1. Total Debt Outstanding (end of period)                          17,166       21,171       25,985       32,037       40,968
a.  By type of Debt
(1) Financial Credits                                     11,211       14,561       18,194       21,528       28,849
(2) Traditional Lenders!/                                  5,955        6,610        7,791       10,509       12,119
b.  By type of Borrower
(1) Public and Publicly Guaranteed                         8,533       11,461       14,852       19,309       24,704
(2) Private                                                8,633        9,710       11,133       12,729       16,264
2, Met Debt: Service                                                2,572        3,683        4,825        6,231        7,851
a.  Totatl Interest                                            1,370        1,863        2,091        2,462         3,200
b.  Net Interest                                                  652        1,498        1,810        2,103        2,500
3. Public Debt Service                                              1,287        1,550        1,982        2,505        3,923
B. Debt Burden
1. Net Debit Service Ratiob/                                         30.4         39.3         44.7         48.6         58.7
2.  Total Net Debt Service Ratios/                                   33.3         41.8         48.2         52.2         63.0
3.  Public Debt Service Ratio                                        15.2         16.5         18.4         19.6         29.3
4.  Liquidity RatioY/                                                23.0         33.3         43.0         39.2          ...
5.  Net Debt Service/GDP                                              2.3          3.0          3.3          3.8          4.1
6. Public Debt Service/GDP                                            1.2          1.3          1.4          1.5          2.0
7. Total DODD/GDP                                                    15.6         17.1         17.8         19.3         21.1
C. Terms
1.  Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD!                                10.9         10.9          9.9          9.5         10.0
2. Net Debt Service/Total DODe_                                      20.5         21.5         22.8         24.0         24.5
D. Dependency Ratios for MNLT Debt
1. Gross Disbursements/Iimports (incl. NFS)                          48.1         42.9         55.5         60.6         90.4
2. Net Transfer/limports (incl. NFS)f/                               25.7         14.6         20.2         13.6         36.1
3. Net Transfer/Cross Disbursements                                  53.4         34.0         36.4         22.4         39.9
E. Exposure
1.  IBRD Disb./Gross Total Disb.                                      3.5          4.1          2.2          3.5          2.6
2.  1BRD DOD/Total DOD                                                4.9          5.2          5.0          4.8          4.6
3.  IBRD Debt Service/Net Debt Service                                3.0          2.5          2.4          2.9          2.6
F.  External Debt (Disbursed Only)                                              Outstanding December 31, 1978 (Prel.)
Amount                                 Percent
1.  IBRD                                                                1,812                                   4.4
2.  Other ENultilateral                                                   995                                   2.5
3.  Governtents                                                         3,328                                   8.1
4.  Suppliers                                                           3,570                                   8.7
5.  Bonds                                                               2,208                                   5.4
6.  Financ:Lal Credits                                                 28,849                                  70.4
7.  Other                                                                 206                                   0.5
8. Total M&LT Debt                                                     40,968                                 100.0
9.  Total Public M&LT Debt                                             24,704 (est.)                           60.3
G.  Debt Profile
1. Net Debt Service 1979-85/Total DOD end of 1978                                             209.6
a/  Includes multilateral agencies, bilateral lenders, suppliers' credits, bond issues and M&LT Loans n.e.i.
b/  Net Debt Service as percent of exportEa of goods and NFS.
c/  Including Direct Investment Income in debt service.
d/ Net Debt Service as a percent of exports of goods and NFS plus exchange (at beginning of year) in excess
of 3 months imports.
e/  As percent of DOD at beginning of year.
f/  Net transfer is equal to total net disbursements minus gross interest.
...  not available
Note: Debt service ratios have been calcujlated on the basis of net rather than gross interest payments in
crder to take into account interest earned upon Brazil's international reserves.
April 5, 1979



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 1
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN BRAZIL
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS
(As of April 30, 1979)
Amount less
Loan # Year                Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
Forty-three loans fully disbursed                                  1,360.5
756   1971  Brazil                              Ports                45.0          10.9
828   1972  Companhia Siderurgica               Industry             64.5            .1
Paulista
829   1972  Centrais Eletricas de Minas         Power                60.0            .1
Gerais - Sao Simao
853   1972  Brazil                              Land Settlement       6.7           1.5
923   1973  Furnas Centrais Eletricas -         Power               125.0          35.4
Itumbiara
924   1973  Brazil                              Agro-Industry        54.0          31.2
1008   1974  Cia. Hidro Eletrica do Sao          Power                81.0          32.4
Francisco-Paulo Afonso IV
1009   1974  Banco Nacional da Habitacao         Water Supply         36.0           3.2
1067   1974  Brazil                              Education            23.5          17.4
1074   1975  Rede Ferroviaria Federal            Railways            175.0          28.1
1075   1975  Brazil                              Roads               110.0          35.6
1151   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Nacional  Industry                 95.0          76.6
1152   1975  Companhia Siderurgica Paulista  Industry                 60.0          54.6
1153   1975  Brazil                              Agriculture          23.0          16.6
1171   1975  FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista          Railways             75.0          36.4
1195   1976  Brazil                              Rural Development  12.0            10.9
1206   1976  Brazil                              Development Bank   85.0            68.0
1207   1976  Brazil                              Feeder Roads         55.0          53.0
1249   1976  Brazil                              Agriculture          40.0          36.2
1256   1976  Petrobras Fertilizantes             Fertilizer           50.0          12.6
1257   1976  Companhia Paranaense de             Power                52.0          33.5
Energia Eletrica - COPEL



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
A. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF LOANS (Continued)
(As of Apr:il 30, 1979)
Amount less
Loan #  Year               Borrower               Purpose      Cancellations  Undisbursed
(US$ Million)
1300    1976  Eletrobras                        Power                50.0           39.8
1302    1976  ]3razil                           Nutrition             19.0          17.9
1309    1976  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water Supply             40.0           29.2
1317    1976  ]3razil                          Agro-Industry         83.0           83.0
1343    1977  ELETROSUL                         Power                82.0          48.7
1362    1977  State of Minas Gerais             Rural Development   42.0            27.2
1406    1977  ]?etrobras Fertilizantes          Fertilizer           64.0           59.2
1411    1977  Fertilizantes Vale do             Fertilizer           82.0           49.2
Rio Grande S.A.--VALEFERTIL
1452    1977  ]Brazil                          Education             32.0          30.9
1488    1977  Brazil                            Rural Development   17.0            16.4
1525    1978  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sewerage                110.0          110.0
1537    1978  Brazil                            Rural Development   24.0            23.8
1538    1978  ELETROBRAS                        Power               130.0          130.0
1557    1978  Brazil                            Roads               114.0          114.0
1562    1978  COPESUL                           Petrochemicals       85.0           82.5
1563    1978  Brazil                           Urban Transport       88.0           84.5
1568    1978  Brazil                           Agric. Extension   100.0            100.0
1589    1978  Brazil                            Rural Development   37.0            36.3
1654 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Sites & Services    93.0                93.0
1656 /1 1979  Banco Nacional da Habitacao   Water & Sewerage   100.0               100.0
1660 717 1979  Valesul Aluminio S.A.            Aluminum             98.0           98.0
Total                                              4,178.2 /2
Of which has been repaid to the Bank                 544.5
Total now outstanding                              3,633.7
Amount sold                            45.8
of which has been repaid             37.7            8.1
Total now held by Bank                             3,625.6
Total undisbursed                                                 1,967.9
/1   Not yet effective.
/2   No IDA credits have been made to Brazil.  On May 31, 1979, the Executive
Directors approved a loan of US$26 million for a rural development project
in the State of Sergipe.



ANNEX II
-  32-                                     Page 3
B.  STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS  (as of April 30. 1979
Fiscal Year                            Obligor                                       Type of Business          Amount in US$ million
Loans    Equity    Total
1957               Siemens do Brasil Cia. de Eletricidade                       Electrical Equipment         2.00       -       2.00
1958               Olinkraft, S.A. Celulose e Papel                             Pulp and Paper               1.20       -       1.20
1958               D.L.R. Plasticos do Brasil, S.A.                             Automotive Parts             0.45       -       0.45
1958               Willys-Overland do Brasil, S.A.
Industria e Comercio                                      Motor Vehicles               2.45       -       2.45
1959               Companhia Mineira de Cimento Portland, S.A.                  Cement                       1.20       -       1.20
1959               Champion Celulose, S.A.                                      Pulp                         4.00       -       4.00
1966/1968/
1972               Acos Villares, S.A.                                          Steel                       8.00      1.93      9.93
1966/1969          Papel e Celulose Catarinense, S.A.                           Pulp and Paper              3.78      3.41      7.19
1967/1972          Ultrafertil, S.A. - Industria e Comercio
de Fertilizantes                                          Fertilizers                  8.22     3.03    11.25
1969               Petroquimica Uniao, S.A.                                     Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88      8.38
1970               Poliolefinas, S.A. Industria e Comercio                      Petrochemicals              5.50      2.88      8.38
1971               Oxitepo, S.A. Industria e Comercio                           Petrochemicals              4.60      1.44      6.04
1971               Rio Grande - Companhia de Celulose do Sul                    Pulp                        4.90       -        4.90
1972/1975          Companhia de Cimento Nacional de Minas                       Cement                     29.14      3.20    32.34
1973/1974/1977    Companhia Siderurgica da Guanabara - COSIGUA                  Steel                      76.96      7.50    84.46
1973               Capital Market Development Fund - FUMCAP                     Capital Market
Development                5.00       -       5.00
1973/1978          Empresa de Desenvolvimento de Recursos                       Nickel Mining and
Minerais - CODEMIN, S.A.                                   Refining                   85.00     8.34    93.34
1974               Industrias Villares, S.A.                                    Elevators and Indus-
trial Equipment            6.00        -      6.00
1974               Fabrica de Tecidos Tatuape, S.A.                             Textiles                   31.00       -       31.00
1975               Capuava Carbonos Industrias Ltd.                             Carbon Black                6.18      1.08      7.26
1975               Oxiteno Nordeste, S.A.                                       Petrochemicals             10.00       -       10.00
1976               Santista Industria - Textil do Nordeste, S.A.                Textiles                    6.45      1.00      7.45
1976               Tecanor S.A. - Textil Catarinense do Nordeste                'Textiles                   6.00       -        6.00
1977               FMB S.A. Productos Metalurgicos         -                    Iron and Aluminum
Castings                  20.00       -      20.00
1977               Mineracao Rio do Norte S.A.                                  Mining                     15.00       -       15.00
1978               Cimetal Siderurgia S.A.                                      Iron and Steel              7.0       3.0      10.0
a
1979               Volvo do Brasil Motores e Veicules S.A.                      Motor Vehicles             60.00      5.00    65.00
Total Gross Commitments                                                               415.53    44.69   460.22
Less Cancellations, Terminations. Repayments and Sales                                312.04      8.52   320.55
Total Commitments Now Feld by IFC                                                     103.49    36.17   139.67
Total Undisbursed                                                                      74.38    11.94    86.32



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 4
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
There are now 39 effective Bank loans under disbursement:
Loan No.
756       Santos Port Project:  US$45 million loan of June 21, 1971; Effective
Date: October 29, 1971; Closing Date: June 30, 1979. After long
delays, project execution is proceeding satisfactorily although it
appears now that project completion will not be realized until early
1980. Accordingly, a postponement of the closing date will be
required. In spite of tariff increases, the financial condition of
the Port of Santos continues to be unsatisfactory. Price escalation
for civil works continues to increase the project cost. All of the
increase is in local currency and is expected to be covered by
additional allocations from Brazil's federal Port Authority,
PORTOBRAS.
828       COSIPA Steel Expansion Project, Stage II:  US$64.5 million loan
of June 14, 1972; Effective Date: October 5, 1972; Closing
Date: June 15, 1979. The Stage II project was substantially
completed in September 1978 at a total project cost of US$970.4
million. This is twenty-six months behind the appraisal schedule
and at a cost of US$593.6 million (157%) higher than anticipated
at the time of appraisal. Production reached 2.05 million tons
of raw steel equivalent in 1978 compared with 1.54 million tons
in 1977 and 2.34 million tons forecast for 1979 when the plant
is operating at full capacity. In spite of the capital cost
increase the project remains competitive because of the corre-
sponding increase in international prices in steel. Emphasis
will now be placed by management on reducing production costs
and financial and administrative expenses to improve internal
cash generation.
829       Sao Simao Hydroelectric Project:  US$60 million loan of June 14,
1972; Effective Date: September 20, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, 1979. Construction of the project is proceeding
according to schedule. An anticipated 50% cost overrun, which does
not affect the economic justification of the project, is being
covered by local and foreign borrowing. The first four units of the
power plant were commissioned in June of 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
Loan No.
853       Alto Turi Land Settlement Project:  US$6.7 million loan of July 24,
1972; Effective Date: February 15, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1980.
The road component of the project now completed was reduced from the
original 306 km to 238 km. The settlement agency, COLONE, has pre-
pared revised farm development plans whose credit component, to be
financed by public financial institutions, will be significantly
higher than originally estimated, although still low in comparison
to other settlement projects. Administrative delays in the release
of public funds for farm credit, road construction and COLONE working
capital requirements and difficulties in recruiting project staff de-
layed the start of project execution. COLONE continues to be hampered
by the lack of assured financing, and this problem is compounded by
cost overruns presently amounting to about 240%.
923       Itumbiara Hydroelectric Project:  US$125 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: October 30, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1982. The project is about 65% completed. Major procurement has
been completed. However, commissioning of the units is expected to
be delayed about 6 months behind appraisal estimates, due to
geological problems encountered and very heavy rains which delayed
construction of the earthfill dam. The present cost estimate is
about 54% over the appraisal cost estimate, 10% of which is due to
the need for increased physical quantities due to geological problems.
The rest of the increase is due to a substantial increase in the size
of the transmission works and to an increase in the cost of civil
works. However, the project remains economically justified.
924       Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$54 million loan of August 1,
1973; Effective Date: March 11, 1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Disbursements for sub-loans totalling US$14.7 million were made
during 1975-76 under procedures which were not in accordance with
the Loan Agreement. These funds have now been prepaid by the Govern-
ment, reducing the effective loan amount to US$39.3 million. Commit-
ments under this loan are almost at a standstill as a result of
competing credit lines at subsidized rates and a general slow-down
in industrial investments. Sub-loan commitments and disbursements
are more than 2 years behind schedule. The Bank has agreed to an
interim postponement of the closing date to June 30, 1979, pending
a review with the new Government, which took office in March 1979,
on the prospects for future disbursements.
1008      Paulo Afonso IV Hydroelectric Power Project:  US$81 million loan of
June 17, 1974; Effective Date: April 15, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980. Resettlement of the 9,700 families displaced by
the Sobradinho reservoir has been satisfactorily completed, and new
towns and villages to house the displaced population have been con-
structed. The construction of the underground power station and
Sobradinho Dam is proceeding on schedule. Construction of the
transmission lines and sub-stations is about 12 months behind
schedule. The original Closing Date of December 31, 1978 has been
postponed to December 31, 1980.



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Loan No.
1009      Minas Gerais Water Supply Project:  US$36 million loan of June 17,
1974; Effective Date: January 9, 1975; Closing Date: August 15,
1979. This project is proceeding satisfactorily. Thirty-one sub-
projects have been satisfactorily completed out of a total of 41.
The remaining 10 subprojects are under construction and progressing
well. As of March 31, 1979, 91% of the loan proceeds had been
disbursed. It is envisaged that the loan will be fully disbursed
by June 1979. In early 1979, the Government increased COPASA's tariff
by 36% which should allow the company to operate on a sound financial
basis, at least during the first half of 1979.
1067      Second Education Project:  US$23.5 million loan of December 27,
1974; Effective Date:  April 17, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31,
1979. Project execution is one year behind schedule mainly because
of delays by the government in providing counterpart financing.
Project implementation units have been established in all eight
project states and these, together with the main project unit,
PREMEN, are working well. The pre-investment studies in the
Northeast, financed under the loan, have been completed and have
yielded useful information for future sector investment planning.
1074      Second Railway Project:  US$175 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 17, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1979.
Project execution is progressing satisfactorily and appropriate
steps are being taken to strengthen project management and control.
Cost estimates for the Investment Plan, of which the project is a
part, have increased substantially on several items. Therefore,
the Plan has been revised and several items have been deleted or
postponed. This revision is not expected to affect significantly
the items included under Bank financing. Although the financial
situation of the borrower has improved, further improvement is
necessary for it to be able to effectively carry out its investment
program. The Government has decided to deregulate most freight
tariffs and has started to make payments to the railway to meet
deficits on uneconomic services. These actions should significantly
improve the borrower's financial position.
1075      Fifth Highway Project:  US$110 million loan of January 17, 1975;
Effective Date:  May 15, 1975; Closing Date:  December 31, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. Roadworks are
progressing well, and detailed engineering studies for road con-
struction and road rehabilitation are now completed. Implementation
of the road maintenance component is making progress.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 7
Loan No.
1151      CSN Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$95.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: April 30, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The latest cost estimate is US$3,530 million, an
increase of about 67% over the appraisal estimate due to a slower
than expected start of project implementation, higher than expected
construction costs, difficulties in holding the scope of the project
to its essentials and some problems in the management of the expan-
sion program. At the request of the Bank, a thorough review of the
project was made. Substantial changes were made resulting in better
management and control of the project. The project is now progress-
ing satisfactorily in line with the revised cost estimate and
schedule, and remains economically justified.
1152      COSIPA Steel Expansion Project - Stage III:  US$60.0 million loan
of August 4, 1975; Effective Date: March 4, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980. Because of the delay in the Stage II project, the
Stage III project is being revised with the assistance of consultants.
Stage III is proceeding at a reduced pace in part because of un-
certainty of Government allocations of the necessary funds to fully
finance the project. COSIPA has released the preliminary report of
the project based on the revision mentioned above. The preliminary
estimate of the revised project cost is US$1.7 billion which is
44% above the appraisal estimate. However, the project remains
economically justified.
1153      Lower Sao Francisco Polders Project:  US$23.0 million loan of
August 4, 1975; Effective Date: November 25, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1979. Construction on this project was delayed
because of heavy rains in the project area, and serious flooding
in February/March 1979 has further delayed project progress.
Current cost estimates show an 80% increase over the appraisal
estimate of US$56.5 million. These increases have resulted from
design changes, rapid increases in the costs of civil works and
equipment, and in the cost of land expropriation. The waters
from the recent floods have substantially receded, and construction
is expected to resume at a normal rate later in 1979.
1171      Third Railway Project (FEPASA):  US$75.0 million loan of November 12,
1975; Effective Date: March 24, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Project execution is proceeding satisfactorily. The Transport Master
Plan Study for Sao Paulo is substantially completed. The technical
assistance program which is intended to improve FEPASA's operations,
marketing, and data processing systems is showing results. The
Government recently deregulated most freight tariffs and is starting
to make payments to the railways to meet deficits on uneconomic
services. These actions should assist in improving FEPASA's
financial position. Preliminary results of the Transport Master Plan
indicate that a major redimensioning of the railway will be required.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 8
Loan No.
1195      Rio Grande do Norte Rural Development Project:  US$12.0 million loan
of Ilarch 1, 1976; Effective Date:  July 30, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1981. Phase I of this project ended satisfactorily in the
areas of extension, marketing, applied research, and health. Two
potential problems could affect Phase II implementation: (i) the
possibility of a severe drought, and (ii) the relocation of the
POLONORDESTE program between government agencies and between cities,
and the possibility of a reorganization. The recent change in
state administration is having a favorable impact on the project.
The new administration is already taking drought-relief measures,
and has indicated its strong support of the project, and particularly
of Phase II implemenltation.
1206      Development Banking ]?roject:  US$85.0 million loan of March 1, 1976;
Effective Date: Augast 26, 1976; Closing Date: September 30, 1979.
Project implementation is behind schedule. The major reasons are:
(i) differences between the relending terms of the agencies concerned
and those required under the Loan Agreement; (ii) a leveling off of
the industry's demand for investment financing; and (iii) resource
constraints of the National Development Bank (BNDE). To accelerate
conmitment of the loan, the Bank agreed to amend the Loan Agreement
so as to finance the full foreign exchange cost of subprojects.
However, commitment of the loan is progressing slowly because of
the existence of competing credit lines at subsidized interest rates
ancl a general slow-down in investments. The Closing Date for
this loan has been postponed to September 30, 1979 to allow dis-
bursements to continue while the Government and the Bank hold
discussions concerning the project.
1207      Secondary and Feeder Roads Project:  US$55.0 million loan of
March 1, 1976; Effective Date: July 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Six sub-loans totalling US$106 million have
been committed with a total Bank contribution of US$25 million.
Prospects are good that the full amount of the loan will be
committed by September/October 1979.
1249      Agricultural Research I Project:  US$40.0 million loan of June 23,
1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981. Project implementation experienced a signifi-
cant slow-down because of changes in the higher administrative
positions at EMBRAPA, which took place after federal and state
elections. Imposed hiring constraints significantly affected
the civil works, consultant services, and training components of
this project. The outlook for the remainder of 1979 should be more
favorable with a resumption of normal hiring procedures since the
new government has nlow taken office.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 9
Loan No.
1256      Araucaria Fertilizer Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19, 1976;
Effective Date: July 20, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Project completion is expected to be delayed by about 15 months due
to delays in delivery of equipment to be provided by Brazilian
suppliers. Total project cost has increased to US$321 million,
which is US$49 million over the appraisal estimate of US$272
million. All the increase is in local currency and with the
planned increases in local loans and equity commitment the project
has no financing gap.
1257      COPEL Power Distribution Project:  US$52.0 million loan of May 19,
1976; Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1979. Project execution is on schedule and about 80% completed.
Procurement under the loan has also been completed. Disbursements
lag about 40% behind appraisal forecast, but the loan is expected
to be fully utilized by the closing date.
1300      Northeast Power Distribution:  US$50.0 million loan of August 27,
1976; Effective Date: January 31, 1977; Closing Date: June 30,
1980. Project implementation is about 6 months behind schedule
because of initial difficulties in obtaining a Government definition
regarding participation by Brazilian suppliers. Procurement is
now progressing satisfactorily. After a slow start, the agreed
targets for connection of low income households have been widely
exceeded. Substantial improvements in the management of the project
companies have been achieved, particularly in the areas of financial
control and planning of COELBA and CELPE.
1302      Nutrition Research and Development:  US$19.0 million loan of
October 1, 1976; Effective Date: December 30, 1976; Closing
Date: December 31, 1980. The INAN project unit is seriously
understaffed which is adversely affecting the progress of the
project. The nutrition delivery system's field tests are pro-
ceeding reasonably well. Disbursements under the industrial
credit components have not started because of competitive programs
at subsidized rates. Measures to deal with the staffing problems
are being studied by the new government.
1309      Second Minas Gerais Water Supply and Sewerage Project:  US$40.0
million loan of August 27, 1976; Effective Date: January 18, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980. This loan has been fully com-
mitted for the financing of subprojects in the metropolitan area of
Belo Horizonte, 38 subprojects for medium sized cities in the
interior, and 138 subprojects for small communities mostly in rural
areas of the state. It is envisaged that the closing date will have
to be extended by one year to September 30, 1981, to allow for
completion of disbursements.



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 10
Loan No.
1317      Second Agro-Industries Credit Project:  US$83.0 million loan of
Sep-tember 22, 1976; Effective Date: March 25, 1977; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. B3ecause of commitment delays under the First
Agro-Industries Crediit Project, commitments for the second loan
havia not started.
1343      ELEUROSUL Transmission Project:  US$82.0 million loan of February
23, 1977; Effective I)ate: June 13, 1977; Closing Date: December
31, 1981. The project is about 30% complete and about 60% of the
contracts for supply of equipment and materials to be financed
under the loan have been awarded; the remainder are expected to
be awarded by mid-1979. With the exception of a relatively minor
component, project execution is on schedule. The shortfall (25%)
in loan disbursements, caused by delays in the procurement process,
is expected to be reduced to 10% by mid-1979 and eliminated by the
end of that year.
1362      Minas Gerais Rural Development Project:  US$42.0 million loan of
February 23, 1977; Effective Date: June 29, 1977; Closing Date:
December,31, 1981. Organization of this project is progressing
satisfactorily after initial delays. The credit component is
gathering momentum. Mainly as a result of administrative difficul-
ties, participation in this project by landless producers is signif-
icantly lower than originally envisaged, but concerted efforts by
the state government and the participating banks have improved this
situation recently. The health component has advanced significantly.
1406      Sergipe Fertilizer Project:  US$64.0 million loan of April 29, 1977;
Effective Date: August 31, 1977; Closing Date: November 30, 1981.
Plant buildings and equipment foundations are under construction,
but some delays have been experienced in procurement of imported
equipment which may delay the project completion date by about
nine months. Commercial production is now expected to begin in
September 1981. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
currently running about 8% below the budget estimate.
1411      VALEFERTIL Phosphate Fertilizer Project:  US$82.0 million loan of
April 29,i 1977; Effective Date: July 29, 1977; Closing Date:
May 31, 1980. The project has been progressing satisfactorily
wil:hin the original budget estimate, and the plant start-up will
experience only a minor delay. VALEFERTIL has been sold by CVRD
to Petrobras Fertilizantes. This change in ownership is not
expected to affect project execution.
1452      Vocational Training Project:  US$32.0 million loan of September 7,
1977; Effective Date: April 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
Construction of training centers and procurement of equipment are
proceeding according to schedule. With one exception (FUNDACENTRO),
the technical assistance program is underway at the training centers.



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 11
Loan No.
1488      Ceara Rural Development Project:  US$17.0 million loan of
November 17, 1977; Effective Date: March 28, 1978, Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. The implementation of the project has proceeded
satisfactorily after initial local funding delays. Agricultural
extension and experimentation services, agricultural credit, input
supply, marketing and storage services are making good progress,
while the parts of the project relating to land purchase credit,
agricultural mechanization and cooperative societies organization
are progressing at a slower than expected rate.
1525      Greater Sao Paulo Sewage Collection and Treatment Project:  US$110.0
million loan of March 10, 1978; Effective Date: August 7, 1978;
Closing Date: September 30, 1984. This project is proceeding
according to schedule. Civil works contracts for construction of
three sewage treatment plants have been signed and work is progressing
well. Equipment contracts have been signed for two of these plants,
committing approximately US$50 million of the loan. Bids are underway
for the third plant.
1537      Paraiba Rural Development Project:  US$24.0 million of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 19, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1983.
The project is proceeding satisfactorily and generally on schedule.
Civil works are underway and progressing well, and the non-farm
development component is showing encouraging initial results. How-
ever, administrative problems are causing difficulties in making
credit available to the smaller farmers and tenants.
1538      South-Southeast Power Distribution Project:  US$130.0 million loan of
May 8, 1978; Effective Date: September 14, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1982. Initial disbursements have been delayed by about
six months due to necessary revisions of the beneficiaries' construc-
tion programs caused by changes in the power market; however, it is
not certain that project completion will also be delayed.
1557      Sixth Highway Project:  US$114.0 million loan of May 8, 1978;
Effective Date: October 13, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The project is proceeding according to schedule. The training
component of the maintenance program for this project is now
underway.
1562      COPESUL Petrochemical Project:  US$85.0 million loan of July 6, 1978;
Effective Date: October 30, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
Project implementation is proceeding well. Commencement of commer-
cial operations is now expected in June 1982, about six months
behind schedule, reflecting the slow start of some of the down-
stream projects. The anticipated cost to complete the project is
presently running about 2% above the original estimate.



- 41 -
ANNEX II
Page 12
Loan No.
1563      Urban Transport Project:  US$88.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Eff'ective Date: September 1, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
This project is progressing according to schedule. Contracts for
civil works in Curitiba, Recife, and Salvador have been signed. The
Bank has approved the subproject proposal for Porto Alegre and is
examining the proposal for Belo Horizonte.
1568      A_ricultural ExtensiLon Project:  US$100.0 million loan of May 22, 1978;
Effective Date: September 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1982.
The executing agency EMBRATER has initiated work with state/territory
agencies for project implementation. The Project Coordination Unit
has been effectively organized and project execution is proceeding
satisfactorily.
1589      BaLhia Rural Development Project:  US$37.0 million loan of July 19, 1978;
Effective Date: December 5, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983.
Implementation of the project has advanced satisfactorily after
initial local funding delays, and substantial progress is being made
in the majority of the components. Discussions with the new government
concerning the diff'iculties encountered in implementing the land
purchase credit component of the project are now underway.



- 42 -
ANNEX III
Page 1
BRAZIL
SAO FRANCISCO II IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:   approximately 22 months
(from November 1976 to
August 1978)
(b)  Project prepared by:               CODEVASF, with assistance from the
FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme
(c)  First presentation to the Bank:  August 1977
(d) First Bank mission to consider
the project:                       November 1977
(e)  Departure of Appraisal Mission:  May 1978
(f)  Post-appraisal Mission:            August 1978
(g)  Review Mission:                    May 1979
(h)  Completion of Negotiations:        May 1979
(i) Planned Deadline for
Effectiveness:                     October 31, 1979
Section II - Special Bank Implementing Actions
None.
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)  CODEVASF to present to the Bank its proposed budget for the project
for the following year by October 31 of each year, and its final
project budget each year as soon as its overall budget has been
approved (para. 42);
(b) CODEVASF to employ within its fourth Directorate (as a condition
for effectiveness): (i) specialized staff for its rural develop-
ment unit, and (ii) a resident engineer to supervise consultants
and contractors, all such staff to have experience and qualifica-
tions acceptable to the Bank (para. 47).



- 43 -
ANNEX III
Page 2
(c) CODEVASF to complete by December 31, 1979 a settler relocation
study which would include a census of landless farmers entitled
to relocation under the project and a sample survey of movement
intentions of the various segments of the area population
(para. 55);
(d) CODEVASF to establish pre-cooperative farmer associations in
the project area and to take appropriate measures leading to
their conversion into primary cooperatives; establishment of
such associations in Propria, Itiuba and Betume varzeas a
condition for effectiveness (para. 49);
(e)  signing of agreement for participation of Camurupim cooperative
in project a condition for effectiveness (para. 49).
(f) CODEVASF to complete by June 30, 1980 a study of post harvest
operations, satisfactory to the Bank, including drying, storage,
milling and rice transport requirements in the Lower Sao
Francisco area; completion of study a condition for disbursement
for drying, storage and milling components and for rice transport
equipment (paras. 44 and 50);
(g) a project monitoring program to be presented to the Bank for
approval by August 1, 1979 (para. 56);
(h) CODEVASF to gradually introduce water rates which will recover
incremental 0 & M costs and at least 30% of investment cost
(para. 53);
(i) UNDP/FAO Technical Assistance Project Document acceptable to
Bank and parties concerned to be prepared, and FAO cooperatives
specialist to be recruited, as conditions for effectiveness
(para. 47);
(j) Government to take all necessary action to enable CODEVASF to
expropriate after March 31, 1981 all lands in project area
not acquired by CODEVASF by such date (para. 48);
(k)  acquisition of all lands in the Cotinguiba-Pindoba and Boacica
varzeas by March 16, 1980 a condition for disbursement after
such date; acquisition of all lands in the Brejo Grande varzea
a condition of disbursement for expenditures in Brejo Grande
(para. 44);
(1) signing of convenios acceptable to the Bank between CODEVASF
and participating agencies a condition for disbursement on roads,
rural electrification and health components (para. 44);
(m)  completion of water supply pre-investment study, satisfactory
to the bank, a condition for disbursement against health and
sanitation components (para. 44); and






To1 ' 9 Reci9 eJ          36°4O       To Maceio             To  ajo                        320' 
Olho D'AguaO
Grande             qQ      o
BTRNASIONL A 0JOR 
<                                       '   '<                                 t    1,;r;;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~topntiotno horaesn
(   XI,beca  \  /  2  r :-: SS ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kERACISOEPR 
To  Salvador                         <    .A             FloreW     I    v    )    0        /         *   PADDYF DTr oAGE
-10010, ~~~         ~       ~      ~Pc          u bCa(rna                                                       E91  RCEPRC5&N
Corrpich                                                              . .- ..fNTIAL ODEVAFDEEO,PMEtiNT coed............ and 30
lpirango~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol ak n oafIits n
M                                                    TBRA Z  I                       Lt oO              s  l    t  Gf
SA O OFRIA NCISCO   II  IRRIGATION         PROJECT                   y              4   r  t                         RIWV* O F  CSO    P JC
P~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NROJETNOATlON/.....SATE BOUNDARYE  
'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~FL DEE'MN UNDER/KLOEES                           62'   
To Salvador~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~th amlc 0tefamo
e    o                     Feliz  es         ch. qo.0 t.   hiM iPADDYaSTORAeE
W.J.Ut. IKESBUIL UNDER PREVIOUS PROECT
BETUME~~~~~~IUB                                              -gmt,0 lglsft~e
AHALT ROaDSfe , a n~
M a h aBR                ZI                                                                                                GAELROD
D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~III--- ALOD
MurbOc FRANCISCOFRANCRIGATIONPPROJEC
To SalvaPOJETdLCATONETAELOUMNDARIES                                                                                                             R
36O40~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tIILCOEAFDEEOMN KILMEER3303



