CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1729 BR
Project Agreement
(SNo Francisco Second Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO
VALE DO SKO FRANCISCO
Dated   June 20, 1979
...........


﻿LOAN NUMBER 1729 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 20, 1979, between INTERNATIONAL BANK
FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the Bank)
and COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO VALE DO SAO FRANCISCO (herein-
after called CODEVASF).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million
dollars ($28,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in
the Loan Agreement, tbut only on condition that CODEVASF agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are hereinafter
set forth;
WHEREAS the proceeds of the loan provided for under the
Loan Agreement will-be made available to CODEVASF; and
WHEREAS CODEVASF, in consideration of the Bank's entering
into the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties her to hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CODEVASF shall carry out the Project, or
cause the Project to be carried out, with'due diligence and
efficiency and   in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, agricultural and engineering practices.


﻿-2-
Section 2.02. In order to assist CODEVASF in carrying out
the Project, CODEVASF shall employ consultants whose qualifica-
tions, experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
the goods and civil works for the Project to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Loan, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. CODEVASF shall take all such action as shall
be necessary to acquire: (i) by March 16, 1980 in respect of the
v5rzeas of Cotinguiba-Pindoba and Boacica; and (ii)      by March
31, 1982 in respect of the vhrzea of Brejo Grande, all such land
and rights in respect of land as shall be required for the carry-
ing out of   the Project and shall furnish to the Bank, promptly
after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Bank that
such land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes
related to the Project.
Section 2.05. CODEVASF shall:
(a) contemporaneously with the settlement of farmers in
specific areas of the Project Area, organize farmer associations
with statutes satisfactory to the Bank and a membership not
exceeding 400 farmers each, about twelve of such associations to
be organized by December 31,1985;
(b) carry out appropriate education and training programs
designed to prepare the farmer associations established under
paragraph (a) above to be converted into primary cooperatives
within about 4 years of their establishment;
(c) subject to the provisions of paragraph (e) below,
upon a decision of the members of an association to convert into
a primary cooperative, take all necessary steps within its compe-
tence to enable the association to be so converted, and ensure
that at the time of conversion, title to the land cultivated
by the members of the association concerned is transferred to
the new cooperative;
(d) take all necessary measures within its competence
to ensure that:


﻿-3-
(i) by June 30, 1981 a secondary cooperative is esta-
blished in zhe Project Area, with statutes satis-
factory to the Bank, having as its members the
primary cooperatives established, or to be esta-
blished, pursuant to paragraph (c) above, to
provide supply, processing and marketing services
to its primary cooperative members, and that by
such date there stll be transferred to such
secondary cooperative the available storage,
transport and processing equipment and facilities
required for such purposes; and
(ii) the services provided by such secondary Cooperative
to its primary cooperative members are at all times
adequate; and
(e) periodically in the course of project implementation,
review with the Bank the arrangements referred to above in the
light of monitoring results, the recommendations of special
studies and consultations with farmers.
Section 2.06. For purposes of carrying out the Project,
CODEVASF shall, at all times, employ, within its Fourth Direc-
Q torate:
(i) specialized staff with adequate qualifications
and experienc. to head the Rural Development Unit
within such Directorate and to head the four
sections within such Unit respectively for agricul-
tural production, processing and marketing opera-
tions, cooperatives, and social support activities;
and
(ii) a resident engineer with experience and qualifi-
cations satisfactory to the Bank to supervise
consultants and contractors employed under the
Projecte
Section 2.07. CODEVASF shall:
(a) by October 31 in each year during the execution of
the Project and starting on October 31, 1979, furnish to the
...............................


﻿-4-
Bank CODEVASF's proposed budget for the Project for the next
fiscal year; and
(b) promptly upon its approval by the Borrower, furnish
to the Bank its budget for the Project for the next fiscal year.
Section 2.08. CODEVASF shall, not later than June 30, 1980,
prepare and furnish to the Bank a study, satisfactory to the Bank,
on post harvest operations, including drying, storage, milling and
qualitative and quantitative rice transport requirements in the
area of the Lower Slo Francisco River Basin.
Section 2.09. CODEVASF shall, not later than December 31,
1979, prepare and furnisP to the Bank a study on settler reloca-
tion in the Project Area, including a census of landless farmers
entitled to relocation under the Project and a sample survey to
ascertain the intentions of the various segments of the population
in the Project Area in respect of relocation.
Section 2.10. CODEVASF shall:
(a) not later than August 31, 1979, prepare and furnish to
the Bank a detailed monitoring and evaluation program, including
staffing requirements, monitoring methodology and detailed cost
estimates, for purposes of carrying out Part F of the Project;
(b) afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to comment
thereon; and
(c) promptly introduce such changes in such program as shall
be mutually agreed between CODEVASF and the Bank.
Section 2.11. CODEVASF shall, for purposes of the Project,
maintain contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank with
the following agencies:
(a) Departamentos de Estradas de Rodagem of the States of
Alagoas and Sergipe for the construction and maintenance of the
roads included in Part C.2 of the Project;
(b) ,Companhia de Eletricidade de Alagoas (CEAL) and Empresa
Distribuidora de Energia em Sergipe S.A. (ENERGIPE) for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the transmission lines
and distribution systems included in Parts A.3 and D.4 of the
Project.


﻿-5,-
(c) Banco Nacional da Habitaclo for purposes of finan-
cing house construction materials required for Part D.1 of the
Project (or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for
such financing);
(d) Fundagao de Servico de SaGde Publica (FSESP) for
construction and operation of the health posts included in Part
D.3 (a) of the Project;
(e) Soperintendencia de Campanhas Medicinais (SUCAM) of
the Borrower for purposes of carrying out Part D.3 (d) of the
Project;
(f) Secretarias de Educaclo of the States of Alagoas
and Sergipe, FSESP, and the Federal University of Sergipe or
a similar institution for purposes of carrying out Part D.2 of the
Project; and
(g) the water supply companies of the States of Alagoas
and Sergipe (or other institutions satisfactory to the Bank) f r
purposes of operating and maintaining the water supply systems
included in the Project, unless these activities shall be
entrusted by CODEVASF to the farmer associations to be established
in the Project Area pursuant to Section 2.05 (a) of this Agree-
ment .
Section 2.12. (a) Except as the Bank and CODEVASF shall
otherwise agree, CODEVASF shall take all such action within its
competence (including action with respect to the filing of appro-
priate applications in accordance with the Decree with respect to
the setting or adjustment of water rates in the Project Area), as
will result in the gradual introduction in the Project Area of
such water charges as shall be adequate to recover at full farm
development: (A) the incremental operation and maintenance costs
of the irrigation and drainage network included in the Project;
and (B) subject to confirmation phCenant to paragraph (b) of
this Section of the capacity of water users to pay, at least 30%
of the capital investment cost of the irrigation and drainage
networks over a period of not more than 30 years, at a rate of
interest of 8% per annum.
(b) CODEVASF shall periodically review the water charges
to be introduced in the Project Area pursuant to paragraph (a)
of this Section on the basis of the results obtained from the
monitoring and evaluation carried out under the Project with a
view to establishing the capacity of users to pay such charges and
_i


﻿-6-
determining whether a larger share of the capital investment cost
of the irrigation and drainage network can be recovered by such
water charges in light of water users capacity to pay and the need
to maintain an incentive for them to make the best use of the land
and water available to them. If pursuant to the foregoing it is
determined that water charges can be increased to recover a larger
share of such capital investment cost, CODEVASF shall take all
such action within its competence as will result in such increased
water charges being introduced in the Project Akea.
(c) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, for purposes
of determining the water charges for recovery of the unrecovered
portion of capital investment, such capital investment shall
be revalued from time to time on the basis of an appropriate
index or indices mutually acceptable to CODEVASF and the Bank.
(d) For the purposes of this Section, "inciemental operation
and maintenance cOsts" means operation and maintenince costs
incremental to those which, in the absence of the Project, would
be incurred to restore in the Project Area a hydraulic regime
similar to the one prevailing before construction of the upstream
hydroelectric works at Sobradinho and Paulo Afonso; and "Decree"
means Decree No. 75510 of the Borrower, dated March 19, 1975.
Section 2.13. (a) CODEVASF undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan made available to
it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or instal-
lation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a
currency freely usable by CODEVASF to replace or repair such
goods.
(b) Except as the Bank may otherwise agree, CODEVASF
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan made available to it by the Borrower to be used
exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.14. (a) CODEVASF shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, sp-cifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.


﻿-7-
(b) CODEVASF: (1) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it),
to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose their use in the Project; (ii)
shall enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to
examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any
relevant records and documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the
Bank at regular intervals all such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Loan and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event noL. later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between CODEVASF
and the Bank, CODEVASF shall prepare and furnish to the Bank
a report, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, its cost and the benefits derived and to be derived from
it, the performance by CODEVASF and the Bank of their respective
obligations under the Project Agreement and the accomplishment of
the purposes of the Loan.
(d) CODEVASF shall enable the Bank's representatives to
examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of CODEVASF, and any relevant records
and documents related to the Project.
Section 2.15. (a) CODEVASF shall, at the request of the
Bank, exchange views with the Bank with regard to the progress of
the Project, the performance of its obligations under this Agree-
ment and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(d) CODEVASF shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or
the performance by CODEVASF of its obligations under this Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of CODEVASF
Section 3.01. CODEVASF shall conduct its business and opera-
tions in accordance with appropriate financial, agricultural


﻿-8-
and administrative practices and under the supervision of compe-
tent and experienced management.
Section 3.02. CODEVASF shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provisions satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. CODEVASF shall maintain records adequate
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
Section 3.04. CODEVASF shall establish and maintain a Project
Account exclusively for the Project and shall record therein
all receipts and payments for or in connection with the Project.
Section 3.05. CODEVASF shall: (i) have its accounts (includ-
ing the Project Account) and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors accep-
table to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as available,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
of CODEVASF and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 3.06. (a) CODEVASF shall operate, or cause to be
operated, the facilities included in the Project in accordance
with appropriate administrative, engineering, educational, agri-
cultural and sanitary policies and practices and with due regard
to economy.
(b) CODEVASF shall at all times employ, or cause to be
employed, qualified staff in adequate numbers to operate the
facilities included in the Project.
Section 3.07. CODEVASF shall adequately maintain or cause
to be maintained the roads, buildings, equipment, dikes, pumps,
a:I


﻿-9-
irrigation, drainage, water supply and electricity transmission
lines and distribution systems, and other facilities included in
the Project, and make or cause to be made all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
technical and administrative practices.
ARTICLE IV
Amendment of Prior Project Agreement
Section 4.01. The words "for the construction and operation
of the facilities included in the Project" are deleted from
Section 2.05 of the Prior Project Agreement and the words "for the
carrying out of the Project" are substituted therefor.
Section 4.02. Section 2.06 of the Prior Project Agreement
is deleted and Section 2.05 of this Agreement is substituted
therefor except for paragraph (a) which shall read as follows:
"(a) contemporaneously with the settlement of farmers in
specific areas of the vfrzeas of Marituba and Betume,
organize farmer associations with statutes satisfactory
to the Bank and a membership not exceeding 400 farmers
each, about five such associations to be organized by
December 31, 1982."
Section 4.03. Section 2.11 of the Prior Project Agreement
is deleted and Section 2.12 of this Agreement is substituted
therefor.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the
Bank and of CODEVASF thereunder shall terminate on the date on
which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly so notify CODEVASF thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Loan Agreement.


﻿-10-
ARTICLE VI
Niscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement betveen
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in vriting.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the' party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                          Telex:
INTBAFRAD                              440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                       248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI)
For CODEVASF:
Companhia de Desenvolvimento do
Vale do Rio Sgo Francisco
Setot Banctrio Norte
Edificio Central Brasilia
70000 Brasilia, D.F., Brazil
Cable address:                          Telex:
CODEVASF                                0611057
Brasilia
Brazil                                                         1
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of CODEVASF may be taken or executed by
rii


﻿- 11 -
its President or such other person or persons as the President
shall designate in writing, and CODEVASF shall furnish to the
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may a executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Nicolfs Ardito Barletta
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
COMPANHIA DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DO VALE
DO SAO FRANCISCO
By /s/ Antonio Francisco Azeredo da Silveira
Authorized Representative


﻿-12-
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C, goods and civil works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement
under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of
international competitive bidding as described in Part A of the
Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of
paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, CODEVASF shall prepare and
forward to the Bank as soon as possible, and in any event not
later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the public
of the first tender or prequalification documents relating
thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such
form and detail and containing such information as the Bank shall
reasonably request; the Bank will arrange for the publication of
such notice in order to provide timely notification to prospective
bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and works in
question. CODEVASF shall provide the necessary information to
update such notice annually so long as any goods or works remain
to be procured on the basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall. be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to CODEVASF of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in
Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the following provisions:


﻿- 13 -
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
Brazil if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of CODEVASF and the Bank that such
goods contain components manufactured in Brazil
equal to at least 50% of the value of the complete
goods.
(2) Group B: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes (including merchant fleet renewal and port improvement
taxes) on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding: (I) to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group B bid, an amount equal to the smaller
of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other import taxes which
a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation of the
goods offered in such group B bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods; and (II) to the ex-factory bid price of goods
supplied domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal
to the smaller of: (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which would be levied on the goods offered in such
group B bid if they originated from the same foreign country as
the bid included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties
and other import taxes; or (ii) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of
such goods. If the group A bid in such further comparison is the
lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from
jI


﻿-14-
group R which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is
the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or less may be pro-
cured on the basis of competitive bidding advertised locally;
provided, however, that the aggregate cost of the contracts to
be so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $7,000,000
and contracts for the construction of the health posts included in
Part D.3 (a) of the Project may be procured in accordance with the
procedures of FundaoIo de Servigo de Safde PGblica.
2.   Minor civil works with an aggregate cost not exceeding
the equivalent of $500,000 and which are not suitable for carrying
out through contracting may be carried out by force account.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respet to all contracts estimated to cost the equiva-
lent of more than $50,000:
(a) Before bids are invited, CODEVASF shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Any further modification to the bidding documents shall require
the Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective
bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, CODEVASF
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and compari-
son of the bids received, and such other information as the
Bank shall reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform CODEVASF and state the reasons
for such determination.


﻿- 15
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Bank's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of
funds from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, CODEVASF shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after
its execution and prior to the submission to the Bank of the
first application for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such con-
tract, together with the analysis of the respective bids, recom-
mendations for award and such other information as the Bank shall
reasonably request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the
award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or
this Schedule, promptly inform CODEVASF and state the reasons
for such determination.
INI


