Document of
FILE COPY                             The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2042-CR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR AN
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
April 14, 1977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of  |
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as used in this report)
Currency Unit = Costa Rican colon ¢
¢8.5          = US$1.00
0 1.0         = US$0.12
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BNCR      - National Bank of Costa Rica
CABEI     - Central American Bank for Economic Integration
CACM      - Central American Common Market
CAN       - National Agricultural Council
CAR       - Regional Agricultural Center
CB        - Central Bank of Costa Rica
CNP       - National Production Council
CRIO      - County Road Improvement Office
DCD       - Development Credit Department of CB,
IDB       - Inter-American Development Bank
IFAM        Institute for Promotion and Assistance to Municipalities
MAG       - Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock
MOPT      - Ministry of Public Works and Transport
NSC       - National Seed Commission
OFIPLAN   - National Planning Office
PB        - Participating Bank
SBN       - National Banking System
USAID     - US Agency for International Development
REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE REPUBLIC OF COSTA RICA
FOR AN AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendations on a proposed
loan to the Republic of Costa Rica for the equivalent of US$18.0 million for
an agricultural credit and development project. The loan would have a term
of 17 years, including a grace period of 3-1/2 years, with interest at 8.2
percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report entitled "Economic Memorandum on the Current Economic
Situation and Prospects of Costa Rica" (No. 960-CR) was distributed to the
Executive Directors on December 16, 1975. In October 1976, an updating
economic mission visited Costa Rica, and an economic memorandum is now in
preparation. The principal findings of the mission are summarized in the
following paragraphs. Annex I summarizes the main economic and social
indicators.
3.        Costa Rica provides a rare example among developing countries of
how high per capita income growth may be achieved without an undue concen-
tration of development benefits in the upper income groups. A high level
of investment and rapid export growth allowed real output to grow at about
6.5 percent yearly between 1960 and 1975, while family planning and rising
educational and income levels contributed to a sharp decline in the population
growth rate from close to 4.0 percent in 1960 to 2.6 percent in the early
1970's. The fast growth of output facilitated the absorption of the rapidly
growing labor force and the unemployment rate has remained at about 7 percent
during the last fifteen years. Real output per capita grew at 3.3 percent per
year during 1960-75 and per capita GNP in 1975 reached US$910.0 (World Bank
Atlas).
4.        Agriculture continues to be an important sector of the economy,
generating about 21 percent of GDP and accounting for about 36 percent of
total employment. Agricultural output growth exceeded that of all other
countries in Latin America in recent years, especially as a result of the
production and export expansion of bananas and beef. Four products (coffee,
bananas, beef and sugar) made up about two-thirds of merchandise export
earnings in 1973-75 while 20 years earlier only two commodities - coffee
and bananas - accounted for 85 percent of exports. Rapid industrial growth
was made possible as a result of the creation of the Central American Common
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
Market (CACM) and the favorable economic conditions resulting from the growth
of agricultural exports. Industrial exports, largely to the CACM and Panama,
have grown from about 10 percent of all merchandise exports in the early 1960s
to about a third currently.
5.        The openness of the economy, the continued heavy dependence on the
export of a few agricultural commodities and the government's expansionary
fiscal and monetary policies, which were adopted whenever it was necessary
to offset periods of cyclical downswings, have led to periodic and at times
severe financial difficulties. On the whole, however, the economic policy
makers have, through demand management and production incentives, been able
to overcome these difficulties and to sustain economic growth.     Economic
management was made easier by the long term, rapid rate of growth of exports.
The experience of 1974-75 provides a vivid illustration of the policies
followed. In 1974, the rate of economic growth declined to 5.4 percent,
largely reflecting a poor agricultural crop year. At the same time, the
terms of trade deteriorated sharply. Consumption and investment growth,
however, fueled by expansionary monetary policies, far exceeded GDP growth
and the balance-of-payments deficit on current account reached $270 million
or the equivalent of 17 percent of GDP. Inflation, measured by the consumer
price index, rose from 2.5 percent per year during 1960-72 and 15 percent
in 1973 to 30 percent in 1974.   The level of net international reserves by
the end of the year was the equivalent of less than three weeks of imports.
6.        The Costa Rican Government, aware of the mounting economic difficul-
ties took several measures during late 1974 and early 1975 to curtail exces-
sive private demand, reduce imports and increase exports. Interest rates were
raised as were consumption and sales taxes, credit restrictions for consumer
durables were introduced, support prices for basic grains were increased
substantially and special credit facilities were granted for basic grains
production. These measures facilitated an improvement in agricultural (mostly
basic grains) output, and in spite of the effect of the world recession on
industrial production and on exports, GDP grew at 3.4 percent in real terms,
in 1975. The current account deficit on the balance of payments was reduced
to about $217 million or 11.3 percent of GDP, inflation slowed down to 17.4
percent, and net international reserves by the end of 1975 increased to the
equivalent of one month of imports.
7.        Real GDP growth during 1976 increased to an estimated 5.5 percent.
The outstanding element in the economic picture was the sharp rise in real-
ized coffee prices (in 1973-75 coffee accounted for one-fourth of total
merchandise exports) which increased from 57.1 cents/lb in 1975 to 107.0
cents/lb in 1976. As a result the current account deficit in the balance
of payments decreased further to the equivalent of 8.9 percent of GDP and
net international reserves increased to the equivalent of almost 2 months
of imports. The annual average rate of inflation decreased to 10.9 percent
in 1976, or to only 4.4 percent when measured from December 1975 to December
1976.



- 3 -
8.        The public sector has for long played a vital role in Costa
Rica's development process. The Government has given substantial attention
in recent years to improving the country's basic infrastructure such as
highways, feeder roads and the development of the hydroelectric potential
of the country. Substantial emphasis is placed on the opening up of new
areas for settlement and cultivation. At the same time, the Government has
provided a wide range of public services. More than 40 percent of all expen-
ditures of the Central Government have traditionally been in education,
health, nutrition and other social sectors. Health and nutrition programs
have been an important factor in reducing mortality rates from 9 per thousand
in the early 1960s to the present 6 per thousand. Life expectancy at birth
has risen to 69 years. Moreover, by spending almost a third of its budget on
education, the Central Government has been able to improve coverage and
quality of primary and secondary schools, reduce illiteracy to a minimum --
the adult literacy rate was 89 percent in 1973 -- and provide a good quality
university education. Costa Rica has no standing army and the share of
Central Government expenditures devoted to security - about 2 percent -
has long been one of the lowest in the world.
9.        Costa Rica's income distribution is one of the most equitable
in Latin America, and the principal beneficiary of the development process in
the last decade has been the middle class. A new initiative enacted by the
Government in 1975 is the "Family Welfare Program" which is designed to
increase the living standards of the poorest rural families representing about
one fourth of the population. The program includes, among others, rural
health, sanitation, housing and education projects, as well as nutrition
programs for pre-school and school-age children and is financed primarily
through a recently passed payroll tax and an increase in the sales tax rate.
On the whole, the program's impact on the distribution of income and on rural
living levels is significant: currently, roughly 1.5 percent of GDP is being
redistributed to the pooiest 20 percent of the population.
10.       The policy of maintaining high levels of public services and invest-
ment has from time to time been accompanied by serious financial difficulties.
The tax system is income inelastic, pricing policies by some state enterprises,
such as the water supply agency, have been inadequate to generate sufficient
revenues and several new autonomous agencies have become increasingly reliant
on the Central Government for finance. Large budget deficits have emerged,
which were then periodically reduced through the introduction of new taxes and
increases in tax rates. Thus, in 1974, when several new taxes were introduced,
the improvement in public sector finances was reflected in a public sector
deficit equivalent to only 1.4 percent of GDP down from close to 5 percent
during 1971-73. Since then, expenditure growth has outstripped revenue growth
and the public sector deficit during 1975 and 1976 was again equal to about 5
percent of GDP.



- 4 -
11.       Prospects are that the public sector deficit will remain at about
5 percent of GDP during 1977. 1/ At the same time, realized coffee prices are
presently estimated to rise further to close to 200 cents/lb in 1977. In
order to absorb the resulting excess liquidity and control inflation the
Government has initiated a stabilization program, involving increased reserve
requirements, credit restrictions and the issuance of Government bonds designed
to provide the domestic resources necessary to finance the public sector
deficit. A replenishment of international reserves should also result from
implementation of this program.
12.       Though the balance-of-payments situation is expected to improve
further during 1977, the current account deficit, is estimated to be still at
a level of about 5 percent of GDP. tIoreover, this improvement is attributable
to the exceptionally high level of coffee prices and is therefore likely to be
temporary. Over the longer term a substantial effort towards industrializa-
tion, through selective import substitution and export diversification would
be necessary if Costa Rica is to continue its high GDP growth rate while
strengthening its balance-of-payments. Some important steps in this direction
have already been taken. Thus, a major effort towards export promotion has
been initiated. Currently exports of non-traditional products to countries
outside the Central American Common Market are promoted through a tax rebate
scheme equivalent to 15 percent of f.o.b. value; marketing outlets are being
established in several countries in the Caribbean; an export and tourism
promotion fund has been created and special interest rates are accorded to
production for export; also, a substantial expansion of hotel facilities is
taking place to promote the tourism industry. The country has good potential
to expand existing and develop new export lines and the experience thus far
has been satisfactory: despite depressed world market conditions, non-
traditional exports grew at 7 percent yearly in real terms between 1974 and
1976.
13.       Assuming that the efforts to diversify and strengthen the export
sector over the longer term are successful, Costa Rica will remain credit-
worthy for the foreign borrowing envisaged by the Government to implement
its development program. The public debt service ratio has fluctuated around
10 percent during the last several years and is projected at 10.2 percent
for 1977. Assuming a gradual decline in coffee prices to more normal levels
by 1980, but a parallel and successful implementation of export promotion
policies, the public debt service ratio is estimated to rise to a still
manageable level of around 15 percent by 1980.
External Assistance
14.       As of December 31, 1976, it is estimated that the Bank Group held
22.7 percent of the US$888.6 million external public debt outstanding--
including undisbursed--repayable in foreign currency. This share is likely
1/   Presidential elections are due in February 1978.    Further modifications
in the tax structure are not expected before that date.



- 5 -
to decrease somewhat by 1980 because of an expected increase in the activity
of other external lenders. The Bank Group share of total public debt service
in 1976 is estimated at 13.6 percent, and it is projected to decline to 12.6
by 1980. Of the other major lenders to Costa Rica, the IDB holds 14.5
percent of external public debt outstanding, including undisbursed, CABEI
10.6 percent, the U.S. Government 9.8 percent, Venezuela 4.1 percent, other
bilateral lenders 6.6 percent and private lenders 31.7 percent.
15.       In terms of the sectoral thrust of the lending by the principal
external agencies, apart from the Bank, AID has concentrated on agriculture,
transport and health, the IDB on transport, power, agriculture, health and
industry, and CABEI on infrastructure and housing, and they are likely to
continue in these areas in the future. The lending of these agencies during
the past 10 years is summarized as follows:
IBRD      AID       IDB      CABEI
---------(US$ millions)----------
Lending 1966 - June 30, 1976
Transport                          56.1      7.1      23.5      81.5
Power and Telecommunications      107.0       -       68.4      24.8
Education                           6.2       -        8.2       5.6
Health                             -         7.6      26.3       9.5
Urban Development                   -        4.6       -        37.7
Agriculture                        12.0     29.3       18.9      3.7
Industry                           -         5.0      17.8       -
Others                             -         3.0       2.3      16.1
Total                       181.3      56.6     165.4     178.9
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
16.       Costa Rica has received to date 19 Bank loans and one IDA credit
totaling $233.6 million net of cancellations. The last operation, a loan
for a highway project amounting to US$39.0 million, was signed on January 14,
1976. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and
IFC investments as of January 31, 1977, and notes on the execution of on-
going projects.
17.       Since other lenders have been able to provide Costa Rica with
substantial amounts of concessional lending which the Government preferred
to use for its socially oriented investments, the main thrust of the Bank's
past lending has been to help develop basic infrastructure, such as power,
telecommunications and highways. However, the Bank has also supported
efforts to increase and diversify exports through lending for agricultural



- 6 -
credit, and has helped make educational programs more consistent with
manpower objectives through a loan for secondary and vocational education.
18.       In future lending to Costa Rica, we intend to continue to provide
some support for infrastructure such as power and telecommunications, in
view of the continuing need for substantial amounts of external financing
and our long-standing involvement in these sectors which gives us a special
ability to foster institutional development. However, we are planning to
increase Bank lending in other areas, particularly agriculture and rural
development and industrial and urban development to provide support for
productive investment and assistance to the rural and urban poor. The pro-
posed loan will finance preparation of a rural development project; after
completion of an urban analysis this year a project will be developed to
improve living conditions in urban areas and provide additional employment;
and a DFC project to stimulate industrial growth is proposed. The project in
the most advanced stage of preparation is for urban transport in San Jose.
In addition, in order to help expand exports, particularly those with a high
percentage of local value added, the Bank is considering possible participa-
tion in the financing of, and in helping to mobilize additional external
resources for, the large Boruca hydroelectric project which is designed
primarily to supply the power requirements of a proposed aluminum complex.
19.       In our lending activities in Costa Rica, we will continue to coor-
dinate closely with IDB, USAID and the Central American Bank for Economic
Integration not only with a view to improving the effectiveness of lending
by major external agencies at the national level, but also to help assure
that Government programs are developed in a manner consistent with Central
American priorities.
20.       IFC has made only one investment in Costa Rica ($0.6 million in
1966 to Productos de Concreto, S.A.) which has been fully repaid. At present,
IFC is exploring the possibility of participating in the financing of the pro-
posed aluminum project.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE SECTOR
Agriculture in the Economy
21.       After achieving a growth rate in volume of more than 7 percent per
year in the late 1960s, agricultural production slowed down in the early
1970s with growth in volume averaging about 4.1 percent per year from 1970
to 1975. Production for export (primarily bananas, sugar and beef) showed
dramatic increases in the 1965-75 period; however, incentives for farmers
to produce for the domestic market have not been strong for all products,
and food imports have grown. In order to diversify the economy and benefit



-7-
small and medium farmers who are important producers of corn, beans, sugar
and millc, the Government has recently increased retail price ceilings and
provided more resources in credit, research and technical assistance to
promote the production of food crops.
Land Use and Land Tenure
22.       Costa Rica has a total land area of about 50,900 km2, of which
about 61 percent is farmland, distributed among 77,000 farms. Half of this
farmland is pasture, 16 percent is used for annual and permanent crops, and
the remaining 34 percent is under forests and scrub growth. Costa Rica is
still expanding its agricultural frontier, and some 450,000 ha were added
to the country's farmland in the 10 years between the last two censuses
(1963 and 1973). Most of the expansion has taken place on the dry Pacific
coast (Guanacaste) and in the northern plains of the country, which are
used for extensive production of beef for export. It is estimated that
about 400,000 ha on the Pacific and Atlantic Coast are unused, potentially
good cropland and that about 330,000 ha more could be used for livestock,
mostly in the northern plains. However, development is hampered by the lack
of roads and infrastructure such as drainage works (on the Atlantic plain)
and irrigation (on the Pacific coast).
23.       About 3.5 percent of farm units comprise close to 55 percent of
the total farmland, in holdings of more than 200 ha each, while 70 percent
of farm units occupy 8 percent of the land, in holdings of less than 20 ha
each.  However, more than half of the farmers in the latter category cultivate
coffee, often as the main crop, which in 1973 provided an income above the
subsistence level in most cases.
Government Agricultural Strategy
24.       Without abandoning its traditional policies aimed at strengthening
and improving the export subsector, Government, since 1974, has directed
efforts toward increasing milk production (retail prices which had been held
at the same level for several years almost doubled during 1974 and 1975), and
designing a comprehensive program to achieve self-sufficiency in basic grains
(corn, beans, rice and sorghum) by 1978, while-assisting small farmers who
are the principal producers of these products. As a result, since 1975,
production relative to 1973 output has increased by almost 90 percent for
rice, 75 percent for corn, 47 percent for beans and 108 percent for sorghum,
and imports of these products have been reduced. These increases, however,
were mostly achieved through area expansion rather than productivity increases.
The Government hopes that with additional technical assistance for farmers and
implementation of the seeds program, to which this project would contribute,
producers will be encouraged to adopt more efficient technologies and prac-
tices.



- 8 -
25.       The Family llelfare P'rogram (described in para. 9) wilt have a sig-
nificant impacl on thc demand for food since Llte program requiremenLs in 1976
represent a 10 percent increase over the normaL consumption of miLk and milk
products. By 1980 this percentage would be 18 percent. The program will also
have substantiaL effect on demand for fish, cocoa, sugar products, vegetables,
fruits and faLs.
Agricultural Credit
26.       The national banking system (Sistema Bancario Nacional -- SBN)
consists of the Central Bank (CB) and four autonomous state-owned commercial
banks (PBs). All are well organized, operate according to sound banking
principles, and have performed well in the execution of the first two Bank-
financed agricultural credit projects. The PBs operate within the framework
of the General Banking Law, which is administered by CB, which also sets
interest rates and implements Government credit policy.    The PBs have 236
banking offices throughout the country with special departments to deal with
small farmers. These departments coordinate their activities with the exten-
sion service and other government agriculture sector institutions. At present,
one of these banks, the Banco Nacional (BNCR) provides about 60 percent of
small farmer credit, and the other three commercial banks the balance.
27.       At present, the supply of medium- and long-term investment credit
is inadequate to meet demand. The PBs have access to medium- and long-term
funds primarily through the CB, which depends on foreign loans as an important
source of such financing. It is estimated that, during the three-year commit-
ment period of the proposed loan, the additional requirement of foreign
exchange for the agricultural lending program of the National Banking System
will total at least US$57 million. Of this amount, at least US$11 million will
be required by small farmers. In order to help meet this demand, particularly
small farmer demand, the Government has requested the proposed loan from the
Bank, and also a loan from the IDB (with the latter to be managed by the
BNCR). As the Government has given small farmer programs priority, portions
of the Bank loan (a minimum of 25 percent) and of the IDB loan are to be
allocated to loans for small farmers. The Bank and IDB loans together should
meet about 75 percent of the foreign exchange component of the medium- and
long-term credit demand of small farmers over the 1978-1980 period.
Ministry of Agriculture
28.       The Ministry of Agriculture and Livestock (tHAG) is divided into two
main components, each under the authority of a vice-minister. One is a tech-
nical section which consists of Bureaus of Research, Training, Technical
Services, etc. The other consists of eight Regional Agricultural Centers
(CAR's) and 59 field extension offices which have a total staff of 336. For
the development of sectoral policy, MAG has a sectoral planning office. Also,
the Minister of Agriculture heads the National Agricultural Council (CAN),
which was established in 1970 and includes representatives of alL the public
agencies concerned with agriculture. The CAN advises the Government on



- 9 -
policy matters and coordinates activities of the various pubLic entities
concerned with the agricuLtt.raL sector.   Tn each region, the director of the
locaL CAR presides over the meetings of the locaL CAN, a regionaL body parallel
in structure and func-tion to Lhe national level CAN. These local CANs include
representatives of the PBs.
29.       The MAG, with assistance from USAID and IDB, is staffed with ade-
quately trained technicians and has most of the necessary facilities to carry
out its work. However, it would need additional technical personnel and
equipment for its extension service to meet the projected increase in demand
for its services over the next few years.
National Production Council (CNP)
30.       CNP has been operating as an autonomous public enterprise since 1956.
Its major functions are to stabilize producer and consumer prices of major
food items through market intervention and to promote agricultural production.
Its staff of 2,500 is involved in a wide range of activities, including price
regulation of grains through purchase, storage, sales and direct imports and
exports; import and export licensing for grains and beef; and production, pur-
chase and sale of seeds and other agricultural inputs. The CNP has generally
performed well; however, in the past few years it has suffered heavy losses
on its grain purchase program because unduly high support prices resulted in
large oversupplies, for which it did not have sufficient storage facilities.
The support prices have now been reduced, and its.storage capacity is now
being expanded with assistance from CABEI.
Seed Program
31.       At present, rice is the only crop for which a significant volume of
improved but uncertified seed (about 40 percent of amount required) is pro-
duced within the country. The seed used for other crops is unimproved and
small quantities are imported, mainly for corn and sorghum.     In 1972, a Seed
Law was approved which created the National Seed Commission (NSC), the purpose
of which was to coordinate and promote activities aimed at implementing a
national seed program to increase productivity of the major crops. Between
1974 and 1976, under the auspices of NSC and with financing from USAID, the
University of Costa Rica built and equipped a modern seeds laboratory. The
CNP has recently constructed and equipped a seed processing plant, which,
together with a plant in the private sector, has the capacity to meet all
crop seed needs until 1980. The country also has qualified seed technicians
who were trained abroad. The program, however, is being held up primarily
by lack of seed storage space and distribution centers.
Feeder Road Program
32.       In addition to the Pan-American highway and other major national
roads, the country has some 20,000 km of feeder roads and tracks. Most of
the feeder roads are so poorly constructed and maintained that the marketing



- 10 -
of farm products and the provision of institutionalized technical and finan-
cial assistance to farmers are seriously hampered. In 1970, the Government,
believing that problems of local interest should be solved basically by
municipal governments, created the Institute for Promotion and Assistance
to Municipalities (IFAM) to provide financing and technical assistance.
IFAM also acts as a coordinating agency among local governments and between
local governments and other government agencies. IFAM is well run and has
adequate sources of internal financing. Since its establishment, IFAM's
operations have grown dramatically, particularly in 1976 when loans quad-
rupled to 0 100 million from ¢ 23 million in 1975. In the past, IFMI has
entered into agreements with municipal governments under which assistance is
channeled Lo them from the Central Government and from international organiza-
tions for a variety of projects. Most of these projects have been related to
education and health. Now, however, IFAM is in the process of designing
pilot projects to assist municipalities in assuming responsibility for the
rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder roads.
Marketing and Prices of Selected Products
Beef
33.       Although domestic demand accounts for 40 percent of total production,
consumption per capita has been declining over the last 15 years as increasing
exports have resulted in high domestic prices. The Government is attempting
to stabilize local consumption through imposition of ceilings on domestic
retail prices. United States imports of meat are projected to expand at about
6 percent per year during the next 10 years and, if Costa Rica is to retain
its present share in that market (about 5 percent), its exports should in-
crease at the same rate. Prices received by producers for exported meat
declined in 1975 but picked up again in 1976, and are expected to continue
increasing slowly over the next few years.
Milk
34.       Costa Rica is currently 90 to 95 percent self-sufficient in milk
and dairy products. Supply and demand have grown at about 6 percent per year
in the past; however, demand is expected to grow at 8 percent to 8.5 percent
per year, at least until 1980, as a result of implementation of the Family
Welfare Program. Import requirements will increase, therefore, unless there
is an increase in domestic production. The price for producers of raw milk
is currently attractive, and retail prices are regulated at levels which are
reasonable to consumers.
Sugarcane
35.       The domestic market absorbs about 60 percent of total production
of sugar and has been growing at around 8 percent per year. Growth of
domestic demand is expected to slow down somewhat as consumer prices, which
were exceptionally low until 1974, were raised in 1975. Provided Government



- 11 -
does not unduly restrain domestic consumers' prices, demand for credit for
productivity increases in sugarcane planting and processing is expected to be
strong. Assuming an annual rate of Increase in domestic consumption of 6 per-
cent and in exports of 3.5 percent, demand should grow by at least 5.5 percent
per year.
Grains and Beans
36.       Demand for grains and beans for human and animal consumption is
increasing at about 2.5 percent per year. The producer prices of these commo-
dities are stabilized through market intervention by the CNP, and have been
raised significantly in the past few years. Retail prices are controlled by
Government. Ceilings are fixed at levels covering CNP support prices for
producers and a distribution mark-up not to exceed 18 to 23 percent depending
on the product. Retail prices have been allowed to rise to the same extent
as producer prices.
Other Crops
37.       Although Costa Rica imports almost all of its cotton requirements,
most of its very small production has traditionally been exported. Prices
for locally produced cotton are not expected to differ from average interna-
tional prices for similar types of fiber and should remain stable. Cassava
is an expanding crop with export potential, benefiting from the high interna-
tional cereal grain prices since it can be substituted for grains used in
feed formulations. Besides coffee, a whole range of tree crops can be grown
economically in Costa Rica, the most common being plantains, cocoa, citrus
and mango. Domestic demand is expanding rapidly and Costa Rica is currently
importing US$3 million worth of fruit and fruit preparations.
Performance under Previous Projects
38.       The First Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 538-CR) for US$3 million
which became effective in December 1968, was aimed at expanding production and
export of beef, bananas, pineapples, and cotton. The Second Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan 827-CR) for US$9 million, effective January 1973, conti-
nued the program but included a wider range of crops, as well as dairy pro-
duction, forestry and agro-industries. In both projects, sub-loans have
been channeled to farmers by CB through the-four PBs, and CB was responsible
for project execution.
39.       The First Project was evaluated in a report by the Operations
Evaluation Department dated August 6, 1975. The report identified slow
disbursements as one of the principal problems. Disbursements were completed
in April 1973 after two postponements from the original date of June 1971.
The slow disbursement resulted from staffing problems and inexperience in the
PBs and in the CB unit responsible for project administration, and overcentral-
ization in the CB of responsibility for subproject approval. These adminis-
trative problems have been largely resolved in the course of execution of the



- 12 -
First and Second Projects through the experience gained, in project implementa-
tion, and the recent decentralization to the PBs of authority to approve
subloans of up to US$100,000. There will, however, be a delay in completion
of the Second Project from the original date of December 31, 1976 to September
1977. (As of the end of February 1977, the loan was over 85 percent committed
and 72 percent disbursed.) This is the result of slower than expected commit-
ments prior to the recent change in approval procedure, and the cancellation
of commitments for some slow moving subloans and from a large agro-industry
subloan which was cancelled because of poor management by the sub-borrower.
40.       The other principal problem identified by the evaluation report on
the First Project was the failure to meet expectations on the size of producers
and the mix of products to be promoted. Ultimately, subloan size was US$57,000
compared with the appraisal estimate of US$18,000, and 90 percent of the lend-
ing went for beef cattle investment as compared with the appraisal estimate of
30 percent and a revised estimated of 74 percent, made in April 1971, after
changes in market and other circumstances were taken into account. These
variations from appraisal projections came about partly because alternative
sources of funds became available to banana producers before they could borrow
under the project, and because cotton growing areas were affected by volcanic
eruptions and droughts. Also, however, the PBs seemed to prefer loans to
larger cattle ranchers because these ranchers were better able to prepare the
relatively complex farm plans required, and because this type of loan offered
greater security. While diversification and employment goals of the First
Project were not achieved, a survey of a sample of participating ranches
showed that improved pastures increased, on average, by 5,882 ha, compared to
the 4,291 ha expected in the farm development plans. In the Second Project
livestock loans have accounted for a greater than expected share of lending
primarily because of the strength, until 1975, of the beef market, and more
recently of the milk market. Subloans approved thus far are somewhat larger
than estimated at appraisal (US$30,000 vs US$24,000) as a result of higher
than expected inflation, but this differential as well as the average size of
subloans is significantly lower than in the First Project.
41.       While deviations from appraisal targets such as have occurred in
the past are difficult to anticipate or control because they generally result
from unexpected market shifts and the individual responses of many ranchers
and farmers, the proposed project has been designed so as to reduce the risk
of larger than anticipated subloans or greater than expected lending for
large beef operations. This will be accomplished principally by allowing
lending for "complementary" investments (i.e., inputs designed to increase
productivity on viable farms--see para. 45) which require simple cash flow
projections, rather than detailed farm plans; by expansion and strengthening
of the extension service which serves small farmers; and by delegation of
approval authority for small subloans to the PB branches which are more likely
to rely on their personal knowledge of the borrower rather than require
collateral. All these changes will make subloans under the project more
accessible to small farmers who tend to invest primarily in crops and milk
production rather than beef breeding.



- 13 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
A.   Project Objectives
42.       The project would provide agricultural credit as a continuation of
the First and Second Agricultural Credit Projects, but it would be designed
to facilitate the participation of a substantial number of small farmers, not
served under the previous projects. The project would also strengthen the
national extension service, provide for implementation of a seed improvement
program, and a pilot scheme for the rehabilitation and maintenance of feeder
roads, and include preparation of a comprehensive regional development study
and rural development project. The five project components would aim at
(a) increasing agricultural output leading to import savings and increased
export earnings; (b) raising income levels, particularly of small- and medium-
size farm operators; and (c) building up selected institutions for planning
and execution of projects aimed at the improvement of living standards
for the rural population.
B.   Project Components
43.       The project would include:
1.   On Farm Investment for:
(a) Small-size farms
(i) 300 five ha dairy enterprises;
(ii) 300 three ha permanent crop enterprises; and
(iii) 1,500 complementary investments.
(b) Other farms
Subloans for:
(i) 100 beef cattle breeding enterprises;
(ii) 100 dairy enterprises;
(iii) 50 mechanized annual crop enterprises;
(iv) 100 permanent crop enterprises; and
(v) 800 complementary investments;
2.   Subloans for agro-industrial projects including financing for heavy
equipment for contractors providing farm improvement services;



- 14 -
3.   Purchase of 69 vehicles and other equipment for the National Extension
Service, and training for extension staff and farmers;
4.   Construction of two foundation seed warehouses and 26 seed
storage facilities;
5.   Improvement of 107 kms of rural access roads in the County of
Perez Zeledon; and
6.   Preparation of a regional development study which would include
preparation of a rural development project.
On-Farm Investment
44.       The project would provide medium- and long-term subloans to help
finance on-farm investments on about 3,250 farms and ranches. About 2,100 of
the farmers expected to benefit from the program would be those classified as
small farmers, defined in accordance with CB criteria as those whose income is
derived principally from farming and whose annual net income does not exceed
t25,000 (about US$2,900) a year. Farmers earning less than this amount are
estimated to be within the lower 45 percentile of income earners in Costa
Rica. Average subloan size is expected to be about Us$6,000, with average
subloans to small farmers of US$3,500 and to other farmers of US$10,700. While
it is expected that about a third of the lending would be to small farmers, in
order to ensure substantial small farmer participation, it has been agreed
that a minimum of 25 percent of the amount allocated to subloans under the
project would be earmarked for small farmers (Schedule 2, Part A of the draft
Loan Agreement). Subloans would finance any viable farm project for livestock
and annual or perennial crops.
45.       Two types of subloans would provide financing for on-farm investments:
the first type would consist of subloans for comprehensive farm development
subprojects, which would be prepared and appraised on the basis of farm plans;
the second type of subloan would finance complementary investments on viable
farms. These investments would mainly involve farm machinery and equipment,
cattle handling facilities, on-farm tracks or roads, or other infrastructure
as well as rehabilitation works.
46.       It is expected that the bulk of subloans would finance the produc-
tion of milk and beef in the livestock subsector, rice in the annual crop
category, and sugarcane and fruit trees in the case of semi-permanent and
permanent crops. The main items of on-farm investment would be machinery and
equipment (25 percent), land preparation and pasture improvement (19 percent),
construction (26 percent), fences (5 percent), on-farm roads (7 percent), and
breeding stock (18 percent)



- 15 -
Financing for Agro-Industry and Services
47.       Under this category the project would provide a line of credit for
enterprises engaged in the processing of agricultural products such as feed-
mixing plants, rice mills, and the canning and bottling of juices and other
products. Financing would also be provided to individuals, companies or
cooperatives for the purchase of machinery and equipment with which to do con-
tract work for farmers. Land clearing, leveling, on-farm road construction
and transport of sugarcane from farms to mills would be the main types of
services provided.
Improvement of the National Extension Service
48.        The project would provide financing to strengthen the National Exten-
sion Service of MAG. It has been agreed that MAG would employ an additional
65 extension workers (thus increasing its staff to at least 400) by September 1,
1978 to reinforce extension offices (Section 3.05 of the draft Loan Agreement),
and that these workers would be assignecl in areas where they are needed to
service project sub-borrowers (Schedule 2, Part B of the draft Loan Agreement).
The proposed loan would finance the purchase of 69 vehicles and other equipment
needed, as well as training for staff and farmers, including staff travel out
of the country for advanced training and study tours.
Construction of Seed Storage Facilities
49.       The proposed loan would finance the construction, installation and
equipment needed to complete the physical infrastructure for the implementation
of a National Seed Program. This would involve the construction and equipment
of two foundation seed storage rooms to be used by MAG, and 26 seed storage
units in 5 regions be used by the CNP for the storage and distribution of
certified or other improved seed. A draft plan for the execution of the
National Seed Program which includes projections of the country's seed require-
ments, establishes targets for production of seed and proposes a plan for the
coordination of the institutions involved, has been approved by the Bank.      It
will be a condition of disbursement for this component that a final seed plan
be approved by the Bank and that the Government sign a subsidiary contract
with the CNP (Schedule I of the draft Loan Agreement). It was agreed further
that the plan would be implemented as approved beginning in the first year of
project execution in accordance with a schedule approved by the Bank (Section
3.08 of the draft Loan Agreement). It has also been agreed that construction
designs and specifications of all the seed storage facilities would' be approved
by consultants acceptable to the Bank before invitations to bid were adver-
tised, and that adequate staff and budget would be provided for all facilities
(Sections (3.05 and 3.07 of the draft Loan Agreement).
Implementation of a Pilot Feeder Road Program in Perez Zeledon
50.       The project would enable the Municipal Government of the County of
Perez Zeledon under the supervision and guidance of IFAM to initiate a pilot
scheme for the construction and maintenance of feeder roads. The construction



- 16 -
work would be designed mainly to make the roads usable on a year-round basis
and would consist of earth moving, grading, gravel surfacing, and providing
drainage, including installation of culverts and minor bridges. A total of
about 100 km of roads have been selected for this project. The estimated
average cost is US$15,500 per km. ConstrucLion works and maintenance of the
roads would be carried out by a county road improvement office (CRIO), an
autonomous division of the County Government which would be created to carry
out this and future projects. It has been agreed that the manager of the CRIO
and a road construction consultant would be appointed by December 1, 1977 and
that staffing of the CRIO would be acceptable to the Bank (Section 3.06 of the
draft Loan Agreement).
51.       The proposed loan would help finance the road consultant's services
for six months, the salary of a qualified engineer during project implemen-
tation, the purchase of equipment and civil works. It will be a condition of
disbursement for this component of the project that an agreement, satisfactory
to the Bank, had been signed by the Government, IFAM and the Municipal Council
of Perez Zeledon, to govern implementation of the project and to provide
financing of counterpart contributions and maintenance expenses (Schedule 4 of
the draft Loan Agreement).
Preparation of a Regional Development Study and a Rural Development Project
52.       The proposed loan would provide financing to assist OFIPLAN in
preparing a regional development study which would include preparation of a
comprehensive rural development project for a region of the country to be
selected by OFIPLAN, in consultation with the Government and satisfactory to
the Bank (Section 3.03 of the draft Loan agreement). Major items to be
financed would be the services of experts working under terms of reference
prepared by OFIPLAN and acceptable to the Bank, and vehicles and equipment to
be used during the course of the study. It has been agreed that by March 1,
1978, a region would be selected for the study and that terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank will be prepared (Section 3.13 of the draft Loan
Agreement). Since OFIPLAN has had little experience in regional planning,
Bank staff will provide assistance in the design of this program.
C.   Cost Estimates and Financing
53.       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$37.6 million, of
which US$18.0 million, or 48 percent, represents the foreign exchange compo-
nent which will be financed by the proposed loan. Of the US$19.6 million
balance of project costs, sub-borrowers under the agricultural credit compo-
nent of the project would finance US$5.1 million, the CB US$6.7 million, PB's
US$3.3 million and the Government US$4.5 million (a detailed financing plan
and cost estimate is provided in Annex III). Costs have been estimated at
August/September 1976 prices, with a physical contingency of 10 percent of
base-line costs allowed for the extension service, seed program and feeder
road components. A price contingency of 21 percent of total base-line cost
plus physical contingencies, expressed in dollars, has been added. The cost
per man/month of technical assistance is estimated at US$6,000.



- 17 -
D.   Project Implementation
54.       CB, through its Development Credit Department (DCD), which is
administering the Second.Project in satisfactory fashion, would administer
and supervise the agricultural credit component of the project, which would
be carried out by the four state-owned commercial banks which are operating
efficiently under the Second Project. Under the proposed project, DCD would
provide overall guidance, training and assistance to PB's and the MAG Extension
Service in project analysis and other matters related to the project's credit
component, and by March 1, 1978 establish a monitoring system to facilitate
the preparation of project completion and evaluation reports and to contribute
to the formulation of national agricultural credit policies (Section 2.04 of
the draft Project Agreement).
55.       The proceeds of the loan for other project components would be
channelled through CB, acting as fiscal agent for the Borrower, to the differ-
ent entities responsible for their execution as follows: MAG for the streng-
thening of the National Extension Service and construction of the foundation
seed storage facilities; CNP for the construction of the storage and distribu-
tion facilities for commercial seed; IFAM and the County of Perez Zeledon for
the feeder roads project; and OFIPLAN for preparation of the Regional Develop-
ment Study. OFIPLAN would also act as liaison between these executing agencies
(except the CB) and the Bank, in order to centralize reporting and monitoring
activities. For this purpose, OFIPLAN would by September 1, 1977 appoint one
of its senior staff members, acceptable to the Bank, as liaison officer.      It
has been agreed that the liaison officer would be appointed under terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank and that a monitoring system, acceptable
to the Bank, would be established by OFIPLAN by March 1, 1978 (Section 3.10
of the draft Loan Agreement).
On-Lending Arrangements
56.       The Government would bear the exchange risk (Section 4.03 of the
draft Loan Agreement) on subloans and on-lend the funds for the credit compo-
nent to CB on the same terms as the Bank loan under a "Banco Central Loan
Agreement". The execution of this Agreement will be a condition of effective-
ness (Section 6.01 of the draft Loan Agreement). Rediscounting of PB subloans
by the CB will be governed by Subsidiary Loan Agreements satisfactory to the
Bank (Section 2.01 of the draft Project Agreement), and it will be'a condition
of disbursement under the agricultural credit component of the project that CB
has signed such a contract with at least one PB (Schedule 1, para. 4(a) of the
draft Loan Agreement).
57.       PBs will extend subloans for approved subprojects not exceeding 90
percent of investment costs in the case of small farmers and 80 percent in
the case of other beneficiaries. Subloans not exceeding US$35,000 would be
approved at PB field offices in cases where these offices have adequate per-
sonnel for this purpose. Subloans between US$35,000 and US$100,000 would be
approved at PB main offices, and those exceeding US$100,000 (which will most



- 18 -
likely be for agro-industrial projects) will be appraised by DCD and require
CB approval; those exceeding US$150,000 will require Bank approval. (Schedule
1 of the draft Project Agreement).
58.       PB subloans would be made with repayment terms ranging from a
minimum of three years to a maximum of 12 years, including grace periods of
up to five years. Repayment terms would be established for each subloan on
the basis of cash-flow projections.
59.       The interest rate structure and proportions of financing by CB and
the PBs under the Project's lending program would be in accordance with the
following schedule:
Interest Rate Structure
Portion of Subloan                       PB's to
Type of Beneficiary    Rediscounted by CB      CB to PB's      Subborrowers
(%)                 (x)             (%)
Small farmers                 100.0               5.0              8.0
Other beneficiaries            80.0               9.5             12.0
The proposed interest rates to subborrowers are in line with rates now being
applied in Costa Rica for similar loans, and would represent positive real
rates assuming a continuation of the moderate inflation experienced during
1976. The Government is projecting an inflation rate of 5-6 percent for 1977,
and it has undertaken a monetary stabilization program designed to achieve this
target (see paragraph 11 above). While 8 percent for small farmers is thus a
positive real rate, it is somewhat low in comparison with the rate to other
beneficiaries and the Central Bank will therefore carry out by December 31,
1977 a study of the impact on the allocation of resources and the cost to the
Central Bank of maintaining the rate to be charged to small farmers. Margins
of 3.0 and 2.5 percent on small and other farmer lending, respectively,
should be adequate to cover the PB's administration costs and provide a
satisfactory profit.
F. Procurement
60.       The items to be procured by farmers financed under the agricultural
credit component would be bought from local commercial agents, who represent
a broad spectrum of international suppliers. Equipment for the feeder road
component, civil works and equipment for the seed storage buildings and all
vehicles, estimated to cost about US$3 million, would be procured by inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank guidelines. Bidding
documentation, advertising procedures to be followed for the bidding, and
contract award would require Bank approval when the estimated cost of the con-
tract is US$75,000 or more. The rehabilitation of the feeder roads would be
done by force account, utilizing the equipment purchased through ICB. Mate-
rials for road construction would be procured according to local competitive
bidding procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank.



- 19 -
G.   Disbursements
61.       Disbursements would be made over a period of five years for:
(a) 60 percent of amounts disbursed by PBs for project sub-
loans to beneficiaries of the agricultural credit componenL
of the project;
(b) 100 percent of the foreign cost of vehicles and equipment, or
75 percent of the cost of imported but locally procured vehi-
cles and equipment;
(c) 30 percent of the total cost of the civil works for the
construction and installation and equipment of the seed ware-
houses and for the feeder road component;
(d) 100 percent of the foreign cost of training and advisors
for the extension component; and
(e) 75 percent of the total cost of technical assistance for
salaries, travel and subsistence of consultants, supervi-
sion services for construction and installation of seed
facilities and preparation of the rural development study.
The schedule of estimated disbursements is given in Annex III.
H.   Project Benefits
62.       The proposed project would provide increased production of crops
and livestock products both to meet domestic demand and to provide surpluses
for export, and thus to contribute to improvement in the balance of pay-
ments. In addition, at full development, the project would generate incre-
mental net revenues to the Government of about US$0.4 million per year. The
agricultural credit and extension service components would assist farmers
to increase their productivity and thus their income levels, while the seed
program component would lead to higher crop yields as a result of increased
availability of improved seeds. The total annual value of incremental pro-
duction as a result of the project is estimated to be US$14.7 million at
full development, and the financial rates of return on incremental farm
investment are estimated to range from 17 to 24 percent. Incremental employ-
ment created would be equivalent to 2,400 full-time annual jobs. The feeder
road component, besides serving as a pilot scheme for the establishment of the
CRIO in other parts of the country, would provide better access to markets for
crop and dairy producers within the region selected for this project. The
regional rural development study is expected to lead to the preparation of a
comprehensive rural development project, and to strengthen the institutional
capacity of OFIPLAN in the field of project preparation.
63.       The economic rate of return on the farm investments, the calculation
of which includes costs attributable to the expansion of the extension service
and the seed program, is estimated at about 16 percent. Together these three



- 20 -
components account for over 90 percent of project costs. The economic rate
of return of the feeder road component is about 13 percent. The overall
economic rate of return of the project, excluding the cost of the rural
development study and of agroindustries, is estimated at about 16 percent.
Risks
64.       The economic viability of farming operations in Costa Rica is
heavily dependent on domestic and export prices, and weather conditions. The
technical assistance and improved seeds to be provided under the project would
help improve the quality, and thus the marketability of farm output and con-
tribute to reducing financial risk to producers. The projections for export
beef and sugar are favorable, and recent Government agricultural pricing
policy has been effective in encouraging production of food for domestic con-
sumption; it has been agreed that the Bank would have a reasonable opportunity
to exchange views from time to time with the Government concerning pricing
policy and any proposed changes therein (Section 3.14 of the draft Loan
Agreement).
65.       None of the activities financed under the project is expected to have
an adverse impact on the environment.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
66.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Republic of Costa Rica and the
Bank, the draft Project Agreement between the Central Bank of Costa Rica and
the Bank, the Recommendations of the Committee provided for in Article III,
Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement, the text of a draft resolution
approving the proposed loan are being distributed to the Executive Directors
separately. Conditions of disbursement applicable to specific project compo-
nents are referred to in paragraphs 49, 51 and 56. A special condition of
effectiveness would be the execution of an on-lending agreement between the
Central Bank and the Borrower (see paragraph 56).
67.        I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
68.        I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
April 14, 1977



I                                                                                                I~~~~~~~~~AM
Z                                           toAMIt                                                      I
00  -Mm--  It            It It It It                            It         It1-  I0-9-  000~0t Ita
*  I~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0I 
I- 
2i U Z,                                                                               ..     -            It
as  a  .i  a C     so       C  am.          op      s  -   o    U..   0   M@         NS9      t -   S
2  1,-                                             Ut.lal't   -   -                    -  s, I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M   t
09 II
949                                                              CZ,                                     I
IS.  I                                                                      -..I       a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  1  b2
CS   I        0      1.  00 9   ..1  0  V    0       0'     .-.r  00   000a,0        0    A. 0   0   co S
a- I  - In  Ut  vSl  0 ..S  S~~~~ft  It  *W S  ~c c 00   l  0  - It  cA.0  %~l  00  Apa It      .N  
ml  I                                                                                                 a~~~~~~M12a
* I                                                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~aw
a- I                                                                                       S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-IM':
IS,                                                                                      5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
as  s ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~ ~  ~ I
P4911  2.141             4    4444         4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  ~ I;
.40  I  941  I.I                   .  .  .  .  .1  I                               I  I   .5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7   C~
0.1*1  9-t-  .00  ~~~~~~a a.0  0  U  ,1    ItAU               l    .5o.         - -      . * s    -W  
9-OS  1-CI                              -    St                   5                      - -           9' 
500   I                                                                                     I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 IC)O   e
I*a .                                   I Nwe                                       X



ANNEX S
Page 2 of A pages
UaIses ot.herwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any yea bertsan 1959 and 1961, for 1970 betwaso 1968 and 1970 and for Moat Recen.t Estimate be tween
19 73 an 175.
Span baa been asIsoted as an objettive houn try.basusiito haa tha sn        osituesi tradition , it is 1as  an open ..non.y with strong trade relations
wi th neighboring nountrie  ad baa a hightaandardofJlivin.        Yet becaus   of a dynamin groth of esPorta of goode and srie,Spain has achieved
an eno    int  diveratfios:tinsd stability that would ho desirable for CotaR RIta.
COSTA RICA     1960    /   19i5l-63     lb  1963;     /.  Span usanploytaent.    Id  InsIde only.
197S    /a1963-70.
MOST RECENT ESTBIATE.     /a   1970-73:    /b  Open oneploysoet;       /t  1971;    /d   1972;    /s   1969-71;    /f  Total, urban sad rural.
MEXICO         1970    /    1964-66,    /b  Inside only.
PANOAMA        1970    /a    -1olding r-identa working in Canal Zoos        /b  Intone retipienta;     /n  10 years sod   -us;     /d  Ineide only.
SPAIN          1970    /a  iogtnrsrd unnplnyod;        /b  Registered, not all practicnig in the .-outry.
R3, Haobh 3, 1977
IPDEFrINIINS OF SOCI-AL DiNICATORS
Land Ama. (thou l..t 3Population nor to- L.& .                                                                       -cu   - Popolatiot dividod by mashe  af practicing
Total - Totol surf.c aro tt  cuprising land area and inland watoro.                        na. and fonalo iradaato nro,"trainod' or "osrtified" nurses, and
Agric. - Hot   re-en  eatiaato of agrionitaro1 ares sand.tanparnily or per-                 au_iltar  porsnn1 with tra ining or noperienos.
tunnoy fo  trps, panturon, narbot h kit.ben grdono or to lie fallow.                              ataaio  o  hospital hod - Population divided by number of hospital
COP oor osnita (Us") -;N lPe potnita     ntinatond at curroan marbst prices,                bode availablo in psblio sod private g ..oral sod apeciali.ed bospitni
r.caloata d by -an  -ovoi ion -othu    a  trld Hank Atlas (1973-75 banis);                and rehabilitation nentorn, enolodon nursing bann     and establishuste
1960, 1970 and 1975 data.                                                                 for tuntodial end pr-evotion tarn.
Per cspita napoly of talonine CT of rosirnet) - Conputed frau
Pouainad utto Intatiutica Aonfrgy equivalent of-lanot food apiios availble in o.untry pet
pouaIn(aid-yr. oliion) -9 AaoSoyfrt             fno    vlai,seae                      tapirs per day; available sapplins tonpriso donatic production, imports
of tw   -ed-you  petinaten, 1960, 1970 and 1971 data,                                     lean na-ports, nnd changen in stock, not ouppli..en oclude Manial feed,
need, quatities saed in food praossing and losses in distribution;
tousondsuc-o        usaoIa- Mid-your Ppoplotion por aqoars kIlo-                    requiesatn    worn ostinated b'y FA  bao    nphsooial needs for
ortor (100 hotrs     ofttlaasea                                                                   ciiyadbat           oadring sovirosonenta1 ia        raun,bd
P.otiation doet-y-nopr notar- Io      f aoriu. land - Canputed an shovn for                 weights, ago and ason dietribatians of popalation, and alloing 102 for
agri-tu-tro   loand otiy.                                                                 weato at boosohold 1levl.
Per capita supply of protoin forans ant day) - Protein constent of pot
Vital utarisrito                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~capita not napply of food per day, not spp ly of food in defined a
Crodo birtbhan     e  thousad-    iuua  -Su   bIrths pot thousand of old-year               above   reqairnants for al nountriea established by ESDA Etoonanic-,
popalation. to-yost    rithantit a,rorgos -ndingi0t1960 and 1970, and fit-                cenero h srvicsa pravid     for a niian alowaoco       60 gras of total
y-r average ondiog i1975 for noo       Potent estinteprotein pot day, and 20d grana of an_Ima                                        and puIne protein, of whith
Crude death rain po   thusnd - Annul deaths perthrboaoad of aid-ratr                        10gsra sehoold he animal protein     those otandarde art lowr than
.populaion; ten-yer   arth sntic ave rages sdingtin 1960tand 1970 and                     thoseof 701 gea-   of_-ntlp proa     ns   3"on      faimal prntoin as
fiuryoaravorgo ndingo  171 fan sotte        tosin.                                anaeaefrthe word, prapoad by PASO To the Tbhird world PFod
Infant nrtality r-no i/thou) - Annual d-aths of infants under ona year of                   S"7ey
800 per rn_oud lIre hirthn                                                              Per oapita wrotein anelofran animal and puise - Protein napply of
Lita, eapentaoy, atYbirth (yrn)  A-Avrago nonhr of years of life remaiing                   food derived from   nm an   andpulata in grt     Pot day.
at birth; oso11y flvo-ye-r avrages codini in 1960, 1970 and 1971 far                   Oeth rte f/thaw) ages 1-4      _ Annal deaths Pot thous and in ag   grou   1-4
deoC   pigcnti.                                                                            yeasra, to childrmn in thin ago group. suggestod as an inditatr ofP
iron  roorduttion r-te-A-orago       unbor of livo dooghters a w-an wIll                    malntrition.
boat in her atr_a re:production period I~f.shee-potinoces preset ago-
sp,ecific fortuiityrates, . nully fiv-_yoravrags        ending in 1960,                 Mutation
9190 and '197)tforr developing vontrloa.L                                              Adjusted rnollaseot ratio - Polmatry school - Enrolloont of all ages as
Population growt rate (%     - total -  Cspud annual growth ratee of aid-                   percentage of primary school-age population, inciudno children aged
Vear population, for 1950-60. 1960-70 ad 1970-71.                                         6-11 yearn hut adjusted for different lengths of primary education;
Poonlati-n growth re te M%   -urban - Canputod like growth rate of tntal                    for countries with univernal eduction, onrollset may eateed 1002
population; difforent deinitions of urban areas nay affect tumpars-                       elate sane pupila are below or abovt the official school age.
Ubilit   ofdate- anang coutal-RIes.    o    bnttt-pplin,dfe                             Adjusted enrolloet ratio - necondarY school - Canputed as above;
Urban peounations(   ftta)-R of        ofubabotaa          opltin       ifo                socondary eduo..tion requires at lean.t four yearn of approved primary,
ten  deiniinso.       ubnareas nay affect nonparsbility of data anong                     instruction, provides genersl, -oatinsI or retb..er training
countries,                                                                                 ins")-Cilde  01  ers,wri -e(1-4y.)  -truction  for papils of 12 to 17 yeara of age, cottespondeane
ge  rrutirur  prot        Cided0l           as,wriga ((11-6yyear),                        corses ate generally escladed.
and  otiod  (5 yaRs ad tero) an perceotages of aid-yea.r population.              Years of schooling provided (first and senond levels) - Total year. of
Age dependenc.y rat io -Raio of population onder 15 and 61 and over to                      enh-oling; at senondary leve, vocational instruction nay he partially
thene of agna 1) through 64.                                                             or conpletely enclded.
Etcanaic depeadeacy ratio - Ratio of population under 13 asd 61 and overVoainlermntiofecday                                        -Vntusintttos
toJ thIlbo     fors i    rag  group of 15-64 yeats                                         include technical, industrial or other program    which operate inde-
fatlyPlaning -accetors(c_nlative. theul    C-Caulative nuber of                     pondatly or an depatusonts of secondary institutions.
acceptors of birth-control devices under suapiosas of national fanily                  Adult literacy rate C(TI - Literate odn1ts (able to read and write) as
planning program   inc  inneption                                                        porcentage of total adult population aged 15 yearn and over.
pa_ily pleauni     -srs( of married wa-M) - Porce6otages of married
wases of child-beaing age (15-44 years) who us      birth-cotrro1 devices               Heas ing
to all,mrried wrPs in sam     age group.                                               Persea   Per roan faversia) - Average number of person     pot rown in
occupied noeantisnal dwellingo in urban areas; dwellings eatlude nn
Baploycasni                                                          pooma~~~~. nsen  srcue anononcupied parta..
Totl abr force (thouand) - Eton1casclly active persons, inluding                          Ocuiddelnswtotppdwter CT) - Occopied nonventional
armd faroes and unaployd but       anluding housowives, etudente, etc.;                   dwellings in urban end rural areas without inside     rotid       ie
deintions to various   eCoutisaema        oprbe                                        water facilities as porcontage of all occupied dweIllgg.
Labor farce inagiutr         (I- Agricu1tur1 labor forte (to farming,                    Accessa to electrinity (T of all dwellings) - Conventional dwellings with
.forestr,hunting and fiohing) aso Percentage of total labor forco,                          1 eetr Piy  nliving quarters as portent of total dwellings in urham
Z               henloe  T  flbr fore  - . Seployed are usually defined as porona       soZ   urlaeas.
who are able and wingto take a Job, out of a job on a gina day,                         Rural dwelnscnatdtoeetiiy()-Captda                             hv     o
raaied oat of a Job, and seeking work for a spocified otmi:umf period                    rua     wlIngsoly
sot eusteding on week; nay nor be casparable botween onutrins dun to                       ua                1
different defiuitiona of unapioyed sand source of data, o.g., esplay-                  Ca-t.
mat offine statistics, nooplo surveys, cumpulonry aaplnysant insrne                      adorierso.     (ant thou pop) - Aliltypes of receivers for radio brad-
lecoame  istrib.tM  - Perctag. of  rivate itone (boh                 casts togera      publin pot thousand of population; excludes unlicensd
Incna  disribuion -Percntag  of pivat  intne (bth i tan  and.bind)         reteivrer in onuntriee and is y.ear   when registration of radio aset wass
receiveld by richest 5T, richest 20T, pooreat 20%, and po-oret 40% of                    in effect; data for recant yoarn may not be tonsparable    Itnot mast
bosho   l .da.                                                                           countries abolished licensing.
Di.trib.tlon of land  --hip - Prr..t.g.. ofP land                           r oas   ea  thou PoP) - Pasnenger cats canprins mator tar      seat..ing
Dianiboron t  lan  ownrahi-Porontaos o  lan  ownd by wealthinat               les  than sight Person; ealudes ambuolances, boarses and military
152 and poorest lOT of lend 0wsat5.                                                     v"ehices
Health and Nutrition                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~Electricity (khY/yr Par cap) - Aasnal COnSumPtion of industrial,ti -
NeaIth   - and Nutricin-P tion         dvCial, public and private electricity in kilowtt honsar                                                      pot capita;
Ponultionper pysican -Poplto      iided.by masher of practicing                     generally based an production data, without allowacsa for lasese in
pbysiciams qualified fran a madical school at university level,                          grids but allowing for imports sand eaporta ef electricity.
Ngewarint Gsa/er see cap) - Per caPita annual -nefiumPtion in kilogreas
estimated frsam damiti production Plus met imports of newsprint.



ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 
COSTA RICA
ECONIOMII  DEVEoPMEN1T DTA
(Aounts =n milOS       r7S dlas
Actual                   Prel          Prjeted
19Q   1973                   M  E I     1 77l9      98O-           1970-75        1975-.80           1970       1975       1980
NATIONAL ACCOUNTS
Amounts    in 1967-1969 Prices & ExchanLge Rates               Average Annual Growth Rates             As Percent of GDY
Gross Domestic Product                        855.2   1,0614.0    1,159.14    1,223.2    1,297.0    1,5145.0             6.3             5.9             99.14     106.2      101.6
Gains f'rom Temosof Trade      1                5.       -140.3     -67.5       ..12.       26.0      -25-0                                               O . 6     -6.2       -1.6
Gross DIesiIncome                             B7      153      1   ,0Z .9     1,10.7    Tm   7      1,52.                14960                           0.        I0.
Import (incl. NFS)                           337.6       386.9      3814.9     1412.0      1452.0     527.0              2.7             6.5             39.2       35.3       34.7
Exports   "1   (import capacity)              273,0      324.3      298.0       3140.5     1419.0     1480.0             1.8            10.0             31.7       27.3       31.6
Resource Gap                                   6          3S.6                **'TT  8.9  - 7                              .               . 410          77       -   .         3TT
Consumption Expensitures                      7146.1     8143.0     927.8       981.2    1,063.0    1,228.0              14.14           5.8             86.8       85.0       80.8
investment     -(incl. stocks)               178.14      2143.3     251.0       271.0      293.0      339.0              7.1             6.2             20.7       23.0       22.3
Domestic Savings                              113.8      180.7      1614.1      199.5      260.0      292.0               7.6           12.2             13.2       15.0       19.2
National Savings                             106.3       156.7      114.6       173.1      227.0      238.0              6.0            10.8             12.14      13.1       15.7
IEACHANDISE TRADE                                            Annual Data at Current Prices                                                                 As Percent of Total
Imports
Capital goods                                78.6      1214.3     177.2       2149.0     296.0      388.0             17.7            17.0             214.8      25.1       28.5
Intermediate goods (excl. fuels)           122.8      1814.1      2914.6      281.2      332.0      556.0             19.1            13.5             38.8       141.8      h0.9
Pstroleum, Gil, Lubricants                  12.3        31.5       95.1       115.9      137.0      207.0             50.5            16.8              3.9       13.5       15.2
Cos singo~dsqt                      13930      115.14     138.14      137.0       155-0      209.0              6.1            8.6             32.5       19.6        15.14
Tota.i1rc.Ips       to(CIF)                3I6.7                                 ' 7 T   720G                       TI                                           T          TZ
Exports
Primary products (excl. fuels)              169.9      2142.1     326.6       366.6      5143.0     607.0             114.0           13.2             73.5       66.2       56.7
Namufactured goods               ~~~~~61.3  102.14    166.7        220.0      25.        1 463.0           30.0            23.0            26.5        33,8       143.3
Tota   3ec.Eprt          PE                  T         3t.         933          r         7gT
Merchandise Trade Indices                                      Average 1967-69,- 100
Export Price Index                         101.6      114. ?      1632        1.7_       241.0      266.7              9.3            10.3
Import Price Index                         102.7      129.1       200.1       210.1      225.9      280.5             114.3            7.0
Term s of Trade Index                      101.9        88.9       81.6        88.9      106.7       95.1             -14.14           3.1
Expor ts Volume Inkdex                     132.3      180.0       180.14      189.2      1914.1     2149.5             6.14            6.7
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                           Annual Data at 1967-69 Prices and Exchange Rates                   Average Annsual Growth Rates            As Percent of Total
Agriculture                                199.2       231.8      2142.3      256.9      261.14     288.0              14.0            3.5             23.3       20.9       18.6
Industry, and Mining                       205.3      269.8       306.1       322.9      3514.7    1450.0              8.3             8.0            214.0       26.14      29.1
Services                                   45.          6.        611.0       642.4                 857g               64                              52         52.7        2.
Annual Data at Current Prices                As Percent of GDP
Actual              Pra1in1or~
PUBLIC FINANCE                               -197u       1973       [90(5                     1970        1975
(Ce-nt-ral -Governemet)-
Current Receipts                           130.9      180.0       261.9       316.3        13.2        13.7
Current ~xenditures                        113.7       159.8      2146.7      316.2        11.5        12.9
Other Public sector                          15.7       28.8      147.9        63.6         1.6          2.5
Public Sector Fixed Investment               146.7      78.3      128.3       209.0         14.7         6.7
CENTRAL GOVERNKENT                                                                                                      DETAIL ON
TOTAL EXPENDITuRE DETAILS                                 Actual            PeinayPUBLIC SECTOR                                                                  As Percent of Total
As % Tota    Exenitre                                                           7                                     FIXED INVIEST                                               1975
Educ atio   Exedtre                                             r6ocial Sectors13.                                                                                                -3-
Other Social Services                              114.3      13.8            125Arclue1.3                                                                              1.7        1.1
Economic Services                                  15.6       21.3            125.95oe                                                                     20.5        19.7       20.2
Other                                              39.3      J2.3             29.9                                    Transport and coommunications        38.6        39.7       145.0
Total Expenditures                                           1 I"            rf.I                                      Other                                2.3                    0.
________________________________________________________________________M                    GT_Expenditur   s IExpenditures                          5
LABOR FORCE AND                                                     Total Labor Force                          Value A92dded  er   orker at Factor Cost (Current Prices)
OUTPUT PER WORKER                             In Thousands         ~        pti193-73                                   InerrentDoflarsr
MT-=            7____ -Ttll              Growth Rtate                           -fi 
Agriculture                                   1914.3     213.2       149.2        36.14           0.9                    639       1,1914          514         61
Induatry                                       73.9      1-16.1      18.7        19.8            14.6                 1,2148       2,320         106          119
Services                                      127.1      256.0       32.1        143.8                                1 9149      2 1417         166         1214
Total                                                  1T"                                                                        i5m-           TM           TM
not applicable.



Annex 1
Page 4 of 4
COSTA RICA
BALANCE OF PAY!!ENTS, EXTEIRNIAL ASSISTAZICE A;3L DEBT
(In millions of US dollars at current nrices)
A       c t u a 1           Preliminary    Proiected
1970     1973     1974     1977       1976       1977     1980
S3AI RY BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (including NFS)             280.2   418.7    528.6    596.4       714.5      948.0   1.3.6.D
Imports (includiMg NFSj            346.5    499.6    765.7    770.3       866.o    1,020.0  1,478.0                                                   Actl           Prir 1r
esrcBalance (X-M)                   -66.3    -80.9   -237.1   -173.9     -15T.       -7.      -132.0            DEBT AND DEBT SERVICE             197C       1975       1976
Interest (net)                       -9.8   -16.9    -24.6    -36.2       -47.0      -60.o    -95.0           Public Debt Out. & Disbursed       134.2      4lO.0      564.5
Direct Investment Income             -3.8    -21.1   -16.h    -19.4       -20.5      -303.0    -78.0             (end of year)
Workers' Remittance                   -        -       -        -           -                    -              Interest on ?ublic Debt            7.1       23.4       32.9
Current Transfers (net)              5.9      7.0      7.6     12.5        14.o       16.0     20.0             Repayment on Public Debt          2D.6       h0.5       uS.5
Balance on Current Accounts         -74.0  -11.9    -270.5   -217.0      -205.0     -14.      -2850             Iotal Public Debt Service         27.7       S3.9       70.4
Private Direct Investment            26.4     37.7    46.3     69.0        63.0       63.0     100.0          Burden on Export Earnings (%)
Official Capital Grants               3.8     5.1      6.4     10.9         6.o        4.0       -              Public Debt Service                9.9       10.7       11.0
?DS+Direct Investment Inc.        11.2       14..0)     13.8
Public M&LT Loans
Disbursements                      29.6     70.7    87.6    lhl.7       200.0      170.0     266.o          Average Terms of Public Debt
-Repayments                        -20.6   -30.5    -33.4    -40.5       -45.5      -55.0    -113.0            Int. as d Prior Year DO&D          5.7        7.7        S.0
Met Disbursements                  _77      h   O. 5     4.2              7T7 115. 0     -     153.             Amort. as % Prior Year DO&D       16.5       13.4       11.1
Capital Transactions n.e.i.          23.1    46.8    140.7     56.8        46.2       26.0      60.0          IBRD Debt Out. & Disbursed          36.1       85.0      103.9
Change in Net Reserves (-=increase)  11.7    -17.9    22.9    -20.9       -64.7      -62.0     -28.0               as % Public Debt O&D            26.9      20.7       18.4
1/                                                                                                   as % Public Debt Service        14.8      13.5       13.5
LOAN CO!R4ITMENTS
IDA Debt Out. & Disbursed            L.6        5.2        5.2
Public M&LT Loans                                                                                                 as % Public Debt O&D              3.h       1.3        0.9
IBRD                               15.7     6.2     23.5     41.0        39.0                                " as I Public Debt Service           0.1        ).1       0.1
IDA                                 -       -         -       -           -
IDB                                 2.2      -      14.7     75.6        35.0)
Other Multilateral                 10.7      7.S    21;.2   3U.2          5.8                                                      Actual Debt Outstanding as of Dec. 31, 1975
Governments                        20.7      5.5     35.2    23.6        49.0                               EXTERNAL DEBT            Disbursed Only         Percent
Suppliers                           1.7      8.2    10.6      2..4        7.8                                 Wlorld Bank             -   5.                  20.7
Financial Institutions              6.3    46.5     66.6     64.1        91.6                                 IDA                         5.2                  1.'
Bonds                               -        -        -        -          -                                   Other ;'ultilateral        46.3                 11.3
Public Loans n.e.i.                 0.14     -        -       3.9        13.5                                 Sovernments               101.2                  24.7
Total Public M&LT Loans              57.7     7h0-   174.     24.    7                                          3uppliers                  27.6                  6.7
Financial Institutions    132.8                 32.4
Bonds                       0.3                  0.1
Public Debts n.e.i.       '1.6                   2.8
Total Public M&LT Debt    4110.0               100.0
1/   Exclude loans repayable in local currency.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 3
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN COSTA RICA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of January 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                                US$ Million
Credit                                                                      1/
Number      Year     Borrower           Purpose                 Bank     IDA- Undisbursed
Eleven loans and credits fully disbursed                        69.3      4.5       -
664         1970     Costa Rica         Roads                   15.7       -       0.9
800         1972     ICE:               Power                    6.5       -      0.2
801         1972     ICE                Telecommunications      17.5       -      9-4
827         1972     Banco Central     Agriculture               9.0       -      2.5
872         1973     Costa Rica         Roads                    1.4       -       0.1
915         1973     Costa Rica         Education                6.2       -       6.o
1006        1974     ICE                Telecommunications      23.5       -       9.9
1126        1975     ICE                Power                   41.0              31.7
1187        1976     Costa Rica         Highways                39.0       -      39.0
Total                                            229.1       4.5   90.7
of which has been repaid                        31.8       0.3
Total now outstanding                            197.3       4.2
Amount sold                  7.5
of which has been repaid    3.7                   3.8        -
Total now held by Bank and IDA                   193.5      4.2
1/ Excluding exchange adjustments
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of December 31, 1976)
Amount in US$ Million
Year        Obligor                     Type of Business        Loan     Equity     Total
1976        Productos de Concreto S.A.   Concrete products       0.6                0o.6
Total gross commitments                              0.6       -         0.6
less cancellations, termi-
nations, repayments and sales                       0.6       -         o.6
Total now held by IFC, fully
disbursed                                           _         _         _



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 3
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 664 Siguirres-Limon Highway Project: US$15.7 Million Loan of April 2,
1970; Effective Date: June 17, 1970; Closing Date: December 31,
1976.
The project was completed in December 1975 -- ten months behind
the original schedule. The final costs are expected to exceed the original
estimate by about 20 percent.   The Government has financed the additional
costs out of its own resources. A contractor's claim is pending in the Costa
Rican courts and is not expected to be resolved for several years; the loan
will therefore be closed shortly. The Government is prepared to pay the
enLire cost of any settlement (which may amount to as much as US$1 - 1.5
million).
Loan 800 Fourth Power Project: US$6.5 Million Loan of February 24, 1972:
Effective Date: June 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1976.
This project has been completed, and the loan will be closed shortly.
Some minor cost overruns on the transmission component are being financed
under loan 1126-CR.
Loan 801 Third Telecommunication Project: US$17.5 Million Loan of February 24,
1972: Effective Date: June 2, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After some delays attributable to revisions of the project scope and
late deliveries, the project is now progressing satisfactorily and is expected
to be completed shortly. An estimated 18 percent overrun in total project
costs is expected, mainly due to increases in local cost elements, and this
will be financed by the borrower, ICE.
Loan 827 Second Agricultural Credit Project: US$9.0 Million Loan of June 5,
1972: Effective Date: January 25, 1973; Closing Date: September 30,
1977.
This project is discussed in paragraphs 38-41 of this report.
Loan 872 Highway Studies Project: US$1.4 Million Loan of December 28, 1972:
Effective Date: June 29, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1976.
This project has been completed and the loan is now being closed.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken to
remedy them. These should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation
of strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 3
Loan 915 Education Project: US$6.2 Mlillion Loan of June 25, 1973: Effective
Date: December 27, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The project is about 20 months behind schedule -- partly because of
the delay in Congressional ratification of tihe Loan Agreement and partly
because of difficulties encountered in the organization and functioning of the
Project Unit. Some improvement lhas been noted in the operation of the Project
Unit, although close supervision is still required, and a revised and accel-
erated implementation schedule has been developed. There may be some reduct-
ions in project scope, resulting prinarily from rapidly increasing construction
costs.
Loan 1006 Fourth Telecommunications Project: US$23.5 Million Loan of June 14,
1974: Effective Date: November 19, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
The project is progressing satisfactorily, and no cost overruns or
delays in implementation are envisaged at this time.
Loan 1126 Fifth Power Project: US$41.0 Million Loan of June 16, 1975:
Effective Date: December 16, 1976; Closing Date June 30, 1979.
Effectiveness of the loan was delayed by legal and administrative
difficulties, but the project is now in execution and progress is satisfactory.
Loan 1187 Fourth Highway Project: US$39.0 Million Loan of January 14, 1976:
Effective Date: July 30, 1976; Closing Date: October 32, 1980.
There was a 12 month delay in the award and signing of the construct-
ion contract for the project highway because of appeals on the award filed by
some losing contractors. This has been resolved and construction is expected
to begin this month.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Borrower:           Republic of Costa Rica
Amount:             US$18.0 million equivalent
Terms:              Payable in 17 years, including 3-1/2 years of grace at
percent interest per annum.
Relending Terms:                     Interest
Government to Central Bank        at 8.2 percent             17 years including
(Government bears                                          3-1/2 years grace
exchange risk)
Central Bank to                   at 5 percent for small     3 to 12 years
Participating Banks                farmers and 9.5 percent   including up to 5
for others                years grace
Participating Banks               at 8 percent for small     3 to 12 years
to Subborrowers                    farmers and 12 percent    including up to
for others                5 years grace
Project             The Project would provide credit to help finance on farm
Description:       investment for livestock and dairy development and annual
and perennial crop production, and for the development of
agroindustrial enterprises including the financing of
machinery and equipment for companies or cooperatives
doing contract work for farmers on land clearing, leveling,
etc. The Project would also finance (i) the construction
of 26 seed storage facilities and 2 foundation seed ware-
houses; (2) the improvement of approximately 100 kms of
rural access roads in the county of Perez Zeledon which
would establish a local office to carry out the work as
a model for future such programs; and (3) the expansion
and acquisition of equipment for the national agricultural
extension service. Consultant services will be financed
for a regional development study which will include
preparation of an integrated rural development project.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4
US$ million              Foreign        Z of
Local    Foreign     Total     Exchange    Baseline Cost
Agricultural Credit
Beef cattle breeding                              1.6      1.2       2.8           43            9
Dairy-medium size farm                            2.0      1.3        3.3          39           11
Dairy-small size farm                             1.3      0.8        2.1          Q             7
Livestock Sub-total                         4 9       3 3       8 2           40           27
Mechanized annual crops-medium size farm          1.0      1.1        2.1          53            7
Permanent crop-medium size farm                   1.7      0.7        2.4          29            8
Permanent crop-small size farm                    0.9      0.6        1.5          18L           5
Crops Sub-total                              3.6      2.4        6.0          40           20
Complementary investment-medium size farm         1.9      2.9        4.8          60           15
Complementary investment-small size farm          1.8      2.7       4.5           60           15
Complementary Investments Sub-total          3.7      5.6        9.3          60           30
Agro-industry and Services                        0.5       1.0       1.5          67            5
Agricultural Credit Sub-total               12.7     12.3      25.0           49           82
Extension Service
Additional personnel                              0.7       -         0.7          -             2
Vehicles and equipment                            0.21     0.5        0.7          70            2   /
Training                                            *      -2/        0.1                        * 
Extension Service Sub-total                  1.0      0.5        1.5          33            5
Seed Program
Civil works construction                          0.8      0.61/      1.4          43            5
Electrical installations                          0.2        *        0.2          26            *  2
Vehicles and equipments                             *-/    0.3        0.3          85            1
Seed Program Sub-total                       1.0      0.9        1.9          47            6
Feeder Roads
Labor and materials                               0.7      0.2        0.9          24            3
Vehicles, equipment and supplies                  0.1 1/   0.5 1      06 1         87            2
Technical assistance                                *        * -05/   0                          *  31
Administration                                    0.1       -         0.1           -           _
Feeder Roads Sub-total                       0.9      0.8        1.7          47            5
Rural Development Study                               0.1      0.3        0.4          75          _1
Total Baseline Cost                         15.7     14.8       30.5          48          100
Contingencies
Physical                                          0.3      0.2        0.5
Price                                             3.6      3.0        6.6          _
Total Project Cost                          19.6     18.0       37.6          48          123
1/ Less than UZ5U,uW0.
2/  Less than US$100,OUO.
31 Less than 1~.
February 23. 1977



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4
FINANCING PLAN:
Participating Gov'ernn±uit
Sub-borrowers    State Banks      and Cr,       Bank       Total
Amount   %     Amount      %   Amount   % Aniount    %    Amourt
-------------------------US$ million-----
A. AgricIJltural Credit
Small size farms     0.8     10        0       0    2.9    36    4.4     54     8.1
Other fariis         3.1     20       2.5     16    2.5    16    7.3     48     15.4
Agrc-industry and
services           0.3     20      0.2      16    0.2    16    0.8     48      1.5
Subtotal       4.2     17      2.7      11    5.6    22   12.5     50    25.0
B.  ExtenJo_in Ser.ice
Vehicle: and
equ i4 CrIt         -       -                -    0.2    30    0.5     75     0.7
Additional personnel                                                 l/
and training        -       -        -       -    n.:8  lo0    0.0 -     0    0.8
Subtotal                                      1.0    33    0.5     67      1.5
C. Seed-Progra-m
Velliclos and
equipment           -       -        -       -    0.1    25    0.2     75      0.3
Civil works           -       -        -       -    1.1    70    0.5     30      1.6
Subtotal                                      1.2    58    0.9     37      1.9
D.  Feeder Pcadr
V'ehicles a-.d
equip.aent          -       -        -       -    0.1    25    0.5     75      0.6
Civil works and
tcchc.i cal
a3sistaiice         -       -        -       -.   0.8    70    0.3     30      1.1
Subtotal                                      0.9    53    0.8     47      1.7
E. Rtiral Dcvelopment
Studv                 -       -       -        -    0.1    25    0.3     75     0.4
P. Conti.ngnen(ies       0.9      13      0.6      8    2.4    34    3.2     45      7.1
Totai':        5.1      14      3.3      9   11.2    29   18.0     48     37.6
1/ Less than US$100,000.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4
Estimated Disbursements:
(US$ million)         FY1978    FY1979     FY1980   FY1981   FY1982    FY1983
Annual            1.0       3.4       4.8       4.7       2.8       1.3
Cumulative        1.0       4.4       9.2      13.9      16.7      18.0
Procurement
Arrangements:
The items to be procured by farmers financed under the
agricultural credit component would be bought from
local commercial agents, who represent a broad spectrum
of international suppliers. Equipment for the feeder
road component, civil works and equipment for the seed
storage buildings and all vehicles, estimated to cost
about US$3 million, would be procured by international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank
guidelines. Bidding documentation, advertising
procuedures to be followed for the bidding, and
contract award would require Bank approval when the
estimated cost of the contract is US$75,000 or more.
The rehabilitation of the feeder roads would be done
by force account, utilizing the equipment purchased
through ICB. Materials for road construction would be
procured according to local competitive bidding
procedures, which are acceptable to the Bank.
Technical           Internationally recruited consultants will be contracted
Assistance:      to provide specialized services for the project.    The cost
of consultants is estimated at US$6,000 equivalent/man
month.
Rate of Return:     The overall economic rate of return of the Project is
estimated at'16 percent.
Appraisal Report:  Report No. 1399a-CR dated April 1, 1977.



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
COSTA RICA
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT AND DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable and Key Events
(a)  Project Preparation       The project was prepared by OFIPLAN in
July - August, 1976;
(b) First Presentation
to the Bank             A third agricultural credit project was
first appraised in mid-1974, but was not
presented to the Board because agreement
could not be reached with the Government
on sub-loan interest rates. A substantial
drop in inflation in Costa Rica together
with an upward adjustment of agricultural
interest rates, led the Government to again
request consideration of the project and it
was discussed by a Bank mission in June
1976;
(c) Appraisal Mission
Departure               September 19, 1976;
(d)  Negotiations Completed    March 23, 1977;
(e) Loan Effectiveness
Planned                 September, 1977;
Section II: Special Bank Implementation Actions
Assist OFIPLAN in designing and carrying out a regional development
study.
Section III: Special Conditions
The Government has agreed that:
(a) by March 1, 1978 a region for the development study would be
selected and terms of reference for the consultant team,
satisfactory to the Bank, would have been prepared (para. 52);
(b) at least 25 percent of the Loan applied to the lending ptogram
would be for small farmers (para. 44);



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
(c) the National Planning Office would, by September 1, 1977,
appoint a senior staff member as Liaison Officer, with
terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank (para. 55);
(d) sixty-five additional extension workers would be appointed
by September 1, 1978 (para. 48);
(e) the National Seed Program would be subject to Bank approval
(condition of disbursement) and would be initiated during
the first year of project execution and carried out in
accordance with a schedule approved by the Bank (para. 49);
(f) execution of an agreement between the CNP and the Government
would be a condition of disbursement for the seed program
(para. 49);
(g) personnel and funds would be provided to staff the Enrique
Jimenez Nunez experiment station of MAG and each of the CNP
seed storage and distribution centers (para. 49);
(h) the manager of the Country Road Improvement Office and the
road construction consultant would be appointed by
December 1, 1977 (para. 50);
(i) monitoring systems acceptable to the Bank would be established
by the DCD and OFIPLAN and submitted to the Bank by March 1,
1978 (para. 54);
(j) the Bank would be afforded a reasonable opportunity to ex-
change views, from time to time, with the Government con-
cerning their agricutural pricing policies or any modifi-
cation thereof (para. 64);
(k) the execution of on-lending agreement between the Government
and the CB would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 56);
(1) execution of an agreement among the Government, IFAM and the
Municipal Council of Perez Seledon, satisfactory to the Bank,
would be a condition of disbursement for the feeder road
component (para. 51); and
(m)  exeuction by the Central Bank of a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, with at least one of the PBs, would
be a condition of disbursement for the credit component
(para. 56).






r\ jO .  7 t5;       RBJ'0           I'.                                   . 8iQ  '           FEBRUARY 1977
X / - u s X ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N I C A R ,A G U A                          r j .D I C 1k A 
C, ,D                                       .7 Q ;  \  ~NI IQ AN _u A _
-C-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C
-Ss 8                 _  -v                                CPKA,A    C /2' I C i '
PA C~~~~~~~A1 
0 c E A N~ A ' ~ .
'730   ,.....  9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  -,~~~~~~~d......
;, .   .'r;- :   . . --
--  '-  '    '                  ;   .  - 9.  ' 9  ,,;/, nrr  uleh /
K      CI      -      x      s     .                     ,, .        _      \       C  G  '- i D 5 5 ; e~ c
', fi,>hB ->s4, ,....                                 ..     ...  ,  ,I-. et
9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                        9
- ~ ~~~~~  -*                               ,(     1 _i _0 ^, ^.- '  . -:-
_ .*                         ri.9.. --Oh-f t^'',-t-."
AGRCULURA  CREDT .--- DEELPMN          PR-OJE.,
LAND USE CT~EGORIES     ECOLOGICAL REGIONS    ,,     =     j -        fS*0 apfi
m1Anrual Crops           Centrol prlaeau E~>><.S 
aa Bor,nas' Oil palm 8Ca caco  L ' I  I'top'cs   IT                   .      t-
|Pineopples          M AJORt OFIE  AD  h,-j
PAN AMER ICAN HIGHWAY   AGRICULTURAL CRtEDlT BANK OF CARTAGDO  i \ 
RAILRDADS           C   PROPOSEDCNP SEED DISTRIBUTION CENTERS           .  -        '9
I...~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
1a  VOLCAN40S          A    MAJOR MAGtXTENSION OFFICES                     '    -  2   ..  \
8 30            PROV CIALBOUNDARIES   R                                                                     2
-_INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARES  NUMBER OF OFCS8 RVIt                                        > 
S BN  NATIONALB AN KI NC SSTEM.                              . 
AGRC A  CMINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE EXTEOIMNE PFFICR
_9._.i     A   ._.^.A.-'7'  U'  .lOEE5MLSt
A  sATIOsAI. BASK OF COOTA R,CA ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ i.  i
86'00'   85'30   85'00'   84'3,"       84'00'                          83~~~~Y (Th  -



