Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLE
Report No. 7793
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1329-UG)
JUNE 8, 1989
Africa Regional Office
Tbis documeot bas a retricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offcial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
DEO     =  District Education Office
EAC     =  East African Community
EC      =  European Commission
FY      =  Fiscal Year
GDP     =  Gross Domestic Product
GNP     =  Gross National Product
ICIŽ    =  International Competitive Bidding
IDA     = Intemational Development Association
ILO     = International Labour Organisation
IMF     = International Monetary Fund
ITEK    =  Institute of Teacher Education Kyanbogo
LCB     =  Local Competitive Bidding
MOE    =  Ministry of Education
NCDC   =  National Curriculum Development Centre
NRA     =  National Resistance Army
NTC     =  National Teacher College
PCR     =  Project Completion Report
PIU     =  Project Implementation Unit
PLE     =  Primary Leaving Examination
PPF     =  Project Preparation Facilities
PS      =  Permanent Secretary
PTA     =  Parent Teacher Association
RP      =  Recovery Prog-imme
SDR     =  Special Drawing Right
ST¢PU   =  Science and Technology Equipment Production Unit
TA      =  Technical Assistance
UC^    =  Uganda College of Commerce
UGSh    =  Uganda Shilling
UNESCO = United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organisation
UNICEF = United Nations Children's Fund
UPE     =  Universal Primary Education
UPH     =  Ugandan Publishing Hiouse
UTC     =  Uganda Technical College



VrOl OFFICIL USE ONLY
THE WORLD SANK
Wasttington. D.C 20413
USA
OVue CA OleCit4-efle
Op.atw fwawtrn
June 8, 1989
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report: Uganda - Third Education
Protect (Credit 1329-UG)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report
entitled "Project Completion Report: Uganda - Third Education
Project (Credit 1329-UG)" prepared by UNESCO and reviewed by the
Africa Regional Office. No audit of this project has been made
by the Operations Evaluation Department at this time.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
|of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank; authorization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1329-UG)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface                                                       i
Basic Data Sheet                                             ii
Evaluation Suammary                                          vi
Chapter I - Project Backgroutd                                I
Socio-Economic Setting                                    I
Sector Settinn                                            2
The Project                                               3
Chapter II - Project Implementation                           5
Overview                                                  5
Project Management                                        5
'rechnical Assistance                                     6
School Inspection Programme                               7
Professional Services                                     7
Civil Works and Maintenance                               8
Furniture, Equipment and Materials                        9
Supply and Delivery System                               11
Covenants                                                l 
Studies                                                  12
Chapter III - Costs and Dlisursements                        13
Project Cost Performance                                 13
Financing and Disbursement of Credit Proceeds            16
Chapter IV - Operating Outcomes                              17
Expected Outcomes                                        17
Achievement of Expectations                              17
Chapter V - IDA Performance                                  20
Project Generation                                       20
Project Supervision                                      20
Chapter VI - Conclusions and Lesons                          22
Appendix                                                     23
1. Socio-Economic Data
2. Structure of Formal Education (Chart)
3. Planned and Actual Implementation Schedule
4. Project Implementaiton Unit. Key Ugandan Staff
5. Project Implementation Unit. Technical Assistance Team
6. Training courses under the Third Educatin Project
7. List of Equipment and Supplies for Primary Schools
8. Procurement Schedule
9. Compliance with Credit Condition
10. Comparative Analysis of Actual and Estimated Costs
(Including Contingencies)
11. Average Cost of Providing Equipment and Supplies
by Level of Education
CMOIENTS PRO. THEK R 39 WE:  Attachments I and II
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefonmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (CREDIT 1329-UG)
PREFACE
This Is a Project Completion Report (PCR) of the Third Education
Project in the  Republic  of  Uganda.    Credit  1329-UG,  .a the amount of
US$32.0 million equivalent, was approved on February 24, 1983, and was
closed on December 31, 1988, after which an informal five-month extension
was granted until May 1989. With the final disbursement on March 28, 1989w
the Credit was fully disbursed. Total project costs approximated appraisal
estimates of  US$34.0  million.    The  extended  implementation period was
approved in order tc complete the second and unanticipated phase of
renovation to the residence halls at Makerere University.
The PCR was prepared by UNESCO under the Cooperative Agreement
between UNESCO and the World Bank. It is based on a review of the relevant
file documents, discussions with IDA staff knowledgeable about the project,
a Government prepared draft PCRI, and a field visit to Uganda from
November 25,  to  December  13,  1987.   The  Basic  Data  Sheet  includes
information not available when the PCR was being prepared in early 1988,
and thus figures way differ slightly from those appearing in the text, but
the differences are minor and do not affect the assessament of the project.
This PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
The draft PCI was sent to the Borrower and its agencies for comment in
February 1989. Comments received have been taken into account and are
reproduced as Attachments I and II.



- ii -
UGANDA
Third Educatin Project - Credit Nc. 1329-UG
KEY PROJECT DATA
Appraisal          Actual
Estimate
Total Project Cost
- in US$ (million)                                   34.00             33.30
- Cost underrun (%)                                  -                  2
Credit Amount (US$ million)                          32.00             32.001/
- Disbursed (28 March 1989)                          -                 32.00
- Cancelled
- Repaid                                               
- Outstanding (28 March 1989)                        _                 32.00
Date of Physical Components Completed          30 June 86         31 Dec. 87
- No. of months since Credit signature                  40                58
- Proportion completed by above date (%)               100                75
- Proportion of time overrun (%)                                          45
Date of Overall Project Completion             30 June 86         31 Dec. 87
- No. of months since Credit signature                  40                58
- Proportion completed by above date (%)               100                95
- Proportion of time overrun (%)                                          45
- Institutional performance                          Good        Satisfactory
Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursement
(US$million)
Fiscal Year               1984    1985      1986    1987    1988
Appraisal Estimate                   6.60    23.60    31.60   32.00      -
Actual (31 May 88)                   0.71     9.56    22.33   29.78   32.07
Actual as % Estimate                 10.8     40.5      70.7   93.06  100.00
1/  Credit Amount in SDR million  29.10
Disbursed (28 March 1989)      29.10
Cancelled
Repaid
Outstanding (28 March 1989)    29.10



- iii -
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Original        Revisions         Actual
Plan
First Mention In Files                                               Feb 80
Government's Application                                           9 Sep 81
Negotiations                                                         Jan 83
Board Approval                                                       Feb 83
Date of Credit Agreement                                         11 Mar 83
Effectiveness Date               9 Jun 83                          1 Jul 83
Closing Date                    31 Dec 86        31 Dec 87       31 Dec 88
(expected)
Borrower                      Republic of Uganda
Executing Agency              Ministry of Education
Follow-on Project                      none
Name
Loan/Credit No
Amount (US$ million)
Date of Loan/Credit Agreement
Fiscal Year of Borrower       1 July-30 June
Counmtry EShne Rates
Name of Currency              Ugandan Shilling (UGSh)
Appraisal Year (March 1983)    US$1 = UGSh 100
Revised Allocation (31 March 87) US$1 = UGSh 1,400
Intervening Years  May 84     US$1 = UGSh 330
May 85      US$1 = UGSh 600
May 86      US$1 = UGSh 1,470
Completion year (Nov. 1987)   US$1 = UGSh  601/
1/ On 18 May 1987, a devaluation of 77 per cent was ei.ectuated. Secondly,
a new UGSh was created, a new Shilling being a hundred old ones.



- iv -
MISSION DATA
No. of        No. of    Date
Sent by      Month/         No. of       Staff and       Staff-       of
Year         Weeks    Composition         Weeks    Report
(a) Preparatory
Reconnaissance 1  IDA                Feb 80         1       2 (GE,GE)          2
Reconnaissance 2   Unesco            Apr 80         1.5     2 (GE,AS)          3       30 Jun 80
Preparation          Unesco   Sep/Oct 81            3       6 (A,GE,TE,   18              Oct81
E,PS,MMS)
Pre-Appraisal        IDA/        Nov/Dec 81         2       3 (A,E,GE)         6
Unesco
Appraisal            IDA         Apr/May 82         3       3 (A,E,GE)         9       25 Jan 83
Sub-Total                                                                     38
(b) Supervision
1        IDA       Oct 83               1       2 (GE,A)           2       2 Nov 83
2        IDA       Apr 84               1       1 (GE)             1       24 May 84
3        IDA       Aug 84               1       1 (GE)             1       18 Oct 84
4        IDA       Feb85                1       2 (A,GE)           2       12 Mar85
5        IDA       May 86               1       2 (A,GE)           2       18 Jun 86
6        IDA       Oct 86               0.5     1 (E)              0.5   11 Nov 86
7        IDA       Apr 87               1       1 (E)              1       12 May 87
Sub-Total                                                                    9.5
(c)  Completion    Unesco  Nov/Dec 87               2.5     2 (A,E)             5      Oct 88
A = Architect                           AS = Agricultural Specialist
E = Economist                           GE = Ceneral Educator
MMS = Mass Media Specialist             PS = Printing Specialist
TE = Technical Educator
STAFF DNPUT
(Staff weeks)
FY    74      as      61      82      88     64      85      80      87    86      Total
Pre-appraisal   0.1   10.1    8.6   48.6               -       -              -       -      59.7
Appraisal       -       -       -      24.8   24.8     -       -       -      -       -      4E.6
Negotiation     -       -       -       -      9.6    -        -       -      -       -       9.6
Supervision     -       -       -       -      4.9   17.0   21.1   14.9    8.9    8.0   7C.8
Other           -       -       -      0.2    -        -       -       -      -       -       0.2
Total           0.1   10.1    8.0   71.1   68.0   17.0   21.1   14.9    6.9    8.6  198.4



-v -
ALLOCATION OF CREDIT PROCEEDS
(in SDR)
Origina  Reallcation    Actual
Category                AOr I    inl   R(31 lacration   Disbursements
Alloction    31Ma.87)(up to 31 Oct. 87)
1. Civil Works                        280 000          1 500          1 443.89
2.  Construction Materials          2 140 000      4 265 000      3 554 650.42
3. Furniture                          590 000         13 300         13 291.63
4.  Library and Textbooks           8 280 000    10 600 000    10 522 778.93
5.  Equipment and Supplies          8 820 000    10 802 800    11 231 269.19
6. Vehicles                           200 000        186 000        182 015.93
7. Technical Assistance               910 000      2 150 000      2 118 239.40
8.  Architectural Services            160 000        730 000        695 908.93
9. Transportation of Goods          3 230 000          3 20 04        3 200,19
10. Studies                            270 000         94 200         94 165.65
11.  Project Administration             70 000        204 000        147 544.98
12. Unallocated                      4 1£0 000          -
13. Special Account                      -             50 000
Total Disbursement             29 100 dOO    29 100 000    28 564 509.14=
Undisbursed (31 Oct. 87)           -              -             535 490.863S
Total                          29 100 000    29 100 000    29 100 000.00
Source: IDA.
1/ This amount was spent in Project Administration (Daily Subsistence Allowance
for a counterpart) and wrongly put in this category. On the other hand
all civil worksexpenditures have been allocated for construction materials.
/ For most items, cost of transport was included in the supply contract.
3/ Recent information received from IDA indicates that on 17 December 1987
a total of SDR 28,806,057.58 was disbursed, leaving a net balance of SDR
293,942.42. Taking into consideration changes in ratio between SDR and US$
since the Credit became effective, the above amounts in SDR are equal to
'rOnk q 5 7S11 l qn nnd Uq$4fl7 001.49 respectively.



- vi -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1329-UG2
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
This project, the third Bank-financed credit for education, was
designed to assist the Government In rehabilitating the sector after nearly a
decade of economic decline and political instability. It was prepared with
Unesco assistance, appraised in April 1982, and was approved the following
February.   Project costs  were estimated  at US$  34.0 million equivalent, of
which IDA financing of SDR 29.1 (US$ 32.0 million equivalent) was to cover
94% of  the total.   At the time of the coupletion mission, total actuai costs
were estimated at US$  33.3  million.    While  this  was  close  to appra.isal
estimates in the aggregate, cost comparisons by category of expenditure and
level of education indicated a marked redistribution away from equipment and
supplies for secondary education and teacher training and towards project
administration and civil works for the university.   T'.e addition  of a second
phase of rehabilitation works at the university was made possible, and was
approved by the Bank, after it became clear that substantial savings were
being achieved  in other  categories.   The project  took nearly five years to
complete, eighteen months longer than expected.  Although  a remaining balance
of US$ 8,000 had not been disbursed by the Closing Date of December 1988, the
Borrower was given an informal five month extension until May 1989, at which
time any remaining proceeds would be cancelled.
Obiectives and Project Content
The project's primary objective was improving the quality of
education across a broad range of institutions through the restoration of
suitable instructional conditions, but bearing irL mind the recurrent cost
limitations faced by the Government.    Essentially,  the  project  focused on
procurement and  distribution.   As the  initial phase  of a two-part recovery
program, the project sought to reconstruct, repair, and re-furnish and re-
equip primary and secondary schools, teacher training colleges, specialized
technical and commercial institutions, and Makerere University, as well as to
re-stock   these   institutions   with   text  and  library  books  and  other
instructional materials.   To  insure  prompt  and  equitable  distribution of
goods, the project provided furniture, equipment, and vehicles to District
Education Offices  and the  Project Implementation  Unit (PIU).   Although the
main focus was on restoring quality through rehabilitation of individual
institutions, the project also sought to have a broader institutional impact
through: (i) financing studies on technical education, educational financing,
and teacher supply and demand, which would assist the Government to improve
the management, control and planning of education and (ii) covenants aimed at
systematizing procurement and distribution of educational materials and
maintenance  of   educational  facilities.    Project  execution  arrangements
established a new unit consisting of a five-member expatriate technical



- vii -
assistance team and ten national counterparts, rather than utilizing the
Project Implementation Unit of the previous project.
Implementation Experience
With the exception of the university civil works component, the bulk
of the project was completed as designed and without major time or cost
overruns.   IDA  approved  a  second  phase  of  rehabilitation work  for the
university in 1985, when it became apparent that funds were still available
under the Credit. This st.econd phase encountered problems of availability of
skilled labor and materials, port congestion and disturbed country conditions
which delayed completion and contributed to a 53% cost overrun of the
component.   Some of  these problems  might have  been reduced had a full time
technical engineer been appointed to the PIU from the outset.
From a logistical standpoint, procurement and distribution aspects
were very well managed, particularly in light of the number of institutions
participating (some 5,500 in all) and the country conditions prevailing at the
time. Suggested book and equipment lists were carefully scrutinized in light
of local conditions and often in consultation with the institutions involved,
which enhanced the relevance of the items purchased and reduced their cost as
well.   Procurement of  equipment and  supplies, packaging  for the individual
schools, and  transport of  the packages  to the District Education Offices in
Uganda were  then  arranged  in  a  timely  and  efficient  manner  by outside
agencies.   The materials  reached the  District Offices  in 99Z of the cases.
Originally, the materials were then to be picked up at district headquarters
by school  trucks and  delivered directly to the schools, but when this became
infeasible because of high fuel costs or civil unrest, other transport means
were  employed with  equal  effectiveness.   Given the circumstances, it is a
remarkable achievement that virtually all the materials actually reached the
end users.   Much  of this  success can be credited to the PIU, whose members
were actively involved at all stages of the process.
Results
Although the project was well executed and successfully provided the
materials to restore instructional conditions in a large number of schools,
its  achievement  of  enhanced  educational  quality  is mixed.       Follow-up
inspections by the PIU and the completion missior. indicate that, whereas
inputs haje encouraged improved student performance, increased enrollments
and heightened parental interest in the schools - as well as stimulating non-
project schools to press the Government for similar improvements - storage
and utilization has varied. The PIU inspection program found that, while the
primary schools were performing well, some secondary schools and teacher
training colleges neither stored or utilized the materials effectively owing
to poor school management.
The institutional impact of the project fell short of expectations
on  two  counts.    In  the  first  case,  the studies on technical education,
educational  finance,  and  teacher  supply  and  demand were   completed  as
anticipated, but implementation of the recommendations has been held in
abeyance, owing to continued unrest and the financial implications of



- viii -
implementing them.   In  the second  place, the experience of implementing the
procurement and distribution aspects of the project has not been fully
institutionalized.11       The   covenants   requiring  the  development  of  a
comprehensivu plan for meeting future material needs and maintaining buildings
and equipment were not complied with.2/ Moreover, the PTU began to dissolve
following project completion because neither the unit nor the counterparts
were absorbed within the employment structure of the Ministry of Education.
At the time of the completion mission, only five local staff remained in the
PIU, and the rest had left for more attractive positions elsewhere. While the
experience and the overseas training the counterparts received through the
project may not be lost to the country, the failure to institutionalize the
educational  materials   supply  and   delivery  function   is  a  significant
shortcoming.
Sustainability
Prospects for sustainability of project benefits are not promising,
largely for the reasons cited in the previous two paragraphs. Improvements to
physical facilities have not always been accompanied by needed upgrading of
the teacher corps and  school administrators.   Lack  of arrangements  for the
maintenance and replenishment of materials means that after the project-
financed items are used up or wear out - as the completion mission noted was
already starting to happen - the country will be confronted with a situation
similar  to  that  existing   before   the   intervention   of   the  project.
Nevertheless, this assessment should be seen within the context of the
country's recent emergence from a state of protracted civil unrest, the
aftermath of which continues to undermine efforts to reform and rebuild the
institutional infrastructure.31
Findings and Lessons
The project provided excellent lessons on the logistics of procuring
and  distributing   education materials  under  adverse  circumstances.    By
comparison with other Bank-assisted projects, and in the context of the
prevailing  country   conditions,  the   performance  regarding  delivery was
outstanding. Or, a less euphoric note, the project also demonstrates what
1/   The Borrower  feels that  the experience  of implementing the procurement
and  the  distribution  aspects  of  this   project  has   been  usefully
incorporated into the implementation of the follow-on project. See
Borrower comments, Attachment I, page 42.
21   The Borrower notes  that  school  maintenance  and  the  need  for school
supplies is being addressed through a variety of measures. See Borrower
comments, Attachment I, pages 42-43.
31   The B-rrower feels that the prospects  for sustainability  are promising,
particularly in light of the attitudes of the new government and the
establishment of the Education Policy Review Commission in 1986. See
Borrower comments, Attachment It page 43.



- Ix -
happens when successful Initiatives are not accompanied by parallel efforts
to systematize the process and improve other aspects of education quality.
Experience with this project highlights several additional points
which have Implications for project works
(a)    the risks  to project  implementation under disturbed country
conditions;
(b)    the need to establish and strengthen project management as an
institutionalized part of the ministry concerned;
(c)    the importance of participation by appropriate specialists in
project supervision; and
(d)    the importance of providing  direct  support  for maintenance
within the project, rather than depending upon covenants to bring
about sustained maintenance of buildings and equipment.



-1-
CHAPTER I
PROJECT BACKGROUND
Socio-Economic Setttfg
1.01    Uganda, a land-locked country located on the northern and western
shores of Lake Victoria with an estimated population of 15.2 million in 1986,
occupying an area of 236,000 km2 (Annex 1), achieved independence in
October 1962 with a number of important advantages: an agricultural production
with a widening range of export crops (coffee, cotton, tea and tobacco) and an
ample domestic food supply; a small industrial sector with export of textiles
and copper; a well-developed transport infrastructure; an exportable surplus
of hydroelectricity; and one of the most advanced education systems in Africa.
With competent economic management, Uganda sustained a steady two per cent
annual growth in per capita GDP during the first decade of its independence.
1.02    Following a military coup d'etat in 1971, there was a drastic economic
change, with stagnation in GDP and a decline in per capita income, aggravated
by external 'shocks' such as the rise in petroleum prices and the tensions leading
to the dissolution of the East African Community (EAC) in 1977. This era
eulrinated in 1978-79 in a devastating war, subsequent looting and the replacement
of the military regime.
1.03    The new Government failed to address basic economic and financial
problems despite the agreement reached with the International Monetary Fund
(IMF) in 1981 to stabilize the economy and revive investment and production
by restoring confidence in the currency, eliminating price distortions and Improving
fiscal and monetary discipline. In order to rehabilitate the productive sectors
and to improve the utilization of existing capacity, a Recovery Programme
covering the period July 1982 - July 1984 was elaborated. This programme was
revised in 1983 and extended to June 1985. Over the three years from 1981 to
1983, the economy improved. Up to the middle of 1984, financial and fiscal
discipline was gradually restored and inflation declined. However, thereafter
inflation and the budget deficit rose substantially and expenditures ran out of
control.
1.04    Following another coup d'etat in July 1985, the new Government did
not institute the policies needed to turn the economy around. By the end of 1985,
the situation in the country was precarious in all respects.
1.05    The National Resistance Army (NRA), took over the Government in
January 1986. The present Cabinet Ministers represent various political walks
of life, backgrounds and religious denominations. Security has been restored
in the southern, western and north-western parts of the country, while in the
north-eastern area the cost of maintaining security is high. The broad objectives
of current economic policy are (a) to bring down the rate of Inflation, estimated
at 20 per cent per month (Annex 2), (b) restore productive capacity, and (c)
stimulate domestic production and exports, in particular non-traditional exports.
After discussion with the IMF and the World Bank, in May 1987 the Government
announced a major adjustment and development programme covering the period
1987-90 which aims at raising real economic growth up to a rate of five per cent
per year.



- 2 -
To implement the programme, the following measures were introduced: a new
shilling equal to a hundred old shillings; a currency devaluation of 77 per cent;
a conversion tax of 30 per cent, half for repayment of foreign debts and the
other half for a national development programme; and substantial increase in
producer prices in order to stimulate export.
Sector Setting
1.06    At the time of project appraisal in 1982, the education system (Annex 3)
of Uganda had suffered w.th the other sectors of the Ugandan society the effects
of economic decline and instability. The system had continued to function with
an administrative structure established since independence, regional offices,
a school inspectorate and a centralized examination system. Enrolments and
expenditures had grown continuously, reflecting the high priority attached to
education. However, at all levels of the system educational quality had declined
and there was neglect of the physical infrastructure needed for the educational
process. There was a general lack of maintenance, the departure of expatriate
secondary school teachers (notably in mathematics and science), a deterioration
in teacher morale and productivity because of declining real income (and this
prompted an exodus of the teaching profession towards better employment
opportunities elsewhere), and the loss or damage of school facilities, equipment
and supplies. Urgent rehabilitation was required if earlier educational standards
were to be recovered. The immediate requirement was for physical renewal and
the provision of minimal supplies and equipment.
1.07    With a view to remedying the situation, the Government adopted a
two-phase policy. The first phase was an urgent programme for general
rehabilitation and for assuring minimally adequate conditions of instruction.
The second phase was intended to focus on improvement of the curricula and
teacher training with the ultimate goal to return the system to full efficiency
and quality. The need for immediate physical rehabilitation was to be met through
reconstruction, repair, re-furnishing and re-equipping of schools and Makerere
University and re-stocking them with textbooks and other instructional materials.
In the longer term, the Government committed itself to the achievement of
universal primary education (UPE), with an eventual extension of the basic cycle
to eight or nine years.
1.08    The two previous Bank Group assisted education projects had emphasized
general secondary education, technical education and specialized training including
agriculture at the secondary and post-secondary levels. After the end of the
1978-79 war, IDA financed the First Reconstruction Program (Credit No. 983-
UG signed on 2 April 1980) which included US$2.5 million (of the total Credit
proceeds of US$ 72.5 million) for the replacement of looted and destroyed
educational materials and equipment.



- 3-
MM, P,
1.09    The Third Education Project was prepared in September 1981 by the
Government of Uganda with assistance from Unesco. A number of surveys financed
under the Technical Assistance Credit (Credit No. 1077-UG) helped to identify
more precisely those Items included in the Project for rapid improvement of
the quality of education. Project appraisal took place in April/May 1982. The
Development Credit Agreement was signed on 11 March 1983, and became
effective on 1 Judy 1983.
1.10    Project Objectives. The project was designed to: (a) rehabilitate part
of the education system in a manner consistent with the Government Recovery
Programme and wit, .mplementation capabilities; (b) keep to a minimum  the
future recurrent cost burden on Government; (c) resxore instructional conditions
to as adequate a level as possible equitably across all schools; (d) provide
specialists for implementing the project and training counterparts; (e) repair
halls of residence of Makerere University and provide roofing materials for the
most dilapidated primary schools; and (f) undertake specific studies with a view
to assisting the Government in improving the management, control and planning
of operations in the education sector.
1.11    Project Content. As indicated in the Credit Agreement the project
provided for:
(a)     Primary Education
Text and library books, roofing materials, instructional supplies, furniture,
teachers' guides and auxiliary source books for the rehabilitation of
about 5,000 primary schools.
(b)    Secondary Educaticn
Text and library books, equipmrent for science laboratories and home
economics classes, and teaching equipment and supplies for about 177
secondary schools.
Office equipment for administrative offices of about 103 of the above
177 secondary schools.
(c)     Primary Teacher Training Colleges
Text and library books, equipment for science laboratories and home
economics classes, teaching equipment and supplies for about 33 primary
teacher training colleges.
(d)    Specialized Institutions
Equipment, spare parts and tools for the motor vehicles, electrical
installation and machine shop sections of the Elgon Technical Institute.
Equipment, spare parts and tools to support the motor vehicle, electrical
installation, painting and decorating, brick and block laying, and carpentry
and joinery sections of the Lira Technical Institute.
Equipment, spare parts and tools for the Uganda Technical College.
Typewriters for the Uganda College of Commerce.



-4-
Text and library books for the National Teachers' College (NTC) and
for the above technical institutes and colleges.
(e)     Makerere Unt, rst
Library books.
Rehabilitation of about 14 student residential structures.
(f)     District Education Offices (DEO)
Office equipment and motor bicycles (for use of inepectors) for about
33 DEOs.
(g)     Project Implementation Unit
Office furniture, equipment (including a small computer) and vehicles
for the Project Implementation Unit.
'h)     Studies
A study to assess, inter alia, the curricula, the qualifications and
performance of teachers and students of post-primary technical schools,
including availability of jobs and skills required.
A study of the sources and uses of financial resources of the education
system with a view to proposing a comprehensive system of financing
education.
An inventory of the supply of, and demand for, teachers and preparation
of medium-term demand projections and of a proposal for a fully-costed
programme for meeting future needs.
1.12   In order to ensure the equitable and prompt distribution of goods to
be provided countrywide to their final users and training of local counterparts,
the project included a technical assistance component of 9.1 staff years for the
Project Implementation Unit (PI). The technical assistance specialists were
expected to establish an information system for carrying out supply and delivery
operations and maintenance programmes after project completion and to prepare
manuals on maintenance and train staff of the Ministry of Education in appropriate
maintenance procedures. These activities were considered to be the first step
in establishing a centralized information centre on maintenance and supplies.



-5-
CHAPTER fl
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Overview
2.01 The project was to be implemented over a period of three years Ar'n$
was expected to be completed by 30 June 1986 and the Closing Date was fixed
at 31 December 1986. Following the Government's request, the Closing Date
was extended to 31 December 1987 (Annex 4) and then 31 December 1988 in
order to enable the renovation of the halls of residence of Makerere University
to be completed.
2.02  The overaU performance of the PIU with Technical Assistance (TA) support
has been commendable, particularly with regard to the procurement and delivery
of all books, educational equipment and materials for the various levels of
education and in administering the Project in general, despite difficulties
generated by the unsettled state of the country. About 99 per cent of the
materials provided under the Project have reached the schools concerned. Civil
works costs were 53 per cent above the Appraisal estimate, because of the
addition of a second phase of rehabilitation work at the University and the higher
than expected unit costs involved.
Promct Management
2.03 The project was administered by a newly established Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) separate from the Second Education Project PIU.
A senior officer was appointed as Project Director in January 1983.
2.04 The PIU staff consisted of the expatriate TA specialist team (a Deputy
Project Direetor, a Distribution Manager, a Procurement Manager, an Accountant
and a Training Officer) and ten national counterparts. Staffing of the Specialist
Team was adequate during the Project Implementation period; however the
counterpart team was gradually reduced from ten to four.*. nd is now insufficient
to take over full operational responsibility for the Unit.MAnnexes 5 and 6 show
the staffing of key positions in the PIU during project implementation.
2.05 The main duties of the PIU were to supervise architectural consultants,
to approve civil works to be carried out at Makerere University, to arrange
the procurement of books (for which a list was prepared by the Inspectorate
and NCDC with assistance from the British Council in 1983), to prepare lists
of equipment, furniture and materials as well as to arrange for their procurement,
to inspect all construction work and all phases of the delivery and distribution
of books, to maintain adequate records and to train the counterpart staff assigned
to the PIU. 3
2.06 Apart from a slow start attributable to the delayed appointment of the
TA specialist team, the overall performance of the PIU has been very good.
The PIU has been extremely successful In implementing the procurement and
delivery of all books, educational equipment and materials for the various levels
The PDU curretly coasists of oe director, four couterprM end tn technical
astat., which t. Borror f..ls Is muftf cint. See Cment, free the Borrower,
Attacumot IZ, pag 45.
V/ The Bower Me offered additional cmments oe the scop of duties of tho PIU. Swe
Coement, Attacheet II, pop 48.



-6 -
of education. It has been less successful in the supervision of architectural
consultants and in the approval of civil works, a task for which it was not properly
staffed. Progress reports were prepared by the PIU on a regular basis, covering
six-month periods starting from December 1983, and a preliminary draft of
a Project Completion Report was prepared as well. The expert services
component of the TA programme has been most successful in providing direct
assistance to the PIU.
2.07 The rehabilitation of halls of residence of Makerere University was
implemented in two phases. In particular, the second phase led to a few unusual
and costly problems which, with careful professional advice in advance, could
have been avoided (Appendix). The PIU management could have played a more
forceful role, despite the fact that the problems concerned fell outside the
competence of the PIU. In cases like this, the PIU felt all the more the
shortcomings of great distance in the communication with IDA headquarters
in Washington DC., which directly supervised the Project after the closing of
the education section in the Regional Mission in Nairobi in October 1985. v
Tecinical Assstance
2.08  For the PIU, a total of 15.7 staff-years of TA services was actually
provided, by comparison with the originally intended 9.1 years, as a result of
the following decisions:
-     the posts of Deputy Director, Distribution Manager and Accountant were
extended three times, (June 1985, November 1985 and June 1986) because
of delays in project implementation;
-     the post of Training Officer (originally intended for six months to ensure
efficient and adequate training programmes for the counterpart staff)
was extended to include the training of teacher-storekeepers in each
of the project schools to monitor the arrival of materials and to participate
in the School Inspection Programme.
2.09 On the other hand, the number of staff-years included in the Appraisal
estimate for the post of Procurement Manager was reduced by 50 per cent,
since It was decided during project implementation that, owing to the many
complications and local difficulties, the majority of the procurement materials,
with the exception of the textbooks, would be handled under a separate contract
by ILO/Equipro on behalf of the Govemment (para. 2.27). Motorcycles and
typewriters were put out for ICB by the PIU.
2.10 In November 1984, a short-term consultant prepared guidelines for a
training programme for counterparts. This resulted in counterparts attendinig
courses on procurement at Crown Agents in London (UK) and at the ILO Centre
in Turin (Italy). /Annex 7 summarizes the achievements of these trairing
programmes which, although successful and useful, do not directly benefit the
PIU for the time being, since most counterparts have left the Unit for more
attractive positions elsewhere. The Training Officer, together with the two
training  counterparts,  arranged   a  programme  for  the  training  of
teacher-storekeepers: over the period July 1984 to May 1985, two-day seminars
were held in each of the 33 distrie-ts, which trained over 5,400 teachers in
storekeeping procedures.
T/ Teoreer hoe offened further *onXte on this Issue. See Comments, Attachme_t
1, pae. 4G.
Other coaiatenft have bee noted by the Boreoer. See Co_nts, Attachment 1I, page
48.



-7 -
Schod Insection Programme
2.11 In order to evaluate the success of the Third Education Project, it was
necessary to inspect the assisted schools at the individual district level, to
ascertain what percentage of the materials delivered to district headquarters
actually arrived at the schools (Annex 8), the use, care and storage of materials
in the schools, and the fate of materials not delivered to, or stolen from, the
schools. In October 1986, the PIU embarked on an extensive nine-month tour
that covered 3,031 of the 5,415 primary schools assisted by the Project in 23
districts. For security reasons, ten districts could not be inspectcd. For each
district, an inspection report was written and despatched to all the relevant
parties, giving details of schools needing follow-up. The findings were
that: (a) the distribution of the educational materials under the Project went
well, 99 per cent of materials arriving at the Individual district
headquarters; (b) the distribution of materials from headquarters to individual
schools went smoothly, although there were a few distri ts where materials
were mishandled and items disappeared because of poor management at District
Education Offices (DEO), and (c) some districts suffered greatly during periods
of insecurity which involved the burning and looting of materials in a number
of schools and in the complete destruction of a few schools.
2.12 The results of inspection of secondary schools and primary teacher training
colleges were disappointing. Frequently it was found that schools had not utilized
materials, no inventories had been made and materials were not stored properly.
According to the PIU inspection team, unsatisfactory results were caused by
poor management on the part of headmasters. Secondary schools and primary
teacher training colleges under good managemert made better use of the
materials received to improve their standard of education.
Prfessia  Series
2.13 A contract for professional services regarding the rehabilitation of the
halls of residence was signed between the Makerere University and a local firm
of architects and quantity surveyors on 28 March 1983, three months before
Credit Effectiveness. The preparation of tender documents and surveys of existing
conditions had been done by the same architects under the Technical Assistance
Credit 1077-UG signed on 21 January 1981. The consultant services under the
Project included work up to the tendering stage, analysis of bids and supervision
during the rehabilitation stage.
2.14 The University entered into a second contract in 1985 with the same
local firm of architects for Phase II of the rehabilitation progran me. Phase
I was mainly concerned with new roofs and renovation of large kitchens while
Phase n included the renovation of students' rooms, electrical wiring and ablu-
tion areas.
2.15 The preparation of technical specifications and bills of quantities was
the major task of the architect and consultants. While this was done in a very
professional manner, cost control has been relatively ineffective, for the following
reasons: (i) the architects permitted the reintroduction of works which had
been eliminated from the original contract and it became difficult to establish
a definitive and correct cost estimate; (ii) the University did not adhere to
the budget allocated to it under the Project; and (iii) the repeated reallocation
of Credit proceeds to this component, well in excess of the amount originally
allocated, was too easily accomplished. A/
V  The Borrmor tools that the PCR ovor-ephesze the rehabilttaon of the residence
halls. See Comment, Attachmnt II, page 48.



-8-
2.16 In the view of the mission, considering the type of work and responsibilities
entrusted to the consultant architects, it would have been wiser, more efficient
and far less expensive to have appointed a full-time techmical engineer within
the PIU. If the fees (five per cent of the amount of works) paid to the quantity
surveyor can be justified, this is hardly the case with the fees (ten per cent)
paid to the architects.
Civil Works and Maintenance
2.17 For the rehabilitation programme of the halls of residence of Makerere
University, local competitive bidding was used, with IDA agreement. Six
contractors were prequalified among more than 30 candidates. Tenders were
issued on 9 March 1984 and bids opened on 25 May, 1984. The MOE entered
into a contract with the main contractor on 31 July, 1984. The contract period
was 14 months - two months for mobilization and 12 months for work on site.
Contract completion date was 30 September, 1985.
2.18 Contract works included the thorough renovation of 10 large industrial-
type kitchens and new pitched-roof coverings to six halls of residence. Approved
additions to the contract were the renovation of approximately 35 per cent
of Nkrumah Hall damaged by fire in May 1985, additional works to Galloway
and Kabanyoro kitchens, additional refuse stores, the extension of the main
water pump house plus other minor works. The last kitchen was handed over
in June 1987, two years behind schedule. With the exception of some minor
works, mainly concerning roofs and cold rooms, all works under Part I have
been completed.
2.19  On the whole, progress was steady, but considerably slower than
anticipated. The delays have been more noticeable in the work on the kitchen
areas than in the roofing and this reflects the relative complexity of the kitchen
works in relation to the simpler though more extensive roof works. In part,
the delays were due to the contractor not having fully appreciated the difficulties
inherent in carrying out relatively sophisticated work in Uganda with mainly
local labour. As virtually no building work had been undertaken in Uganda for
over 12 years, there was no pool of skilled labour to draw upon. Late arrival
on site of imported goods caused considerable delay in the first nine months
of the contract. The goods were ordered on time but took far longer to reach
Kampala than could reasonably have been anticipated. Congestion at Mombasa
Port, due in part to a sudden build up of relief operations for neighbouring
countries, a general slowness in off-loading and clearing at Mombasa, together
with delays at the Uganda border and slow customs clearance in Kampala, all
contributed. The military coup of 27 July 1985 resulted in the closure of the
site for a week, in the departure of three non African expatriates, and in Kenyan
employees returning home. The following week work started again; however
remobilization was gradual. During the next six and half months, work on the
site was disrupted by patchy attendance of the work force, early closing at
times and general lawlessness and civil unrest. During this period a number
of containers in transit through Kenya and goods from Kenya were delayed
for some two months as no one was willing to risk their lorries in Uganda.
2.20 IDA approved Phase II of the rehabilitation of the halls of residence
at the end of 1985 when it became apparent that funds under the Credit were
still available. Renovation work included water services, drainage, wall tiling
and painting of the ablution areas; electrical installations, repairs to doors and
windows and painting of the students' rooms, fire alarm systems and minor works
tn dinirti and common rooms.



-9 -
2.21  From December 1985 onwards, for Phase n the consultants carried out
detailed site surveys and prepared bills of quantities, drawings and contract
documents. A short list of five contractors was selected from pre-qualification
applications to tender, and tenders were invited in February 1986. Three tenders
were submitted - the lowest being about double the budget allocated to Phase
HI. Reductions in the scope of works were necessary and a bill of reduction
was prepared by the architect consultants in order to bring costs within the
budget allocation. In June 1986, the University and the MOE entered into a
contract with the same contractor as for Phase I. The contract period was
limited to 17.5 months, 2.5 months for mobilization and 15 months for
construction on site - with a contract completion date of 30 November 1987.
2.22 In late June/early July 1986, the contractor placed orders, mainly in the
UK, for most of the imported materials required for the contract, and the
materials arrived from December 1986 onwards. Work progressed very slowly
from September 1986 to February 1987, but the pace improved after that. It
was estimated as of December 1987 that only 70 to 80 per cent of the rooms
had been renovate-d.
2.23 Delays have occurred in both phases; but it must be recognised that
construction went on during difficult times. The University and the architect
consultarts have found it necessary to extend the civil works contract in both
scope and time allowed, leading to an increase in costs. The Government financed
additional costs, thus increasing its financing of the Project by US$930,000.
2.24 The completed work is generally of good standard, with the exception
of the kitchen floors where tiles are already cracking and coming off, particularly
on the periphery of the drainage channels. Water supply is a continuous problem,
and this is apparently due to poor management of water distribution and to
incorrect installation of Project-procured pumps by University engineer.
2.25  Maintenance  is the  responsibility  of the  University.  A  building
maintenance unit set up by the heads of Departments of the Faculty of
Technology and the University Works Department will take care of the halls
of residence.
Furniture, Equipment and Materials
2.26 Annex 9 shows detailed furniture and equipment procurement schedules.
Items procured were textbooks, educational equipment, exercise books, roofing
sheets, furniture and vehicles. The book procurement was split into two main
groups: (i) primary, secondary and primary teachers' colleges and (ii)
post-secondary institutions, i.e. Makerere University, national teachers' colleges,
Uganda College of Commerce, Uganda Technical College and the technical
institutes.
2.27  The titles and quantities of books to be procured -or the first group were
established by the National Curriculum Development Committee and the
Inspectorate, together with consiutants engaged by the British Council. The
majority of the books required reprinting and were purchased from foreign
publishers after a .-am from the PIU negotiated with each individual publisher
in order to obtain the best possible discount on the list price. Tender documents
were prepared by the PIU and the British Publishers Association in May 1984,
for consolidation and transport of the books. The contract was awarded through
international competitive bidding (ICB) on 12 September 1984. The books were
delivered to a book consolidator in the Netherlands, where they were carefully



- 10 -
allocated school by school into one of the nine possible book packages determined
by the detailed needs of the individual schools. The book packages were put
into containers each addressed to the particular district and shipped to Mombasa,
from where they were despatched directly to the individual district headquarters.
Delivery to the individual schools took place from May 1985 to June 1986.
2.28 In addition to the books selected from foreign publishers, approximately
48 titles were identified from the Uganda Publishing House (UPH). The PIU
negotiated with UPH for over a year without reaching satisfactory results and
the negotiations were broken off when the Obote government fell. A list of
textbooks from other publishers was then drawn up by the PIU on the model
of the one which had been under negotiation with the UPH. This  new   list
was approved by tne MOE and the second consignment of textbooks for primary
schools arrived at the end of 1986. Consolidation and transport were handled
by the same book consolidator through an extension of the original contract.
2.29 Each post secondary level institution prepared its own list of books.
Procurement was done under ICB through a wholesaler who arranged the
expatriate procurement of a very large number of titles in small quantities,
consolidated the books for the various tertiary level institutions and also procured
journals/periodicals. All this was done with the assistance of the British Council
and the British Publishers Association. The contract was awarded to the
wholesaler on 23 October 1984 and the books were delivered to the institutions
between February and July 1985. Post-secondary institutions received library
accessories and a limited quantity of specific teaching equipment: workshop
tools for two technical institutes as well as the Ugandan Technical College,
and fifty typewriters for the Uganda College of Commerce.
2.30 Teaching equipment, exercise books, pens and pencils, blackboards, storage
cupboards, chalk, pencil sharpeners and roofing sheets were supplied to 5,200
primary schools in 33 districts. Both the PIU and the World Bank Regional
Education Mission in Nairobi estimated that it wouid be next to impossible for
the procurement manager, together with two counterparts, to organize the
procurement of the materials for such a large number of schools in Uganda
considering the number of constraints. The insecurity, inadequate support staff,
poor communications, and insufficient specifications were some of the reasons
that brought about the decision to identify an organization that would be able
to arrange to procure, consolide and transport the educational materials. Visits
were made to Unicef/Unipac and to ILO/Equipro. After negotiations between
PIU and the ILO, a contract was signed between the MOE and the ILO in October
1984. In November 1984, with assistance from the PIU, ILO/Equipro designed
the specifications and tender documents for the procurement through ICB of
the project educational materials 'and of the consolidation and transport. The
bid opening date for the materials was 20 March 1985, and for the
consolidation/transport 31 May i985. Thirty-one contracts were issued to suppliers
in July 1985 resulting in the arrival of materials in Uganda from December
1985 to December 1986, about one year behind schedule. The procurement
of all teaching equipment (science, arts and crafts, home econom.cs) for
secondary schools and teacher training colleges followed the same procedure.
2.31 All teaching equipment supplied is in constant use with the exception
of a very basic science kit (electricity only) - which requires the importation
of a special battery distributed to primary schools at a later date - which is
underutilized. The choice of titles of textbooks supplied was very well received
at district and school levels.



- 11 -
2.32 Administrative equipment was provided between September 1985 and
March 1986 to 12 Regional and 33 District Education Offices in order to increase
their operational effectiveness. In March 1s85, school inspectors in the DEOs
were assisted by the supply of 135 motorcycles (and related spare parts) to
be used for school inspection. The number was later increased by five for an
additional supply to Luwero District. Security problems resulted in the loss
of approximately 30 per cent of the motorcycles. Because of reorganization
at the district level, it has also been difficult for the local administration to
supply the necessary funds for maintenance, spare parts and fuel.
2.33 Furniture, equipment and supplies for office use, including a computer
system and the appropriate softwet  were provided to the PIU. by Ar 1984, ell^tly
behind  schedule. 'ive vehicles, instead of three, were procured through LCB
as well as two radios in order to assist staff in case of emergency. A pickup
truck and one all terrain vehicle were stolen at gun point in January 1986 and
October 1986 respectively, and this put constraints on the mobility of the PIU.
The remaining vehicles were overworked and spent a great deal of time under
repair, because of the poor road conditions and inadequate mechanical workshop
facilities.
Supply and Delivery System
2.34 Essentially, the Project consisted of procurement and distribution. The
conditions of insecurity in the country prompted the adoption of measures to
minimize the risks involveu .n the delivery of the goods. The distribution system
thus designed was a very basic plan that succeeded because of its simplicity
combined with the infrastructure built up at the individual district levels.
Materials were consolidated in Europe whe'e they were packed and labelled
school by school and then distributed in containers district by district. The
containers were despatched via Mombasa directly to the individual districts
without transit through Kampala and were unpacked in stores that were inspected
by the PIU. The PIU staff travelled to the individual districts as the containers
arrived, supervised the unpacking of the containers as well as the distribution
from district headquarters to the individual schools. The transport of materials
from district headquarters to individual schools was originally planned to be
done by school trucks, whilst the district administration or DEO would supply
funds for fuel. However, with the drastic reduction in the transport facilities,
materials were often transported to the schools on bicycles of teachers or parents
or on the heads of the children. The PIU attempted to keep the general public
informed with radio announcements when large amounts of materials were
arriving in an area. As soon as materials had arrived, each school was required
to return delivery notes to the DEO which, in turn, sent them to the PIU where
records were carefully kept, school by school, on a district basis. In terms of
a comparison with other Bank Group sssisted projects and in the context of
country conditions, the performance regarding delivery was outstanding.
Covenants
2.35  The Government fulfilled the cove- 'nts of the Credit Agreement, except
for the preparation of plans for the procurement and distribution of adequate
educational materials after the completion of the project. Annex 10 provides
details of compliance with the Credit Agreement.



- 12 -
Studies
2.36 Three studies in technical education. education financing and teacher
supply and demand were carried out through a contract between the Govemment
and Unesco. The Unesco mission prepared the studies between June and
November 1984 and the report was published in February 1985, about six months
earlier than anticipated at Appraisal.
2.3? The study of technical education stressed the need to establish a national
manpower development council and a technical education Board, together with
a manpower survey, so that skills ,n short supply could be identified. It
recommended that the higher institutions should be consolidated as much as
possible and concentrate on industrial demands, while the rural institutions
should be renamed community schools and their curricula should be designed
to serve local needs. The majority of the buildings utilized by technical
Institutions are borrowed premises with inadequate facilities, books and
equipment.
2.38  The study of education financing recommended that there should be
greater dependence on parents and the community, particularly in secondary
education. In order to be able to rehabilitate schools, recover standards and
expand education in the medium-term, it was concluded that domestic resources
for education, (both public and private) must be increased, cost effective
measures must be applied, and the Government must obtain further external
assistance.
2.39 The study of teacher suPply and demand showed that there would be
a serious shortfall of new primary school teachers up to 1993 unless emergency
short-term measures were taken. The results also showed that the need for
keeping staff in primary teacher training colleges and secondary schools can
be satisfied in the medium-term, If certain conditions are met and if the shortage
of staff for the National Teachers' College can be overcome in the near future.
In order to improve the quality of teacher education, in-service training
programmes were advocated. It was also reported that many primary teacher
colleges lacked the basic essentials in terms of teaching materials and physical
facilities. It was suggested that some of the smaller colleges be converted
into primary or secondary schools, and that the other colleges be expanded
and improved. The study also found that if the projected increases in passes
in the Uganda Advanced Certifcate of Education and intake into higher education
are realised, the University will be forced to enlarge its staff development
programme.



- 13 -
CHAPTER m
COSTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
Proiect Cost Performance
3.01    The total estimated cost of the Project at Credit Signature was
US$34.0 million. The IDA financing of SDR 29.1 million, or US$32.0 million
equivalent, was to cover 94 per cent of the total Project cost. At the time
of the Completion Mission, the total cost of the Project was estimated to
be US$33.3 million, about two per cent lower than the Appraisal estimate,
with IDA financing about 95.5 per cent of the total costs. However, one Project
component (rehabilitation of dormitories at Makerere University) is not yet
completed and, with the extension of the Closing Date to 31 December, 1988,
additional expenditure in various categories will occur. Detailed comparisons
of Appraisal estimates and actual costs by category and project item are given
below (Tables 3.1 and 3.2) and in Annex 11.
3.02    As many contracts were made in various currencies during the project
implementation period, with important variations in the rates of exchange
between these currencies and the US dollar, a system was devised by the PIU
for the conversion of these currencies into US dollars in preparing Table 3.1
below. All payments made in foreign currencies were accounted for In the
SDR amount actually disbursed against each claim. The amounts in SDR have
been converted into US dollars, using an established historical dollar average
rate against the SDR (1 SDR = 1.1 US$). In the instance of payments being
made in US dollars, the same principle was applied, although this might show
slight variations in individual payments arising from differences between the
average and the actual rates of exchange between the SDR and the US dollar.
All payments made in local currency were converted into US dollar amounts
on a monthly basis, in relation to the prevailing rate.
3.03    If the actual costs are compared with Appraisal estimates it may
be noted that there has been a marked redistribution of costs away from
secondary education (-48 per cent) and teecher training (-44 per cent) and
towards the Makerere University (+87 per cent) and Project administration
components (+95 per cent). The following table demonstrates this:



- 14 -
Table 3.1
Comparison of Actual and Estimated Project Costs
by Level of Education (including Contingencies)
Appraisal Estimates        Actual Costs
Category              US$o000   % of Total   US$'000   % of Total  % Difference
between
(1)                    (2)                  (1) and (2)
1. Civil Works, and professional
services, Furniture,
Books, Equipment. Vehicles.
Transport of Goods
a)  Primary Education             17 062        50.2      16 717        50.2        -  2
b)  Secondary Education            8 505        25.0       4 418        13.2        - 48
c) PrimaryTeacher Training         1 144         3.4         756         2.3        - 44
College
d)  Specialized Institutions       1 310         3.8       1 254         3.8        -  5
e)  Makerere University            3 597        10.6       6 722        20.2        + 87
f) District Education Admin.         423         1.2         23i         0.7        + 45
Sub-total                         32 041        94.2      30 099       90.4
2. ProJect Administration          1 594         4.7       3 105        9.3         + 95
(including TA, furniture,
vehicles and equipment)
3.  Studies                          365         1.1         104        0.3         - 72
Total Project Costs               34 000       100.0      33 308      100.00        -  2
Source: Unesco mission calculations based on PIU data.
3.04 The actual civil works costs (construction materials and labour) amounted
to 19.7 per cent of the total project costs and were 53 per cent above Appraisal
estimates. This cost overrun comes from the addition of the second phase of
rehabilitation works at Makerere University, financed by savings made on other
project components and on contingencies. When the project is completed, about
21 per cent of the total cost will have been spent on the physical rehabilitation
(civil works plus professional services) of University students' halls, as compared
with an estimated nine per cent at Appraisal. The cost per student room (two
beds) is US$3,651, to which special attention is drawn in Annex 12. The following
table sets out the cost comparison by category of expenditure:



- 15 -
Table 3.2
Comparison of Actual and Estimated Project Costs
by Category of Expenditure (including Contingencies)
Appraisal Estimates        Actual Costs
Category              US$'000    % of Total   US$'000   % of Total   % Difference
between
(1)                     (2)                   (1) and (2)
1.  Civil Works            ) 4 283           12.6       6 579        19.7         +  53
2.  Construction Materials )
3.  Furniture                     956         2.8       1 130         3.4         +  18
4.  Library and Textbooks      10 192        30.0      10 046        30.2         -   1
5.  Equipment and Supplies     10 864        31.9       6 128        18.4         - 44
6.  Vehicles                      259         0.8         215         0.6         -  17
Sub-total                       26 554        78.1      24 098        72.3         -  10
7. Technical Assistance (TA)  1 340           3.9       2 469         7.4         + 84
8.  Professional Services         260         0.8         766         2.3         + 194
9.  Transport of Goods          5 377        15.8       5 451        16.4         +   1
10.  Studies                       365         1.1         104        0.3          -  72
11.  Project Administration        104         0.3         420         1.3         + 303
(excluding TA)
Total Project Cost              34 000       100.0      33 308       100.0         -   2
Source: PIU and Unesco mission.
3.05     Library and textbooks accounted for 30 per cent of the overall cost,
the same as planned, but with a breakdown among the levels of education different
from that foreseen. Actual expenditures for equipment and vehicles were 44
per cent and 17 per cent below Appraisal estimates respectively. This is because
the PIU had carefully scrutinized the lIsts of equipment included in the working
papers and suggested modifications to make the lists more suitable to local
conditions.
3.06      The Technical Assistance category had a cost overrun of 84 per cent
compared with the Appraisal estimate. This overrun is due to the increase in
the scope of work carried out under TA:
(a)       the extension of the project implementation period required extension
of TA staff assigned to the PItJ
(b)      procurement of the  educational materials was donle by ILO/Equipro
and not by the PIU (para. 2.29) and the scope of work of the Training
specialist was considerably increased (para 2.08).



- 16-
Overall, the years of TA actually supplied (excluding the ILO services) represented
a 73 per cent increase over appraisal estimates. The cost of Project
Administration exceeded the Appraisal estimate by 303 per cent in part because
the implementation period was prolonged and the pinject involved more travel
to the districts than anticipated, and in part because the original estimate was
unrealistic.
3.07    The total cost of Professional Services was 194 per cent above Appraisal
estimates because the scope of civil works at Makerere University was more
than doubled by the addition of Phase II, approved by IDA at the end of 1985.
These services, which had been intended to be about 6.3 per cent of civil works
cost, eventually constituted some 18 per cent of civil works cost.
Financing and Disbursement of Credit Proceeds
3.08    The IDA Credit of SDR 29.1 million represented 94 per cent of the
estimated total cost of the Project and was to finance 100 per cent of the foreign
exchange and part of the local expenditure.
3.09    Because the Project got off to a late start, the schedule of disbursements
was revised in March 1985. Compared with this revised schedule, disbursements
went extremely well during the first half of the project implementation period,
after which they were affected by delays in implementation arising from
deterioration in the security conditions in the country (Annex 10). At the originally
established Closing Date, 90.4 per cent of the Credit had been disbursed and
some extension of time was needed to allow for additional disbursements. On
31 October 1987 SDR 485,490 or 1.67 per cent of the Credit amount was still
undisbursed. The Government has been granted an extension of the Closing Date
to December 1988 to enable it to complete the project, and to allow for bridging
activities to a follow-up project in FY 89.
3.10    The figures shown in the actual Credit disbursements (page (viii)) differ
from the total actual project costs (Table 3.2). The table on projects costs (Annex
11) reflects the expenditures in the appropriate category and avoids the distortions
apparent in the table on disbursementsl/.
1/     In the disbursement summary, all civil works expenditures have been
put under the category "Construction Materials". This is not consistent
with the Credit Agreement, but was agreed upon by IDA in the
reallocation of the Credit Proceeds on 31 March 1987.
The total cost of transport of goods can be and has been separated from
the cost of goods supplied, although most contracts included procurement
consolidation and transport. Disbursements were, however, often made
under the same withdrawal application, which explains the small amount
disbursed under the category "Transportation of Goods".



- 17 -
CHAPTER IV
OPERATING OUTCOMES
Expected Outcomes
4.01   The objective of the Project was to secure the equitable and prompt
distribution of text and library books, teaching equipment and supplies at all levels
of the education system throughout the country, to prevent further deterioration
of educational facilities, by providing for basic repairs of the halls of residence
of Makerere University and some roofing material for the most dilapidated primary
schools, and to supply limited office equipment and undertake specific studies with
a view to improving the management, control and planning of operations in the
education sector.
4.02   A specially established Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry
of Education (MOE) was to administer and manage the implementation of the Third
Education Project. To this end, the PIU was to be supported by a team of expatriate
specialists in management, procurement, distribution, training and accountancy.
This specialist team had the primary technical responsibility for implementing
the Project. The MOE had to assign qualified and experienced officers from within
its ranks as counterparts to the members of the consultant team to assure continuity
for possible future work of the PIU. For the functioning of the PIU, the MOE was
to provide adequate and satisfactory office space, whilst the Project had to provide
office furniture, equipment and supplies (including a mini-computer) funds for
travel (including allowances) and other operating expense-,.
Achievement of Expectations
4.03   Because of the special rehabilitating character of the Project, the discussion
of achievement of the expected ouccomes will be divided into four categories:
(i) logistics, (ii) material aspect, (iii) educational aspect, (iv) overall institutional
(project management and studies).
4.04   The logistics of the Project included two aspects (a) procurement and (b)
distribution together with transport. The excellence of the logistical arrangments
has been identified - paras 2.26-2.34. The Completion Mission considered the
logistics operation as very successful, with some 99 per cent of the commodities
being received by the end-users.
4.05   With regard to the material aspect, especially concerning indispensable
commodities such as exercise books, pens, and chalk, the Completion M-ssion noted
that the variou-, supplies concerned were already nearly used up, which meant that
school headmasters would be confronted again with a situation similar to that which
existed before the intervention of the Project. The convenant in the Credit
Agreement to the effect that plans should be made to provide continuity in acquiring
new supplies, has not been fulfilled. During project generation the possibilities
of local production of chalk and pencils were looked into. The revival of the chalk
factory was not included in the Project for various reasons. The local production
of pencils was being undertaken under private entrepreneurship.



- 18 -
4.08   With regard to the maintenance of buildings, equipment and vehicles, the
Completion Mission observed that maintenance of newly constructed buildings
needed much more attention than that of older, solidly erected buildings. Teaching
and office equipment also suffered from lack of maintenance. The motorcycles
provided under the Project were the most striking example of the need for
maintenance. These motorcycles were used heavily and without maintenance and
servicing until the engines broke down totally. The complaint was always that no
funds were available for repairs and servicing. However, the problem was not so
much a total lack of funds, as the neglect to make the necessary budgetary
provisions; in other words a management, rather than a financial, problem. At
the Project preparation and appraisal stages, therefore, more particular attention
needed to have been given to the problem of maintenance and the possibility of
including a component on this. The general covenant on this in the Credit Agreement
was clearly not enough.
4.07   The educational aspect should be seen more in the long run than in terms
of an immediate impact. The Project was supposed to be followed by an improvement
of the quality of teaching. It is the hope of the Ministry of Education that in the
years to come the examination results will indicate the impact of the Project.
However, the field visits made by the Completion Mission provided some preliminary
indication of an impact on the teaching in the various schools. Teachers stated
that they feel more comfortable having more and better means at their disposal.
The pupils/students were said to be performing better. The interest of parents
in school performance had been re-kindled; the Parent Teachers Associations (PTA)
had become more active, to the point that they were actively associated with the
reception of the educational materials from the District Education Offices.
Sometimes, they organized the transport of the material from the DEO to the school
and watched to see that proper use was made of the roofing material for primary
schools. The PTA involvement in the school management became more apparent.
4.08   There were other areas of Project impact on education. English language
learning starts in the first year of primary school, whilst the actual teaching is
done in the vernacular language and gradually phased out so that the teaching is
entirely in English as of the fifth grade. With the new material available,
headmasters are now convinced that the teaching of all subjects in English can
begin at an earlier grade. Another example is that the receipt of home-economics
material in some cases encouraged the school management to decide on the actual
opening of a home-economics section which had hitherto remained no more than
a wish. Overall, the schools benefitting from the Project made a considerable
effort to improve their performance from all points of view; obviously some schools
doing better than others. Finally, primary schools benefitting from the Project
saw an increased influx of children coming from schools which were not assisted
by the Project. This caused specific problems for the management of the project
schools as it had a negative effect on the quality of the teaching and the performance
of the student body. It was observed by the Completion Mission that a considerable
number of primary and secondary schools were converted from non-aided to
government aided schools during the Project implementation period, and that the
schools not so favoured felt discriminated against. It was therefore recognised
that there was an urgent need to extend similar externally financed assistance
to those schools, especially primary schools, because they were the most numerous
and most in need of educational materials - a matter which is expected to be dealt
with under a subsequent project.



- 19 -
4.09   The institutional impact of the Project was not entirely satisfactory. The
PIU certainly established its competence. An illustration of the confidence in
the PIU is that the Representative of the European Commission (EC) requested
the PIU to arrange the procurement, consolidation and distribution of educational
materials similar to those of the Third Education Project materials to 200 primary
schools for returnees and refugees. Nevertheless, a few critical observations have
to be made with regard to the training of local PIU staff and the presentation of
the Project to the various beneficiaries. As far as the overseas training of local
PIU staff is concerned, it may be noted that the programme as it was designed
was more than adequate. However, it would have been more realistic if MOE had
given the assurance that the PIU was to become an integrated office of the Ministry
before the trainees were sent out. What happened is that more than half of the
local professional staff members had left the PIU and MOE to be employed elsewhere
shortly after their return to Uganda, as they did not have secure career prospects
in MOE. It is true that the acquired knowledge is not lost to the country, but it
has to be considered a loss for MOE.
4.10   Finally, although the PIU has made a commendable effort to explain the
purpose of the Project to the beneficiaries, it was noticed by the Completion Mission
that the beneficiaries considered the received materials more as a gift from the
"World Bank" than as a special effort on the part of the Government to supply the
schools with these materials in order to rehabilitate the education system and to
improve the quality of the teaching. This occurred despite the fact that it was
clearly marked on the books that they were Government property. It is probable
that better care would have been taken of the equip n mt and vehicles if the
beneficiaries had understood more clearly that the Government had borrowed the
necessary funds from IDA to make the supply operation possible in a relatively
short period, but that at the same time it had taken on the obligation to repay
IDA.
4.11   The recommendations of the three studies on the subjects of technical
education, education financing and teacher supply and demand, commissioned to
Unesco under the Project are not as yet implemented. The studies were made
in the second half of 1984 and published in 1985. The unrest and disturbances in
Uganda at that time created a situation in which the implementation of the
recommendations had to be held in abeyance. The Education Policy Review
Commission established in July 1987 will certa.nly take these recommendations
into consideration. However, the final report of the Commission has to be awaited
before it will be possible to evaluate the full impact of these three studies.



- 20 -
CHAPTER V
IDA PERFORMANCE
Proect Generatim
5.01   Project generation took about three years, with about 38 staff-weeks spent
on missions related to identification, preparation and appraisal, four times the
number of staff-weeks spent on supervision missions (see Key Project Data - page
(v)). Compared tV the duration of Project implementation, Project generstion
may be considered to have taken much time. This was caused In particular by the
time lag of one and a half years between the reconnaissance mission which identified
the project and Project preparation. The hesitation of IDA might have been due
to past experience with project performance, and some unfamiliarity with the actual
situation in Uganda, in addition to extremely chaotic country conditions at that
time. The project itself was not complicated because essentially it comprised
procurement and distribution of educational equipment and supplies. It was entirely
in line with the urgent needs of the country, as well as the lending strategy of IDA
with regard to Uganda.
5.02   While IDA took a risk in proceeding with a project of this type in a country
which had still not yet fully returned to conditions of normalcy, the events show
that it was a worthwhile risk. However, one shortcoming in project designo was
the absence of baseline data for measuring the proposed impact on the quality
of education, another was the failure to make arrangements for the integration
and instituticnalizing of the project management function in MOE. The success
of project implementation is largely due to the fact that a TA team was made
available. However, a critical note would be that the TA team members functioned
more as executives than as advisers. Consequently, the local counterparts had
limited responsibility, and they practically functioned as assistants to the n- embers
of the technical assistance team. The services of only one short-term consultant
were used to prepare an overseas training programme for the counterparts. More
consultants could have been called forward, and in particular the services of an
architect would have been helpful in the rehabilitation programme of the Makerere
University. His services could have been extremely useful in establishing contracts
between the University, the supervising local architect and the contractor. The
specific problems which arose in this respect could have been avoided.
Project Supervsion
5.03   The project was supervised by seven IDA education missions. In addition,
there were several visits by PIU staff to the World Bank Regional Mission in Nairobi,
until October 1985, when the education section there was closed. The intervals
between the missions were four to 15 months, averaging seven months, which is
close to the originally established intervals of six months. The long period without
supervision is to be explained by the unrest in the country between July 1985 and
February 1986. The average stay in the country was one week; the last two missions
were carried out concurrently with Sector Study work. General educators participated
in five missions, economists in two and architects in three. It has to be pointed
out that no architect participated in a supervision mission since civil works were



- 21 -
undertaken in phase two of the Makerere University rehabilitation programme
and when the contracts with the building contractor and the architects were
established.  Supervision by an architect would have been beneficial to the
preparation of a clearly defined programme of works to be executed, and the large
cost overruns of this project component might have been avoided (para 2.15, 2.16).
5.04   Overall, the relations between Government officials and IDA staff, as well
as cooperation between PIU and IDA staff during supervision missions to the project
were most satisfactory. IDA has shown great concern and flexibility during the
times of distress and insecurity, and this has established a climate which is favourable
for the consideration of further projects in the sector.



- 22 -
CHAPTER VI
CONCLUSIONS AND LESSONS
6.01    The objectives of the Third Education Project were clearly geared towards
the urgent task of physically rehabilitating the education system as much as
possible. For understandable reasons, the achievement of the objectives took
more time than the originally planned duration of three years. One of the elements
of delay is the very slow completion of the rehabilitation of the halls of residence
of Makerere University. Another was the time needed for recruitment of the
Technical Assistance (TA) staff before launching project implementation.
6.02    Experience with this project highlights several important implications
for project work:
(1)    the risks of project implementation under disturbed country conditions
(paras 2.02, 2.09, 2.11, 2.19, 2.23, 2.30, 2.33, 2.34)
(2)    the need to establish and strengthen project management as far as
possible as an institutionalized part of the Ministry concerned (as was
not done in this case) (para 2.10, 4.09, 5.02)
(3)    the importance of participation by appropriate specialists in project
supervision (paras 2.07, 2.15, 2.16, 5.03)
(4)    the importan;e of providing support for maintenance rather than
depending upon covenants to bring about sustained maintenance of
buildings and equipment (para 4.06).



- 23 -
Appendix
Page 1 of 3
FINANCIAL ASPECTS OF THE REHABILITATION PROGRAMME
OF THE HALLS OF REIDENCE AT MAKERERE UNIVERSITY
1.      The final cost of the two phases is anticipated as follows:
Phase One
US$                  UGShL/
Original Contract Sum                 2,218,438             78,877,000
Approved Additioral Works               273,375              9,730,000
Contractor's Claim for Disruption       100,114             91,573,087
between July 1985 and January 1986    1                   95,
Minor Additional Works                   18,174                646,661
Total                                 2,610,101      +   180,826,748
Total in Use-/                                     3,17S,184
Phase Two
The latest estimate prepared by the quantity surveyor on 8 October,
1987 providec1)he following figures: US$2,932,200 plus UGSh537,570,000 (total =
US$3,290,580- ). This includes the contractor's claim of UGSh75,000,000 for
nuctuations In the rate of exchange between the US$ and the Pound Sterling,
as well as a further UGShl80,000,000 for preliminaries owing to the extension
of the contract beyond the agreed sum.
2.    Professional fees were based upon 15 per cent of the total cost (contract
figure plus additional work). Some negotiations took place between the PIU
and the architects regarding the rates of exchange between the US$ and UGSh,
to determine the fees (in US$) due on the UGSh content of the contract. This
has slightly reduced the above percentage.
US$
Phase One             Contract Amount                     411,818
Preliminary surveys                  25,000
(paid before Credit Effectiveness)
Total                               436,818
Phase Two             Contract Amount                     403,667
Fees for additional work             22,000
Total                               425,667
Grand Total                         862,485
1/ All figures in local currency are in old shillings.
2/ Rate of exchange was US$1 = UGSh320.
3I/ Rate of exchange was US$1 = UGShl,500.



- 24 -
Appendix
Page 2 of 3
3.   The anticipated total cost of the rehabilitation programme at the
University is:
US$
Phase One                                          3,175,184
Phase Two                                          3,290,580
Consultants' Fees                                   862,485
7,328,249
The total number of student lyooms which could be renovated within the
anticipated total cost is 2,007-. Rooms have an average area of 10m2 and
accommodate two students. The average cost of renovation of one student
room and its related facilities (ablution areas, kitchen, dining and common
room) is thus US$3,651.34.
Comments
4.   The cost estimate given above is most probably not the final cost. It
seems at present that no one knows the extent of work included in Phase Two,
although, under the contract terms, the contractor is required to stay within
the limits of the budget.
5.   The estimated amount of work was reduced-/ by the consultants after
the evaluation of bids In April 1986 In order to bring costs within the budget
allocation. All the items eliminated are now re-introduced as additional
works/. The contract should have stated very clearly the number of rooms
to be renovated. This could have been done by providing a lump sum, plus
contingencies, for each type of student room. Moreover, when looking for
savings after opening the bids, one could have chosen to reduce the number
of rooms for renovation instead of reducing the scope of work while claiming
that work was extremely difficult to estimate. But the Mission understood
that this was unacceptable to the University. The consultants justified the
increase by the fact that, in rehabilitation work, the normal allowance for
unexpected additions is between 20 and 25 per cent of the contract amount.
Nevertheless the total cost of Phase Two is now expected to be at least 30
per cent above the contract amount, because the contract is in fact baseCe
only on the bill of rates. In order to determine the exact cost, the consultants,
1/ The total number of rooms is 2,096. The renovation of the remaining 89
rooms in the Dag Hammerskjold Hall is now to be financed separately by
the Norwegian Government.
2/ Bill of reductions included in the supplementary Tender Report.
3/ In this connection, the Ministry of Education (PIU) has made the following
observation: Items eliminated amounted to $1,847 million, whereas the
only item reintroduced was sonie student room (only) painting amounting
in all to 0.13 million. This was reintroduced because students felt that
if room painting was not carried out it was unreasonable to expect them
to leave their rooms and sleep in dining halls/corridors where there was
no visible improvement. Without this concession, it would not have been
possible to have the rooms vacated. A final review at completion of the
works could look into the possible effect the above statement may have
on the observations of the project completion mission.



- 25 -
Appendix
Page 3 of 3
upon completion of the work, measure what was done. This is why the Phase
Two estimate was US$2,430,000 In May 1987 (7.7 per cent above contract),
and was US$2,932,000 in October of the same year, another 20.6 per cent
increase in five months.
6.    Phase One includeu US$100,114 as compensation for disruption of work
between July 1985 and January 1986 because of unrest. This amount was based
on the monthly site operating cost (estimated at US$34,883 plus UGSh3l,906,999
by the quantity surveyor) and on the extending of the construction period
authorized by the architect for delays and eisruptions beyond the contractor's
control (such as the late arrival of imported materials and the coups d'etat
of July 1985 and January 1986). While it is understood that this situation was
costly for the contractor, one has to point out that according to the contract,
all works had to be completed by end September 1985.
7.    Phase Two estimation includes a contractor claim of UGSh75,000,000
for fluctuations In the exchange rate between the US$ and the Pound Sterling.
This obviously goes against the contract specifications which state that there
would be a fixed rate of exchange throughout the contract periodi/.
8.   Contracts were made either between the University and the architect
or between the University and the contractor. Thus the PIU is not directly
the client and is in a difficult position to negotiate or reject claims for payment.
One particular clause in the contract caused problems: the architect was
alowed to authorize any payment for additional works and to negotiate all
the contractor's claims. Moreover, as these claims then became part of the
contract, the architect was entitled to receive fees on the total contract
amount. As a consequence, the architect was paid a 15 per cent fee on the
contractor's claim for disruption, although this does not represent productive
work.
1/ With respect to this observation the Ministry of Education (PIU) stated
the following: "There was a fixed rate of exchange for the original contract
period but the contractor is due compensation for fluctuations in exchange
rate for any extension of the contract period for which he is not responsible".



- 27 -
Annex 1
Page 1 of 2
SOCIO-ECONOMIC DATA
Area           - total                                         236,000 km2
- arable land                                 + 156,000 km2
- cultivated land                              + 52,000 km2
Population:   - total (1986 estimate)                           15.2 million
- density                                      64.4 per km2
- annual growth rate                                   3.2%
- crude birth rate                                    49.9%o
- crude death rate                                    18.0%o
- life expectancy at birth                         53 years
Economy   :      GNP per capita in 1983                             US$220
- at present                              well below US$200
- annual growth of GDP in percentages:
1965-73          1973-83         1985
Total                  3.6             - 1.3           - 5.5
Agriculture            3.6             - 0.7           - h.v
Industry               3.0             - 8.8           - 9.3
- GDP structure:
agriculture 56.6%
industry   5.8%
services   37.6%
- Agricultural production contributes:
56% to GDP
60% to Government revenues
96% to export
- Rate of inflation:
1982-83 between 21-24%
1985 150%
1986 300%
1987 estimated at 20% per month



- 28 -
Annex 1
Page 2/2
Education:        Primary education         1984 1,930,698 pupils
1986 2,124,161 pupils
General secondary education 1984 145,000 students
1986 157,000 students
Primary teacher training    1984 11,382 students
1986 10,252 students
Secondary teacher training  1984 1,788 students
1986 2,863 students
Lower technical/vocational 1983 10,657 students
training                  1986 2,556 students
Middle/higher technical/    1983 1,008 students
vocational training       1986 1,395 students
Makerere University       1982 4,854 students
1986 5,060 students
Education Financing:   Education expenditures as percentage of total
Government expenditures.
1971/72   1982/84   1986/87   1987/88
Recurrent     21.6      16.8      11.6       13.3
Capital        5.4       2.7       7.2        5.9
Total         15.3      14.5      10.8        9.6
Source: MOE, Unesco, World Bank.



- 29 -
Annex 2
STRUCTURE OF FORMAL EDUCATION
1s LEVEL                   2no LEVEL           210 LEEL              dO  EL
TECHNICAL SCHOOL       TECHN INST.        urc
1   2       3           1   2       1     2       
GRADE MN
GPADE U TYC 1i         TTC           NTC
Comm sc"          ucc
a  m ,  ,  .  .          .
PAAY SCHOOL           (1)   SEONw  wmL  M              wa              UNiECSrr
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~+
6   t   a   9   lo0 I11  t2         13  14       Is  t6      *T  is      19  20   n1  22   3AGI
t0:  ./ 9i sf  wted to Graf 1 TIts..
,J,/    s #Im d0cemH    pegttame.
j  UTC VW UCC amso eOfuiiat oV gl   level.
(1) Pmwb           Examalon (PLE).
(2 Uganda CfficaC    Eduaton NLCE) * - bvel.
(3) Uganda Advwced CenWfse Eamation - INA lovel.
TTC - Teacher T     Colege.
uSC - Higher Schoo Cebate Cow..
JTC : Uganda Tedhical Codege.
NTC- Naon Teachems Clege.
UCC - Ugapna Co0lege of Co,mme,.
Sew  Wmsay of eduC



Planned                                      PLANNED AND ACTUAL IM ENTAT1ON SCHEDtULE
Ac.ual
1982            1983                1984               1985              1986               1987             1988
2   3    4   1    2   3   4    1   2    3   4   1   2    3 14   _    2   3   4    I_    2 13   4   1    2 13   4
1. Primary and SjA>^-ary Education                                                                          lar ed  _         _
and Teacher Training Colleges                                                                        Di  ur  men ts,      _
evied
1.1  Textbooks                                     -       -   -   -         me  -                                       I sti ate of                        rs
.        _   _   _   _   _    _   _   _   _   _   ~~~~   ~ ~ t    -   1  kk D Irse en  t   ,~~Ac ual p1stirst menis
1.2  Educational equipment and                                               -   -   - D        z    - z e _      _     _             n   C           l
Supplies                                                      ___
2.Specialized Institutions and Makerere                                                                                             - J
University                                                 8         2                                I
-        _                               /-  I3 
2.1  Textbooks                                   __ 2               4 es             me  me                                     £
2.2  Equipment                                                          -                  me 2e
2.3 Rehabilitation of Dormitories
3.  Education District Offices
4.  ProJect Administration
5.  Studies
6.  Technical Assistance
6.1  Specialist Team                                                                  _
6.2 Training Courses
6.3  School Inspection Programme
Source:  PIU, World Bank Appraisal Report, Completion Mission.



- 31 -
Annex 4
PROJECT IMPLEMENTAllON UNIT
KEY UGANDAN STAFF
Position                                 Period
Director                             Jan 1983 - Dec 1987
Distribution Officer                 Jun 1983 - Dec 1987
Distribution Officer                  May 1983 - Dec 1987
Distribution Officer                 Jul 1983 - Mar 1987
Training Officer                     Jul 1983 - Nov 1987
Training Officer                     Jul 1983 - Oct 1987
Accountant                            May 1983 - Apr 1987
Accountant                            May 1983 - Dec 1987
Procurement O'Icer                   Jul 1983 - Dec 1986
Procurement Officer                  Jul 1983 - Mar 1987
Research Assistant                   Dec 1984 - May 1987
Source: PIU.



- 32 -
Annex 5
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT
TECHNICAL ASSISANCE TEAM
Man/Years
Position               Name                            From     To
Appr. Actual
Deputy Director       First incumbent                 2.8  Dec 83 Sep 86
2.3
Second incumbent               1.3  Oct 86 Dec 87
Procurement Manager                           2.0    1.o  Jan 84 Jan 85
Distribution Manager   First incumbent1               2.7  Feb 84 Sep 86
2.0
Second incumbent                .8  Oct 86 Jun 87
Accountant            First incumbent                 1.7  Feb 84 Sep 85
2.0
Second incumbent               2.3  Oct 85 Dec 87
Training Officer                               .5    3.0  Jun 84 Jun 87
Short-term Consultant                          .3     .1
Total Man/Years       Apprised Estmate                9.1
Actual                                 15.7
Source: PIU.
1/ This person became the second incumbent in the post of Deputy Director.



- 33 -
Annex 6
TRAINING COURS8 UNDER THE TMIRD EDUCAIION PROJBCT
Title                          Place           Participant's
Position in PIU
1. Training - Design and Management         Crown Agents      Training Officer
23 September to 22 November 1986
UK           Training Officer
2. Procurement Training                    ILO  Turin         Procurement Officer
30 September to 21 December 1986                          Distribution Officer
(for three agents)                                       Accountant
1 to 23 December 1987                                     Project Director
(for one agent)
3. Procurement for Development Projects   Crown Agents        Distribution Officer
28 October to 22 November 1986              UK            Procurement Officer
Accountant
Research Assistant
Distribution Officer
4. General Maintenance Courses              Nairobi
May 1986                                Rank Xerox
Same person;
5. Stores Management                        Kampala           Clerk/Storekeeper
16 to 27 November 1987
6. Basic Computer courses                   Kampala           Accountant
May 1987 (three weeks)
Source: PIU.



LIST OF EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS
No.       District     Schools Roofing Sheets Blackboards  Chalk  Exercise Books   Pens  Pencils Pencil Sharpeners Cupboards
(per district)               (gross)    (packages)   (gross)  (gross)
1.  Apach               152        3 380           152        152          152          150      152          152            152
2.  Arua                149        3 310           149         149         149          149      149          149            149
3.  3undibugyo           41           -             41         41           41           41       41           41             41
4.  Bushenyi            412        9 150           412        412          412          412      412          412            412
5.  Gulu                127        2 820           127         127         127          127      127          127            127
6.  Hoima               124        2 760            124        124         124          124      124          124            124
7.  Iganga              233        5 170           233        233          233          233      233          233            233
8.  Jinja/Njeru          65        1 440            65         65           65           65       65           65             65
9.  Kabale              247        5 490           247        247          247          247      247          247            247
10.  Kabarole            167        3 710           167        167          167          161      167          167            167
11.  Kampala/Entebbe   74           1 640            74         74           74           74X      74           74             74
12.  Kamuli              123        2 730            123        123         123          123      123          123            123
13.  Kapchorwa            51        1 130            47         51           51           51       51           51             51
14.  Kasese               95        2110             95         95           95           95       95           95             95
15.  Kitgum              140        3110            140        140          140          140      140          140            140
16.  Kotido               57        1 270            57          57          57           57       57           57             57
17.  Kumi                108        2 400           108        108          108          108      108          108            108
18.  Lira                172        3 820           172        172          172          172      172          172            172
19.  Luwero               98        3 090            98         98           98           98       98           98             98
20.  Masaka              212        4 710           212         212         212          212      212          212            212
21.  Masindi             109        2 420           109         109         109          109      109          109            109
22.  Mbale               220        4 890           220         220         220          220      220          220            220
23.  Mbarara             295        6 550           295        295          295          295      295          295            295
24.  Moroto               45        1000             45          45          45           45       45           45             45
25.  Moyo                 27          600            27          27          27           27       27           27             27
26.  Mpigi               283        6 280           212         283         225          283      283          209            209
27.  Mubende             154        3 420           154         154         154          154      154          154            154
28.  Mukono              185        4 110           185         185         185          173      185          185            185
29.  Nebbi               112        2490             112       112          112          106      112          112            112
30.  Rakai               118        2 6201 118                  118         118          118      118          118            118   0
31.  Rukungiri           244        5 200           244        244          244          238      244          244            244   x
32.  Soroti              219        4860            219        219          219          203     219           219            219   -
33.  Tororo              342        7 600           342        312          336          342      341          342            342
Source: PIU.



PW   USCNEWI
Preparation of Lists             Preparation of Tender ')ocuments          Bids Opening    Contract       Delivery of Goods
Award
By            Period              By                   Period
1. Textbooks for primary and
secondary education and TTC
a) first consignment                NCOC +               1983        British Publishers   May 1984                 14 May 1984   12 Sep 1984   MAy 1985-Jun 1986
Inspectorate +                   +PIU
British Council
b) second consignment               PIU                  1986                                        -                  -         15 Jul 1986   Dec 1986-Jan 1987    a
2. Roofing Sheets                              -                -        ILO                   Nov-Dec 1984           20 Mar 1985   15 Jul 1985   Dec 1985-Apr 1986    U'
3. Educational Equipment               Consultants          Aug 1983   ILO                     Nov-Dec 1984           20 Mar 1985   Jul 1985         Dec 1985-Dec 1986
+ PIU                                                                         31 May 1985
4. Library books for specialized    Each Institute          1983/84    British Publishers   May 1984                       -         23 Oct 1984   Feb 1985-Jul 1985
Institutions and Makerere
University
S. Notorbicycles                               -                -       PIU                     Jun-Jul 1984          15 Aug 1984   2 Oct 1984    Mar 1985
6. Civil Works Phase I                         -                -       Consultants             Jan-Mar 1984          25 May 1984   21 Jul 1984   Sep 1984-Jun 1987
Phase 11                       -               -        Consultants            Nov 1985-Feb 1986   3 Apr 1986    11 Jun 1986   Sep 1986-Dec 1987
K
Source: PIU.                                                                                                                                                              oo



- 36 -
Annex 9
Page 1 of 2
COMPLUNACl WITH CREDIT CONDMONS
Section 3.01(b)s The materials, equipment and supies to be provided to schools    Completed.
and uItuUon under the Project shall be distrhbuted In accordance with criteria
satisfactory to the AssociaUon.
Sectian 3.02a): In order to assist MOE in the supervision of the carrying out of    Met.
the Project, the Borrower shaL employ project management consultents who shall
form part of the Project Implementation Unit.
ecton 3.02 (bh in order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part E.2  Met.
of Ue ProJct, the Borrower shall employ architectural engineering consultants.
Secton 3.02 ch In order to assist the Borrower In carrying out of Pert H of the  Three studies carried out by Unesco
Project, the Borrower shall employ educational consultants.                    consutants. Reports received by IDA.
Section 3.03: In order to facilitate the proper carrying out of the Project, the  Met.
Borrower sMlu establish spd mainan within MOE a Project Implementation Unit
composed of a Project Diector, the consultants referred to In Section 3.02(a)
of this Agreement, other consultants as and when needed and an adequate number
of counterpart staff. The Project Implementation Unit shaU exercise overall
management and coordination of the Project'and shaU have the staffing, powers
and responsiblities specified In Shedule 4 to this Agreement, as such Schedule
may be amended from time to tilne y agreement between the Borrower and the
Association.
Section 3.04(a)? In order to supervise and assist the consultants referred to In  Met.
SeciRon 3.02(c) of this Agreement in the carrying out of Part H of the Project,    Members of Advisory Committee appointed.
the Borrower shall establish and maintain, by not later than three mnaths aifer
the Effective Date of this Agreement, o-a or more independejt advisory
committees.
Section 3.05 (a): The Borrower undertakes to insue, or make adequate 'rovision  Met.
for the     ce  of, the imported goods to be fiaced out of the pr ceeds of    Included for equipment In ILO procurement
the Credit aginst hazards Incident to their acquisition, transportation anc delivery.  contract.
Section 3.05(b): The Borrower shaU cause aU goods and services .inanced out    Generaly satisfactory. Some loss of goods,
of the proceeds of the Credit to be used exclusively for the purposes of the Project.    particularly motorcycles, happened during and
after violent change of Government. in addltion,
q PIU Landrover and pickup were hijacked and not
recovered to-date. Inquiries to recim as much as
possible of this material are sllU In process.
Section 3.06(a): The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly upon  Met.
their preparaion, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents, and
construction, work and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modificatons thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shaU
reasonably request.
Section 3.06(b): The Borrowert () shaU maintain records and procedures adeqgate    (1) Met.
to record and monitor the progress of the Project (including Its cost and the benefits
to be derived from it), to Identify the goods and services financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the Project; (it) shall enable    (it) Access to some areas remain difficult
the Association's representatives to visit the facilities and construction stes   due to civil unrest.
included In the Project and to examine the goods financed out. of the proceeds
of the Credit and any relevant records and documents; and (I) shaU furnish to    (li Ongoing. Reports sent in timely manner.
the Association at regular intervals aU such iormation as the Association shall
reasonably request concerning the Project, Its cost and, where appropriate, the
benefits to be dedved from It, the expenditure of the proceeds o the Credit and
the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.



- 37 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Section 4.01 (a) t The Borrower shalU maintain or cause to be maintained sepsaate  Ongoing.
CCcoUntS adequate to reflect in accordance with approprate accounttng practices
the operation, resourcea and expenditures, In respect of the Project, of the
departments or agencies resonible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Section 4.01: Tlhe Borrower shall: (i maintain or cauns to be maintained separate   Ongoing. In compliance.
aeonts renecing al expenditues on account of whicb withdrawals are requested
from the Credit Aceount on the bads of statements of expenditure; (U) retain,
until one year after the Closing Date, aU records evidencing those expenditure;
and (It) enable the Associationts representatives to examine such records.
Sectlon 4.01c)s The Borrower shall (I) have the accounts referred to In paragraphs   Audit reports for accounts through
(a) bd b of this Section for each flstal year audited, in accordance with appropriate   30 June 1986 have been received.
auditing principles consitenUy apph-3, by Independent auditors acceptable to
the Association; () furndsh to the Amocation, as soon as avalable, but In any
case not later tuha six months after the end of each such year, a certified copy
of the report of such audit by such auditors, of which scope and in such detail as
the Assocation shall have reasonably requested, including without limitation to
the toregoing, a separate opinon by said auditors In respect of the expenditures
and records referred to In paragraph (b) of this Section as to whether the proceeds
of the Credit withdrawn from the Credit Account on the basis of statements of
expenditure have been used for the purpose for which they were provided; and (III)  (Iin) Met.
furnish to the Association such other information concening said accounts records
and expenditures and the audit thereof as the Assocation shall from time to time
reasonby request.
Section 4.02; The Borrower shalls (1) cause each educational instituton Included   Acceptable In the context of previling
In the Projct to carry out Jtr operatiom and manage Its aftairs In accordance   conditions  In  Uganda:  (1) is  MOE
with sound educational administrative, financial and techntcal policies and   resoiblty;  (U) is  a  community
practices and (1) cause the buldhigs, furniture and equipment of the educational   respondbity.  Government has again
institutions Included In the Project to be adequately maintaned In accordance   been  reminded  to  discuss  this  at
with sound maintenance practces and shaU cause all necessary renewals and repairs   community level with assistance from
theof to be made.                                                           Distriet Education Officer
Section 4.03: The Borower shall take all suc acUon as shall be necessary to provide,   A building maintenance untt has been
or cause to be provided, to Makere Utnivesity the tunds, facUties, services and   set up at Makerere Univerdty.
other resources required for the maitenanceand repair ot aU its existing buidings
Section 4.04t Not later than June 30, 1985, or such later date as the Borrower   Not yet compled with: (1) ti still under
d the   socation may agree upon, the BDrower shall prepare and tunidsh to   discson;  (U)  is  a   community
the Assocation for Its review and comments (1) a comprehensive plan for the   responsibilty.  Government has been
procurement and distribution of adequate educational material which would attisfy   reminded again during completion miselon.
current and projected demand after the completion of the Project, Including the
sources for its financin  and 01) a plan for tte estabiment of a system for the
maintenance of the building and equtpment of the institutions under MON.



~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S *  ,-                                                                                  -       Uis5ns'
MC."           ' ws-.     g U.
-     _u - a" -",- - e v ..    It
t- SU       w -    -   -   .                            .       .    .                  .   .   .                                                          .  . .  . .               s .   , .  ..
W  - 21 A'   "                  -e .-    *-  -'  -:.   .:-        w     a    1 1e            n_s    -     -- n  a, ".   I    0_w
U105   Li                                           55 Lt.                                                                                                                                                   
' at    Lt  C        Y _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _eu ...                 s. j t  ou                       US Uts  Ot c-   Uw  _                                                                         _"_a_ __W_ _ " so    O_
act ~ ~            ~             ~            ~            ~           " LLY"&s   ;ts-:X"
-          - + *s-1 -    -    U            t     -a   "    _t. = = _ ==s   ott - s-    - =-= -    -       -    - s  _ =              -    -s          MU-0
-    -    -c__ ___  _                                               …U"n 5.                                                 =-S-
eD~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i *B                                                                                                                 -46 w Wz ns  ! n  W
Ott nt~        555   Ut         .                                                            J     SN     I  u's
OM    "C                                               ont NC                                             . _=   to*r
asia s -  i n'   - - - - - - - - - - -  -     -                                                ' - -    S - - t- - -                                 -  4   -st-
-        n wet  nIS                            s'a'  tas -ns _                                                _
ttt ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~a -sitstN!   Ut si  t  s_
Ul   U       I'    Ut                                        UL  ,L                                                      USW
Zi -  -at -                                                                     - -   s-t  as- _. _ s            _          - _s  _g  _- _s   o_                  _                   -  _ _ _ _ _ _____og
a *s.t    a   on   on                          Uns  is                                                  -rago  ..,    v * U
-                                                                  C   us   ~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ow           on   ow                                                     W.-
W  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~     ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ tLa1~~~~~~~~~~~~i  I      " G           Is    Kg   41-        cog
Vi                                                                                         it                                            is    I I*
:  'M   $'a                   en~~U   KguuS ewr-
to    o        S"   one                                       Us   exS                                  wanh.C~
-is                                 - -    -    ---             -     -S at'- U - 0       LSaS   s.S'SUso!SU'    -USSS'                                                                          *   Su
"Wip"~W
to   sel      loWs  mWs                                        os'l  m'                                 *sw5g3
I-~ ~~ ~ ~ ~ .S's                                               ....'... 'S...U'.....'..St..U.'.......0.........'....t..U...  .    _   .N.                Ut'.....U-..I..S.U..S..1. ..  .
-     -     -     -     -     -     -     -     -s- -  -_-_o-_
a   a,                            a s,  Ms 
"Wt  155                        11S  30 n~
US'S  ala's    isa's  ma                       ma's~~~~~~~~~lPW    mat                                     I at's o-I
W"5ttitS Sv-   io  0taiuSt   05  fltsIns    It   W              aSS   "in Ias.    a   a     St  amt  ofUW a 5/                     Wst   Is £ W st             C   sto    I    I
s,s.S  am ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~~(.S   l
Iw-e  toano amaam  rw M suauw uauwea



- 39 -
Annex U
AVERAGE COST OF PROVIDING EQUIPMENT AND SUPPLIES
BY LEVEL OF EDUCAUON
Number of          Total          Cost
Assisted Schc,'ls    Actual Cost   Per School
(US$)         (US$)
a) Primary Education             5,200          16,717,000      3,214.80
b) Secondary Education             177           4,418,000     24,960.45
c) Primary TTC                      33            756,000      22,909.10
Total                            5,410          21,891,00
1/ Tertiary institutions are not included in this total.



- 41 -
~CSI6UT FRO TM BORROm  (1)                                 (PAgENT o)
Vst-es' - mu&JI0 *                               Cwnr or Ihi mmiim.
ftb.b804 ad"&                                    ozM.s; - IoUCATROW.
CREUMD IOPW
-. . E _CEIVED   1 _        UQWbR.
I    1.9 .   2 9
Mr, Graham Donaldson         C1L  RO._K. EYA LTO.
AgniCUlture, 20ftastructure and Wuman Reosorces t>Lvieioa
Operation* ftaluation Departuent
The World Isank
118 se street N.V.
WMeAhlgton D.C. 2O43
vF. S A.
Doer Mr. Donaldeon
R*   UCA)DA - Third Education Pro3ect tCr  1329-UI;
Draft ProSect Completion leport
Thua    you  foD  your' letter  of March 5th, 2989 toethZer
with the revised Rvalu*tioa Sumary  of  the  PCR  for tb-
ThIrd Education ?roject.
Although we  did not rec.ive Tout letter of F*bruLary, 13th
196. wo assume tnec it it,0: n-- r--eseT2-
In reforence to the Draft Pr*j.ct Completion kspozt, I
woUld like to make the following co=a*-.tv vt.' h I hope
*at   # Irersr-rated toto trt  rteprt-
ClariUcation is required in order to explatlr. the re-
distribution of funds away fro" .quipwaet Ond Suppli.a tor
secondary education and taacher trainznc towards projeCt
*dilstatratton and e40t1 work#f trr N!e'vrer.r- 7n'-Y4v1tty.
All identified educational material* were procuzied La the
specified quantiAtee a. per the project docuserA* of the
3rd Education Project with the axc*ption of eleatric hose
economics equipmeat  for  e.oondery  eduction  au  teacher
tratning whteh  **r* foun4 t'- teo %ins4toob1e rt-r conditicne
In ug=t..
Once the  procurement  of  tho  educational  materials hed
taken lplece, we realised that there were tu.nds lp vartoqu
otegooriew that bed net  t  been at"t wde
The Worlid sank was approached with the proposal to supply
additional te3tbooke to primary schools *r4 a secon4 phase
of  rehabilitation  of  hls  of  residnce  at  makerere
Univ*relty.  The wre&euel wea e*rwrved



- 42 -
(Page 2 of 3)
F&leetIle. and Prolect-Con%ent
$te word "bypassd"s hbo4l4 be rop1c0. Perhaps It could
read as follows:
project eecutioa arrang*aents e*tablished a now unit
emulting   oi   a   five-RAber   .uptriate   toobaloal
assistanee team and o ton national counterparts rather
thUn utilling the Pro*ect Implementatton uljt of the
second education Proe*Ct.
1.   The last usetence La waagrph one  states tEikt there
ts  a  need  to  upgrade   A"     levele  of the human
In  the  P!U  Inspection  prograMo,  priasr  uchoOl$
wero  gea.rall3  found  to have tcelived. stkred.  lad
properly utilised tho educational  aterials: roceived
under ths third Udueation Pro$oet.
3.    te  studis   on  technical  eduoction. o4ftti@onal
financina. and teacher supply and demand wrg carried
out by U=$CO in 1911.
The recoamernations wore not implemented due to a
number of eenstrints, the major tbe.i  fianesel.
3,  nTe e.Voi*fetO  of  implesenting  the  procuriaset and
distribution asupect acquired in the 3rd Oducation
project have not been Is vai,t.
Those  are  now  being   utilised   by   the  Project
ImplementatiOn VA*t Of the 4th 34ucatton Pro)ect that
consists fite emboers that participated it, the 3rd
4.   Suture  material  aeas  ars, dealt with La tififrent
ways. The supply of text  books for  priiara ceols
wtolz  be   developed  under  tho  Textbook    n and
Lopetully ugands will start to ptLat its primary
echool textbooks SU the not too distant future.
Chalko, *XOrcI5C books, paos, and pencils are now
manustactred In Uganda.  Sieince Technology tnuipseat
production  unit  t5TzM)  has  now  been eupab1iahed
which  will   start  to   supplV  the  basic  *alone.
eQuIpmeat*    otr  the   e4ucational  systein 
:emain±nS r&quirad materials are covered #nder our
local budget, -



- 43 -
UTTfiET I
(Page 3 of 3)
S.   ?radet1ozae1l.y  snd  presently,  the  Construction and
maintenanc,  of   piagry   schbools   ass  been  the
rW96one9bility oS the community anA Ministry ot Local
0.vsgmaeut. 
COUBt?etion  *ad   Nalatetasae   os   post  primary
intitution  Are  Geelt with  by  the  Gove*wasat of
Ugaft4  through their yoarly budget alloest1oe.
*.   Tie  salntea.a@e  *ad  tepair  ot  *OUlaent  at  the
In4ivid&Il sohool level wil2 now  be stard to: by a
mobil* unit und*r the Uabrelle of S?tUV.
zn   ynetal,   we  ftel   that  tb.  prospacts  tow
austai aility Of project bonsfita are proxising in
wiew of our abov* ametioned conseats.
In  addition   of  the   ab*v,  since  the  1Iational
3*iostaute movement   overnaent a ee  iato epwer In
t136, we have bewioougciqui of the nked tor saoe in
the  ed¶catiotal systm an4 hnencte*e  setaliWmsent of
the  M'uation    Polley  Review  Com nsion..  S    a
Commission has submitted lt Report which ts being
conau45erod br oeveb-Tatt
I wish  to th&ak  you Az  advance for  your cooperation In
incorporating the above points into the Project Compl#tion
Report ot the 3rd 3duettion Projzet.
with best regards,
Your* winceretl .
I            Xt'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
J.8. Mayan a. ang



- 45 -
HENMTS FRO14 THE BORROWER (2)                                      ATTACUHRNT II
!PF 4TH IDA EDUCATION PROJECT
m :                                                     MoNn"M       . *M
to_ ~ ~  ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ 3~              01 3D1Af
CuTa TOwn%
RO              * o .aox 1M
m AM ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~ ~ ~ ~ YL   OWUb   ~0
v=ssim  n.aIB Qum mm.......                                            &&MA.L& 7
AN CORUSOU6   os                                                      KAWL.UAhA
5th April, 1989
Mr. Graham Donaldson
Chief
Agriculture, Infrastructure and Human Resources Division
Operations Evaluation Department
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Dear Mr. Donaldson
Re: UGANDA - THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT (CR. 1329-UG)
DRAFT PROJECT COMPLETION PROJECT
Thank you for your letter of March 22, 1989 together with the
copy of your letter'of cebruary 13, 1989 and the rompletinn
Report for the Third Education Project-Credit 1329-UG.
The Permanent Secretary had actually received a number of copies
of the PCR direct from UNESCO.
Today, we received your letter of February 13, 1989. We are not sure
what type o-f    an aircraft was used - perhaps by pigeon!
In July, 1988, we reviewed a draft of the PCR and sent comments
to UNESCO.
In going over the revised PCR, we would like to make the following
comments:
1.    Page (viii) Foot note 1/
The 1/ does not appear in the Allocation of Credit Proceeds.
2.    Page 5      2.04
The PIU now consists of 1 Director, 4 Counterparts, and
2 Technical Assistants. We feel that we are able to take over
full operational responsibility for the llnit.



- 46 -
ATTACHMENT II
(Page 2 of 2)
3.    Page 5    2.05
(a)   There seems to be a stress in the PCR responsibilities of
the PIU to supervise architectual consu]tants and to
inspect all construction work. As a contract for
professional services regarding the rehabilitation of the
halls of residence was signed between Makerere University
and a local firm of architects and quantity surveyors three
months before Credit Effectiveness, the PIU had very little
control over the architectural consultants.
(b)   Lists of materials to be provided to primary, secondary,
and teacher training col]egeswere established by
consultants in 1983.
(c)   We are not sure what is meant by " to inspect all
construction work". Does this refer to the 115,500
roofing sheets distributed in 33 districts?
4.    Page 6    2.06
Is it not possible to mention somewhere that Technical Assistance
contract was with Carl Bro International?
(Crown Agents and ILO are mentioned elsewhere in the PCR).
5.    Page 7    2.14
Phase II included the renovation of student's rooms, electrics,
and ablution areas.
6.    Page II   2.33
Furniture, equipment, etc were not provided to the PIU until n.id
1984 (not 1983)
7.    Page 19   4.09
Should be "returnees" not returners
In general, we would like to add that the Project Completion Report
places over emphasis on the rehabilitation of the halls of residence
at Makerere University considering it only made up approximately
12% of the total project budget.
The comments by the Hon Minister of Education on the Evaluation
Summary of the PCR were despatched to you by fax on March 29th, 1989.
This is the Ministry of Education's official report.
Best regards
Yours sincerely
'   *:.  l-' '            -
,Joseph Magobs                         Katherine Gaudet
DIRECTOR  'I                          DEPUTY DIRECTOP



