Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE. ONLY
Report No. P-3456-UG
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATIONS
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO US$32 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR A
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
February 1, 1983
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =   Uganda Shilling (USh)
US$ 1.00         =   USh 100.0 (First Window)
USh 1.00         =   USh 250.0 (Second Window)
USh 1.00             US$   0.01 (First Window)
USh 1.00         =   US$   0.004 (Second Window)
On August 23,  1982, the Goverrnent introduced a dual
exchange rate coupled with a 5% devaluation of the official (First Window)
exchange rate. The exchange rate in the Second Window is market determined
through weekly auction and subject to fluctuations; it has steadily fallen
from USh300 to the Dollar in August 1982 to USh250 to the Dollar in
mid-November made at the First Window rate, which is applicable to all
external assistance projects.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DEO     --  District Education Office
MOE     -   Ministry of Education
NTC     -   National Teachers College (secondary)
PLE     -   Primary Leaving Examination
PIU     -   Project Implementation Unit
TTC     -   Teacher Training College (primary)
UCC     -   Uganda College of Commerce
UTC     -   Uganda Technical College
Government of Uganda
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
BORROWER:        Republic of Uganda
BENEFICIARY:    Ministry of Education
AMOUNT:          SDR 29.1 (US$32.0) million eqjuivalent
TERMS:           Standard
PROJECT          The project would consist of the provision of text and library
DESCRIPTION:    books, teachers  guides and instruction supplies, roofing
material, equipment for science laboratories and home economics
classes, spare parts, tools and typewriters for technical
instruction for about:
-    5)000 primary schools;
-    180 secondary schools;
-    30 primary teacher training colleges; and
-    specialized institutions, like the National Teachers College,
Technical Institutes and Colleges, and the Uganda College of
Commerce; and
-    Makerere University
The project would further ir.clude studies about: (i) the
quantitative and qualitative aspects of post-primary technical
education; (ii) the sources and uses of funds in Uganda's
education system; and (iii) teacher supply/demand based on
medium-term projections.
The risks affecting the impLementation of the project have to do
with the unsettled security situation of the country. A strong
technical assistance team would help implement the project,
especially the logistics of distribution of the educational
material to the intended end-users.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
ESTIMATED                                                           US$ million
COSTS:*                  Category                              Local   Foreign  Total
1.  Civil Works, Furniture,
Books, Equipment and Vehicles
(a)  Primary Education                0.38    11.82   12.20
(b)  General Secondary Education    -           6.17    6.17
(c)  Primary Teacher Training          -        0.83    0.83
Colleges
(d)  Specialized Institutions          -        0.95    0.95
(e)  Makerere University              0.44      2.11    2.55
(f)  District Education Offices        -        0.30    0.30
Sub-Total (1)                    0.82    22.18   23.00
2.  Technical Assistance                   0.11      0.99    1.10
3.  Professional Services                  0.04      0.16    0.20
4.  Transport of Goods                     0.62      3.54    4.16
5.  Project Administration                 0.02      0.19    0.21
6.  Studies                                 -        0.30    0.30
Total Base Cost                  1.61    27.36   28.97
7.  Contingencies
(a)  Physical                         0.14      0.71    0.85
(b)  Price Increase                   0.31      3.87    4.18
Sub-Total (7)                    0.45      4.58    5.03
Total Project Cost (1-7)               2.06    31.94   34.00
FINANCING                                         ---------- US$ million ----------
PLAN:                                             Local           Foreign         Total
IDA Credit                     0.06           31.94          32.00
Government                     2.00             -             2.00
Total Project Cost*            2.06           31.94          34.00
ESTIMATED                                           US$ million -----
DIBSURSEMENTS:       IDA Fiscal Year:        FY84      FY85       FY86
Annual:            10.40    16.50        5.10
Cumulative:        10.40    26.90       32.00
RATE OF RETURN:    Not applicable
APPRAISAL REPORT:  No. 4113-UG of January 25, 1983
*Taxes and duties are negligible.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DN A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA FOR A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
credit of SDR 29.1 (US$32.0) million equivalent to the Republic of Uganda
on standard IDA terms to help finance the rehabilitation of parts of the
Ugandan educational system.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1,
2.        An economic mission visited Uganda in August 1981 and its report,
entitled "Uganda - Country Economic Memorandum" (Report No. 3773-UG) dated
March 31, 1982, has been distributed to the Executive Directors. A summary
of social and economic data is given in Annex I.
Background
3.        Uganda achieved independence in 1962 with a number of important
advantages: a favorable climate (with twvo rainy seasons in most parts of
the country); fertile soils; a well-established indigenous smallholder
sector producing a widening range of export crops (coffee, cotton, tea, and
tobacco) and an ample domestic food supply; a small industrial sector
contributing exports of textiles and copper; a well-developed transport
infrastructure; an exportable surplus of hydroelectricity; and one of the
most advanced education systems in East Africa. Uganda's complement of
skilled and trained manpower was greater than that of either Kenya or
Tanzania. With those two countries it shared well-developed services: the
railways, ports, airline, posts and telecommunications. These favorable
initial conditions, combined with competent economic management, resulted
in a steady 2% per year growth in per capita GDP (1963-70), and an average
savings rate of 13%, which in turn permitted a nigh level of investment
without inflationary pressure. A balance of payments current account
surplus was maintained in most years, and central government revenue
increased faster than recurrent expenditure, contributing a significant
proportion of development outlays.
4.        Uganda's political situation was less felicitous.  Long-standing
conflicts between the largest single kingdom (Buganda), the other kingdoms
and the rest of the country continued during the 1960s, and became further
complicated by ideological and social rivalries.  This led to increasing
dependence on the military, and in 1971, a coup by the army brought a
military regime to power.
/ This part is essentially the same ar, the corresponding part in the
President's Report for the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project,
dated February 1, 1983.



-2-
5.        From 1971 to 1979, (the year when the military government fell),
the economy declined drastically.  GDP stagnated and per capita incomes
fell. Deterioration occurred in almost every sector of the economy.
Savings and investment, exports and government revenues declined in real
terms. Government and balance of payments deficits increased, arrears were
accumulated and blackmarketing and corruption flourished. Only subsistence
agriculture continued growing in response to both food security needs and
the curtailment of earning opportunities in the monetized sectors. The
coffee boom in 1977 provided temporary respite and for a time imports reco-
vered.  But by 1979, the combined impact of the previous years  depre-
dations and the damage and looting during and after the war had reduced the
economy of Uganda to ruins. Crops were damaged, livestock killed, many
buildings and factories gutted and portable goods of all kinds -- ranging
from school books and office records to tools, equipment and vehicles --
,were stolen (frequently to be smuggled into neighboring countries).
6.        A Commonwealth team of experts that reviewed the Ugandan economy
in May 1979 recommended a rehabilitation program of administrative and
policy reform supported by the infusion of foreign exchange. The reforms
proposed included: the raising of agricultural producer prices and the
relief of bottlenecks in the transport and marketing systems; the strength-
ening of foreign exchange budgeting and import licensing; a moratorium on
parastatal and cooperative indebtedness to enable banks to advance import
credit while this indebtedness was being studied; and the relaxation of
price controls coupled with either devaluation or a combination of foreign
exchange auctions and higher taxes.
7.        Until 1981, no action was taken on any of these proposals, except
the raising of agricultural producer prices, the value of which was soon
wiped out by inflation.  This failure to undertake policy and administra-
tive reform, coupled with continuing political instability, drought, the
1979 oil shock and world recession led to even more rapid declines in out-
put and incomes from 1979 to 1981 than had occurred previously. Taking the
deteriorating terms of trade into account, per capita income in 1980 was
some 27% below its 1978 level. Although there has probably been some reco-
very in 1981, especially in the agricultural sector, average incomes are
still depressed. Capital productivity is severely constrained by inade-
quate maintenance, a drying-up of raw material and spare part supplies, and
the looting of workshops and tools during and after the war.
8.        By 1981, the estimated volume of merchandise imports was 30%
below the 1978 level (and nearly 60% below the 1970 level). This was de-
spite an increase in official grant and loan disbursements from US$63
million per year in 1977-78 to US$200 million per year in 1979-81, an in-
crease in payment arrears of US$140 million during 1979 and 1980 and a
US$100 million drawdown of gross foreign exchange reserves. The main
factors responsible for this were a sharp fall in export volumes during
1980 (part of a long-term decline evident since the early 1970s) and a
deterioration in the terms of trade by 55% from 1978 to 1981. Capital
flight, though unquantifiable, was probably substantial and imports may
aLso have been under-recorded. The severity of the present balance of pay-
ments constraint highlights both the difficulty and critical importance of
foreign exchange management, in particular the need to scrutinize carefully
the Government-s own import requirements. The Government is taking steps
to improve its procedures for foreign exchange allocation.



- 3 -
9.        Uganda's external debt was inadequate'ly monitored and controlled
during the 1970s, and it is therefore difficult to present clear data. The
World Bank's estimates, based on data from the Uganda Treasury and the Bank
of Uganda, show total external debt outstanding of US$920 million at the
end of 1981, of which US$620 million was disbursed. IBRD's share of this
was 4.2% while 9.9% was due to IDA. Official development loans account for
less than two-thirds of outstanding debt.  The balance is from private
sources or war-related commitments to Tanzania and Zambia. A large part of
the debt is in arrears: some US$84 million of debt outstanding at the end
of 1981 was principal arrears.  (Total arrears, including short-term debt
and current payments are estimated at US$ 150 million at the end of 1981:.
The debt service ratio was moderately high for a low-income country at
17.5% at the end of 1980, but rose sharply to more than 50% in 1981.
Furthermore, more than one-third of debt otutstanding and disbursed at the
end of 1981 was to have fallen due over the next two years.  Successive
meetings of the Paris Club in November 1981 and December 1982 rescheduled
obligations of US$12 million falling due in 1981/82 and US$22 million in
1982/83. Rescheduling of debts owed to non-participants in the Paris Club
(accounting for US$ 118 million of principal repayments in 1981/82 and about
US$106 million of total debt service in 1982/83) has been carried out on
comparable terms.
The Government's Program
10.       The Government's primary goal is to restore law and order, a
basic prerequisite for future economic progress. Second only to this, how-
ever, is the goal of rehabilitating the directly productive sectors, with-
out which, the Government recognizes, there can be no economic development,
nor expanded social services. The first step towards rehabilitation was
the introduction of a. financial program for 1981/82, supported by a 13-
month stand-by arrangement (SDR 112.5 million) with the IMF, as well as by
the release of the balance (US$75.0 million) from the First IDA Reconstruc-
tion Credit. A second stand-by arrangement for 1982/83 (another SDR 112.5
million) was approved by the IMF in August 1982. These two programs are
intended to stabilize the economy and eventually revive investment and pro-
duction through restoring a measure of confidence in the currency, reducing
price distortions and improving fiscal and monetary discipline. In partic-
ular, since mid 1981, the Government has taken the following actions:
(a) it devalued the official value of the Ugandan shilling by
approximately 92%, from USh8 to the US dollar in April 1981
to around UShlOO by August 1982. In addition, the Bank of
UJganda has now opened a second window, where foreign ex-
change will be more freely traded in an auction system. The
rate established at the second window has steadily fallen
from USh300 to the US dollar in August to USh250 by mid
November 1982;
(b) it raised the official producer prices for major export
crops by 400%-700% and retail prices for petroleum products
by 1430%-1900%.  Similar acjustments have also been made in
public utility tariffs. Most other price controls have been
removed (although in practice, many goods are still sold
through parastatals at belc,w market prices);



- 4 -
(c) it rationalized the taxation structure by converting import
duties and some excise duties to an ad valorem basis, and
raising the effective tax rates on a number of major
revenue-producing items. In the 1982/83 budget, government
employees were exempted from PAYE (in lieu of wage and
salary increases) and the incidence of personal income tax
was reduced;
(d) it agreed to ceilings -- subsequently met for 1981/82 -- on
government borrowing and domestic credit expansion; and
(e) it introduced a more realistic and flexible interest rate
structure.
11i.      It has now been more than a year since the first measures under
the IMF programs were introduced, and the initial impact on economic per-
formance has generally been favorable. First and foremost, there has been
a significant increase in official purchases of coffee, the major export
crop, from 98,000 tons in 1980/81 to 165,000 tons in 1981/82. A large pro-
portion of this growth probably came from reduced smuggling and farmers'
stocks, rather than increased production. But, even so, it enabled 'Uganda
to meet its ICO export quota for the second year in a row, and provided a
major source of budgetary revenue. Second, there are indications that out-
put of other products is beginning to recover. Cotton production, for ex-
ample, is expected to more than triple to nearly 20,000 tons in the 1982/83
marketing year. Output from a number of key industries also rose signifi-
cantly during 1981 (admittedly from a very low level of capacity utiliza-
tion): cement by 8%, matches by 13%, textiles by 14%, sugar by 24%, ciga-
rettes by 27%, and blankets by 142%. As a result overall GDP is estimated
to have grown by 8% in 1981 and is expected to rise again by at least 5% in
1982. Finally, the impact of the program on consumer prices has been mod-
erated somewhat by the fact that many goods were already being sold at in-
flated "magendo" prices. Prices did rise sharply in May and June 1981 (re-
flecting in large part the increases in administered prices), and there has
been a resurgence of price inflation around the Kampala area in recent
months, apparently due to the impact of security and transport bottlenecks.
Howiever, the available data indicate a significant decline in the overall
inflation rate from around 100% per annum during 1979-81 to 50% in 1982.
Even so, real wages remain extremely low. The minimum wage, which was
raised by more than 100% in August 1981, still only buys the equivalent of
about six kilograms of sugar or three bars of soap per month at prevailing
market prices. Civil service salaries are so low that, despite subsidized
housing and other benefits, officials are forced to pursue other occupa-
tions. The removal of price controls and privileged access to limited sup-
plies of goods has probably resulted in hardship for certain groups, possi-
bly including some poorer ones. While wage and salary restraint is surely
necessary, the success of the program will also depend on its maintaining a
minimum standard of living and adequate work incentives.
12.       The Government's Recovery Program, released in April 1982, is in-
tended to provide a broader framework for the development of the economy
over the next two years. This Program includes proposals for further
policy and institutional reforms as well as a project-specific investment
plan for 1982/83 and 1983/84. The total size of the investment plan is



-5-
about 80% in foreign exchange.  This cost is barely one-third of the
original project submissions, and could hardly be cut further without Jeop-
ardizing the Program's modest goals. The basic strategy of the Recovery
Program is also well suited to present conditions in Uganda, focussing on
the short-term revival of the economy's productive sectors, and was strong-
ly endorsed by the Consultative Group meeting held in May 1982. While the
Program recognizes the importance of social sectors, on both humanitarian
and development grounds, actual allocations to these sectors have been
sharply curtailed, pending progress on rebuilding the productive base of
the economy. In all sectors, priority is given to rehabilitation and im-
proved utilization of existing capacity, with expansion limited to certain
well-defined areas, such as production of agricultural implements and bal-
ancing investments. There are, in fact, very few new projects included in
the investment plan. Consistent with this strategy, appropriate criteria
have been used to help screen and select projects. For the productive
sectors, primary emphasis has been given to projects which promise rapid
foreign exchange benefits through either intcreased export performance or
judicious import substitution. The Recovery Program also reiterates the
Government's intention to encourage the development of a "mixed economy",
by allowing former owners to reclaim their property or claim compensation,
and by inviting private investment in a numaber of areas.
13.       While there are important areas in which further steps are
needed, a decisive start to recovery has now been made. With the exception
of some export crop prices, which will require adjustment, the major policy
changes needed have been made. Now, the mnain areas of action are largely
institutional and will necessarily take tilne to implement. Moreover, the
Government has responded promptly to the evolving situation by continuing
the process of price adjustment and by initiating a number of institutional
changes in the key areas of foreign exchange management, budgeting and
planning. The Program itself and the Government's evolving policies merit
support and encouragement.
Sectoral Priorities
14.       Economic revival will depend on increasing production levels, es-
pecially exports. This entails the highest priority initially being given
to export crop production, to the supporting transport and communications
infrastructure, and to the production of besic consumer goods, building ma-
terials and agricultural requirements by the industrial sector. Other
sectors, especially the social sectors, also require urgent rehabilitation.
But in the near future, the rehabilitation of these sectors must be limited
to the extent of their potential contribution in the shorter term to the
recovery process. Improvements in medical. services, the repair of damaged
classrooms and the rehabilitation of hazardous urban water systems, for ex-
ample, may be expected to provide an important, if unquantifiable incentive
to producers.
15.       Agriculture dominates the Ugandcn economy, providing livelihood
to 90% of the population and supplying alTmost all Uganda's exports in
recent years.  Ugandan agriculture is largely dependent on small- and
medium-scale peasant farms; no attempt was ever made to encourage expatri-
ate settlements, and even today, large-scale estates are only significant



- 6 -
in tea and sugar production. With its favorable natural conditions, Uganda
produces an overall food surplus in most years, though areas like Karamoja
in the north-east, which are vulnerable to drought and which depend on a
traditional trade of cattle for grain, have suffered serious food shortages
in rec:ent years as a result of low rainfall and insecurity.
16.       The rehabilitation of agriculture is the top priority for
Uganda's economic recovery. Coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco exports could
all grow rapidly within the next three years (although the previous peak
levels are not likely to be reached until later in the 1980s). In addi-
tion, food exports to neighboring countries are a distinct possibility.
The revival of cotton and other agricultural production would also supply
some domestic industrial needs. The central constraint to recovery is the
incentive system. Prices for export crops must be remunerative, the effi-
ciency of the marketing system must be improved, and payment to farmers
must be prompt. Closely related to this is the supply of inputs, imple-
ments, spares for processing and transport, and consumer goods to stimulate
the production of surpluses. Over the longer term, agricultural services,
including research and extension, will also need more attention.
17.       Although Uganda's industrial sector has always been relatively
small, it did in the past make a valuable contribution towards supplying
the domestic market with basic goods and, in some instances (e.g. textiles
and copper), produced a surplus for export. However, since 1971, the per-
formance of the sector has been disappointing. Now, many industries have
closed down while others continue to operate at very low levels of capacity
utilization. At present, the most obvious and generally binding constraint
is the severe shortage of foreign exchange. However, the longer-term
decline in the sector reflects more fundamental constraints which could
well re-emerge as the foreign exchange situation improves. These include:
shortages of qualified managerial and technical expertise, problems of
creditworthiness (resulting from ownership uncertainty, financial indisci-
pline, and, more recently, the impact of the 1981 devaluation on costs),
and over-expansion and political interference in the management of the
parastatal sector. As noted above, the Government has now declared its in-
tention to follow a "mixed economy" strategy, with only essential public
services reserved exclusively for the public sector. In other areas,
domestic and foreign private enterprise is to be encouraged, either wholly
owned or in joint ventures with the Government. The Government expects to
close down or sell off a number of the existing industrial enterprises,
while the financial viability of the remaining parastatals is to be res-
tored through increased tariffs, asset revaluation and injections of new
capital.  However, the modalities for this restructuring process are still
to be worked out.
18.       Uganda's transport system, formerly one of Africa's best, deteri-
orated rapidly during the 1970s for the same general reasons outlined
earlier: the departure of skilled personnel, political interference, and
inadequate provision of resources for essential functions like maintenance.
In addition, the breakup of the East African Community (EAC) in 1977 had a
serious effect, especially on Uganda's access to international trade
routes: as a result Uganda lost virtually all railway rolling stock and
aircraft and her part-ownership of railways and port facilities in Kenya
and Tanzania. This both necessitated heavy new investments by Uganda, and



seriously disrupted international traffic movements while increasing their
cost. Transport was, moreover, the sector possibly most seriously affected
by the war and the widespread looting which :followed. The vehicle fleet in
particular was decimated. Rehabilitation of the transport system thus
becomes a key requirement.
19.       Energy use in Uganda is primarily 'based on electricity, petroleum
and woodfuels.  At the present time, Uganda's electric generating capacity
is underutilized. However, the surplus could be quickly absorbed as the
economy recovers and the opportunities are taken to substitute for more ex-
pensive fuels (such as petroleum products) and to secure long-term export
agreements with neighboring countries. Petroleum imports are likely to
remain a major drain on the country's foreign exchange for the foreseeable
future.  The Government has taken decisive action to curb consumption and
smuggling through the recent increases in retail petroleum prices. How-
ever, the effective control of petroleum marketing and costs remain with
the oil companies. A major source of energy for domestic heating and cook-
ing is woodfuel, and thus concern is mounting that uncontrolled development
of charcoal and firewood will eventually deplete the most accessible forest
resources and lead to further soil erosion Froblems. The Bank Group is un-
dertaking an energy assessment for Uganda tc, identify major institutional
and policy issues in the sector and provide a basis for pending investment
decisions.
Assistance Needs
20.        If recovery is to be sustained in 1983, Uganda's merchandise im-
ports must rise at least 40% over 1981 levels, to about US$570 million in
current prices, with most of the increase aLlocated for inputs and spare
parts for agriculture, industry and transport, and for basic consumer
goods. Over the subsequent two years, impoirts are expected to increase
less rapidly, by about 5% per annum, since 1here appears to be ample scope
for reestablishing domestic supply sources and reducing the import content
of production. If these higher import leveLs can be financed and if pro-
gress continues on the economic management and institutional issues dis-
cussed earlier, GDP could grow at 5-6% per annum on average from 1982 to
1985, with monetary agriculture and industry as the leading sectors.
21.        The other major claim on available foreign exchange is debt ser-
vice.  Principal repayments are projected to total US$191 million in 1983
and US$40 million in 1984. Invisibles may be expected to be a net drain on
foreign exchange during the 1980s, even if there is some revival in
tourism. Uganda also should provide for a reduction in arrears and some
buildup of external reserves.  The total financing requirement -- for mer-
chandise imports, invisibles and reserve accumulation -- is expected to be
US$0.75 billion in 1983, rising to US$1.0 billion by 1985.
22.        Exports can be expected to make an important contribution towards
meeting this requirement. For the next twc. to three years at least, agri-
cultural exports will be the key to recovery.  Provided prices are remuner-
ative, marketing becomes more efficient and the supply of agricultural
inputs and consumer goods improves, merchandise exports could grow by about
9% per year on average from 1982-85. Although high rates of growth in all
of the main agricultural exports (coffee, cotton, tea, and tobacco) can be



-8-
expected, coffee will remain dominant for some years. Beyond 1985, the
prospects for other exports, including maize, groundnuts, animal feed,
hides and skins, copper, cobalt and cotton textiles are promising, provided
the exchange rate is maintained at an appropriate level.
23.       Over the next three years, some US$470-560 million per year over
and above export earnings will be needed to meet requirements. If official
grant and loan commitments are maintained in real terms and disbursements
and debt service follow a normal pattern, these could provide some US$330
million per year on average. A further US$70 million (net) per year could
be available from the IMF, if Uganda remains eligible for further resources
under future stand-by arrangements. This leaves about US$110 million per
year over the next three years to be met from new resources.
24.       Uganda will not be able to finance this gap on commercial terms.
If the amount needed were borrowed at 11.6% for nine years, with four years
of grace (terms far better than those available on the market at present),
Uganda's debt service ratio, including IMF obligations, would remain around
40% through 1985, and reach 69% by 1990. Some short-term non-concessional
borrowing may prove una-voidable, given the bunching of principal repay-
ments, but care must be taken to ensure that the resulting debt burden is
manageable. Without additional external financing, GDP growth would have
to be cut to levels that would allow no significant recovery in per capita
terms. Uganda will therefore need additional financing on concessional
terms to achieve its much-needed recovery. This financing will, moreover,
have to be fast-disbursing, in the form of balance of payments support or
projects which focus on immediate and urgent requirements. New investment
for the next three years and-possibly longer must be limited to urgent
rehabilitation needs.
25.       The participants at the Consultative Group meeting endorsed the
Recovery Program, both as a framework for government action and as a
vehicle for mobilizing and allocating external assistance. However, many
donors indicated that any additional support would be conditional upon an
improvement in the internal security situation in Uganda. The resultant
delays in finalizing new aid commitments, coupled with a deterioration in
market conditions for Uganda's major export crops, has meant that there is
likely to be a shortfall in the resources required to fully implement the
first year of the Recovery Program. This will force rephasing of the
planned investments from 1982/83 to 1983/84, some additional spillover into
1984/85, and possibly an extension of the recovery period into 1985/86.
Nevertheless, the Recovery Program remains an extremely useful summary of
the Government's immediate priorities, and the Bank Group's lending program
for the next two to three years would be designed taking these priorities
into account.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 2_
26.       Bank Group operations in Uganda began with an IBRD loan of US$8.4
million for hydroelectric power development in 1961. Between 1967 and 1971
2/ This Part is essentially the same as Part II of the President's Report
for the Agricultural Rehabilitation Project, dated February 1, 1983.



- 9 -
Uganda received seven IDA credits totalling US$48.0 million for projects in
education, roads and agriculture (tea, tobacco and beef ranching).  In
addition, Uganda has benefitted from 10 loans totalling US$244.8 million
which have been extended for the development of the common services and the
East African Development Bank operated jointly by Kenya, Tanzania and
Uganda through their association in the former East African Community
(EAC).  Annex II contains summary statements and notes on the execution of
ongoing projects. IFC's first investment in Uganda, in a textile company,
was sold to the Government in 1970. The second, to help finance two lodges
in the national parks was cancelled in 197:2 before construction began. IFC
approved a new investment in the Toro and l4ityana Tea Company in November
1982.
27.       There was EL hiatus in Bank Group operations from 1971 until
February 1980, when a Reconstruction Program of US$72.5 million (including
a participation of US$17.5 million by the Netherlands) and an EEC Special
Action Credit of US$20.0 million were approved (Nos. 983/983-1-UG and
54-UG). The Association is also acting as Administrator of a Can$3.0
million grant from the Government of Canada and of a US$5.0 million program
loan from the OPEC Fund. The Reconstruction Credit originally experienced
delays and disbursements were slow. By the end of September 1982 US$67.0
million had been disbursed, the balance being fully committed. Commitments
have started under the Second Reconstruction Credit of US$70.0 million
equivalent (No. 1252-UG), approved in May 1982. In addition, the Associ-
ation has provided UJS$56.0 million through a Technical Assistance Credit
(No. 1077-UG), a Water Supply Engineering Credit (No. 1110-UG), a Phosphate
Engineering Credit (No. 1228-UG), and an Industrial Rehabilitation Credit
(No. 1248-UG). There has been continued progress in the implementation of
the Technical Assistance Project. The first sub-projects have been com-
pleted and disbursements have commenced. Several large sub-projects are
under consideration and it is likely that the credit will be fully com-
mitted before the erA of FY83. Disbursements under the Water Supply
Engineering Credit are continuing and they have started satisfactorily
under the Phosphate Engineering Credit; thiere are none yet under the Indus-
trial Rehabilitation Credit. The Bank Group also administers an Agricul-
tural Reconstruction Program of US$20.0 million equivalent financed by the
International Fund for Agricultural DevelDpment. In the immediate future,
Bank Group operations will remain focussel on rehabilitation projects. The
emphasis will shift gradually into traditional projects in agriculture,
industry, transport and energy sectors. Rehabilitation projects are under
preparation for agriculture, telecommunications, and roads.
28.       The developments affecting the East African Community (EAC) were
outlined to the Executive Directors in a memorandum dated December 29, 1977
(R77-312) and in a statement made on May 6, 1980 (SecM80-364). One of the
positive results of the ongoing mediation effort has been the Partner
States decision, taken upon the Mediator's recommendation, that the East
African Development Bank -- one of the former Community's 'nstitutions --
should continue, and a revised charter to this effect has been enacted.
The three Governments commented on the Mediator's proposals for the three
Partner States during their meeting in Nairobi in July 1981, and decided to
commence negotiations based on the Medial:or's proposals. Negotiations
started in December 1981 in Arusha, cont-inued in April 1982 in Jinia, in



- 10 -
September 1982 in Nairobi, and in December 1982 in Kampala. The discus-
sions have meanwhile passed the fact finding stage and are now focussing on
details of a division formula for assets and debts. While it is generally
accepted that both location of assets and the principle of equal rights of
all former EAC partners should be taken into account, the weight to be
attributed to these principles from case to case remains the major issue in
the continuing negotiations.
PART III - THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Background
29.         The education system of Uganda, though once well-functioning
and well-organized, has suffered with the rest of the Ugandan economy the
ravaging effects of a decade of economic decay and political instability.
Despite continuing and severe problems, the Ugandan education system
remains viable, with an administrative structure established prior to the
military regime, functioning regional offices and school inspectorate, and
a centralized examination system. Enrollments in and expenditures on edu-
cation have grown substantially since 1970. This reflects the high prior-
ity attached to education by the public, and its perceived economic and
social returns even under the present circumstances. Continuing expansion
has, however, been possible only at the expense of quality at all levels of
the education system. The pressures of increased enrollments, combined
with years of extreme neglect of the physical inputs needed for the edu-
cational process, have resulted in conditions of deprivation and decay in
all parts of the system. Substantial rehabilitation is now urgently
required if earlier educational standards are to be regained.
Government Policies for Education
30.         The Government's policy for arresting further decay, and sub-
sequently for re-initiating the positive development of the education sys-
tem, is divided into two phases. The first is an urgent program for
general rehabilitation and for assurance of minimally adequate conditions
of instruction. This is to be followed, at a later stage, by renewed
efforts toward improved curricula, teacher training and additional emphasis
on technical and agricultural studies. These latter developments will be
studied and integrated into a comprehensive long-term sectoral plan. Mean-
while, the need for immediate physical rehabilitation looms large. The
Government seeks to meet these requirements through reconstruction (repair,
re-furnishing, re-equipping and re-stocking with textbooks and other
instructional materials of schools) to inhibit further deterioration, re-
activation of overseas training programs, and rehabilitation of Makerere
University. In the longer term, the Government seeks to establish free
primary education, at least for the first four grades, and to consolidate
its policy of compulsory agricultural and technical classes in all second-
ary schools, in the context of reforms to be considered by a proposed edu-
cation policy review commission.



Description of the Education System
31.         The structure of formal education comprises four stages.  The
first level consists of seven years of primary education, with current
enrollments at about half the corresponding age group. Of those who com-
plete primary school, about a quarter enter secondary school for the
initial four year course ("O-level"), a technical school for a three year
course, or a four-year teacher training colLege.  Following "O-level"
examinations, about 40% continue into the two-year advanced course
("A-Level"), a Grade III teacher training college for two years, a techni-
cal institute, or one of various training programs sponsored by a govern
ment department. Those who complete the "k-level" course may continue to
Makerere University. Other options for post-secondary education, with
varying levels of entry according to the coarse, are the Uganda Technical
College, the National Teachers' College and the Uganda College of Commerce.
32.         Primary Education.  In 1980, about 1.3 million students were
recorded by the Planning and Statistics Office of the Ministry of Education
(MOE) as enrolled in Government-aided primary education. Of these, 43%
were girls. This enrollment was accommodated in some 4,300 schools and
served by about 38,400 teachers, 30% of them female. The 1980 primary
level enrollment represents a doubling of the 1969 enrollment of slightly
over 600,000, for an annual average rate of growth in enrollment of 6.7%.
In addition, there were approximately 80,000 students enrolled in some 800
private primary schools in 1980.
33.       At the primary level repetition is low except in the final two
primary grades. The primary school leaving examination (PLE) is of crucial
importance to the availability of future academic opportunity. The PLE is
uniform throughout the country, carefully controlled, and centrally
graded.  Primary teachers are trained at two levels: a four-year course
following primary education and a two-year course following the four-year
lower secondary course. In 1980, there were 23 teacher training colleges
(TTCs) for the first level of training and 4 each for the second level and
in-service training.
34.        Secondary General Education.  The total enrollment recorded in
the 177 government-aided general secondary schools for 1980 was 73,100
(4.5% of the 13 through 18 year age group),, of which 29% were girls. In
addition, enrollments in private schools st:ood at 22,000 in 1979. New
schools are mostly lower secondary schools spontaneously created by local
groups which tend to be small, poorly equipped and staffed, and comprise at
most studies up to "O-level".  Training for secondary school teachers is
offered by the National Teachers College (NTC) in two and three year
courses. A total of 373 students were enrolled in the 1979/80 academic
*         year, 24% of whom were female.  In addition, the University offers pedagog-
ical training in conjunction with its undergraduate courses. Enrollment in
such courses in the 1980/81 academic year was 620 (27% female).
35.        Post Secondary Education.  Make-rere University, the first
university to be established in Eastern Africa, was for many years
recognized throughout the world for the quality of its staff and teaching
programs.  Today, it is characterized by increased enrollments and deter-
iorated physical conditions. Expansion of enrollment, from about 1,800 in



- 12 -
1969 to some 4,000 in 1980, has been achieved mainly through overcrowding
of the existing facilities. The physical condition of the University has
suffered from neglect over the past dozen years: library books and other
valuable properties have been damaged by water or pilferage, student living
quarters have fallen into decay. The instructional staff available for
duty is well below the required level.
36.        In addition to post-secondary level courses at the University
and the NTC, advanced level instruction is available at the Uganda Techni-
cal College (UTC) and the Uganda College of Commerce (UCC), with enrollment
of about 600 each in 1979/80. The UTC provides courses in engineering,
science, mathematics, industrial ceramics and technical teacher training.
At the UCC courses are provided in the fields of marketing, professional
studies, secretarial studies and hotel and institutional catering.
37.       Technical and Other Types of Education.  Technical education at
the secondary level is provided at ten technical schools, four technical
institutes under the MOE and under the sponsorship of various organi-
zations. The technical schools (1980 enrollment of 2,300, with 11% female)
offer three year courses in masonry, carpentry, electrical installation,
plumbing, metal work and motor vehicle maintenance, pottery, tanning and
shoemaking, and tropical agriculture. The effectiveness of the technical
schooLs is reduced at present by a lack of supplies needed for practical
studies. In addition, the utility of these courses as a practical edu-
cational alternative leading to the production of graduates with readily
marketable skills has not been well established. The technical institutes
offer a two-year course at the upper secondary level, plus a third year
advanced course for a small number of students. Enrollments in 1980
totalled 1,150, of which only 10 were females. Training for teachers of
vocational and technical subjects is provided through a two-year course at
the N1'C and by a one-year course at the UTC.
Previous Bank Group Lending for Education
38.       Bank Group education operations in Uganda began in 1967, but
stalled after 1971, because of the Government's lack of an appropriate
development program and a sound economic policy. At the end of the 1978-
1979 war, the Bank Group reinitiated its involvement in education through
the First Reconstruction Credit (Cr. No. 983-UG) out of which US$2.5
million was allocated to replace looted and destroyed educational materials
and equipment. Also, about US$350,000 have been disbursed from the Techni-
cal Assistance Project (Cr. No. 1077-UG) for preparatory work for this
project.
39.       The First Education Project (Cr. No. 101-UG), approved in April
1967, in an amount of US$10 million equivalent, assisted in the expansion
of general secondary education. The project provided for physical facili-
ties, including student hostels, staff housing, furniture and equipment to
accommodate 11,800 secondary school students. The project was completed in
June 1973, some 18 months after the original closing date. A project com-
pletion report was issued in October 1975 and a Project Performance Audit
Report (No. 1456) in February 1977. These reports concluded that suitable
physical facilities were fully and economically provided under the pro-
ject. However, the project schools suffered under-utilization, owing



- 13 -
mainly to the shortage of teachers of practical subjects due to Govern-
ment's failure to train the required numberi of teachers, and also to the
unforeseen departure of expatriate teachers. The shortcoming of concen-
trating projects on physical infrastructure and not incorporating educa-
tional inputs as an integral part of the project, an element common to many
projects in the early years of Bank Group lending to education, was evident
in this project. The issue was addressed in the Second Education Project.
40.       The Second Education Project (Cr. No. 258-UG), approved in June
1971, in an amount of US$7.3 million equivalent, was designed to assist in
meeting manpower needs in the technical, agricultural and medical fields,
and most importantly in providing urgently needed teachers. The project as
appraised included extensions, furniture and equipment for two teacher
training institutions (and equipment for a third institution), four upper
secondary schools, five technical secondary schools, two agricultural col-
leges, three new district farm institutes, a vocational training center, a
medical tutor training college and a nurses' and midwives' school. In
addition, 80 man-years of specialist services and 18 man-years of fello-e-
ships in fields related to the project institutions were included.
41.       The implementation of this project encountered serious difficul-
ties, many of them originating in the general socio-economic conditions
prevailing in the country at that time.  Iwo postponements of the closing
date were approved and the project was firally closed in December 1981.
During implementation, the extension of the five technical schools was held
in abeyance by the Bank Group, because of the Government's decision to
change the programs and objectives of the schools. UlJtimately, they were
deleted from the project. The implementat:ion of the technical assistance
components for teacher training and educational planning worked reasonably
well, while those for vocational training and health education were not
implemented, either because of delays or as a result of deletion of the
related physical facilities. The fellowslhip component was satisfactorily
implemented and most of the students who b3enefited from this program are
occupying the positions for which they we:e trained. A project completion
report, which is under preparation, is ex?ected to provide a more detailed
assessment of the effects of this project.
42.       Lending Strategy.  The Bank Groap's lending strategy in the edu-
cation sector is to assist the Government in initiating the rapid rehabili-
tation of educational services throughout the formal system, including the
University. The stress is not on new capacity but on rehabilitation, and
maintenance aimed at helping existing institutions to regain their instruc-
tional capacity. The immediate goal for lending to Uganda's education sec-
tor is thus aimed at reviving its effectiveness and minimal standards of
quality, rather than at expansion or innovation.  The project fits within
this strategy.  It would include studies relating to teacher supply, tech-
nical education and education finance which, combined with a proposed edu-
cation sector memorandum, would set the ground for future Bank Group
assistance and policy dialogue in the sector. These could address further
quality improvements of the education anc training system and could include
support for curriculum development, teacher training, education planning,
and strengthening the administrative and financial management capacity of
the system at all levels.  Finally, the determination of manpower require-



- 14 -
ments, while strictly outside the purview of the education sector, will
ultimately be needed if the sector is to meet its employment oriented
goal s.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Background
43.       The project was prepared by the Government of Uganda with assis-
tance from UNESCO and the Association. Subsequent surveys financed under
the Technical Assistance Credit (Cr. No. 1077-UG) helped to identify more
precisely those items included in the project for rapid and equitable
improvement of the deteriorated quality of education.  Negotiations were
held in Washington in January 1983. The Government Delegation was led
by Professor I. N. Ojok, Minister of Education, and included represen-
tatives from the Ministries of Finance, and Planning and Economic Develop-
ment. A Staff Appraisal Report No. 4113-UG of January 25, 1983, is being
distributed separately, a credit and project summary is at the beginning of
this report, and Annex III lists supplementary project data.
Project Objectives
44.       The project would assist the Government in its urgent task of re-
habilitating part of its education system in a manner consistent with its
recovery program and with the system's assessed implementation capabili-
ties.   The project would also limit to a minimum Government's future re-
current expenditures.  Instructional conditions would be restored to as
adequate a level as possible across all schools and at Makerere Univer-
sity. To secure the equitable and prompt distribution of goods to be pro-
vided countrywide to their final users, and to provide training for local
counterparts, a team of specialists would help to implement the project.
Finally, the project is intended to assist the Government in improving the
management, control and planning of operations in the education sector.
Project Components
45.       Primary Education.  This component includes text and library
books, limited roofing materials and instructional supplies needed to re-
habilitate about 5,000 primary schools. Specifically, textbooks, teachers
guides, auxiliary source books and library books would be supplied, based
on selections and lists prepared by a team of Ugandan educators according
to esitablished curricula and instructional needs. The extent to which stu-
dents must share books will be determined by the quantities of student
books which prove to be obtainable within the project budget, as allocated
to the schools by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) according to cri-
teria satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.01 (b) of the draft Devel-
opment: Credit Agreement). To identify ownership, the books would receive
suitable markings and would remain the property of the educational institu-
tions concerned. Roofing sheets would be supplied to those schools which
the MOE's survey prove to be most in need of repair. Installation of the



- 15 -
roofing would be the responsibility of school authorities, with the help of
local volunteer labor, consistent with customary practice in Uganda.
Supervision of the delivery and appropriate use of all materials would be
done by the PIU (see paragraph 59).
46,       General Secondary Education.  Allocations to 177 secondary
schools would be based on a MOE survey simiLar to that undertaken for the
primary schools and the same selection procedures for the teaching equip-
ment and instructional material would be applied.  Specifically, equipment
and supplies needed for practical work in szience and home economics
courses and other subiects such as arts, crafts and music would be pro-
vided, In the case of some secondary schools, self-contained mobile labo-
ratories for basic science would be supplied, two per school. In other
schools, where higher secondary-level courses are taught, equipment and
supplies would be provided to make the existing laboratories fully opera-
tional. Also, equipment such as typewriters, duplicators, locked cupboards
and filing cabinets, and other non-consumable items would be provided to
support administrative offices of those secondary schools recently con-
verted to Government-aided status.
47.       Primary Teacher Training Colleges and Specialized Institutions.
Books, equipment and supplies similar to those specified above for general
secondary schools would also be supplied tc the 33 primary teacher training
colleges (TTCs) which now operate in Uganda. In support of science in-
struction in the TTCs, two mobile laboratories would be provided, one for
basic science and the other for biological/agricultural science. Home eco-
nomics equipment and additional teaching aAds in addition to a slide pro-
jector and two cassette recorders for each TTC would be supplied to assist
in training teachers for art, geography, mathematics and physical educa-
tion. In addition, five educational instit:utions providing specialized
education at the upper secondary and post secondary level would be assisted
through provision of text and library books, basic workshop equipment,
spare parts and tools to allow a resumption of practical training.
48.       Makerere University.  For the University with its enrollment of
over 4,000 students in residence, the project would provide library books
identified by a staff librarian who participated in the book selection team
(see paragraph 45). Tn addition, it would include limited rehabilitation
of the halls of residence, since to varying degrees, all fourteen student
residential structures (including eight main dormitories, with their exten-
sions and annexes) require rehabilitation.
49.       The TJniversity has a well organized system of maintenance.  How-
ever, the prolonged unavailability within the country of construction
materials and spare parts, as well as the lack of foreign exchange for
their importation, has limited the amount of maintenance work which could
be ,performed during the last decade. The Government would make available
the necessary inputs to the University to resume proper maintenance of
existing structures and continue with this task (Section 4.03 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).



- 6 -
50.       District Education Offices (DEO).  The 33 DEOs can hardly operate
because of lsack of the most essential equipment:  typewriters, copying
machines, etc.  Also9 the school inspectors (about 135) operating from  such
offices are unable to visit all schools, for lack of vital transportation,
Thus, in order to assist the MOE in improving education administration and
control0  the project would provide t:he DEOs with limited office equipment
and motor bicycles (for the use of inspectors).
Supp:ly and Del ivery
51,       Tkhe timely supply and safe delivery of all the items described
above is clearly a major requirement of the ptoject.  The problems of dis-
triblution and the conditions of insecurity prevailing within the country
were identifled during the preparation of tne project and a strategy worked
out to mini,mize the risks involved in the physical delivery of the goods to
be provided. The supply and delivery would be carried out by the PIU,
which would be strengthened by about 9 man-years of consultant services
(Section 3.02 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement, and paragraph
59), The component would also include office furniture and equipment,
including a small computer and vehicles necessary for the operation of the
PIU. The specialists would also be responsible for establishing an infor-
mation system for carrying out supply and delivery operations and mainte-
nance programs after the project is completed. A comprehensive plan for
the provision and distribution of educational material, including its fi-
nancing9 and a system for the maintenance of the institutions under MOE
would result from this work and be furnished to the Association by June 30,
1985 (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The consul-
tants would further prepare manuals on maintenance and train MOE staff in
appropriate maintenance procedures. Although the establishment of a com-
prehensive maintenance program would be beyond the financial scope of the
project, the setting up of a centralized information center on maintenance
and supplies is expected to help identify priority needs in the sector. It
could become the first step in an overall record keeping system relating to
the needs of each school. It could record matters such as school fees and
contributions, visits by inspectors and students' examination performance.
This information would be extremely useful for improving the planning and
management of the education system
Special Studies
52.       There are a number of areas within the education and training
systemt where a revision of present policies is urgently required, and where
future Bank Group assistance would strongly depend on Government actions to
address these matters. Specific studies geared to provide an in-depth
analysis of problems and to make specific recommendations for resolving
them would be included in the project.
53.       Technical Education.   In this study major emphasis would be
placed on post-primary technical education, There are indications that
graduates from the technical schools are ill prepared for the job market
and are encountering problems in securing employment. The study would
cover both quantitative and qualitative aspects.  It would assess curri-



- 17 -
cula, teachers' and trainers' qualifications and performance, availability
of jobs and skills required, and cost recovery issues. It would make pro-
posals for adjusting technical and vocational education to make It consist-
ent with labor demand.
54.       Education Financing.  The problems related to the financing of
education (including private contributions), the shortage of resources
available, the distribution (including school maintenance needs) and
management of such resources, and equity Issues would be reviewed in de-
tail. A comprehensive system of education financing would be proposed to
correct the anomalies of the present one.
55.       Teacher Supply and Demand.  With rapidly increasing student en-
rollments, the gap between the demand for teachers and the rate of produc-
tion of graduates by teacher training inst:itutions is widening.  A study to
address these problems would include an inventory of the existing sltuation
at all levels, medium term demand projections and a proposal for a fully
costed program to reduce gradually the present gap, while also coping with
future expansion.
56.       To carry out these studies, for which the MOE would have a lead-
ing role, one or more advisory committees would be established including,
as appropriate, representatives of the Ministries of Education, Finance,
Planning and Economic Development, individuals and representatives of rele-
vant institutions. The Government agreed to establish the committees by
not later than three months after the date of credit effectiveness (Section
3.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement) and to ensure that the com-
mittees provide satisfactory terms of reference and timetables to carry out
the studies. The project would finance the services of consultants, their
transport and travel, and other foreign exchange costs necessary to carry
out the studies. The Association would be informed on the composition of
the committees, approve the terms of reference for the studies, and the
appointment of consultants in accordance with the Bank Group's "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants", dated August 1981, and, periodically, review
the progress and finidings of the studies. Also, by an appropriate date to
be determined in the terms of reference, the conclusions and recommend-
ations of the studies would be furnished. Tne Association would review and
comment upon these results, and the Government would thereafter present
their plans to implement the recommendations.  The Government would provide
the necessary local physical facilities and staff support for carrying out
these studies.
Project Cost and Financing
57.       The total project cost is estimated at US$34.0 million equiva-
lent, with a foreign exchange component estimated at US$32.0 million equiv-
alent. Taxes are negligible, since all Ltems imported specifically for the
project would be exempt from custom duties and taxes.  The proposed IDA
Credit of SDR 29.1 (US$32.0) million equLvalent would finance the entire
foreign exchange component (94% of total project cost). The Government's
counterpart funds of US$2.0 million equivalent would be phased over the
three-year implementation period. An estimated maximtm contribution of
US$0.8 million equivalent would be required in any Government fiscal year.
Both the project capital costs and the incremental operational costs would



- 18 -
be borne the MOE, which would implement the project.  Recurrent expendi-
tures generated by the project after completion would be minimal and mainly
for maintenance of furniture and equipment.  Thus, the project, consistent
with the country's rehabilitation priorities would also be consistent with
the projected financing capacity of the central Government.
58.       Cost estimates for rehabilitation work at Makerere University are
based on similar works being carried out at Naguru Police College and
Kibuli Training Center, both within Kampala and financed by the British
Overseas Development Administration. Since construction activity is virtu-
ally at a standstill in Uganda due to the lack of foreign exchange, compar-
isons are very limited. Costs of equipment, didactic materials and vehi-
cles are based on prevailing international prices, while costs of text and
library books are based on preliminary lists prepared by MOE with the
assistance of consultants, and on detailed price quotations from numerous
international publishers. The technical assistance component in support of
project implementation consists of about 110 man-months of consultant ser-
vices, estimated at an average crst of US$10,000 per month. Professional
services equivalent to about 60 man-months of architectural, engineering
and quantity surveying services are estimated at an average rate of
US$5,500 per man-month based on 15% of construction costs (10% architects'
fees, 5% quantity surveyors fees). For physical contingencies, 10% has
been added to the base cost of civil works, professional services, trans-
port and project administration; and 5% to the base cost of vehicles, tech-
nical assistance and studies. No physical contingency allowances have been
included for furniture, books, equipment and supplies because quantities
are expected to be adjusted to remain within the global budgetary alloc-
ation. Estimated price increases have been applied at the following annual
rates:
1983       1984        1985
Foreign                       8.0%        7.5%        7.0%
Local                        15.0%        9.0%        8.0%
The local price increases are based on recent trends and forecasts from
Government agencies, as well as the private sector for civil works, furni-
ture, fuel, etc. These rates have been reviewed by Bank Group staff and
have been found appropriate. Price escalation for foreign goods and ser-
vices represent the most recent projections of world price increases.
Project Implementation
59.       The project would be completed in about three years.  The MOE
would administer the project through a Project Implementation IJnit (PIU) to
be established within the Ministry (Section 3.03 and Schedule 4 of the
draft Development Credit Agreement). This PIU would consist of a Project
Director, who would be a senior officer of the MOE, a qualified team of
specialists, to be engaged under a single contract, and qualified and
experienced officers from the MOE assigned as counterparts to the members
of the consultant team, who would thus provide continuity for possible
future work for the PIU. The consultant team would include a deputy direc-
tor, a procurement manager (two counterparts anticipated), a distribution
manager (two counterparts anticipated), an accountant (two to three



- 19 -
counterparts anticipated), and a training officer, who would ensure that
the training responsibilities of the members of the consultant team are
properly carried out. The consultants would be selected in accordance with
the Bank Group's "Guidelines for the Use cf Consultants".  An outline for
their terms of reference has been agreed upon. The appointment of the Pro-
ject Director, with appropriate experiencE and qualification satisfactory
to the Association, would be a condition of project effectiveness (Section
5.01 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
60.        Surveys of existing conditions, drawings and other preparati:n
work for the rehabilitation of the halls of residence of Makerere IJnivar-
sity have been carried out by architectural/engineering consultantsap-
pointed by the University, under conditions mutually acceptable to the Bor-
rower and the Association, and financed ulnder the Technical Assistance Cre-
dit. For the remaining preparation work and supervision during the actual
rehabilitation stage, consultants would be selected and appointed on terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Association (Section 3.02 (b) of the
draft Development Credit Agreement).
61.       Reporting and Evaluation.  Progress reports on implementation
would be submitted to the Association by the PIU on a quarterly basis.
Not later than three months after the credit closing date, the MOE would
provide the Association with a report evaluating initial operations, the
execution, costs and benefits of the project, and the performance of the
Government and the Association, including lessons learned during implement-
ation (Section 3.06 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Procurement
62.       Contracts for civil works, furriiture, books, equipment and vehi-
cles would be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
(ICB) in accordance with the Bank Groups Guidelines for Procurement, ex-
cept as follows: (a) civil works contracts costing less than US$100,000
ecuivalent each (estimated to total about: US$0.2 million); (b) furniture,
equipment and vehicles contracts costing less than US$50,000 equivalent
each (estimated to total about USSO.7 mi].lion); (c) books for primary,
secondary and priTLary teacher training ecducation; and (d) locally procured
transportation services within lJganda for furniture, books, equipment and
supplies (total estimated at about US$0.8 million). Contracts for items
(a), (b) and (d) would be awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, ad-
vertised locally and in accordance with Local procedures satisfactory to
*            the Association.  Contracts for printing of books under item (c) would be
procured through limited international tendering, under procedures satis-
factory to the Association, provided that those books are not available in
*            their publishers  stock and that they caa be grouped in packages estimated
to cost US$75,000 or more. Otherwise, sach books will be procured through
negotiations with their publishers, in consultation with the Association.
The aggregate value of contracts to be awarded by ICB is estimated at about
US$25 million including contingencies.
6:.       Rehabilitation designs, draft tender documents and master lists
of construction materials, furniture, books, equipment, supplies and vehi-
cles (including proposed groupings) would be reviewed by the Bank Group.



- 20 
Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to permlt bulk procure-
m-en>,  AlIl blinor packages for civil works estimated to cost over
U3Sz$0(,000 equivalent and for  oods (furn-ture, equipment, supplies and
vehicles) estimated <c, cost over USS$50,000 eq,ivaent would be subject to
the Association s prior review of procurement documentation resulting in a
coverage of about 90% of the total estimated value of civil works con-
tracts, and abo-ut 80,A% oif goods contracts6  The balance of contracts would
be skubject so  bcv     v the Association after contract award.  When ICB
procedures are used. (ah aomestic manufacturers would be allowed a prefer-
ence of 15% or t-- e    ating applicable rate of import duties, whichever is
lowzer, over the _,.if. price of competing foreign suppliers; and (b) should
interastional .rms b,d on civil works, qualified domestic civil works con-
tractors would be alic-wed a preferential inargin of 7\% over the bid prices
of comoeting foreion contractors5
Disbu:r emeno.
64.         isbursement lwould be on the basis of (a) 30% of local expendi-
tur-es Lor cCivil works;  ab D300% of foreign expenditures and 65% of local
expend:Ltures for construction materials, equipment and supplies; (c) 100%
of foreign expenditures for imported furniture and 65% of local expendi-
tures if procu-red locally; (d) 100% of foreign expenditures for books, and
vehicles; (e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures
for procfessional services and administration; (f) 100% of foreign expendi-
tures arnd 80% of local experditures for technical assistance and studies;
and (xg'! 100% of foreign expenditure and 65% of local expenditures for
transport of goods. All disbursements would be fully documented except for
disbursements for local expenditures under project administration, which
would be made against statements of expenditures. Documentation of these
would not be submitted for review but would be retained by the Borrower and
made available for inspection by the Association in the course of project
supervision. A disbursement profile based on past experience is not valid
for this project.  The disbursement schedule is based on the status of pre-
paration work and agreed timetables.
Accounting and Auditing
65.        The PIU would establish and maintain separate accounts for all
expenditures incurred under the project.  The accounts would be maintained
to reflect, irn accordance with appropriate accounting practices, its opera-
tions and financia_ condiltion.  Auditing would be required on an annual
basis for all expenditures financed. under the project with particular
attention to those reimDbursed under statements of expenditures.  The
Auditor General's office does not have the capacity to undertake the annual
audit.  Thi's woulld be performed by a firm of private auditors acceptable to                    4
the Assocation and applying satisfactory auditing procedures. Audits would
be sumitted  o tche Association within six months following the end of each
of the Borrower"s fiscal yea-rs (Section 4e01 of the draft Development
-'redit Aggreement).v
Benefirt  and Risks
66.        The major benefit expected to be derived from the project Is a
rap1d -anourovement in tne muchn deteriorated quality of education.  About 1.4



- 21 -
million students enrolled in the Government's educational institutions
would be the immediate beneficiaries since they would be provided with: (a)
books (about 1.4 million students); (b) workbooks and other class materials
(about 1.3 million students); (c) laboratory and workshop equipment (over
80,000 students); (d) material for improving educational buildings (200,000
to 300,000 students); and (e) inmproved rEsidential accommodations (over
4,000 students).
67.       Other benefits to be derived from the project would be institu-
tion building, by assisting in the establishment of a supply and maintu'
nance system within the MOE, and the acquisition of specific managerial
skills, including those for handling dist:ribution of materials by officials
of the MOE who would act as counterparts to the consultants within the
PIU. Significant benefits are also expected to be derived from the studies
included in the project, which would provide the Government with a sound
basis for important planning and policy-making decisions.
68.       The main factor likely to impinge on the success of the project
is the still unsettled condition of general security prevailing in the
country. However, unless further deterioration occurs, this would not jus-
tify delaying the implementation of the project, which is a crucial compo-
nent of the Government's rehabilitation affort. The studies undertaken
during project preparation helped design a management and implementation
system to reduce, to the maximum possible the risks of goods not reaching
their intended final beneficiaries.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
69.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Uganda and the Association and the Recommendation of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement are being dis-
tributed separately to the Executive Directors.
70.       The appointment of a Project Eirector to head the Project Imple-
mentation Unit is as a condition of effEctiveness. All special conditions
of the project are listed in Annex III to this report.
71.       I am satisfied that the propoEed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Associatior.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
72.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
February 1, 1983
Washington, D.C.



-22 -                                                                ANNEX I
Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                          REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AV'2RAGES
AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                               - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL             236.0                                  MOST RECENT             LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL      106.1               1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                   140.0        230.0      300.0                 250.8                   1053.2
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        38.7         84.9      38.7                   66.5                   610.1
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS) 7286.0         9758.0   12630.0
'URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)  5.2           8.0       8.7                   17.8                    28.3
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                         24.3
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           72.6
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                    2100
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                         30.9         41.3      52.1                   27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       77.7         97.7     116.0                   86.7                   129.9
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                           43.3         44.4      45.2                   44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                           53.6        52.6       51.7                   52.3                    51.1
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                     3.1          3.1       3.1                    2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                2.8          2.9       2.6                    2.7                     2.8
URBAN                                7.1          7.1       3.4                    6.2                     5.2
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       45.0        44.6       44.7                   47.3                    47.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       20.3         16.6      13.7                   19.5                     15.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                3.0          3.0       3.0                    3.2                      3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)         ..          3.8      16.1/c
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..             ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)           107.0        99.0       86.0                   88.7                    90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                     96.5        98.1       93.4/d                 90.2                    93.9
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)            50.9         55.3      58.87d                 53.1                    54.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE         21.1         23.7      26.871                 18.4                    17.0
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE       29.5        22.3       17.8                   26.7                    23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)    43.7           48.7      53.7                   45.6                    51.0
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                            138.9       113.2       97.2                  129.9                   118.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         22.0      35.0/c                 23.9
URBAN                                 ..         88.0     100.07T                 54.9
RURAL                                 ..         17.0      29.0/c                 18.5
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                 ..         76.0      94.0/c                 25.8
LRBAN                                 ..         84.0      82.07o                 63.1
RURAL                                 ..         76.0      95.07T                 20.2
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN           15053.7/e   14666.2/e 26811.9/d               32097.3                 14185.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    10025.47;1   2704.07oT   4175.07o                3264.6                  2213.2
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                              749.8        638.0     611.5/c               1225.0                  1036.4
URBAN                               76.7         82.9      99.571                249.5                   430.8
RURAL                             1713.5       1818.4    1596.57i               1712.1                  3678.6
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED             ..        154.1/f
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                 ..          4.8
URBAN                                 ..           ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..
URRAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
HF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                 ..           ..         ..
URBAN                                 ..           ..         ..
RURAL                                 ..           ..         ..



ANNEX I
- 23 -                                                             Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
UGANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
UGANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVRAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
HOST RECENT            LOW INCOME             MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 lb ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                 49.0        39.0       50.0                 63.2                    83.3
MALE                 65.0         48.0      58.0                  72.7                    96.1
FEMALE               32.0         31.0      41.0                  50.3                    80.4
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                   3.0         4.0        5.0                 10.2                    15.3
MALE                  4.0          6.0       7.0                  13.2                    19.4
FEMALE                1.0          2.0       3.0                   6.6                    11.3
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (X OF SECONDARY)  11.6          7.4        5.4/d                 7.9                    4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            30.7        33.5      35.0/d                47.4                    38.6
SECONDARY                          17.8        19.8      25.57-                26.2                    23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        34-9/S        ..       47.9                  34.0                   35.6
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          3.5         3.0        2.5/h                3.0                    31.9
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                         12.4        23.6      20.3                  34.8                    71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                          0.1/i       1.4        5.8                  1.7                    17.9
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   7.3         8.5        1.6                   2.9                   19.1
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA  0.3           .         O.1/d                1.1                    0.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)    3254.6        4187.0    5133.1
FEMALE (PERCENT)                   35.1        34.6      33.9                  34.1                    36.5
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              89.0        86.0       83.0                  78.4                   56.5
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  4.0         5.0       6.0                   9.2                    17.7
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                44.7        42.9       40.6                 41.4                    37.0
MALE                                 58.8        56.8       54.2                 53.9                    46.9
FEMALE                               31.0        29.3      27.3                  29.1                    27.2
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               1.0         1.1        1.2                   1.2                    1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        20.0
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEEOLDS    ..         46.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..         6.2
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS      ..        16.6
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                134.3                   507.0
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..                 82.9                   200.6
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                 96.4                   523.9
RURAL                                ..          ..      87.Old                60.4                   203.6
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..          ..         ..                 39.3
9                       RURAL                                 ..          ..         ..                 69.0
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betwe,an 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1978 and 1980.
/c   1975; /d 1977; /e Registered, not all practicinRg in the country; /f Government establishments only;
/g 19637 /h 19147  /i 1963.
May 1982



- 24 -                                                                                      ANNEX I
DIFINTtmsor SCLAL  NDMAORS.Page    3   of   5
-ct    .,houh chm  "It     . ta .are     ...an Itro   ...rse   eneall  i dg.t oaIrh aatan  ai. -cOo ret tble.  it shold als  at acted char toy  ma   o  a oe--
a   'I, t  csetbmhe  ra o   h.r  tia  of ....amdtadied dsrftotttos   and Iconc.Pt. cetby difter-n  counrie Ito-  cl tetngcha date.  rhe tata tn, acne-
canal to  ecasita  oder. atI gtf  d  Indicat   r-oc., rodoau tra   ce-bit  major lit- oa.......
oh to. tealeoc  bobon  (nacayn  tar Higo Int---    Otthcpotsr      -Poc  atrer   ttddle Incose .orta Act boa aod hdt          .i   hsnhccaa    roe
ccla-aioc.acatfittt:sI.,tc th-etrsc   ru  oaia roe a-erges ape yaaiotn eghted arintt-.tstn.c.                                     odrcracsttsol    e
ictitoer-r at It-u   -ean  cre  -ucry end retref          e   ncys
Tha I- ...dco  o   rarmraogia   rmadllaactre   99dn                                                 cc,ctna tItte   yteorre  toe cu.aue   it haepi-reiao-
iT-1zIm       tauteo  agriu-tra ttom  oma d rappn i   p  emnety-otciet   u Ito  ani.d pbymn  trh ena  at pcIaitae   hanPI bratl
hat   e   hrieyyatuiLa..hrt E irbsenh-s Pr-ottig yr taoipsily n-eo
o -iahd  c  maa loisnna   mano  atWorld tin  A",.s  1978-60 basIn) l 9.                      an   eae   eaeehtprenaiaettetc     ast taohu  aya
CaillhitofN  t   c  --to  - ln-   lmsop to   icrtienrlIa -                                     ult pup- ar -     mci  o..tr is t-i.         70   nicp  ,t       aIrmtnl
a) tO  1 iroima i  bOOte)o artans  so cotno l1960, 1970. i-d 1979                -acn        pcIlie   upcia.l  era10 tudoci    onrt
yAPui.i110n otto cccml. cfAt_:IiTtCh.  bylh   b.b.,f bd.
Mic ynla  aa   c-borhouct-    he--.    it Jacy  1;  60b, 1970. aod 1980               H.0US5tG
Cohao Pmpc.,iuctc  c  t-ctnt it total) -hrt,      t  rtL     crn  t          L..;ca                     iseri   antr   t      ra  at loatiduti  stIfshareI.ta.o  cAerr
aagcoca socen; 1960. 1970, and 1969 d.na.                                                      oh.    h.,ahod tn ta  teroa  purpses
Pcplttor   _-eu  Aos...aonflro  rersoas  e                                                                                        ro-rt :I.  unbar. rat  .,a.Iaerg   he
Parutaroc  in yac 100th- Curen  pa...          npriotn   aehscori                                 m Iit persons per rooc toJ alt o n..d rena1  -ou teidcoso   ca
taabyclstao   gtatsasdtretmratnycttnttr_ae.oeiioe reentey                                                            atireecuana-emnn  ercae    t
cod tfneta  Ate aca  at.       rssi ga  77. 9  sr.Th. parc-                            Ca..ena.oo.. .hltgee    eeria  yi  1 totng qnre-n  as
Ossstof-nti thIa -    ...h rate csoIi.o.thLe isec  ascahu   tenl-tn. I                    it totet  ceme      d ruralI.. aeihngnmenhey
ccorlinanyaoolcttir- Ia a ata canary pptlarira   here In no gtaeto  Acs            Prtacry echori - cI-i. -Lte cad ttia-L.n-GI..  cotti. te cot  Peac
soiat o-cotor.   5n.  I cacah  ty ot tenf tr             IYhc   rant. innL lo any tysnI-age  ptomtolnomlatcuts ude   stat h, -ti
in can oocr hOC, ag oh m rate at isntos it tnorhiu IfrInnaapau-                  noomncuoo     taa. sole. no  tea  h.-a    steabne
Ian  lccn --oontot requies at mat loontears it  r .pprood poen   to-tr--huo
use ccii Orma hd....otl  it It toityn-a age  ione pntto     coIre  mmgrsml
7n  a ia.-l  t-yaoppuora  pe..hp   a7hsn  ttiom   ret   it   aco-cybcacn   roro.                                       - amrtrneno ..I os-h-  l-ioattora  toiicrions           11
yen so. t        i--PNle.cspclraled-Cmud eacbtae  ton   geta---dlito                              ant p or-. - as Pcr       .....r t . etodar  tasd namtot - - -     - - -
anly   iOrt  170 se  099  aa.Pui -s97her art                                                                      .. trban.1 co  eshodar -g- Intl.h sta -t eor..led  to
64l peae.  co   ene   175 yers an   mar    as   faresea .1il..14-yea  yapo-                       nore do           oe
aruin; 196h. 1970.ad19drs541   untanrloosh- cermauttnimtnedet nre
pra  yatirlcoforL95-6 13- i.tit.   and.i..-.d
a   Aonti  175-l-              -Chl0,01     -.,- iht-15to  17-6.                           nc-s  Cans loon tnau -mo   doltucddob -b namasog                1, caeom e   mason
yoLarar0160  1970. ca  d_tA   as                                                           ldl  "trar  aniie.lk_                            .t
ru,ltryran    IS5aua6cr 3oe-year aang,ndisiv160t97,'a   ht.eatctonisbtih d .taeasbog.                                                         -f-g,II
ya-dl Bia-o Ra-uiarr.doua -               haA  ar- t-tIt   uaacaer icocphoe                       f tadene-    oe  :.auaa. bigtaumett-; .. -  atat  tonnooacath                t
at hurt -acacno  lautor  olsetnytesc  nt9c80imiopicgh -ooc.                                 geeaipb icpr  hasn   pruatotse  caecaiutsatirctor
aL1arba 7t   0 I  rc  age gro111.                                                       oceito   dtygsrtlarsnnrp&                               etosaeudtaa
scot) nbtareeinf  ta  cemioonnos  s g.  Iote   aIta                                                        .    .:f.
rattonIcrag  y-dce  prcec ighne 1 i9bi-hh bi9ih-=ac1989 tata.                              Iora          - Iteno   Iot. ..rhaetdh .... W ti  ttis persons -            gaicitog
too cartnm     .-   inctyocalcue     3l.w.rtu    trntnert-Cmts  oetedbre   n f                                         cemdo.d Inye- tll     h-Pp- h". s d       rftorhe  eta..
enery autolenr  iiasstoa  eayte   asthi   o  oanr  pa  cpiadoanig   op,,td                                        c  ci~.jddig II l ng.- 0. itria Incnba d o r-    e  ar
yen hay.  hctine    lpyte  opee ia-sr; it pne19nt,   lmp1980 dLess                              atccpe-bsti9t  170ard  96  ds
qoaite   ee  oto  pr       --esog  .o  las,t   ttrbto.h  uis                               gbarre aon)-I,mgn  ton   efrIn  -esy   tsn    n
cte Autibutn   .Ia paylathatII.mo  h-tntg  i  nrontroI            cer  an.ant-mlsurnttta. aheet sea asT pefteaseg   at hotel  -sanforce
Pcsaacidlare    19th-h I. 17   end  977  aneWi... h..a.  1980 9 tints.                                                                9
net oppty  t tod Ype  da,hracpaaIia   soiteccns                          !e-achotyrra   ins p- - ore  am  ora I- sale,and9amal  labor icennam,
9looore  tIigrceo  ti9el protei  pet. d1 a   igse  fcte   n960, 1970,  od 196  dar.   Teeerbsda f.n    aarpna   es
codeareu.nrhn  chss i       cam  dtcu py            ninta .....Li rna peat                  teaer tdaae are  ramPn...sot sopces 
arumal  ronatote aosnrsgna 0 the   ar16, yopassr  by PA  to thbh.-cool  eenet  ah -~lpt harho o   paylete  tade f 10 an. hf and m
-irA  rot Surey; ibi-bO,1970 tn i97  daSe.                                            toyd.!  roe stra   ta-an  Otyc.   .f-I                        1   ......l-
coa fro   r6o mat  mo  puse  ccI.  ploem  pen  day; L96t0-b.17  on  -attaa               10i960   17itf1l0hfblT..b0tb..   .   L'
"gIgou..     4bep --    ncl ohthe   i  ti  age  reat     "to   mas  aniv ingcot dprsn   niaheeg   10proo   paea   0pac   ..cd  paanee-  -0 prcen
-   ad eoerIae   brsh    i.  ete;199hit  coo thS   dm5..                                      i  haaendI
Ah.oLc                                                                                          POSEOTO 790i100,,p. l  t.dSdI
00 cuoho; 1969. 1910 nato 1990 icta.                                               ena should he tahenpretmo5  ni'70  nd  h 7annudmorhiOs Ooson too.
it ige par ciasaa  lice  irfna  1960..  1970  90 and 199i  da   .,                         Abacoeprraiac   eefsie   iaetaiclthocut
ceroo iicaplaria I  toet -rhai -  na rod      S       Oi- ERTY TAGTt.l   aUOSans beplnrethlo-fdcqusmheihn
anu epa(anal ,oo   ad....vi. rson  i  acne lie  rareIttfa.ca...
-rasuiecris ta lag  incto  recanahia acan  of cha  hoc... -n r-re  aralLtcae   Parolaaca a ias ,ahoIo.   nomytooieLos       anaI-oe
OcrasoctorntaOtaInI- cccrh--d          occ               -4lcoa   Ioc-o_o,i_chid tutu   -                                                                               -i
coacto it pcay in lovoel, inner. coc runtll envod ~~~~~~~~~~~~hyancost  inrn-ia  as.  ll-1  
onarois.   ddb h  neoittam poyviar_ o     f  h.cea  auspa.   soni.  Ih. -ie
lot      ..n .......t  Is
foultuo enihstba   -ypussooObbdo  o  Ade oY   yrnis log. .aeo                                                               rneitdSnc    eclnto
iaaqeittofrma..tolecat  ta aten    lare.                                                                                  .0 bae1ri   o   Pom   tos-prmn
Poouccatte  icnsctpersi   - PrIah     t     ads   0nme  i   tOt-inhn1
by ndfmaetrd.Iarose. ceerso   nates  prcialarf.aa
coecgaci itt-iymaIpy,-E.                                                                                                                      dS-iDI



Page 4 Of5
_25 _as~4     
Etfa C MMDpB 'r DATA - 
GNP PER CAPrrA fL 1980 a( - IB$280
GRSS NATINAL PE           IN 1980 a/                       NI-AL RAE OF CFUWJ13 (%, Constant Prices)
LES Million     %               1967-71    1971-79    1980
G' at Market Prices            3,536      100.0               4.4        -1.7     -6.1
Gross Dcestic Investmet          120        3.4               4.0      -13.0      21.9
Gross National Savirs            128       3.6                3.8
CretAcon  Balace            -248       -7 .0
Export of Goods, S               332        9.4               0.4       -10.6    -22.4
Ixmport of Gools, S              572      16.2 -0.1                    -7.5      18.0
VA1IE AD   IN 1980 (At 1966 Prices) b/               E                FiAE
Central Gaverrment
IE$ Million     2                                              (tEh Million)     (% of CDP)
1980/81    1980/81    1971/72
Agriculture                     424        51.7            Current Receipts                     3,096        1.0       13.5
Iniustry                         46        5.6             Current Expenxitore                  9,996        3.1      13.5
Services                        350        42.7            Current Surplus                     -6,900       -2.1        -
Total                         820       100.0            Capital Ex;enditure                  3,400        1.1       86
M4XEY, CR8IT ASD FRICES                    1976    1977      1978       1979      1980       1981 d/
TUSh Miln Outsthanding End PerioJtF
M        Supply                           4,492    5,787    7,051      10,620    13,905    34,600
Bank Credit to Governtnt                 4,790    5,522    7,199       9,198     14,848    29,300
Bark Credit to Other Sectors             1,937    2,885     3,221      3,658      5,849     11,500
1976    1977      1978        1979      1980       1981 d/
(Percentage or Index Numbers)
M2n~ as Z of GEP                          17.0    1M.6       10.1        9.0        5.9         8.5
Gaenral Price Irdex (1966 - 100) ci        601    1,133     1,546      4,894      5,474      10,058
Annal percentage charges in:
General Price Iniex                       46.6    88.5       36.5      216.6       11.9        83.7
Bark Credit to Public Sector              32.9.   15.3       30.4       27.8       61.4        97.3
Baak Credit to Private Sector             14.3    48.9       11.6       13.6       59.9        96.6
, T   Per Capita CZ  estLte is calailated br the sare conversion tecique as the World Bark Arias (adtustirg for the  ver-
valued exchange rate '.ic not for ary urderrecordirg of mgendo" transactions). The CI at current prices in LS doLlars
is derived by :iltiplyirn  d-e per capita figure b population. The gross investment rate is assLmal to be the san as in
the Uga-xa'l shillirg estinates. Given the balane of paymets data frm page 2, gross national saving is derived as a
residual.
bl Up-to-date figures on employrr  and productivity are unavailable.
c/ Knpala l-inca cost of living index. Indices prior to 1979 may be understated as mxms controlled prices wre used in
the calculation of t.e irdices. Indices for 1980 and 1981 are in=plete as cost-of-livirg data wre not collected frm
October 1980 to July 1981. In pnrticular, the increase in the index for 1980 is grossly understated, especially for the
foodcoont.
d/ Estimates.
mnt applicable
ot availa l



BCONCMIC DEVELDP!ENT DATA - UANnA,
BALANE OF PAYM2?IS                                                                    NERCHANDISE EXPORIS (Average 1978-81)
US$ Million % d/
1978      1979      1980      1981 a!
(US$ Million)                   Coffee                            329       95.4
Cotton                              9       2.5
Exports of Goods, NES                      332        412       332       240         Tea                                  3       0.8
Imports of Goods, NPS                     -458       -391      -572      -490         Tobacco                              1       0.3
Resource Gap (deficit - -)                -126         21      -240      -250         Other Exports                        3       1.0
Factor Services and Transfers (net) b/     -12        -25        -8         -           Sub-'Total                      345      100.0
Balance on Current Account                -138        -4       -248      -250         Adjustments e/                    -30       -8.6
Total                           315      91.4
Official Grants                              9        24         85       110
Public M&LT Lcans (net)                     38        104        84        10         EXIERNAL rEET, DECEMDR 31, 1980
Disbursements                            (66)      (145)     (131)     (120)                                              US$ Million
Amortization                            (-28)      (-41)     (-47)    (-110)
Use of Fund Credit (net)                    -2         -4        26       125
Other Items n.e.i. (net)                    50       -182      -123        96         Public Debt, incl. Giaranteed              612 f/
Overall Balance of Payments                -43       -62       -176        91         Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                 ..
Total Outstanding and Disbursed          612
Net Reserves (end year)                     72         17       -24       -24         NET DEBr SEKYICE RATIO FUR 1980
Payment Arrears (end year)                  94        100       235       144                                                       %
Petroleum Imports c/                        43         63       124       114         Public Debt, incl. Guaranteod                17.7
Petroleum Exports c/                         -          -         -         -         Non-CGuaranteed Private Debt
Total Outstandlng and Disbursed            17.7
RATE OF E    X                                                                        IflRD/IDA 1)I1  (Dec. 31, 1981) (1U$ Million)
IBUD f/   IDA
Annual Averages        End Period
1979    1980  Jan.-Sept.1981   Oct.1981            Outstandirg and Disbu-rsed          25        58
US$1.00 -tEh                      7.4686  7.4242      39.8020        78.700           Undisbursed                           1        58  
UShl.00 - U;$                     0.1339  0.1347       0.0251         0.0127          Outstanding, incl. Undisbursed      26        116
a/ Estimates.                                                                                                                               
b/ Excludes official grants.
c/ Uganda imports al petrolmn In the fonm of products and has no petrolen exports.
d/ % of unadjusted merchandise exports.
e/ Irnludes errors ad ctnissions, and adjustments for valuation, cover<e and timing.
f/ Includes Uganda's notional share (15%) of EAN loans.
Debt service payments (amortization ard interest) as a percentage of exports of goods and NWS.
..not avai-lable.                                                  ..... March 31, 1982



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN UGANDA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS IN UGANDA
AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year   Borrower   Purpose                  Bank     IDA   Undisbursed
One loan and seven credits fully disbursed          8.40    48.031/
983-UG   1980    Uganda    First Reconstruction
Program                      72.502/    24.86
1077-UG  1981    Uganda    Technical Assistance              8.00        7.68
1110-UG  1981    Uganda    Water Supply
Engineerinig                  9.00        7.48
1228-UG  1982    Uganda    Phosphate
Engineering                   4.00        4.00
1248-UG  1982    Uganda    Industrial
Rehabilitation               35.00       35.00
1252-UG  1982    Uganda    Second Recon-
struction Program            70.00       70.00
Total                                     8.40   246.53       149.02
of which has been repaid                8.40     6.73
Total now outstanding                     0.00   239.80
Amount sold:                      8.32
of which has been repaid        8.32
Total now held by Bank and IDA            0.00    239.80
Total undisbursed                         0.00    149.02    149.02
1/Includes exchange adjustment.
2/Includes participation of US$17.5 million from the Kingdom of the
Netherlands. In addition, an EEC Special Action Credit of $20.0 million
and a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 millior (approximately $2.6 million
equivalent) has been made available toward the reconstruction program.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENT AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
Nil
C. SUMMARY STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS FOR COMMON SERVICES INVOLVING
KENYA, TANZANIA AND UGANDA AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
(US$ million)
Amount less cancellation
No.      Year  Borrower    Purpose                  Bank 3/        Undisbursed
Six loans fully disbursed                           135.80
638-EA   1969    EAHC        Second Harbours         35.00             0.52
865-EA   1972    EAHC        Third Harbours          26.50             0.35
914-EA   1973    EAPTC       Third Telecommuni-
cations             32.50              0.28
1204-EA  1976    EADB        Second Development
Finance             15.00              1.30
Total                                   244.80             2.45
of which has been repaid               78.19
Total now outstanding                   166.61
Amount sold                    24.36
of which has been repaid   24.36        0.00
Total now held by Bank                  166.61
Total undisbursed                         2.45             2.45
3/ Net of exchange adjustments.



- 29 -
ANNEX I1
Page 3 of 5
UGANDA
D. STATUc OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF SEPTEMBER 30, 1982
There are currently six projects under execution:
Credit No. 983-UG - Reconstruction Program I: US$72.5 million
Credit of April 2, 1980; Effective Date: May 1, 1980;Closing
Date: December 31, 1982
Along w:Lth the IDA credit, which includes US$17.5 million
participation from the Government of the Netherlands, a US$20.0 million EEC
Special Action Credit, a Canadian Grant of Can$3.0 million and a loan of
US$5.0 million from the OPEC Fund have been made available to the
Government in support of its reconstruction program. The IDA credit was to
be released in two tranches. Changes in the Government and delays in
carrying out agreed financial and economic policy reforms caused delays in
the use of the credit. In June 1981, after the Government adopted policy
measures the Association required, it was agreed that the total amount of
the credit would be released. The closing date was postponed twice, the
second time to December 31, 1982 to allow for full disbursement of the
proceeds of the credits and the grant. The credit is now fully committed
and about US$66 million have been disbursed.
Credit No. 1077-UG - Technical Assistance Project:  US$8.0
million Credit of January 21, 1981; Effective Date: March 26,
1981; Closing Date: December 31, 1985
There has been continued progress in the implementation of this
line of credit. The first sub-projects have been completed and
disbursements have commenced. Several large sub-projects are under
consideration and it is likely that the credit will be fully committed
before the end of FY83.
Credit No. 1110-UG - Water Supply Engineering Project: US$9.0
million Credit of May 7, 1981; Effective Date: October 5, 1981;
Closing Date: January 31, 1985
A manpower and training study, and the feasibility studies on
expansion of water supply and sanitation activities in the seven towns were
completed in mid 1982. However, modifications have to be made to the
feasibility reports to correspond to the probable availability of funds.
The construction of six staff houses and procurement for the supply of
vehicles, water meters and equipment ere in progress. The Project



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Coordination Unit (PCU) was established and efforts are under way to fill
two vacancies and to find a replacement for the late project coordinator.
Credit No. 1252-UG - Reconstruction Program II: US$70.0 million
Credit of June 14, 1982; Effective Date: July 28, 1982; Closing
Date: December 31, 1983
The Government has allocated the total amount to potential
end-users. The process of importation is thus about to start. The
progress continues in the programs for institutional strengthening
supported by the credit; an agricultural secretariat and external debt
management offices are being established at the Central Bank, while
programs for strengthening the Ministries of Finance and Planning and
Economic Development are being reviewed by the Association. Technical
assistance for the parastatal accounting study and the Central Tender Board
is being negotiated.
Credit No. 1228-UG - Phosphate Engineering Project: US$40.0
million Credit of June 14, 1982; Effective Date: September 2,
1982; Closing Date: October 31, 1985
The progress of the project is satisfactory during the ongoing
first phase, expected to be concluded by mid November 1982. Disbursements
are substantially on schedule. A project team of three members is working
full time on the project. The quality of the consultants, Bearden-Potter
and SEMA, is highly satisfactory. All covenants under the agreements are
being complied with, except for the reporting requirements: monthly reports
are not regularly submitted.
Credit No. 1248-UG - Industrial Rehabilitation Project: US$35.0
million Credit of June 29, 1982; Effective Date: September 15,
1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1989
Appraisal of subprojects for rehabilitation is getting started
and initial commitments under this credit are expected by February 1983.
E. EAST AFRICAN COMMUNITY PROJECTS INVOLVING UGANDA
In. addition to the projects described above, Uganda also benefits
from lending to the East African Community. Following the disintegration
of the East African Community, the allocation among the Partner States
(Kenya, Tanzania and Uganda) of the undisbursed balance of loans to the
East African Community Corporations at October 1, 1977 was approved by the
Executive Directors on January 12, 1978 on the basis of recommendations



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
made in a report dated December 29, 1977 (R77-312). Agreements in line
with those recommendations were subsequently signed by each of the Partner
States on January 25, 1978. A portion of the undisbursed balances under
two loans (Loan 674-EA - East African RaiLways Corporation (now fully
disbursed), and Loan 914-EA - East African Posts and Telecommunications
Corporation) was allocated to Uganda. Although the closing date for Loan
914-EA has expired, since the amount allocated to and guaranteed by each
f             Partner State is clearly defined under the terms of the agreement of
January 25, 1978, disbursements continued to be made. Industrial projects
in Uganda are also eligible for financing under the ongoing East African
Development Bank Project (Loan 1204-EA).
Loan No. 1204-EA - East African Development Bank: US$15.0
million Loan of March 1, 1976; Effective Date: June 7, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The loan is fully committed and about US$13.7 million has been
disbursed to date. The closing date has been postponed a third time to
June 30, 1983 to allow for completion of the project.



- 32 -
ANNEX III
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I., Timetable of Key Events
(a) First presentation to the Association
and first mission (UNESCO)                  September 1981
(b)  Appraisal mission:                          May 1982
(c)  Completion of negotiations:                 January 1983
(d)  Planned date of effectiveness:              July 1983
II. Special IDA Implementation Action
None
III.  Special Conditions
(a)       Agreement with the Government on the criteria to be used in
the distribution of material and equipment (paragraph 45);
(b)       Establishment of one or more advisory committees to monitor
the carrying out of special studies (paragraph 56); and
(c)       Agreement with the Government regarding maintenance: (i) in
MOE: development of a plan for the maintenance of
educational institutions (paragraph 51); and (ii) at
Makerere University: provision of inputs required to allow
the University to resume and continue maintenance of its
structures (paragraph 49).
A condition of effectiveness: appointment of a Project Director to
head the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) to be established in the MOE
(paragraph 59).



UGANDA                                                       -       .           A   033                                                     /      --'3
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                                        . -                                / '"3-N)                                   I
^                                                                                                -    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~          ~            ~~Mare pReas roads  'j    _                                                                     MzfX  333,0i 5ey.V 
Olde main roada                                      w--         '3oA                       1     N3
OL- k s 'ri a s r   i saj =or a a                         ',                                        1       .                   \
M asrersraasirport                                                                                                 ,
tPf~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3 3  moor s                                                                       0                           " 33                .33                                        ,1, }. !,                                                              (          \ f  
rswampssaonnasa/                                                                                               .          -       -    -("'3
Spar iaaarisns is mnlraisr ,s lasW3
NCla l   p erk s   G   aer .rea!.aa. .f                                                                                 .                                                                        '     '
W aased  apitalp                              {----    -                                                                                                                                      0'      A
i\tE +   < qZ  A f   I ,  6A4UA E  p
-   -   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, K                                             33303
,/                                      Nz/0 8   R7W A                                                                                                       r             jr A / 3; /jt 4 z MU A_ AI N
_ I3A



