Document of
The World Bank 
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4113-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
REHABILITATION OF THE EDUCATION SECTOR
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
January 25, 1983
Education Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                 =  Uganda Shilling (U.Sh.)
US$1.00                       =  USh. 100 (First Window)
US$1.00                       =  USh. 250.0 (Second Window)
USh. 1.00                     =  US$ 0.01 (First Window)
USh. 1.00                     =  US$ 0.004 (Second Window)
SDR 1.00                      =  US$ 1.1031
US$ 1.00                      =  SDR 0.9065
On August 23, 1982, the Government introduced a dual exchange
rate coupled with a 5% devaluation of the official (First Window) exchange
rate. The exchange rate in the Second Window is market determined through
weekly auction and subject to fluctuations; it has steadily fallen from
USh. 300 to the Dollar in August 1982 to USh. 250 to the Dollar in
mid-November 1982. Conversions in the Staff Appraisal and President's
Report have been made at the First Window rate, which is applicable to all
external assistance projects.
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
DEO    -  District Education Office
MOE    -  Ministry of Education
NTC    -  National Teachers College (secondary)
PLE    -  Primary Leaving Examination
PIU    -  Project Implementation Unit
TTC    -  Teacher Training College (primary)
UCC    -  Uganda College of Commerce
UTC    -  Uganda Technical College
Republic of Uganda
Fiscal Year
July 1 - June 30



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC DATA
GENERAL
Area                                                236,000 sq. Km.
Population (1980)                                   12.6 million
Population Density (1980)                           53.5 per sq. Km.
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)                        44.7
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)                        13.7
GNP per Capita (1980)                               US$300
EDUCATION (1980)
Adult Literacy Rate                                    48%
PRIMARY EDUCATION (GRADES Pl-P7)
Enrollment (Government-aided schools)          1,292,400
As percent of age group of 6-12 years                  53.8%
Percent of enrollment which is female                 43.2%
LOWER SECONDARY EDUCATION (GRADES SI-S4 OR EQUIVALENT)
Enrollment (Government-aided schools):
General Secondary                               66,200
Teacher Training                                 6,000
Technical Schools                                2,300
Total                                           74,500
As percent of age group of 13-16 years                  6.6%
Percent of enrollment which is female                 30.4%
UPPER SECONDARY EDUCATION (GRADES S5-S6 OR equivalent)
Enrollment (Government-aided schools):
General Secondary                                6,900
Teacher Training                                 1,200
Technical Institutes                             1,100
Total                                            9,200
As percent of age group of-17-18 years                  1.8%
Percent of enrollment which is female                 20.2%
POST-SECONDARY EDUCATION
Enrollment:  University                            4,050
Specialized Institutions             1,550
Total                                5,600
As percent of age group of 19-22 years                  0.6%
Percent of enrollment which is female                 22.6%
EDUCATION EXPENDITURE
Ministry of Education expenditure
as percentage of total expenditure
of the Central Government (provisional
estimate 1979/80):
Recurrent                                           17.4%
Development                                         11.0%
Total                                               l6 .17
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
I.    SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Socio-Economic Background           .....................1.............. 
Recent Developments and Prospects  ...........................    1
II.  THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Summary ....................................................    2
Prevailing Conditions and Policies  ....               ......................    3
Description of the Education System ......              ...................   5
Direct Inputs to Education    ..................................                9
Managerial Inputs          ...........................................   10
Bank Group Involvement in Education and Training ..... .......  12
III. THE PROJECT
Objectives  ..................................................   14
Project Preparation .............................................   15
Project Components
Primary Education  ..........................................   15
General Secondary Education .              ...............................  16
Primary Teacher Training Colleges  ......            ...................  17
Specialized Institutions            .............................. *...  17
Makerere University            .......................................  18
District Education Offices               ................................  19
Supply and Delivery            .......................................   19
Special Studies  ....... ....................................  20
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost  ................................................  22
Financial Plan  . .............................................  24
This report is based on the findings of a mission which visited Uganda in
April-May 1982 and included Messrs. R. Welter (Architect/Mission Leader)
and R. Durstine (General Educator) and Ms. J. Vial (Economist), all Bank
Group staff members.



V.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation        .........................................................  25
Procurement ...............................-.........    . ......   . ........... .   27
Disbursement.-    ............................. .................** *   ........  28
Auditing     ............................. .................................  29
Status of Preparation ..............             ........... O...........................  29
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits .................. ............ ...................................  29
Risks ...............................................................  30
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED ........... ..... ...       .............   .... ...........  30
ANNiEXES
ANNEX I -  Education Tables and Charts
Table 1.01  Comparative Education Indicators  - .......................  32
Table 1.02  Enrollment in Government-Aided Primary Schools, 1974-1980 .  34
Table 1.03  Internal Efficiency of Primary Education .... ........ *....  35
Table 1.04  Enrollment in Government-Aided General Secondary Schools ..  36
Table 1.05  Enrollment in Makerere University and Other Post-Secondary
Institutions .......................................... o ........... .o.......  37
Table 1.06  Enrollment in Teacher Training Institutions and Courses ...  38
Table 1.07  Technical Education Under the Ministry of Education .......    39
Table 1.08  Teaching Staff in Educational Institutions    ................  40
Table 1.09  Central Government Expenditure in Education ....   ...........  41
Table 1.10  Education Costs and Finance - Selected Data ........   *......   42
Chart 1      Structure of Formal Education .         .......................  43
Chart 2      Organization of the Ministry of Education, 1981 .....  44
Chart 3      Education Enrollment Pyramid, 1980 .....          ...................    45
ANNEX II - Project Tables
Table 2.01  Estimated Project Cost by Component ......   .         .................  46
Table 2.02  Estimated Project Cost by Category of Expenditure .........  47
Table 2.03  Implementation Schedule                ..................................  48
Table 2.04  Schedule of Disbursements .................................  49
ANNEX III - SUMMARY OF PROJECT RELATED SURVEYS AND STUDIES ............ . ....  50
ANNEX IV  - SUPPLY AND DELIVERY SYSTEM .....................................  52
ANNEX  V  - SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE ..... o  54
IIAP IBRD No. 16690



UGANDA
APPRAISAL OF A THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
I. SOCIO-ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
Socio-Economic Background
1.01        Uganda, located on the northern and western shores of Lake
Victoria, has an area of 236,000 sq. km. and a population estimated at 12.6
million in 1980. At independence in 1962, in terms of development
prospects, the country was one of the most promising in Eastern Africa. It
combined rich natural resources, notably abundant fertile land and
hydro-electric potential, with well developed means of transportation and
communication, a small but skilled core of trained manpower, and a well-
developed education system.
1.02        The country did well during its first decade of independence.
However, after the early 1970s the situation deteriorated steadily. This
was caused by policies introduced by the military regime, which remained in
power from 1971 through 1979, and was exacerbated by external shocks, such
as the rise in petroleum prices and the tensions which led to the breakup
of the East African Community.   It culminated in devastation, triggered by
the 1978-79 war and subsequent looting.
1.03        During the years of military rule, value added in all sectors,
except subsistence agriculture, declined sharply, with the result that
overall GDP stagnated and per capita real income declined steadily. Main
contributors to the erosion of productive capacity have been two not
necessarily independent elements: (a) the lack of maintenance of existing
infrastructure and productive assets; and (b) the loss of experienced
administrators, managers, entrepreneurs, accountants, teachers and traders
who left the country in the first half of the 1970s, and also the loss of
an important share of the urban workforce who felt compelled to revert to
subsistence agriculture.
1.04        Amidst this rapidly deteriorating situation and although
subject to the same constraints as the rest of the economy, the education
sector continued to expand, but to a great extent at the expense of the
quality of education (para. 2.05).
Recent Developments and Prospects
1.05        By April 1979, when the military regime was overthrown, the
Ugandan economy was in a shambles. A rapid recovery could not materialize,
mainly because political disorder continued -- four changes in Government
leadership took place within 20 months -- and critical shortages of foreign
exchange remained. It was not until mid-1981 that the elected



- 2 -
Government was able to put forward a package of policy reforms intended to
stabilize the economy, restore some measure of confidence, improve fiscal
and monetary discipline, and eventually create the conditions for economic
recovery. Although this program is an important step in the right
direction, much remains to be done. Of pressing urgency is the
strengthening of the institutional structure for economic management and
decision making.
1.06        An indication of the Government's commitment to revive the
economy in a reasonable period of time is the comprehensive recovery
program submitted to the May 1982 Consultative Group meeting in Paris.
This two-year program includes specific proposals for further policy and
institutional reforms and a realistic minimum investment plan, giving
priority to rehabilitation and to improved utilization of existing
capacity.
1.07         The success in speeding up recovery will depend very strongly
on the Government's capacity to implement its recovery programs. This
would require: (a) rapid improvement in tax administration and expenditure
control; (b) obtaining substantial external resources; (c) resolving the
problem of the lack of skilled manpower through a program which would
include some temporary expatriate hiring for the short run, and
simultaneous selective training of nationals to replace these expatriates
in the medium term; and (d) a marked improvement of security conditions
prevailing in the country, which if not attained may seriously impair,
among other things, the much needed inflow of external resources.
II. THE EDUCATION SECTOR
Summary
2.01        The education system of Uganda, though once smoothly
functioning and well-organized, has shared with the rest of the Ugandan
economy the ravaging effects of a decade of economic decay and political
instability. Even so, the collapse characteristic of most parts of the
economy is less evident in the education sector. Despite continuing and
severe problems, the Ugandan education system remains a viable operation,
with an administrative structure established prior to the military regime,
functioning regional offices and school inspectorate (para. 2.27), and a
centralized examination system (para. 2.10). Though also subject to the
adverse conditions, enrollments in and expenditures on education have grown
substantially since 1970. This reflects the high priority attached to
education by the public, and its perceived economic and social returns even
under the present circumstances. Continuing quantitative expansion has,
however, been possible only at the expense of quality at all levels of the
education system. The pressures of increased enrollments, combined with
years of extreme neglect to the physical inputs needed for the educational
process, have resulted in conditions of deprivation and decay in all parts
of the system. In particular, negative effects have been suffered from: a
general lack of maintenance; the departure of expatriate secondary school
teachers, particularly in mathematics and science; a deterioration in



- 3 -
teacher morale and productivity resulting from declining real incomes,
harassment, and better employment opportunities elsewhere; and the loss or
damage of school facilities, equipment and supplies.  Substantial
rehabilitation is now urgently required if earlier educational standards
are to be regained. The immediate requirement is for physical renewal and
the provision of minimal supplies and equipment needed to begin restoration
of the effectiveness of the existing facilities. At the same time, studies
and other steps are called for to prepare for the longer-term tasks of
returning to full efficiency and quality the educational inputs, the
management services and the financial base upon which the effective
operation of the education system will ultimately depend.
Prevailing Conditions and Policies
2.02         Social Demand.  The continued strong social demand for
education is best illustrated by the rapid growth in enrollments at all
levels over the past decade. In the period from 1969 to 1979, primary
level enrollments virtually doubled. This increase required the
construction and furnishing of some 2,300 new primary schools, an average
of 230 per year. The capital cost of these new facilities was borne wholly
by private individuals, parent groups or other non-government sources, a
reflection of the value attributed to basic education by the general
public. This traditional means of school construction in Uganda generally
yields buildings which are not up to needed standards. Similarly, in the
same period, secondary level enrollments more than doubled. Though much of
the cost of this expansion was financed by the Government, some 45
secondary schools were established, equipped and staffed at private
expense. Similar rates of expansion characterized enrollments in teacher
training, Makerere University and other post-secondary educational
institutions.
2.03        Economic Returns.  Though reliable data are lacking, there is
clear indication that the economic returns to education in Uganda continue
to be high. Studies of the rural economy have found primary education to
be a strong determinant of productivity and adaptability in village
enterprises. The estimated rate of return to secondary education in the
1960s was about 29 percent, comparable to that elsewhere in Eastern
Africa. More recent information is unavailable, but it is reasonable to
believe that these rates still pertain, and private investment in secondary
education continues unabated. With the exodus of many entrepreneurs, along
with highly-trained and middle-level manpower, employment for secondary
school leavers has remained competitive despite the weakness of the
economy. In addition, past academic performance has proved a powerful
predictor of occupational attainment. This arises in part from the weight
given to educational qualifications as a formal requirement for labor
market entry. As a result, the demand for schooling does not vary greatly
according to economic status.  The education system is generally seen as a
fair and impartial route to economic gain, so that individuals are willing
to bear the considerable private costs required for the provision of basic
education to their children.



- 4 -
2.04         Existing Condition of Educational Facilities.  Despite
continued growth of the education system, the economic and political
problems of the past decade have taken their toll. Educational facilities
suffer from extreme physical decay and are frequently lacking in
the supply of electricity and other services. Equipment of all types is
often inoperable because of neglect and the unavailability of spare parts.
Books and consumable supplies are at a totally inadequate level. These
conditions were exacerbated in those areas affected by the war of 1978-79
and subsequent looting, but a sample survey of school buildings and
facilities has shown the severity of need to be generally distributed
throughout the country, the majority of schools having lacked repairs and
maintenance for 12 years, with very little adequate furniture remaining.
The once-proud Makerere University suffers from leaking roofs,
nonfunctional sanitary facilities and kitchens, and poor physical
security. Secondary schools, in particular the laboratories and shops,
operate at much reduced levels because of shortages of materials, spare
parts, running water and gas. Primary schools function with virtually no
textbooks, leaking roofs, furniture that is deficient or completely
lacking, and the barest minimum of chalk, paper and writing implements.
Throughout the system, emergency conditions prevail, calling for urgent
rehabilitation.
2.05        The Quality of Education.  Not surprisingly, expansion of the
education sector in the 1970s in the face of generally difficult conditions
was at the expense of educational quality. A limited informal survey,
carried out in a small number of schools, indicates that the level of
science knowledge in the final grade of primary school is today among the
lowest in the world. Further, Ugandan performance in reading and sentence
comprehension is at or below the average for other similar less developed
countries, and substantially below the averages for developed countries.
On the other hand, there has been surprisingly little decline over the past
decade in the level of mathematics achievement attained by primary school
students. This probably reflects the relatively lower dependence upon
textbooks in mathematics, as compared with science, language and other
subjects.
2.06        Despite the resourcefulness of many teachers and headmasters in
maintaining standards in the face of difficult conditions, it will be
impossible to improve educational quality without first increasing the
supply of essential instructional materials and supplies. Many primary
schools have no textbooks and there are far fewer chairs than pupils. The
norm is for students to spend long hours sitting on a barren floor, copying
and memorizing a lesson which the teacher has presented on the chalk board
from a single out-dated textbook, itself often borrowed from a neighboring
school, In addition, many students must share pencils and note paper. The
deleterious qualitative effects of these conditions of scarcity are passed
upwards through the system. In 1980, 49 percent of those who sat for their
"O-level" examinations either failed or received the lowest possible pass.



2.07         Government Policies for Education.  The Government's policy for
arresting further decay, and subsequently for re-initiating the positive
development of the education system, is divided into two phases. The first
is an urgent program for general rehabilitation and for assurance of
minimally adequate conditions of instruction. This is to be followed, at a
later stage, by renewed efforts toward improved curricula, teacher training
and additional emphasis on technical and agricultural studies. These
latter developments will be a subject for study and integration into a
comprehensive long-term sectoral plan. Meanwhile, the need for immediate
physical rehabilitation looms large. The Government seeks to meet these
requirements through the following activities: reconstruction, repair,
re-furnishing, re-equipping and re-stocking with textbooks and other
instructional materials the schools looted or otherwise damaged during the
recent war; similar renewal activities, as needed, to restore and to
inhibit the further deterioration of schools which have been neglected over
the past decade; reactivation of overseas training programs which were
begun before 1970, but which were later paralyzed for lack of foreign
exchange; rehabilitation of Makerere University; and improvement of
infrastructure and support services for the education sector. In the
longer term, the Government seeks to establish free primary education, at
least for the first four grades, and to consolidate its policy of
compulsory agricultural and technical classes in all secondary schools, in
the context of reforms to be considered by a proposed education policy
review commission (para. 2.28).
Description of the Education System
2.08        The structure of formal education has four stages (Chart 1 of
Annex I). The first level consists of seven years of primary education,
with current enrollments at about half the corresponding age group. (Some
20 percent of those enrolled in primary schools are overaged, however.) Of
those who complete primary school, about a quarter enter secondary school
for the initial four year course up to "0-level", a technical school for a
three year course, or a four-year teacher training college. Following
passage of the "O-level" examinations, about 40 percent continue into the
two-year advanced "A-Level" course, a Grade III teacher training college
(para. 2.14) for two years, a technical institute (para. 2.20), or one of
various training programs sponsored by a government department. Those who
complete the "A-level" course may continue to Makerere University (para.
2.13) or perhaps study abroad. Other options for post-secondary education,
with varying levels of entry according to the course, are the Uganda
Technical College, the National Teachers' College and the Uganda College of
Commerce (paras. 2.16 through 2.18 and 2.21). Table 1.01 of Annex I
provides comparative education indicators. Charts 2 and 3 of Annex I
provide information on the organization of the Ministry of Education and
the educational enrollment pyramid, respectively.
2.09        Primary Education.  In 1980, 1,292,377 students (54 percent of
the 6 thrQugh 12 year age group) were recorded by the Planning and
Statistics Office of the Ministry of Education (MOE) as enrolled in
Government-aided primary education 1/.  Of these, 558,495 (43 percent)



- 6 -
were girls.  Details may be found in Table 1.02 of Annex I.  This
enrollment was accommodated in 4,276 schools and served by 38,422 teachers,
30 percent of them female.  The gross student to teaching staff ratio was
therefore about 34, though actual class size is variable and with a
somewhat higher average. The 1980 primary level enrollment represents a
doubling of the 1969 enrollment of 632,162 for an annual average rate of
growth in enrollment of 6.7 percent. In addition, there were approximately
80,000 students enrolled in some 800 private primary schools in 1980.
2.10        Rough estimates of primary school throughput are given in Table
1.03 of Annex I. Of those enrolled in grade 1, a high percentage are
consistently found in grade 7 six years later. These data reflect a very
low net rate of wastage, and a throughput markedly higher for boys than for
girls. A very high rate of repetition in the final two primary grades is
indicated as well, especially in the case of boys, a reflection of student
efforts to improve performance on the primary school leaving examination
(PLE). This examination is of crucial importance to the availability of
future academic opportunity. The PLE is uniform throughout the country,
carefully controlled, and centrally graded. The fact that it has been
administered each year, on schedule and without major problems, is an
indication both of the administrative capabilities of the MOE and of the
importance ascribed to the successful completion of primary education.
2.11       Secondary General Education.  The total enrollment recorded in
government-aided general secondary schools for 1980 was 73,092 (4.5 percent
of the 13 through 18 year age group), of which 21,098 or 29 percent were
girls (Table 1.04 of Annex I). Of this total enrollment, about 6,900 (21
percent being female) were in the final two years of the six year cycle,
the pre-university "A-level" course which is available in only some of the
secondary schools.  Of 11,293 who enrolled in the first year of government
aided secondary schools in 1975, 3,320 or 29.4 percent reached the final
year in 1980, largely because of a rigorous selection process between the
lower and upper secondary cycles. The flow through the first four years
(to "O-level") appears to include virtually all of the students who enter
the first grade of the secondary level. The enrollment figures cited here,
furthermore, do not include those in private schools, which stood at 21,992
in 1979. Though enrollments in government-aided secondary schools
increased by an average of 7.9 percent annually from 1969 to 1980, those in
private schools have been dropping in recent years (a total of 15 percent
since 1975), owing largely to the conversion of private schools to
government-aided status. By 1982, this process had raised the number of
government-aided secondary schools to 177, of which 103 had converted from
private status during the previous five years. The total enrollment in
secondary schools may by now in fact be as much as 100,000, according to
the MOE. Such an expansion would also reflect the spontaneous creation of
lower secondary schools by local groups, in response to grassroots
pressures. These new schools tend to be small, poorly equipped and
staffed, and comprise at most studies up to "O-level".  Such rapid
expansion under the present circumstances appears questionable,



- 7 -
particularly because the MOE is obliged to supply teachers to the newly
established schools. This is a matter which will require careful attention
in future planning for development of the Ugandan education system at the
secondary level, and should provide a focus for future sector work.
2.12         The quality of instruction provided in the secondary schools is
quite variable. Extensive data on success of students in the "O-level" and
"A-level" examinations are not available (para. 2.06), but it is clear that
a very high pecentage of those who enter pursue their studies throughout
the full course, an indication of the high level of motivation of those few
students who have succeeded in proceeding that far through the
education system. The physical conditions under which their studies take
place are deficient. As in all other parts of the system, a systematic
program to rehabilitate and upgrade the physical conditions of instruction
is much needed. This is beyond the scope of the present project, but may
prove suitable for future Bank Group lending.
2.13         University.  Makerere University, the first university to be
established in Eastern Africa, was for many years recognized throughout the
world for the quality of its staff and teaching programs. Today, together
with the other parts of the Ugandan education system, it is characterized
by increased enrollments and deteriorated physical conditions. The
expansion of enrollment, from 1,832 in 1969 to 4,045 in 1980 (Table 1.05 of
Annex I), has been achieved mainly through overcrowding of the existing
facilities. The physical condition of the University has suffered from
neglect over the past dozen years. Library books and other valuable
properties have suffered from water damage and pilferage. Student living
quarters have fallen into decay. The instructional staff available for
duty is well below the required level, because salary levels and other
conditions are insufficient to attract the necessary number of qualified
individuals. The university thus shares with other parts of the education
system the need for urgent action to restore it to full and effective
operational capability. Limited rehabilitation of halls of residence
falls under the present project (para. 3.16), and other aspects of the
University's needs may be appropriate for future Bank Group lending.
2.14         Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs).  Teachers for the primary
schools are trained at two levels: a four-year course following primary
education (Grade II TTCs) and a two-year course following the four-year
lower secondary course (Grade III TTCs). In 1980, there were 23 grade II
TTCs and 4 grade III TTCs, as well as 4 TTCs for in-service training.
Levels of enrollment at these institutions are summarized in Table 1.06 of
Annex I. By 1982, a total of 33 TTCs were in service.
2.15        Graduates of TTCs are assured of a teaching post, and virtually
all initially accept that employment, though an unknown number later leave
to enter other jobs or to migrate. The employment security of the teaching
profession causes many highly qualified graduates of primary school,
especially in recent times, to proceed to a TTC rather than to a general
secondary school.



- 8 -
2.16         Training for secondary school teachers is offered by the
National Teachers College (NTC) in two and three year courses. A total of
373 students were enrolled in the 1979/80 academic year, 24 percent of whom
were female. In addition, the University offers pedagogical training in
conjunction with its undergraduate courses. Enrollment in such courses in
the 1980/81 academic year was 621 (27 percent female).
2.17         Other Post-Secondary Education.  In addition to post-secondary
level courses at the University and the NTC, advanced level instruction is
available at the Uganda Technical College (UTC) and the Uganda College of
Commerce (UCC). The 1979/80 enrollment at the UTC was 578, with 6 percent
females. There are courses in engineering, science, mathematics,
industrial ceramics and technical teacher training (para. 2.21),
2.18        At the UCC, enrollments totaled 597 (53% female) in the fields
of marketing, professional studies, secretarial studies and hotel and
institutional catering.
2.19         Technical Education.  Technical education at levels below
post-secondary is provided at ten technical schools and four technical
institutes under the MOE. Enrollments are summarized in Table 1.07 of
Annex I. The technical schools (1980 enrollment of 2,294, with 11 percent
female) offer three year courses at the post-primary level, in masonry,
carpentry, electrical installation, plumbing, metal work and motor vehicle
maintenance, pottery, tanning and shoemaking, and tropical agriculture.
The effectiveness of the technical schools is reduced at present by a lack
of supplies needed for practical studies. The utility of these courses as
a practical educational alternative leading to the production of graduates
with readily marketable skills has, in any event, not been well
established. The proper role of secondary-level technical education within
an education system oriented toward national development requires careful
determination as part of comprehensive planning for that system. Within
this exercise, the question of the degree to which public funds should be
spent on technical skill training will need to be addressed (para. 3.24).
2.20        The technical institutes offer a two-year course at the upper
secondary level, plus a third year advanced course for a small number of
students. Enrollments in 1980 totalled 1,147, of which only 10 were
females.
2.21        Training for teachers of vocational and technical subjects is
provided through a two-year course at the NTC and by a one-year course at
the UTC. Enrollments in these courses were 32 and 49 respectively in
1979/80.
2,22        Nonformal Education.  Other opportunities for technical
training, particularly on a nonformal basis, exist under the sponsorship of
various organizations. The Ministry of Labor has three vocational training
centers, and a fourth is to open soon. These provide apprenticeship and
upgrading courses. The Ministry of Agriculture operates 18 district farm
institutes and the Ministry of Community Development 15 rural training
centers. Additional vocational courses are sponsored by the Ministry of



- 9 -
Cooperatives and Marketing and the Ministry of Animal Industry and
Fisheries.  Outside of the Government, the YWCA also offers practical
training courses.
2.23        Departmental Training.  Pre- and in-service training is
conducted by a number of Government ministries in fields such as
agriculture, health, community development, cooperatives, commerce,
industry, public services, labor and internal affairs. The main objective
of such programs, at present being carried out in at least 23 institutions,
is to satisfy the technical manpower requirements of the respective
agencies served.
Direct Inputs to Education
2.24         The existing conditions under which education takes place in
Uganda have been described above in paragraphs 2.04 through 2.06.
Virtually without exception, the availability and quality of educational
facilities, equipment, books and materials are deficient. In the case of
other direct inputs to the educational process, the situation is similar.
Staffing constraints, in terms of numbers, qualifications and motivations,
have also played a role in the decline of educational quality. One cause
has been the departure of expatriates, which left critical gaps in
secondary school teaching, especially of mathematics and science. In
addition, prevailing conditions of political and economic uncertainty have
had a negative impact on teacher morale and productivity. Though the
number of teacher training candidates continued to rise in the 1970s, the
proportion of untrained primary school teachers increased from 14 percent
in 1971 to 35 percent in 1981. The critical constraint on primary
education is now the shortage of places in teacher training institutions,
which makes necessary the use of these unlicensed teachers. Statistics
regarding the teaching force are shown in Table 1.08 of Annex I, and those
of teacher training in Table 1.06.
2.25        Another important educational input is curriculum.  The primary
level syllabi established in 1974 are still officially in effect. At that
time, most of the basic primary school materials were locally published.
In the meantime, the local publishing capability has virtually ceased to
exist. Revision of the primary syllabi will also be necessary in due
course, though not deemed essential under the present emergency conditions.
As a satisfactory interim solution internationally available texts and
materials will be used, selected for their suitability to Africa and, if
appropriate, adopted specifically for Uganda in the case of those to be
supplied in large quantities, including the reprinting of some locally
written texts. Problems of curriculum reform might be addressed in future
Bank Group sector work and lending.
2.26         Under the present conditions of physical deterioration,
maintenance of facilities and equipment has also suffered, principally
because of shortages of spare parts and funds. (Primary school maintenance
is very rudimentary and is generally carried out by teachers, students and
parents.) It is necessary for the Government to begin to restore its



- 10 -
maintenance capability.  Also a better organized capability to supply
instructional materials for use in the schools will be needed, to replace
the ad hoc and haphazard procedures which have characterized the recent era
of scarcity.
Managerial Inputs
2.27         The administration and management of the education system is
the responsibility of the MOE, whose organization is shown in Chart 2 of
Annex I. These functions, while further removed from the immediate
educational process than are its direct inputs, also have an important
impact on its effective functioning.  For example, the Ministry of Local
Government is responsible for the administration and physical provision of
primary education, while the MOE provides teachers and specifies the
curricula to be followed.   School inspectors and regional education
officers, therefore, though employees of the MOE, are seconded to the local
authorities and thus serve two authorities. The effects of this division
of administrative control should be a matter for review, whenever the
conditions of the education system as a whole are studied.
2.28         Education Planning.  Planning the activities of the education
system, at all instructional levels, lies with the MOE's Office of Planning
and Statistics. This Office is concerned with statistical data collection
and analysis. It also carries out special studies related to education
planning, and makes estimates of the future requirements for system
development, such as projections of the need for teacher training.
Functions like the identification, implementation and evaluation of
education projects are also contemplated to be assigned in the future to
this Office, as is procurement for the education sector. In addition, a
commission to review education policy is expected soon to be appointed by
the Minister of Education. The Planning Office would act as technical
secretariat for such a commission.
2.29        The technical capacity of the MOE for planning education in
Uganda is limited, however, by, among other things, a shortage of qualified
staff. Plans exist for strengthening the Planning Office, and for
assigning statistical and other planning staff into the six zonal offices
of the MOE. The success of such changes will require the recruitment of
suitable personnel and provision for their training. On the whole, the
education planning function in Uganda will require external assistance if
it is effectively to fulfill its role. The existing infrastructure for
administration of the education system on a day-to-day basis is, on the
other hand, quite well established. Within the six zones, mentioned above,
there are a total of 33 District Offices, out of which operate some 135
school inspectors. This administrative system appears to be adequately
organized and staffed, its problems arising largely from practical
deficiencies such as the lack of office equipment and vital transportation
facilities needed for visits to schools.
2.30         Financing of Education.  The education sector is one of
Uganda's largest industries and the largest public sector employer. In
1981/82, 5 percent of the Government's development budget and 18 percent of
the recurrent budget were allocated to the MOE (Table 1.09 of Annex I),
principally for staff salaries -- all salaries in the Government-aided



- 11 -
schools being paid by the MOE.  In addition, substantial sums are provided
to education from private sources, especially through the school fees paid
by parents, both within and outside formal MOE channels. In 1981, the
Government collected U.Sh. 66 million in primary and U.Sh. 28 million in
secondary school fees (Table 1.10 of Annex I). Primary schools, in their
own, collect perhaps four times as much in fees, plus significant amounts
in labor and materials. These parental contributions to education provide
support to the individual schools in addition to the grants provided by the
Government. It is impossible to estimate the magnitude of the informal
parental contributions, which at present make up the principal non-salary
support to primary education, and which are outside the control and
scrutiny of Government authorities. One essential step toward putting
primary education again on a firm financial footing will be to rationalize
and update the official fee system in a fair and effective way (para.2.33),
maintaining local parental control as appropriate, and seeking also to
maintain as much as possible the tradition of additional parental
contributions of labor, materials and cash.
2.31        Fiscal management of secondary education continues to work
reasonably well. School fees are collected and managed directly by the
headmaster, supervised through periodic audits by the Government. The
headmaster can use the fees, together with grants-in-aid from the
Government, to purchase the supply requirements of the school from the most
appropriate sources. A shortage of funds and of needed supplies is,
nonetheless, endemic.
2.32          No formal fees are required in the teacher training
institutions, as an inducement to enrollment, but under the present poor
economic conditions, students are expected to bring contributions in kind,
e.g., food, bedding.
2.33        Given the enormous task ahead of rehabilitation in the
education sector, and the limited public revenues available for that
purpose, it is important that all resources allotted to education be used
effectively and that new sources of financing be tapped wherever possible.
At the moment, the demand for education at all levels remains high, and the
general population is willing to pay a substantial portion of the cost.
Yet fees in the primary and secondary schools have not been changed for
more than a decade, being now reduced by inflation to a fraction of their
original value. Furthermore, no fees are charged after "O-level",
providing a subsidy to higher education which is increasingly difficult to
justify, and which the Government can ill afford. This applies equally to
university preparation, the University itself, and other post-secondary
courses. In all these areas, there is heavy competition for enrollment.
These costs are especially burdensome in the University, where travel
expenses and book and other allowances are provided to the students, in
addition to room and board. Therefore, as a step toward helping pay for
the educational opportunity provided, a full review of means for cost
recovery at all levels of the education system is needed (para. 3.25).



- 12 -
Bank Group Involvement in Education and Training
2.34         General.  Bank Group education operations in Uganda began in
1967, but stalled after 1971, because of the Government's lack of an
appropriate development program and a sound economic policy. The two IDA
education Credits (paras. 2.35 and 2.36), the first provided in 1967 and
the second in 1971, totalling US$17.3 million equivalent, were designed to
help the country meet well defined manpower needs in line with the Bank's
criteria for assistance to education development in the late 1960s and
early 1970s. They emphasized general secondary education, technical
education and specialized training, including agriculture, at the secondary
and post-secondary levels. After the end of the 1978-1979 war, the Bank
Group reinitiated its involvement in education through the First
Reconstruction Program (Credit No. 983-UG; signed April 2, 1980) by
providing US$2.5 million equivalent of the Credit amount to the replacement
of looted and destroyed educational materials and equipment. Also, funds
provided under the Technical Assistance Credit (1077-UG; signed January 21,
1981) have been used for preparatory work for this proposed project.
2.35        The First Education Project (Credit No. 101-UG, approved in
April 1967) provided US$10 million equivalent, to assist in the expansion
of general secondary education. The project provided for physical
facilities, including student hostels, staff housing, furniture and
equipment to accommodate 11,800 secondary school students. The project
was completed in June 1973, some 18 months after the original closing
date. A project completion report was issued in October 1975 and a Project
Performance Audit Report (No. 1456) in February 1977. These reports
concluded that suitable physical facilities were fully and economically
provided under the project.  However, the project schools suffered early
underutilization, owing mainly to the shortage of teachers of practical
subjects. This shortage was due to Government's failure to train the
required number of teachers, and also to the unforeseen departure of
expatriate teachers. The shortcoming of concentrating projects on physical
infrastructure and not incorporating educational inputs as an integral part
of the project, an element common to many projects in the early years of
Bank Group lending to education, was evident in this project. The issue
was addressed in the Second Education Project.
2.36        The Second Education Project (Credit No. 258-UG, approved in
June 1971) which provided US$7.3 million equivalent, was designed to assist
in meeting manpower needs in the technical, agricultural and medical
fields, and most importantly in providing urgently needed teachers. The
project as appraised included extensions, furniture and equipment for two
teacher training institutions (and equipment for a third institution), four
upper secondary schools, five technical secondary schools and two
agricultural colleges. It also included three new district farm
institutes, a vocational training center, a medical tutor training college
and a nurses' and midwives' school. Because of the experience acquired
through the First Project, 80 man-years of specialist services and 18
man-years of fellowships in fields related to the project institutions were
also included,



- 13 -
2.37        The implementation of the Second Education Project encountered
serious difficulties, many of them originating from the general
socio-economic conditions prevailing in the country at that time. Two
postponements of the closing date were approved and the project was finally
closed in December 1981.  During implementation, the extension of the five
technical schools was held in abeyance by the Bank Group, because of the
Government's decision to change the programs and objectives of the
schools. Ultimately, they were altogether deleted from the project.
Shortly before the final closing date, at the request of the Government,
one of the farm district institutes was also deleted. The Government at
the same time committed itself to complete on its own account the
construction of six project institutions which were at various stages of
implementation. The other seven project institutions had already been
completed. The implementation of the technical assistance components for
teacher training and educational planning worked reasonably well, while
those for vocational training and health education were not implemented,
either because of delays or as a result of deletion of the related physical
facilities. The fellowship component was satisfactorily implemented and
most of the students who benefited from this program are occupying the
positions for which they were trained. In general, those short-term
educational objectives related to teacher training and staff development
have been substantially achieved, while others were not met because of
delays in implementation. A project completion report, which is under
preparation, is expected to provide a more precise assessment of the
effects of this project. Finally, the allocation to education under the
First Reconstruction Credit has been used to complement this Second Project
(para. 2.34).
2.38        Lessons learned from the above projects include:  (a) the
training of teaching staff for project institutions should form an integral
part of the project; (b) a firm and binding commitment should be obtained
from the borrower that programs and objectives of project institutions will
not be changed without Bank Group consultation; and (c) likely levels of
security and political stability in the country should be taken into
accounts in any new project. The Second Education Project successfully
addressed the need to secure teaching staff for project institutions, and
the proposed project has been specifically designed to reduce distribution
risks to acceptable limits (para. 3.19-3.22).
2.39        Lending Strategy.  The lending strategy in the education sector
is to assist the Government in initiating the rapid rehabilitation of
educational services throughout the formal system, including the
University. The stress is not on new capacity but on rehabilitation,
maintenance and re-stocking aimed at helping existing institutions to
regain their instructional capability. The immediate goal for lending to
Uganda's education sector is thus aimed at reviving its effectiveness and
minimal standards of quality, rather than at expansion or innovation. The
proposed project fits within this strategy. It would also include studies



- 14 -
relating to teacher supply, technical education and education finance
(paras. 3.24, 3.25 and 3.26) which, combined with a proposed education
sector memorandum, would set the ground for future Bank Group assistance
and policy dialogue in the sector. With regard to technical education and
training, prior to any future commitment to assistance, it will be
necessary to assess the extent to which the existing institutions are of
the type and quality, and produce the number of graduates required, to
cover the prevailing serious shortages of skilled manpower (para. 2.19).
Concerning financing of education, the very stringent financial conditions
under which the Government is operating and which are not likely to ease in
the very near term, require an in-depth review of the sources and uses of
resources in the sector. Finally, the proposed project would contribute to
institution building in the sector through the training of MOE staff in
supply and delivery management and through the establishment of a
computerized system of information.  This would initially serve as a basis
for operating a school facilities maintenance program. It subsequently
would expand to form an integral part of the overall planning and
management of the education system.
2.40        Future Bank Group assistance in the sector should be addressed
to further quality improvements of the education and training system rather
than to its expansion. This could include support for curriculum
development, teacher training, education planning, and strengthening the
administrative and financial management capacity of the system at all
levels. Further, if indicated by the study on technical education and
training, support would be appropriate for the reorientation of the
subsector to make it more consistent with properly identified manpower
requirements. Finally, the determination of those requirements, while
strictly outside the purview of the education sector, will ultimately be
needed if the sector is to meet its employment oriented goals.
III. THE PROJECT
OBJECTIVES
3,01         The proposed project would assist the Government in its urgent
task of rehabilitating the education system in a manner consistent with the
recovery program (para. 1.06) submitted by the Government to the
Consultative Group in Paris in May 1982, and with the system's assessed
implementation capabilities (para. 2.01). The project would also take into
account constraints on the Government's budget by limiting to a minimum the
associated recurrent expenditures. With the help of the proposed project,
instructional conditions would be restored to as adequate a level as
possible, measured equitably across all schools, within the financial
limitations of the project. To secure the equitable and prompt



- 15 -
distribution of goods to be provided countrywide to their final users, as
well as to provide training for local counterparts, a team of specialists
would be entrusted with the technical responsibility for implementation of
the proposed project.  In addition, to inhibit further deterioration of
educational facilities, provisions for basic repairs of the halls of
residence of Makerere University and some roofing material for the most
delapidated primary schools are also included. Finally, limited office
equipment and specific studies are included in the proposed project with a
view to assist the Government in improving the management, control and
planning of operations in the education sector.
PROJECT PREPARATION
3.02        Items indispensable for rapid and equitable improvement of the
much deteriorated quality of education were broadly identified during the
project preparation carried out by the Government with Unesco assistance.
Through subsequent surveys financed under the Technical Assistance Credit
(para. 2.34) they were more precisely defined, and those of highest
priority are included in the proposed project.
PROJECT COMPONENTS
Primary Education
3.03        This component includes text and library books, limited roofing
material and instructional supplies needed for the rehabilitation of
educational effectiveness throughout some 5,000 primary schools. A sample
survey has shown the need to be widespread throughout the country, though
conditions vary in severity from school to school. An extension of this
survey to establish requirements for physical rehabilitation at each school
is being prepared by the MOE. Allocation of materials to be supplied under
the project would be based on the findings, according to severity of need
and availability of funds, by the Project Implementation Unit (PIU)
(paras. 3.19 and 5.02). The aim would be to meet the most basic needs for
instructional effectiveness. These have been identified as shelter from
rain, chalkboards and chalk, teachers' books and supplies, a minimal supply
of textbooks for students, exercise books, writing implements and a secure
storage cabinet in which to guard materials when not in use. In general,
instructional materials would be supplied in proportion to enrollment in
the individual schools, and roofing materials according to physical
condition of buildings as revealed by the survey. The distribution of
project-supplied materials, equipment and supplies to the schools would be
in accordance with criteria agreed with the Government during negotiations
(para. 7.01 (a)).
3.04        Textbooks, teachers' guides, auxiliary source books and library
books would be supplied, based on selections and lists prepared by MOE
staff according to established curricula and instructional needs. An



- 16 -
initial selection of books was made by means of a survey of published
materials carried out by a team of Ugandan educators.  The offerings of
more than 100 international publishers were examined. The resulting lists
are being reviewed, refined and quantified. Teaching guides would be given
priority.  The extent to which students must share books would be
determined by the quantities of student books which prove to be obtainable
within the project budget, as allocated to the schools by the PIU according
to pre-set criteria (para. 3.03). Quantities to be purchased for student
use would be established to provide a reasonable balance among subject
matters and among text, auxiliary and library books. To identify
ownership, the books to be provided under the project would receive
suitable markings and would remain the property of the educational
institutions concerned,
3.05         Emergency rehabilitation of deteriorated conditions would be
addressed through the provision of roofing and instructional materials. In
the former category, roofing sheets would be supplied to those schools
which the survey (parae. 3.03) proves to be most in need of repair.
Installation of the roofing, at no cost to the project, would be the
responsibility of school authorities, with the help of local volunteer
labor, This is consistent with customary practice in Uganda. The school
masters concerned will be responsible to obtain and organize the workers,
whose number and type will depend on the specific needs of the individual
schools, The District Education Offices (para. 3.18) will oversee these
operations in their individual districts, will confirm that the work has
been satisfactorily concluded and will report on that matter to the PIU.
Chalkboards would be repaired or replaced under this subcomponent as well.
Supervision of the delivery and appropriate use of these materials would be
done by the PIU.
3.06        Minimally adequate materials to support instructional
activities over the next three years would be provided in the form of
chalk, exercise books, and student writing implements. Books for students
and teachers would also be provided, as described in paragraph 3.04. The
project would not be able to provide a fully adequate supply of such
materials, but only a basis upon which the MOE can build from its own
resources and from other donors, Storage cabinets would also be supplied,
to protect the materials which have thus been provided. Additional
teaching equipment and materials would also be made available, again on as
broad and equitable a base as possible (para. 3.03) to primary schools
throughout the country, to support instruction in science and mathematics
at the primary level.
General Secondary Education
3.07         Provided under this component would be: text and library books,
equipment for science laboratories and home economics classes, other
instructional equipment and supplies, and equipment and supplies to support
school administrative offices in the government-aided secondary schools.
Because of the nature of the items to be supplied, the level of need at the
secondary level is somewhat more uniform than is the case with primary
schools, Allocations to individual schools would be based on a survey
similar to that to be undertaken for the primary schools (para. 3.03).



- 17 -
3.08         Textbooks, teachers guides, auxiliary source books and library
books would be supplied, based on the same selection procedures described
in paragraph 3.04 for primary school books.
3.09         Equipment and supplies needed for practical work in science and
home economics courses would be provided by the project. In the case of
the 103 secondary schools which have been converted from private status
during the past five years, self-contained mobile laboratories for basic
science would be supplied, two per school.  In the 74 older secondary
schools, which are generally the ones where higher secondary-level courses
are taught, equipment and supplies would be provided to make  the existing
laboratories fully operational.  Because of variable conditions of need,
biology has been given preference, followed by chemistry and then physics.
Lists of teaching equipment and supplies under this component (including
also lists for home economics and other subjects mentioned below) have been
already prepared. Home economics studies in 50 general secondary schools
and in 33 primary teacher colleges would be supported by means of equipment
and supplies selected through the same procedures as those used for the
science items. Equipment for acquiring practical experience in cooking,
sewing and other domestic arts would be provided under this sub-component.
Teaching aids would also be furnished, in limited quantities, in support of
arts, crafts and music studies.
3.10        Equipment would be provided to support the effectiveness of the
administrative offices of those secondary schools newly converted to
Government-aided status (paras. 2.11, 3.09).  This would include items such
as typewriters, duplicators, locked cupboards and filing cabinets, and
other non-consumable items basic to effective functioning of those offices.
Primary Teacher Training Colleges
3.11        Provision of books, equipment and supplies similar to those
specified above for general secondary schools would also be made to the 33
primary teacher training colleges TTCs which now operate in Uganda. Text,
library and other books would be supplied on the same basis as for primary
schools (para. 3.04).
3.12        In support of science instruction in the TTCs, two mobile
laboratories would be provided to each school, one for basic science and
the other for biological/agricultural science as indicated above (para.
3.09). Home economics equipment would also be made available to these
schools (para 3.09). Finally, additional teaching aids would be supplied
in the form of materials and equipment to assist in training teachers for
art, geography, mathematics and physical education, in addition to a slide
projector and two cassette recorders for each TTC.
Specialized Institutions
3.13        Under this category five educational institutions providing
specialized education at the upper secondary and post secondary level would
be assisted by the project. These institutions include the National



- 18 -
Teachers College for the training of secondary school teachers (para. 2.16)
and the four technical and vocational institutions identified below. All
five are in dire need of replenishment of text and library books.  The
project would provide for their most urgent book needs.  Delegates of these
institutions participated in the survey (para. 3.04) and prepared lists of
books to be financed under the project. These lists are being now reviewed
to conform with budgetary limitations.
3.14         For the four technical institutions the proposed project
would provide, in addition to books, the most basic workshop equipment,
spare parts and tools to allow a resumption of practical training.  This
would help the institutions to meet their ultimate objective of training
students to be fully qualified for skilled jobs upon graduation.  The lists
of workshop requirements have been prepared (para. 2.34 and 3=02) taking
into account the physical and instructional conditions at the institutions,
as well as budget limitations.
3.15         The Elgon Technical Institute with an enrollment of 329 in
1980, would be provided with equipment, spares and tools for the motor
vehicle, electrical installation and machine shop sections. The Lira
Technical Institute which had an enrollment of 235 in 1980, would receive
supplies to support practical studies in its motor vehicle, electrical
installation, painting and decorating, brick/blocklaying and
carpentry/joinery sections. Because the Uganda Technical College is
responsible for the training of technical teachers (para. 2.21), it would
also be provided with tools and equipment which are presently missing from
workshops related to that training. The remaining two technical institutes
which are in operation (Kisubi and Kichwamba) are programmed to be assisted
by other donors and are consequently not included in this project.
Finally, the Uganda College of Commerce would be provided under the project
with a limited number of typewriters, the present shortage of which is
seriously hampering the training of students in the Department of
Secretarial Studies (185 students enrolled in 1979/80).
Makerere University.
3.16         For the University, which has an enrollment of over 4,000
full-time students (all of them in residence), the project would provide
library books identified by a staff librarian who participated in the
survey (para. 3.04). In addition, it would include limited rehabilitation
of the halls of residence, which are in a critical state of disrepair. A
survey has identified the most urgent work needed to prevent further
deterioration of the buildings. To varying degrees, all fourteen student
residential structures (including eight main dormitories, extensions and
annexes) require rehabilitation in one or more respects. In terms of level
of investment, the most important rehabilitation needs are found in the
ablutions areas and in the roofing, where the replacement of flat roofs and
the repair of other types are required. Urgently needed work will also be
performed on kitchens (structure and basic equipment) and drains.



- 19 -
3.17         The University has a well organized system of maintenance.
However, the prolonged unavailability within the country of construction
materials and spare parts, as well as the lack of foreign exchange for
their importation, has limited the amount of maintenance work which could
be performed during the last decade. The Government has confirmed its
intent to make available to the University the necessary inputs for proper
maintenance of existing structures (para. 7.01(b)).  (Building maintenance
activities at other levels of education are dealt with in paragraph 3.21.)
District Education Offices (DEO)
3.18         The 33 DEOs can hardly operate because of lack of the most
essential equipment: typewriters, copying machines, etc. Also, the school
inspectors (about 135) operating from such offices are unable to visit all
schools, for lack of vital transportation. Thus, in order to assist the
MOE in improving education administration and control, the proposed project
would provide the DEOs with limited office equipment and motor bicycles for
the use of inspectors.
Supply and Delivery
3.19        The timely supply and safe delivery of all the items described
above is clearly a major requirement of the project. The combined problems
of distribution and the conditions of insecurity prevailing within the
country were identified during the preparation stage of the project.
Furthermore, in May 1982, a field survey was carried out by a team of
consultants, for the purpose of gathering more precise information and
formulating a strategy that would minimize the risks involved in the
physical delivery of the goods to be provided under the proposed project.
The supply and delivery system, (para. 5.11) reflects the recommendations
of the May 1982 field survey team. The administration of the system would
be entrusted to the PIU described in Section V of this report.
3.20         The most important part of this component would be the
technical assistance which would include about nine man-years of specialist
services to work within the PIU (para. 5.02).
Activity                          Length of Service
(man-years)
Deputy Director                             2.3
Procurement Manager                         2.0
Distribution Manager                        2.0
Accountant                                  2.0
Training Specialist                         0.5
Short-Term Consultants                      0.3
TOTAL                               9.1



- 20 -
3e21         The component would also include office furniture and
equipment, including a small computer and vehicles necessary for the
operation of the FIU.  The specialists listed above would be responsible,
inter alia, for training their counterparts in the use of the computer to
establish a system of information for carrying out supply and delivery
operations during project implementation. These operations are expected to
continue under the established system after the project is completed. The
training provided by the specialists would also include application of the
information system to future maintenance programs (paras. 2.26 and 5.03).
In this respect the specialists would train MOE staff in appropriate
maintenance procedures as well as in preparing manuals on the subject.
Although the establishment of a comprehensive maintenance program would be
clearly outside the financial possibilities of the present project, the
setting up of a centralized information center on maintenance and supplies
is expected to be particularly beneficial in helping to identify priorities
for future assistance in the sector.
3.22        It is expected that gradually the computer-based information
system would expand and become the first step in the establishment of an
overall record keeping system relating to the needs of each school. Beyond
project-related information, it could record matters such as school fees
and contributions, visits by inspectors and students' examination
performance. This information would be extremely useful for improving the
planning and management of the education system.
Special Studies
3.23        There are a number of areas within the education and training
system where a revision of present policies is urgently required, and where
future Bank Group assistance would strongly depend on Government actions to
address these matters.  Specific studies on some of these areas would be
included in the proposed project. These studies would be geared to provide
an in-depth analysis of the problems and to make specific recommendations
for resolving them. The content of the three studies proposed is
summarized in the following paragraphs.
3.24        Technical Education.   In this study major emphasis would be
placed on post-primary technical education (para. 2.19). There are
indications that graduates from the technical schools are ill prepared for
the job market and are encountering problems in securing employment. The
study would cover both quantitative and qualitative aspects.  It would
assess curricula, teachers' and trainers' qualifications and performance,
availability of jobs and skills required, and cost recovery issues. It
would make concrete proposals for adjusting technical and vocational
education to make it consistent with labor demand.
3.25        Education Financing,  The problems related to the financing of
education have been escalating in the past decade. These are not limited
only to the shortage of resources available but also relate to the
distribution and management of such resources. Equity issues are also at



- 21 -
the heart of these problems (paras. 2.30 through 2.33).  The study to be
included under the project would review in detail sources and uses of
financial resources (including private contributions) and propose a
comprehensive system of education financing which would correct the
anomalies of the present one. This study would include, inter alia,
analysis and recommendations regarding school maintenance needs.
3.26        Teacher Supply and Demand.  With rapidly increasing student
enrollments, the gap between the demand for teachers and the rate of
production of graduates by teacher training institutions is widening
(para. 2.24). A study under the project would include an inventory of the
existing situation at all levels, medium term demand projections and a
proposal for a fully costed program to reduce gradually the present gap,
while also coping with future expansion. The proposed program may contain
accelerated in-service training programs, expansion of existing facilities
and particularly in the case of the University, training abroad and
external recruitment.
3.27        To carry out the above studies, for which the MOE would have a
leading role, one or more advisory committees would be established
including, as appropriate, representatives of the Ministries of Education,
Finance, Planning and Economic Development, Labor and Industry,
representatives of relevant institution and individuals with specialized
knowledge of, and experience in the subject matter of the studies.
These committees would prepare terms of reference and timetables for
carrying out the studies. The Government has agreed to establish the
committees by not later than three months after the date of Credit
effectiveness (para. 7.01(c)). It is expected that the committees will
provide satisfactory terms of reference and timetables to carry out the
studies by not later than three months thereafter. The proposed project
would finance the services of consultants, transport and travel, and other
costs related to the studies. The Bank Group would be consulted on the
structure of the committees, approve the terms of reference for the studies
and the appointment of project-funded staff, and, periodically, review the
progress and findings of the studies. Also, by an appropriate date to be
determined in the terms of reference, it would be furnished with the
conclusions and recommendations of the studies. The Bank Group would
review and comment upon these results, and the Government would thereafter
present their plans to implement their recommendations. The Government at
no cost to the project would provide the necessary local physical
facilities and staff support for carrying out these studies.
3.28         In addition to the above studies, the Government has provided
assurances that, not later than June 30, 1985, it would submit to the Bank
Group a comprehensive plan for the procurement and distribution of
educational material which would satisfy current and projected demand in
the country after project completion, including the sources for its
financing (para.7.01(d)).



- 22 -
IV. PROJECT COST AND FINANCIAL PLAN
Project Cost
4.01      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$34.0 million
equivalent. Taxes are negligible since all items imported specifically for
the project would be exempt from custom duties and taxes. The estimated
cost by project item and level of education is presented in Table 2.01 of
Annex II. Table 2.02 of Annex II provides estimated project cost by
category of expenditure. The table below summarizes estimated cost by
project item and foreign exchange component.
Uganda Shillings              US Dollars
(Million)                   (Million)
% of
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  Base Cost
1. Civil Works, Furniture,
Books, Eauioment and
Vehicles
a. Primary Education            38      1,182   1,220    0.38   11.82   12.20         42
b. Secondary General             -        617      617    -        6.17    6.17        21
c. Primary Teacher Training
Colleges                                83      83    -         0.83    0.83        3
d. Specialized Institutions    -           95       95    -        0.95    0.95         3
e. Makerere University          44        211     255    0.44    2.11    2.55           9
f. Education District Office   -           30      30    -         0.30    0.30         1
Sub-Total (1)                82     2,218   2,300    0.82   22.18   23.00          79
2. Technical Assistance         11         99      110    0.11    0.99    1.10          4
3. Professional Services         4         16      20    0.04    0.16    0.20           1
4. Transport of Goods           62        354     416    0.62    3.54    4.16         14
5. Project Administration        2         19       21    0.02    0.19    0.21          1
6. Studies                       -         30       30    -        0.30    0.30         1
Total Base Cost,
January 1983 (1-6)          161    2,736   2,897    1.61   27.36   28.97         100
7. Contingencies
(a) Physical (37.)           14         71      85    0.14    0.71    0.85
(b) Price Increase (14%)   31         387      418    0.31    3.87    4.18
Sub-Total (7)                45       458      503    0.45    4.58    5.03
Total Project Cost (1-7)  206       3,194   3,400    2.06   31.94   34.00



- 23 -
4.02        Cost estimates for rehabilitation work at Makerere University
are based on similar works being carried out at Naguru Police College and
Kibuli Training Center, both within Kampala and financed by the British
Overseas Development Administration. Since construction activity is
virtually at a standstill in Uganda due to the lack of foreign exchange,
comparisons are very limited. Estimates are based on costs prepared by
quantity surveyors of a locally established firm. Equipment, didactic
materials and vehicle costs are based on prevailing international prices,
while costs of text and library books are based on preliminary lists
prepared by MOE with the assistance of consultants and on detailed price
quotations from numerous international publishers.
4.03        The technical assistance component in support of project
implementation (para. 5.02), consisting of about 110 man-months of
expatriate specialist services, is estimated at an average cost of
US$10,000 per month, which includes salaries, housing, travel and
allowances. Professional services (para. 5.06) equivalent to about 60
man-months of architectural, engineering and quantity surveying services
are estimated at an average rate of US$5,500 per man-month based on 15% of
construction costs (10% architects' fees, 5% quantity surveyors' fees),
which include salaries, fees and overhead. Since the cost of surveys and
preparation of tender documents for Makerere University have been included
under the Technical Assistance Credit, a balance of US$200,000 to cover the
full complement of professional services throughout the construction period
has been included in the proposed project.
4.04        Contingency Allowances.  For physical contingencies, 10% has
been added to the base cost of civil works, professional services,
transport and project administration; and 5% to the base cost of vehicles,
technical assistance and studies. No physical contingency allowances have
been included for furniture, books, equipment and supplies because
quantities are expected to be adjusted to remain within the global
budgetary allocation. Estimated price increases from the base cost date
(January, 1983) have been applied in accordance with the implementation
schedule (Annex II, Table 2.03) at the following annual rates:
1983           1984           1985
Foreign                8.0%          7.5%           7.0%
Local                 15.0%          9.0%           8.0%
The local price increases are based on recent trends and forecasts from
Government agencies, as well as the private sector for civil works,
furniture, fuel, etc. These rates have been reviewed by Bank Group staff
and have been found appropriate. Price escalation for foreign goods and
services represent the most recent projections of world price increases.
4.05        Foreign Exchange Component.  The foreign exchange component has
been calculated as follows: (a) 80% for civil works, furniture,
administration and professional services; (b) 85% for transport; (c) 90%



- 24 -
for technical assistance; and (d) 100% for books, equipment and
supplies, vehicles and studies. Including contingencies, the foreign
exchange component is estimated at US$32.0 million equivalent or 94% of the
total project cost.
4.06         The foreign exchange component of construction work is high due
tothe shortage of building materials in the country -- materials will have
to be imported -- and due to the fact that the activities involved do not
include labor intensive site works. The foreign exchange component of
furniture is also high since most of the furniture will have to be
imported. Due to critical shortage of drying kilns most of the wood
produced in the country is unsuitable for furniture production.
Furthermore, a survey of the furniture industry concluded that the capacity
of the industry is extremely limited either for lack of equipment lost
during the looting or because the existing equipment is not operational
due to lack of spare parts and maintenance.
Financial Plan
4.07         An IDA Credit of SDR 29.1 million (US$32.0 million equivalent)
would represent 94% of the total cost of the project (taxes are negligible)
and would finance 100% of the foreign exchange.
US$ Million Equivalent
Govt.        Bank Group         Total
1.  Civil Works                   0.65             0.30             0.95
2.  Construction Materials         -               2.35             2.35
3.  Furniture                     0.16             0.65             0.81
4.  Text and Library Books         -               9.10             9.10
5.  Equipment and Supplies         -               9.70             9.70
6.  Vehicles                       -               0,22             0.22
7.  Professional Services         0.03             0.17             0.20
8.  Technical Assistance and
Studies                       0.10            1.30             1.40
9.  Transport of Goods            0.61             3.55             4.16
10.  Project Administration         -               0.08             0.08
11.  Unallocated                   0.45             4.58             5.03
TOTAL                 2.00            32.00            34.00
4.08         The Government's counterpart funds of US$2.0 million equivalent
would be phased over the three-year implementation period with an estimated
maximum contribution of US$0.8 million equivalent required in any single
Government fiscal year. This amount is consistent with the Government's
investment plan (para. 1.06). Government recurrent expenditures generated



- 25 -
by the project after completion would be minimal and mainly for the
maintenance of furniture and equipment.
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION, PROCUREMENT, DISBURSEMENT AND AUDITING
Implementation
5.01        The project would be implemented over a period of three years
and is expected to be completed by June 30, 1986 with a closing date of
December 31, 1986, which includes six months for the completion of payments
and withdrawals (Annex II, Table 2.03).
5.02        Administration.  The proposed project would be administered by
a Project Implementation Unit (PIU), to be established within the MOE
(para. 7.01(e)). This PIU would consist of a Project Director, a
qualified team of specialists (para 3.20) to be engaged under a single
contract, and appropriate local counterparts for the team. Because of the
need for appropriate and timely procurement of goods and services, the
difficulties of transport and delivery (para. 3.19), and the complicated
accountancy requirements, this specialist team would have primary technical
responsibility for implementation of the project. The MOE would assign
qualified and experienced officers from within its ranks as counterparts to
the members of the consultant team, and thus provide continuity for
possible future work of the PIU. The PIU would therefore consist of
personnel as listed below. The members of the specialist team being those
described in items (b) through (f):
(a) A senior officer of the MOE on secondment would be
appointed Project Director to ensure coordination with
the Government and with all levels of the education system,
in Kampala as well as in the districts. His appointment
would extend over the expected project implementation
period;
(b) the leader of the specialist team would act as deputy
project director and assist the Project Director in the
execution of the Project and will collaborate closely with
him to achieve the efficient management of all aspects of
implementation, including procurement, distribution,
storage, inventory management, accounting and training of
counterparts. His appointment is expected to last about 28
months;
(c) a procurement manager (two counterparts anticipated) would
be responsible for purchasing and supply and would ensure
that staff employed in these activities are trained to a
high level of competence (24 months);



- 26 -
(d) A distribution manager (two counterparts anticipated) would
responsible for the creation and implementation of an
efficient system of distribution of all materials and
equipment to be procured and for issuing the prompt flow of
documents covering the accounting aspects of the project.
He would also be responsible for containers, cases and
other packing materials acquired during project activity,
their recording, and in liaison with management officials,
their eventual disposal, to be credited to project accounts
(24 months);
(e) an accountant (two to three counterparts anticipated)
highly qualified in operations similar to the one in the
project, who in addition to normal accounting duties would
ensure that correct and efficient documentation, systems
and procedures are created, implemented and maintained to
provide the control and information levels required (24
months); and
(f) a training officer appointed for a period of about 6
months, who would ensure that efficient and adequate
training programs are instituted and maintained and that
counterparts and support staff are trained to a level of
competence consistent with the duties allocated to them.
A Project Director with appropriate experience and qualification, should be
appointed in consultation with the Bank Group. His appointment and taking
up of post would be a condition for credit effectiveness (para. 7.02).
The team of technical assistance specialists would be selected in
accordance with Bank Group guidelines.  Terms of reference for these
specialists including the identification of their responsibilities for
training local counterparts, have been agreed upon (para. 7.01(f)). In
addition, if and when needed, other consultants may be recruited for the
PIU.
5.03         Of vital importance to the successful implementation of the
project would be the appointment of counterparts prior to the arrival in
Uganda of the specialists, since the project time frame as well as the
intervention of the specialists is of limited duration. The Government
is committed to their appointment (para. 7.01(g)). It should be stressed
that during this time, local officers should be provided with the necessary
training, guidance and experience to enable them to continue the work of
the supply activity on completion of the project. In view of the
continuing nature of the maintenance function (para. 3.21), prior to the
departure of the specialist team, a plan would be developed to establish a
system for the physical maintenance of the educational institutions under
the MOE (para. 7.01(h)).
5.04         The proposed project also includes under administration,
provision for (a) office furniture; (b) equipment and supplies, including



- 27 -
a computer (para 3.21); (c) travel including allowances; and (d) other
incremental operating expenditures. The MIOE would provide satisfactory
office facilities to house the PIU.
5.05        Reporting and Evaluation.  Progress reports on implementation
would be submitted to the Bank Group by the PIU on a quarterly basis
following mutually agreed reporting dates and format. Not later than three
months after the Credit Closing Date, the MOE would provide the Bank Group
with a report evaluating initial operations, the execution, costs and
benefits of the proposed project, and the performance of the Government and
the Association including lessons learned during implementation. This
report should be prepared in parallel with the execution of the project so
that the specialist team might contribute their inputs prior to their
departure from Uganda upon completion of their assignment.
5.06        Professional Services (Architectural/Engineering).  Local firms
of architect/engineers and quantity surveyors have been appointed by
Miakerere University for the rehabilitation of the halls of residence on
terms and conditions mutually acceptable to the Borrower and the Bank
Group. Their services have been divided into two distinct contracts
namely: (a) for the preparation of surveys of existing conditions, drawings
and tender documents, which will be carried out prior to funds being made
available under the proposed project, and financed under the on-going
Technical Assistance Credit; and (b) for work up to tendering stage,
analysis of bids and supervision during the actual rehabilitation stage.
Fees for the contract under (b) would be included in the project and would
be subject to further review by the Bank Group prior to final commitment by
the Government.
Procurement
5.07        Contracts for civil works, furniture, books, equipment,
vehicles and consolidation and shipment of books and other school material
to Uganda would be awarded on the basis of international competitive
bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Bank Group's guidelines for
procurement, except as follows: (a) Civil works contracts costing less than
US$100,000 equivalent each (estimated to total about US$0.2 million); (b)
furniture, equipment and vehicles contracts costing less than US$50,000
equivalent each (estimated to total about US$0.7 million); (c) locally
procured transportation services within Uganda for furniture, books,
equipment and supplies (total estimated at about US$0.8 million); and (d)
books for primary, secondary and primary teacher training education.
Contracts for items (a), (b) and (c) would be awarded on the basis of
competitive bidding, advertised locally and in accordance with local
procedures satisfactory to the Bank Group. Contracts for item (d) would be
procured by negotiations with publishing houses holding copyrights on such
books; provided, however, that contracts for printing of books not in stock
be awarded, except as noted below, through limited international tendering
among an agreed preselected list of potential printers. The evaluation and
comparison of their bids would be on the basis of procedures consistent
with the Bank Group's guidelines for procurement. These printing contracts
would be packaged to the maximum extent practicable for bid invitation and
would be subject to the approval of the Association. Books which have to



- 28 -
be printed and cannot be grouped in packages estimated to cost US$75,000 or
more may be procured on a negotiated basis in consultation with the Bank
Group. The aggregate value of contracts to be awarded by ICB and limited
ICB is estimated at about US$25 million equivalent including
contingencies.   Consultants would be selected in accordance with Bank
Group guidelines. It is expected that the Government would approach firms
who have undertaken similar assignments for, and have a good working
relationship with the Government.
5.08        Rehabilitation designs, draft tender documents and master lists
of construction materials, furniture, books, equipment, supplies and
vehicles (including proposed groupings) would be reviewed by the Bank
Group. Items would be grouped to the extent practicable to permit bulk
procurement. All bidding packages for civil works estimated to cost over
US$100,000 equivalent and for furniture, equipment and vehicles estimated
to cost over US$50,000 equivalent would be subject to the Bank Group prior
review of procurement documentation resulting in a coverage of about 90% of
the total estimated value of civil works contracts, and about 80% of goods
contracts. The balance of contracts would be subject to random post review
by the Bank Group after contract award. When ICB procedures are used: (a)
domestic manufacturers would be allowed a preference of 15% or the existing
applicable rate of import duties, whichever is lower, over the c.i.f. price
of competing foreign suppliers; and (b) should international firms bid on
civil works, qualified domestic civil works contractors would be allowed a
preferential margin of 7'- percent over the bid prices of competing foreign
contractors.
Disbursement
5.09        Disbursement (Annex II, Table 2.05) would be on the basis of
(a) 30% of local expenditures for civil works; (b) 100% of foreign
expenditures and 65% of local expenditures for construction materials,
furniture, equipment and supplies, and transport of goods; (c) 100% of
foreign expenditures for library and textbooks and vehicles; (d) 100% of
foreign expenditures and 75% of local expenditures for professional
services (architectural and engineering) and project administration; and
(e) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for
technical assistance and studies. All disbursements would be fully
documented except for disbursements in local currency for operational
expenses under project administration, which would be made against
statements of expenditure, documentation of which would not be submitted
for review but would be retained by the Borrower and made available for
inspection by the Bank Group in the course of project supervision. A
disbursement profile based on past experience is not valid for this
project. The disbursement schedule is based on the status of preparation
work and agreed timetables.



- 29 -
Auditing
5.10        The PIU would establish and maintain separate accounts for all
expenditures incurred under the project. The records would be maintained
adequately to reflect, in accordance with appropriate accounting practices,
its operations and financial condition. Auditing would be required on an
annual basis for all expenditures financed under the project with
particular attention to those reimbursed under statements of expenditures.
The Auditor General's office does not have the capacity to undertake the
annual audit. This would be performed by independent auditors,acceptable
to the Bank Group and applying satisfactory auditing procedures. Audits
would be submitted to the Bank Group within six months following the end of
each of the Borrower's fiscal years.
Status of Preparation
5.11        The preparation of the project is in an advanced stage.  This
has been achieved through the surveys and studies financed under the
Technical Assistance Credit (para. 2.34) and summarized in Annex III. The
proposal regarding the supply and delivery system is discussed in detail in
Annex IV.
VI. BENEFITS AND RISKS
Benefits
6.01         The major benefit expected to be derived from the project is a
rapid improvement in the much deteriorated quality of education. Direct
and immediate beneficiaries from the project would be about 1.4 million
students enrolled in Government's educational institutions who would be
provided with: (a) books (about 1.4 million students); (b) workbooks and
other class materials (about 1.3 million students); (c) laboratory and
workshop equipment (over 80,000 students); (d) material for improving
educational buildings (200,000 to 300,000 students); and (e) improved
residential accommodations at Makerere University (over 4,000 students).
6.02        Other benefits to be derived from the project would be
institution building by assisting in the establishment of a supply and
maintenance system within the MOE and the acquisition of specific
managerial skills, including those for handling materials distribution
operations, by officials of the MOE who would act as counterparts to the
specialists within the PIU. Last but not least, significant benefits are
expected to be derived from the studies included in the project, which
would provide the Government with a sound basis for important planning and
policy-making decisions.



- 30 -
Ris ks
6.03        The main factor likely to impinge on the success of the project
is the still unsettled condition of general security prevailing in the
country. However, unless further deterioration occurs, this would not
justify delaying the implementation of the project, which is a crucial
component of the Government's rehabilitation effort. The studies
undertaken during project preparation have allowed the design of a
management and implementation system, to be administered by a technical
assistance team, which is conducive to a reduction, to the maximum possible
extent of risks of the goods not reaching their intended final
beneficiaries. Nonetheless, the implementation of the project would
require particularly careful and frequent supervision by Bank Group staff.
VII. AGREEMENTS REACHED
7.01        During negotiations agreements were reached with the Government
on the following:
(a) Criteria to be used in the distribution of project-
supplied materials, equipment and supplies (para 3.03);
(b) Government's confirmation of its intent to make available
to Makerere University the inputs required for
proper maintenance of its structures (para. 3.17);
(c) The commitment to establish by no later than three months
after the proposed project becomes effective, one or more
advisory committees, including as appropriate,
representatives of various ministries and other
institutions, or qualified individuals, for carrying out
the studies under the proposed project (para. 3.27);
(d) The commitment to submit to the Bank Group no later than
June 30, 1985 a comprehensive plan for the provision,
procurement and distribution of educational materials in
the country after project completion (para. 3.28);
(e) Establishment within the Ministry of Education of a
Project Implementation Unit with a staffing table and
terms of reference acceptable to the Bank Group (para.
5.02);
(f) Terms of reference for the team of specialist/
consultants that would have responsibility in the
administration of the proposed project (para. 5.02);
(g) The commitment to appoint appropriately qualified local
counterparts to the consultants referred to in (e)
above (para. 5.03); and



- 31 -
(h) The commitment to develop a plan for the establishment of
a maintenance system within the MOE prior to the departure
from Uganda of the consultant team (para. 5.03).
7.02         A condition of credit effectiveness would be the appointment
and taking up of post of the Project Director whose qualifications and
experience shall be satisfactory to the Bank Group (para. 5.02).
7.03         Subject to the provisions on paragraph 7.01 above, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 29.1 million (US$32.0
million equivalent) to Uganda on standard IDA terms.



ANNEX I
- 32
COKPARATIVE EDUCATION INDICATORS                                                              Page    1 of   2
MOVE"Elt 23,_1962
CENTRAL
GOVERNMENT
EXPENDITURE                                               COMPLETION                 ECL'RR ST
ON EDUCATION   EDUCATION            ADULT      !,RiL%Ry RArt FOR                   'LS"  COST             tS ON SECIINCARY                91ALW
GNP PtA                  AS F'FYC.-NT                                              PltlMARY    1PRIMARY 1, FRIMkRy    :RATE FK,H    E.%RILL.
BASE  POP.  CAPITA   PERCENT CNP TOTAL CENTRA11EXPENUITURES !RATE                       RATIO    ICIICIL          '!"Ellli'DUCATION ll,Rlux TU  R AT, I 0
EAR MILLS. (USS         DEVOTED rli  GOVERNAENT    lAL:,0CATFD                                     YC LE       ;PER        AS PEXCENTISECI)?PAFY   l(NE,)            Pt R            KU551,
(1,T   (19%)   EDUCA71ON  EXPENDITURE    PRI  5                        (197b)                   (I       i-,EA(,HEFL 'l;NP'CAPITAJ                                  CHIR
(1)       (2)          (3)             (4)              (5             (b)
Ltv Lcpjo _CCUNTRIES
A S rkAL IA           do      14.6    8,870        6.3-             14.6                            100-        103-       100           21          --               99            73          L3        lo.$o
CANADA                 81     23.7   9,6504         7.74             18.54Y    3O&I 144? 2391    99              106X      1.00            21         19.96?          too            q2x         18        ;!2.60X
CEF-AA N% F.R.         79     61.4   12,220         4.6               9.9d      ---  -       --       --          $94       10011          --         ---             IOU&           944         ---
NETHERLANDS            79     16.1  II,0A4          7,9               5.1       20    35    25        99?         96         95           is         1.5.3             99            42          13        2.40
SUL,l-ALAND            80       3.2    6,061        5.5-             13.4       37    31    28        99         100        100            24         11.6            100            82          15        25.80x.
-N                79       0.3  12,863         9.0             18.2        31    10    10        991         992       100           isa        1.9.9            100            79X         10-Y      16.50-
EASTERN AFRICA
BO      A               0      0 11b      720b      6 3P            19 3        4S    28    15        35b         94         74           32          22.0             33*-          20          te          i.50
:I      4:1        235       2:8bv           19:0        42    35    23        25          28x        35           37          22.6             12             3K         17
C(li)Ros              so       0.4b      260       6.5-             21.4       40    28b   14        --          99X         65           45         16.0             58            21X         30          I..O
Diiaent                $I       0.3       460       5,4              10.8       60    40    ...       10          32         -            Al          -                60             a          19         0. 5t)
IThIGPZA               so     31.0b       130b      2.2P             11.14      52    32    144       15          38         --           59          19.0             ---            9          41A         5.1.0
KENYA                  79     15.3        390       5.5-             18.0b      71    15    14        45          92         74           40.         15.9             41            19          28          1.00
LESOTHO                so       1.3       4139      4.3p            21.0        51    24    25        52          64         61           49           4.0             64            17          21         0.90
MADAGASCAR             77       8.5       330       4.0-             24.0       53    28    19        so          94bz       33           55b          9.0             38            14          23         3.10by
LALC. I               SI       6.ib      230b      34              10.2b      38    14    25        25b         62          23           65           3.9            12              4         21          0 - 41)
MAU'LITIUS             80       O-gb   1,08ob       6.0              11.5       39    40      7       so          87         78           22b         17.1             79            45X         21         0.40
RUANDA                 80       5.Ob      200b      3.2              21.3       62    17    it        2b         57X        62           40          14.0              6             4x         13         0.40
SEYCHELLES             78     65.ob   I,Sgob        5.0             12.0        344  339   IC&
StVMLIA                78       3.8       11854     2.0             11.0       55    10    21        sob         26by       --           27b         20.4             53b            4bx        16b         1.00
SUDAN                 80      2O.Ob    478b         3.0             -           66    39    .1.       32          51S.       68           34           1.4             44            13          16        .;.
SWAZILAND              Is       0.5       650       7,1-            12.2        36    33    18        65b         soby       49a          35by         7.7             669           33bxy       20,          I OQ
,XxNzAMIA              go     19.5        260                        17.7       47    LO    16        79b         gab       41 7          2L          LL.O             lgb            3          2(-        0.00
Ur AN DA               so     12.6b       300"                       16.1-      23b  37b  20b         48          !4-        61           34                           17             5          23         0.6(
ZAIRE                  76     2 7 . 5     2108      6.0-            22.0        49    26    25        15         847         44           42x                          41            13x         27         I.Ioby
ZIV 27. A              80       5.7b      566b      4.9              ii.1       48    23    22        44b         95         so           48          12.9             19            16          22         1. $0
zIhE.lBlm              &I       7.7b      700b      511              19.5       62    32      6       44b         90         55           39          20.0             63            15          23         0.50
VESTERN AFRICA
BENIN                 19       14b       320b      6.3-            35.0        43    21      5      Ilb         42          30           46                          30             11         43          1.00y
CA--XROON             -78       8.2       590       2.9y            16.OY       33&   43-   2O&                   74Y        438          SOY                          20a           14Y         26         i.30y
C.X.R.                 79       2.2       280       -.e.y           20.6-Y    -        -      -                                           65-Y                                                              O.,Cal
CliAD                  76      4.4        120       2.4-Y           21.7b                            15          25Y                      77                                          3xY       21          ?.20Y
CCNCO                  78       1.5       670       9. G-11Y        27.7-Y                          -                                     36by                         30            --         43by        -Co 'y
GkBC11                 77       0.6    2,4,0        3.7by             8.4Y                                                                46by                         ---           ---         t4by
CMELA                  77      0.6        2?0       3.3--             b.5b                                                                                                                                  -.80-Y
46    25&    64    job           4ObY        90a          27bY       44. 7a           40             12by       17
GHA-NA                 76     11.3        400       4.0y            15.5b       ---  --    -         -            71b.y      ---          27bY        -               ---            36b-Y      21
CU14FA                 77       5.3       27G       4.3bp           2C.Cb       304  31&   304    20             !4bxy       1(,b         39)         11.1?           86b            Isb.y      24          5.lrby
IVORY COAST           Si       8.2b  1,070i,   IO,O                 43.0        33    46    13      30b          60          n            43          26.0            47             illaxy     26          1.90sy
LIBERIA               80        1.9       520       4.6             19.6        43    23    24      3(           52          32           35          20.0            76             22         20          Z.90
MALI                   77       6.7t,    18(b      4.2b            21.7b       45-   378   IS&    10            28bxy       --           43by        --               so-            6x        ---         _90by
MAIJRIT&NIA            78       1.6b      320b      5.5             16.9        33    43    25       17b         32          60           44          52.0            30              9         25          0.37
N.,GR                 78       5.2       300       4.3aY           16.64Y    524  43-    59                      17         56&          41A         38.78           40              2         24b         0.20Y
NIGERIA                77     $2.6        910       4.1?              9.6       ---   -      -                   --          --           -           -               ---            IOXY       15         1). 17Y
SENEGAL                77       5 5       450       5 0             23.0        46    34    20       10          34b-Y                    43by        -               20             10         21          Z.,cby
sIERRA LEONE          77       3:4        250       4:Ob            16.0b       --    -      -       15b         37x                      35          25.0b           84             ISX        22          1).601ty
76       2.4       4100      6.5q.           6.5q       30a  28a   21a    18              74         40           54by        M.0              Si            12bay      4zb         L.60hy
UPPER VOLTA            78       5.6       180       3,Oa-           19.3&Y    31    16    32        -             isby       23           53by        5.1.5?           19             3by       25         1). 027
LATIN AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN
ARGENrl\A              78--Z 7- 3-     2 2 10       2.7             10.9        434   31&   18-    93b           89          52           17          -               97             31          9         2:1.0(
BAAAMA,S               79      0.2    2,77C         5. 7            19.1        36    36    11      93b          99          97           24          -               97             75
BARBADOS              78       0.2    2,680         6.5--y          22.14       43-   31-   16-    99b          IOOY         99A          VY          19.94           lqa           78Y         20Y
50LIVIA               813       5.4       550       4.1-y           30.5-       -     -      -      63           74Y                      20ir       --               ---            LSY        ---        12.60Y
DRAZIL                 JA    116.5    1,770         3,8              6.2        51    -      14,    76           734Y                     2307         4.5b           61-            15-Y       t4-Y       12.62b
CHIU                   76     LO.9    I ago         3.2by           13.Ob       -      -      -     -           llgbxy       ---          34by        --              --             55bzy      2ObY       ii.goby
COLOMBLA              90      26.7b    :18ob        3.3             25.0        35    20    20      alb          78          A            32           6.6            --            47          20         13. 02-Y
COST& Rtr-A           so        2.2b  1,910b        3.4             31.1        40    21    33      90           93          77           33           5.5            7 7           40          27         lb.00
CIZEA                 76       I. a       -         4.0             11.0        -      -     -      S6          112bzy       96           leby       -                98            7jbxy       is         0.02bY
DOMIKICAS REP.                  5.3    1,030        2.1y            13.97       -     -      --    67           -            --           -           -
ECUADOR               so       8.4b  1.110          6.DP            36.7        45    31    16      81          105          -            36          L2.6            66            47          16        2 9. CO
EL SALVADOR           77       4.4       640        3,Aby           23.1by    64       8    2 1     &2           82b%l       32           39         -                41            26b.y       27b7       ""gob?
GUATE.mALA             I a     6.8    L,010         i.7-Y           12.6b       -      -     -      -            69bxy       -            35by       -                69            15bly       Igby        5. 50y
CUYAMA                 76      L.&        630       S. 0,7          13.8bY    -       --  -         -            ggbxy       --           32bY       -                --            Sgbxy       --          J.ooby
RAITI                 so        5.0b      230       3. 4-             7.947    65      9      6     23b          50          20           41          19.0            62s             .9        27          0 so
IONDUUAS                a       3.6       520       3.5by           14.3by    624   154   194    60              sgbzy       30a          4Lby        12.49           682            ZIXT      1.9          8:00Y
JAMICA                AO       2.1    1,110         6.5             13.7        31    43    20      90           ts          ga           40           2.3            95            $I          22          5 00
XEXEC                 so      65.5    I             4 7             17 04       46    39    15      92           96          53           44           0.)            56            56          17         1LI.30
MICAXAGUA             78       2.6b    ; ! Cob      3:0b           14:Ob       -     -     -       gob          85bz        24           37b        -                -             , " bx      30b       -
PA4AMA               7 8      1-0    1,550b        5.5by           21.8by    42A   134   13        &2b          95by       -             .5by       11.6             859           soby        27b,      20.4oby
p xpu u All          79       1.0    1,'-40        1.4-            14.2       42    1 7    20      94           63          32           Zs           3.Ir           76            22          1 2        0. ;a
PERU                  AO      16.6    1,000         3.6             14.3        53    1 5    1 9    80           03          56           39          9.8             89            39          2:        14.4cy
TRINIVAD    rOg.    7 7        1.1  -3,9LO          4.8bi            8 . 8 bY    44    12    20     95           98          91           30          LO.5?           .9            62
URUCCAY                79       2.9    2,5c)        2.5               9.4b      -     -      -      94          105bx                     24b                         ---           64b.        ---           404Y
VENE7L,ELA            7S      14.4    3,440         5,17            18.9b      -      -     -       82          jobb.                     28                                        36b.        I I       7,:..,loy



-  33  -                                                                  tANNEX I
CONI'ARATIVF EDUCATION 1NIC.ATORS                                                   Tab I c 1. 01
ov"It      2vuTOlI8                          1) 1 e   2  of   2
_     CENTRAL_                         ___  _  _   _ _    _  _  _   __    _  _  _    _ _ _                            -     r 
ClTiFkAL  r                                                                                                  I
IIt 1U*URI                                        OIPOIO                   IiA
IX  RJENDITDtE                CASpY;TION                                FECURR?ST
Os EDL:AI IO1P  tDI CATION     ADULT    Po1IMARY RAT?. FIO               VN'IT COST  PRiGRESI1CN SECObDARl               RICFHE
Cb'P YEa            A^S II hcLI   ItiEccptAt NT        0115 7i ENROLL. PRI$CAAY    PRIYARY  16161 AI       BArRATE 0r6o0   EStOLL.   SFCIONUAR\ ENO9CLL.
6AStl P0P.  CAPITA  PLFQNT 16)' TiTAL C,STRALIL.tPFrNr'9ltS  BATI            RAT.O   SCiOOL      ITUIIDST  F.UCAtlOS PIlON AIS  '0  140          STATDE60O  NATi
YEAR21ILLS.. (US1)   SDEVCT7D, ro  GOVERNr.T    jALLocATLD  tu   (1)    txEr)   CYCLP             PER       AS PERCENT SICONDARY    OT)    IPEL             ILRCSIS)
(1979) (1479)   IlDC4TI0R.  ExPEhi ulztR    FXI  SOC  Hl8  (1976)    (2)           (2)      TEAONtE6  cGrP/CA'ISAi     (S1 M)    TEACHER                 (t)7
_   | (1)  (2)   0)     (z)   _       <5>        !  (e)    _~~~~~~~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~(7)  3, (9)     (lo))         1           (12>       (13)     (I4
EAST ASIA At. TNE PACIFIC
CRI4A               7    981.8      260      3.1             6.6      29   34   27       66        93        64         27          6.0          63          '7         19        2. 6 
ItL(;VESIDA        61   142.9       370      3.0            9.1'V   66   39   -          32b       94A      6t8         34         1.4          64           23x       26        2.00'
ROSLA               82    39,31  14636b    7*7'             20.8      34   34   31       96        99        98         43         19.0          9B           B.       35        21.60
"A4A"SIA            so    14.2b  l AtOb    5.2              22.0      39   32   13       60b       96X       94         28        --             8'          65         27        3.70
PAQLA N.C.          79      2.9      760     5 4.           16.4v    ---  -_                       58'       73         31          1.1          --          64b        23      __
p ILAIPPINES        79    48.3b    690b    2.8'             14.0      64   36^5---    75b          84        65         31         7.1           B9          55         3D       21.00
SI tAPCPOE          80      2.4   4,420      2.7             6.7      39   40   16       83        92        t2         31          8.8          to          55         22        8.00
SOLOMO'. ISL.       SO     0.2      460      4.2P!          10.0'    41   34   20        -         60        s0         26        ---            35           is        ---      ---
TP.AILAND           60    47.3b    723b    3.6              20.9      59   15   13       86b       96        ___        17          9.3          59           58        22        4.00
SCOTH ASIA
DAEZCLADES         79    92.3b      90      1.1P           IO.IAY   51   17   20        22b       63Y       --         53          5.6                      14        23         1.43
ISDIA               77   659.6      210      2.97            9.9vy   __   _       _      36        79X       ---        Al        ---            ---         28x       ---        8.30'Y
NEPAL               80    14.3b    160b    2.4               9.9      27   18   36       19        88X       30         380        6-                         14"y      20'       2.0eY
tAIISA.1h           79    79.7      270      2.0*y           5.1y    39   26   27        24        54'       80.        4t          6.5          51          20'        17        6.00
E    E 1MllOLF lAST AND NORTH AFRICA
H.LFNISTA.          I 77    I5.5    -        1.7             3.7      47   19   15       12        31by      69         37b                      62            6        22tY      1.00y
ALrEIIA             79    18.3   1,770       3.6'           12.3      34'  26'  21'    35          837       45Y        37          7.0'         55         29Y        26        3.70Y
5CYPT                1    43,0b    580b    3.1-              4.5      31'  35'  26'    44          64'       80'        34          9.86         63'         43         19       15.00a
0RFC              76     9.3   4,14O       2.6'           10.6b    37   26   21        -         97b6      --         29b         6.27         -           7965       27by    17.8obY
lRAS                79    36.9      --       5.78Y         14.15'                        50       101"                  32'        ---           ---         44"       24'       4.90 Y
iRAQ                79    12.6   2.710       4.3'!           6.9                        --         OY        --         28         ---           --          4f'y      29a        .5 0'y
IRELAND             61.    3.4b  4,480       6.357          11.6'Y                       91        93        94         29         ---           98          61        ti       12.00
JORDAN              79      2.2   i 200      4.3.            7.2      19   44   13       70b       97'       85         32          7.2          94          44x        20       t4.00
LEBAsON             79     2.3      ---      -              18.6y  --   --               -         96         _         19         _             ---         466                27.80'Y
wtROCCu             6o    19.5      740      6.3"           17.50    36   44   20        28        56'y      35         39          19.7         60          25x        21        4.50
0i.^AN              79     0.9   3.330       3. 7"           4.94Y    --  --  -          -_        45'       --         23'        ---             _           7'        9 K
FORTCAIA            77     9.8b  2,1OOD    4.0              15.4     41   21   15        70        927       60         19         --            75          30Y        13b      10.90y
Ro?i03LA            79    22.1   2,00       3,9by           6.27                        98       106bx      __         23b        __            98          84bx      22b       10.60by
SPAIN               76    37.0   4,920       2.1            16.8Y9                       --        96by       _         29b        -             --          67b6               24.10by
STRLA               78     6.6   1,1 0      4.AP           10.3      39   25   26       556        7by      s0         35b        -             68          46by      21b       12.c0
TUNISIA             79     6.4   1,130       7.0P           19.0      42   39   18       62b      100l       so         39b         12.8         30          30x        30        6.09
TURXEY              79     4.3   1.3S0       3.6"'          18.6      -        -     -   60       105AX      -          30'         -            __          41x        27        7.07ay
YEArN A.R.          60     6.6      420      5.cF7          12.0      94    7    7       20b       37        12'        36Y         67.0         es           3         20        0.10
YE;E  P.D.R.        s0      1.9     424      6.0            1o.$      63   14    8       40b       65        53         24          22.4         61          22         16        2.50
SYNROLS:                                                            FOOTNOTES;
-    *TUn UNAVAILAbLE                                                  A * DATLlt PRIOR TO BASE YEAR
14.AGNITUID NIL OR NECLIGIbLE                                   6 - DATOII nORE RECENT THAN LASE YEAR
?  DATun )UESTIONABLE                                               6 - CURAENT PRICES
INCLUDES PART-TIlE STUDtNTS                                      P   C coP
*4  COMBINED Y-TH PRIMARY                                             Q   I lNCLUDSS FOREIGN AtD
CONSBOAD WITH BHIHER                                             R   CEINTRAL GOVERSMENT ONLY
b - MINISTRY OF EDUCATION (MOE) ONLY
T * nOE AND STATE GOVERNMENT ONLY
W - PUbLIC EXPEND"TURE ONLY
X - INCLUDES OVER-ACE STUDENTS
Y a UNESCO SOLRCES
Sourcis:
Coluoa I end 2 W lorld Bank Atlas or 16BD altsions.
Colu   3 to 14:  10bRD mlnin,   _overnoent  .o.rces and/or Unes. o Statistical Yearbook.
-  - -            ------
Comparatiwo Education Data are useful it  the e*,ltlon  of varIous education systems and an-lysis of ralattve sRage  of md"aettonal de"elopment betweei  tario'.
countries.  RAvev.rt  or tRe basls of the present dtst  cross-natIonal  aeyurison should be approsched vith greet caution.  Daec  prtsen.td  in the  b.v   r.lc hts.
been collected 1*rgoly by Bank asleeone from go-emenot sources; che retainder are staff estiaaes or data from  Unesco.  Efforts have bheer ede to st.sdardize
deitaltions and,  ithI.n 15its, to check the accurc cy of th. data.   Ne.erth.le.s   such data sr. still imperfect In  everal respects and the b6.k is .orking to
Improe them proSr.salely on the occasion of its operationl  ork.  ln the use of those dots, the follion  qu"lifications *hould be kept In mindt
(1) Education- as defined in th. table Includes all education nad training. both formal sed non-formal.
(2) rPrtrry' edurction refers to educstion at the first leoyl and 'secondary- education reers to all education at the mecondary 1*iel regardless of type
(e.g.. geonarl. technIcal, ezri.ultural.)
(3)   Litteracy r.tes  (col. 6) are nfttn obt.ined from country c.amues.  In mny countrcis they are only spproai-eclons  and tt ti  doubtful taht any cof.or.
definition of 'literate hks beeor follo.ed conasitently.
(6)   P.b1lc expendloore In edu-ton  (col. 4 and 5) refers co all capital and recurr.nt anpendtcuree de-oted to *ducatJoo by puhitc end qu-ti-P.bllc
agsncies.
(5)  'nrolla.nt rti.o- (cO'.. 7, 12 and 14) refer to school year and at. th. percentege of *ltltble clild ren enrolled full-tilr In the  propri.t. school,
public ted prIace bh  level.  They  re often aubj.ct to a wide  -rg.  of -tit In the developing countries ov ng to vsr.tiLon-  in the accuracy of h..Ic
data (1... age-spcific population and enrullieos)   Enrollsen.t ftres frequently  re higher than the nuster of scudntn  ctually in sbchol.  Oer--ged
zudants whose Inclusion is indlcated by footno,ts aiso can Inslote the ratIo..



- 34 -
UGANDA                                ANNEX 1
Table 1.02
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN GOVERNMENT-AIDED PRIMARY SCHOOLS, 1974-1980
GRADE             1974         1975          1976         1977         1978         1979       1980
(Boys      101,212       98,857       115,175       129,602     137,037    137,767       153,787
P.1 (Girls      77,813        81,354       93,792        105,141     111,475      113,968    132,,52
(Total    179,025       180,211      208,967        234,743    248,512    251,735    286,539
(Boys       85,885       91,559      100,727        109,400    116,307       118,130    121,323
P.2 (Girls      61,326        64,862       76,343         84,896      90,382       93,176      98,758
(Total    147,211       156,421      177,070        194,296    206,689    211,306    220,081
(Boys       80,078       80,833        93,067       100,826     101,768    106,868       112,407
P.3 (Girls      55,928        59,791       68,118         75,044      80,788      82,397       87,209
(Total    136,006       140,624      161,185        175,870     182,556    189,265    199,616
(Boys       71,020       71,235       80,127         87,796      93,263       92,324      95,840
P.4 (Girls      48,812        49,205       56,318         62,262      67,426       69,591      74,617
(Total    119,832       120,440      136,445        150,058     160,689    161,915       170,457
(Boys       63,937       63,387        68,317        77,157      83,191       82,121      83,394
P.5 (Girls      41,564        43,591       49,445         52,641      56,877      58,498       62,667
(Total    105,501       106,978      117,762        129,798     140,068      140,619    146,061
(Boys       65,828       67,843        74,285        77,517      82,080       82,517      81,676
P.6 (Girls      40,192        41,221       45,332         49,821      52,172      54,146       56,340
(Total    106,020       109,064      119,617        127,338     134,252    136,663    138,016
(Boys       72,805       69,017       78,341         85,726      87,738       87,741      85,455
P.7 (Girls      35,274        35,269       37,433         41,494      43,411      44,606       46,152
(Total    108,079       104,286      115,774        127,220    131,149       132,347    131,607
Totals(Boys   540,765       542,731       610,039       668,024    701,384    707,468    733,882
(Girls  360,909       375,293      426,781        471,299     502,531    516,382    558,49'5
(Total  901,674       918,024   1,036,820    1,139,323  1,203,915  1,223,850  1,292,377
Percent Female       40.0         40.9         41.2           41.4        41.7         42.2        43.2
No. of Schools        N.A.         N.A.     3,564          3,854       3,969        4,294       4,276
No. of Teachers       N.A.         N.A.   30,321         32,554       34,213      36,442       38,4-22
Stud. per Teacher   N.A.           N.A.        34.2           35.0         35.2        33.6         33.6
Source:  Ministry of Education



- 35 -
ANNEX I
Table 1.03
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
INTERNAL EFFICIENCY OF PRIMARY EDUCATION
Based on Enrollments a!
Based on b/
Interval          Boys        Girls         Total    Graduates
(percent)   (percent)    (percent)  (percent)
1968 - 1974        112.1        57.8         95.6           N.A.
1969 - 1975          N.A.        N.A.        92.2           N.A.
1970 - 1976        103.3        68.1         88.5           N.A.
1971 - 1977        104.4        65.5         87.4           N.A.
1972 - 1978        110.2        68.9         92.0          80.2
1973 - 1979          N.A.        N.A.         N.A.          N.A.
1974 - 1980         84.4        59.3         73.5          61.1
Notes:  a/:  Enrollment in primary grade 7 in final
year divided by enrollment in grade 1 in
initial year.
b/: PLE passes in final year divided by grade 1
enrollment in initial year.
Source: Derived from Ministry of Education statistics.



- 36 -
ANNEX I
Table 1.04
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN GOVERNMENT-AIDED GENERAL SECONDARY SCHOOLS
1974         1975        1976          1977        1978          1979        1980
GRADE
S.1 (Boys        8,033         7,945       10,922         10,011      10,639      11,689       12,289
(Girls       2,728        3,348         4,427         4,564        4,440       4,962       5,1594
(Total      10,761       11,293       15,349         14,575      15,079       16,651      17,883
S.2 (Boys        7,876         7,731        9,786         10,893      10,561      10,899       12,178
(Girls       2,670        2,931         4,059         4,322        4,374       4,555       5,41.00
(Total      10,546       10,662       13,845         15,215      14,935       15,454      17,578
S.3 (Boys        7,674         7,331        8,750          9,526      10,711      10,578       11,320
(Girls       2,367        2,672         3,303         3,670       4,001        4,275       4,604
(Total      10,041       10,003       12,053         13,196      14,712       14,853      15,924
S.4 (Boys        7,867         7,228        8,132          8,673       9,292      10,410       10,727
(Girls       2,078        2,291         2,682         2,970       3,395        3,758       4,068
(Total       9,945        9,519       10,814         11,643      12,687       14,168      14,795
Lower(Boys      31,450        30,235       37,590         39,103      41,203      43,576      46,514
Sec. (Girls      9,843        11,242       14,471         15,526      16,210      17,550       19,666
S1-S4 (Total)  41,293        41,477        52,061        54,629       57,413      61,126      66,180
S.5 (Boys        1,769         1,840        1,893          2,166       2,219       2,245        2,862
(Girls         385          475           474           531          510         565         730
(Total       2,154        2,315        2,367          2,697       2,729        2,810       3,592
S.6 (Boys        1,664         1,684        1,970          2,046       2,138       2,220        2,618
(Girls         367          395           486           510          510         574         702
(Total       2,031        2,079         2,456         2,556       2,648        2,794       3,320
Upper(Boys       3,433         3,524        3,863          4,212       4,357       4,465        5,480
Sec. (Girls         752          870          960          1,041       1,020       1,139        1,432
S5-S6(Total      4,185         4,394        4,823          5,253       5,377       5,604       6,912
Total(Boys      34,883        33,759       41,453        43,315       45,560      48,041       51,994
Sec. (Girls    10,595         12,112       15,431         16,567      17,230      18,689       21,098
Sl-S6(Total    45,478        45,871        56,884        59,882       62,790      66,730      73,092
Percent Female       23.3         26.6         27.1           27.7        27.4         28.0        28.9
No. of Schools        N.A.         N.A.       102            102         103          118         120 *
No. of Teachers       N.A.         N.A.     2,526          2,665       2,838       3,108        3,202
Stud. per Teacher   N.A.           N.A.        22.5           22.5        22.1         21.5        22.8
* By 1982, this number had increased to 177, because of conversion of private schools to
Government-aided status.
Source: Ministry of Education.



UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT IN MAKERERE UNIVERSITY AND OTHER POST-SECONDARY INSTITUTIONS
2/
1980
Institution              1976    1977    1978   1979 1/  Total    Year 1   Year 2           Year 3       Year 4      Year 5
Makerere  (Male          2,881   2,682   3,351   3,186    3,248          932      1,081      1,034        146           55
University(Female          581      724      581      727       797     256         252        254         20           15
(Total        3,462   3,406   3,932   3,913    4,045   1,188          1,333       1,288        166           70
Uganda    (Male            583      706      706      442       544     360         184        -            -            -
Technical (Female           21       28       28       19        34       25          9                                  -
College   (Total           604      734      734      461       578     385         193        --
Uganda    (Male            406      473      333      253       256      109         99         44          4
College of(Female          231      200      340     266       341      168         154         17          2
Commerce(Total           637      673      673     519       597      277        253          61          6
National  (Male            346      301      291      332       283      141        120         22          -
Teachers  (Female          125      101      111      130        90       52         35          3          -
College   (Total           471      402      402      462       373      193        155         25          -
Total      (Male         4,216   4,162   4,681   4,213    4,331   1,542          1,484       1,100        150           55
Post-Sec. (Female          958   1,053   1,060   1,142    1,262          501        450        274         22           15
(Total        5,174   5,215   5,741   5,355    5,593   2,043          1,934       1,374        172           70
Percent Female              18.5    20.2    18.6    21.3         22.6    24.5        23.3       19.9       12.8         21. %t\
Notes:  1/  Corresponds to 1978/79 MOE statistics, except for Makerere University, which is 1979/80.
2/  Corresponds to 1979/80 MOE statistics, except for Makerere University, which is 1980/81.
Source: Ministry of Education.



UGANDA
niIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
ENROLLMENT TN TEACHER TRAINING INSTITUTIONS AND COURSES
5/                         1980 6/
1976       1977       1978       1979       Total       Year I       Year 2        Year 3       Year 4
INSTITUTIONS
Grade II 1/ (Male          3,627      4,198      4,725      3,372 7/   3,316            855           891          839          7312
TTGs      (1Female       2,787      3,005      3,331      2,757       2,715           499        1,141           585           490
(Total        6,414      7,203      8,056      6,129 7/   6,031          1,354        2,032         1,424         1,221
Grade III 2/(Male         (Included under Grade II TTCs)   696 7/          740          392           348           -            _
'1TCs      (Female      (                       "       )                425          233           192           -
(Total       (                               ) 1,111 7/   1,165            625          540            -            -          w
Inservice   (Male         (Included under Grade II TTCs)   518           2,203          388           824          991           -
TTCs       (Female      (                               )   176          630           58          380           192           -
(Total       (                               )   694       2,833           446        1,204         1,183           -
National    (Male            346        301        291         332         283          141           120           22           -
Teachers    (Female          125         101        111        130          90           52            35             3
College      (Total          471        402        402         462         373          193           155           25           _
Uganda 3/   (Male              N,A.       14.A.       N.A.      30          46           46            -            -
Tectnical   (Fermale            N.A.       N.A.       N.A.       0           3             3                        -
College      (Total.           N.A.        N.A.       N.A.      30          49           49            -            -
Makerere 4/ (Male               N.A.       N.A.       N.A.    395          455           132          154           169
University  (Female            N.A..       N.A.       N.A.    127          166           66            57           43           -
(Total            N.A.       N.A.       N.A.    522           621          198           211          212
Notes  1/  Grade II Teacher Training Colleges give a four-year cotirse, following primary school.
2/  Grade III Teacher Training Colleges give a two-year course, following lower seconidary scliool.
3/  Department of Technical Teacher education only.
4/  Education diploma courses only.
5/  For Uganda Technical College, 1978/79 MOE statistics are given; for Makerere University 1979/R!8- .i                  .           (D
F/ For Uganda Tecthtnical College, 1979/80 MiOE statistics are given; for Makerere University 1980/81 statistics.
7/  Provisional data, total enrollment for Grade Il and Grade III TTCs for 1979 was 7,967.                                            c
Source: Ministry of Education.



UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TECHNICAL EDUCATION UNDER THE MINISTRY OF EDUCATION
1976        1977          1978       1979                  _       1980
TYPE OF INSTITUTION                                                               Total      Year 1      Year 2  Year 3
Technical 1/ (Male            3,510        3,571         3,898       2,304 4/   2,048          890         643        515
Schools    (Female            105          119           172         202         246         110          75         61
(Total          3,615        3,690         4,070       2,506 4/   2,294        1,000         718        576
Technical 2/ (Male         (Included under Technical Schools)        1,535 4/   1,137          572         537         28
Institutes (Female      (                                   )         10          10          10           0          0
(Total       (   "                              )      1,545 4/   1,147          582         537         28
Uganda 3/    (MIale             583          706           706         442         544         360         184          -
Technical   (Female             21           28            28          19          34          25           9
College     (Total             604          734           734         461         578         385         193          -
Totals        (Male           4,093        4,277         4,604       4,281       3,729       1,822       1,364        543
(Female           126          147           200         231         290         145          84         61
(Total          4,219        4,424         4,804       4,512       4,019       1,967       1,448        604
Percent Female                    3.0          3.3           4.2         5.1         7.2         7.4         5.8       10.1
Notes:  1/  Lower secondary level , following primary school.
2/  Upper secondary level.
3/  Post-secondary level.
4/  Provisional Data, total enrollment for technical schools and technical institutes for 1979 was 3,931.    a
Source:  Ministry of Education.
Co



UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
TEACHING STAFF IN EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
1976       1977       1978                        1979                                              1980
Total       Male       Female    Percent   Total           Male    Female        Percent
Female                                        Female
Primary Schools   (Qualified    20,921   22,657    22,968             23,865        N.A.        N.A.        N.A.   25,282           N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
(Government-    (Unqualified   9,400    9,897    11,245             12,577        N.A.        N.A.       N.A.   13,140            N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Aided)        (Total         30,321   32,554    34,213           36,442       25,778      10,664    29.3    38,422            27,007   11,418    29.7
Secondary Schools (Qualified        2,076    2,191       2,370         2,662        N.A.        N.A.        N.A.    2,665           N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
(Government-    (Unqualified        450       474        468           446        N.A.        N.A.       N.A.       537           N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Aided)        (Total           2,526    2,665      2,838          3,108        N.A.        N.A.       N.A.    3,202            N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
Grade II TTCs I/                      364       374        396            303          226          77    25.4         315            235        80    25.4
Grade III TTCs 2/                 (Included under Grade II TTCs)           91           72          19    20.9          58             45         13    22.4
Inservice TTCs                    (                               )    N.A.         N.A.        N.A.       N.A.         37             28          9    24.3
Technical Schools                     280       258        274            151          151           0        0        157            156          1     0.6
Technical Institutes              (Included under Technical Schools)  131           N.A.         N.A.       N.A.        86             86          0     0
Uganda Technical College               72        91         91             99           97           2      2.0         89             87          2     2.2
Uganda College of Commerce             35        41         41             77       N.A.         N.A.       N.A.    N.A.            N.A.      N.A.       N.A.
National Teachers College              66        67         67             91           55          36    39.6          73               57       16    21.9
Makerere University                    N.A.    165         304           304        N.A.         N.A.       N.A.       583             512        71    12.2            a X
Totals                                 N.A. 36,215    38,224          40,797        N.A.        N.A.        N.A.    N.A.            N.A.      N.A.       N.A.           OD
Notes:  1/  Grade II teacher training colleges give a four year coursed, following primary school.
2/  Grade III teacher training colleges give a two year course, following lower secondary school.
Source: Ministry of Education.



UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT EXPENDITURE IN EDUCATION
1/                               1/
Fiscal Year                  Recurrent                      Development                              Total
U. Sh.       Share of total        U. Sh.      Share of total           U. Sh.       Share of total
(million)      Govt. recurrent     (million)    Govt. development    (million)    Govt. expendi-
expenditure (%)                   expenditure (%)                       ture
1971/72             322               21.6               51                5.4               373               15.3           1
1972/73             331              21.6                24               4.2                355               16.9
1973/74             330              16.3                57                9.0               387               14.5
1974/75             445              18.0                36               4.2                481               14.5
1975/76             529               17.9               40               4.9                569               15.1
1976/77             676              18.4                52               5.0                728               15.4
1977/78             735               17.5              138                7.9               873               14.7
1978/79             892               19.8              172              11.3              1,064               17.7
1979/80             948               17.4              148              11.0              1,096               16.1
1980/81           1,429              14.7               179               4.4              1,608               11.7
1981/82           4,054              17.8             1,039                5.3             5,093               12.0
1/ Data relate to expenditure by the Ministry of Education.  1976/77 - 1979/80 data are provisional; 1980/81 data are
revised estimates; and 1981/82 data are budget estimates.
Source: Government of Uganda, Summary of Estimates of Recurrent and Development Expenditures.



- 42
ANNEX I
Table 1,10
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
EDUCATION COSTS AND FINANCE - SELECTED DATA
Government Recurrent Expenditure on Education Level
Cost per Student (1979)
(U. Sh.)
Primary                                                      247
Secondary                                                 3,726
Teacher Training                                          8,953
Technical                                                15,812
Higher                                                   32,319
Not Allocable by level                                     -
Sources of Educational Finance from Government-Levied Fees (U.Sh. millions).
1971                                       1981
Primary Schools                                34.6                                       65.7
Lower Secondary Schools                        13.3                                       27.5
Total                               49.9                                       93.2



_ 43 -
ANNEX I
Chart 1
UGANDA
Structure of Formal Education
1st LEVEL                                2nd LEVEL                   3rd LEVEL                   4th LEVEL
TECHNICAL SCHOOL               TECH. INST.                UTC
GRADE If TTC               GRADE III TTC               NTC
1    2           3    41                   21                2     3
COMM. SCH.               UCC
PRIMARY                                                             9
SCHOOL                   1)        SECONDARY SCHOOL   Q2)              HSC      (3)1           UNIVERSITY
6     7    8      9    10    11   12            13    14         15    16          17      18          19   20    21    22   23  AGE
(1) Primary Leaving Examination (PLE)
(2) East African Council Examination (EACE) -0 level
(3) Ugandan National Council Examination (UNCE) - A level (East Africa Advanced Certificate Examination (EAACE))
TTC - Teacher Training College
HSC - Higher School Certificate Course
UTC -Uganda Technical College
NTC - National Teachers College
UCC - Uganda College of Commerce
World Bank-24140



- 44 -
ANNEX I
Chart 2
UGANDA
Oirganization of the Ministry of Education, 1981
CEO  LJS ll`    ~     ~     ~    ~     US El          CIS          /CC            V
S. NC1                                DCEO            P           A   F
L-A~~
HEI 
ACED _Z~-                                                                                                             _
JTC                                                                I
I 2~ IACISEO-SZ                NTC
ucc
ACE IT) 
ACEO (P)
Key:
S.UNCU              Secretary General, Uganda National Commission for UNESCO
ACED IP-S)l             C/TSC               Chairman, Teaching Service Commission
CEO                Chief Education Officer
DCEO               Deputy Chief Education Officer
XHEO               Higher Education Officer
SEQ  ~                ACEO-Z              Assistant Chief Education Officer - Zone
SEO - SZ            Senior Education Officer- Sub-Zone
UTC                Uganda Technical College
SEC (TTC)               NTC                 National Teachers College
ucc                 Uganda College of Commerce
ACEO-(T) -         Assistant Chief Education Officer (Technical)
ACED - (F)         Assistant Chief Education Officer (Primary)
PCE                 ACEO -P-S)P       : Assistant Chief Education Officer (Planning and Statistics)
SEO - (S)           Senior Education Officer (Secondary)
SEO - (TTC)        Senior Education Officer (Teacher Training Colleges)
PCE                Provincial Commissioner for Education
US - (F)           Under-Secretary (Finance)
PA                 Principal Accountant
PAS              : Principal Assistant Secretary
US -              :El   Under-Secretary (Establishment)
CIS                Chief Inspector of Schools
DCIS                Deputy Chief Inspector of Schools
ACIS - Z            Assistant Chief Inspector of Schools - Zone
lS -SZ            : Senior Inspector of Schools, Sub-Zone
ACIS - (TTC)       Assistant Chief Inspector of Schools (TeacherTraining College)
ACIS - (P)         Assistant Chief Inspector of Schools (Primary)
ACIS - (S)          Assistant Chief Inspector of Schools (Secondary)
CES               : Chief Examination Secretary
D/NCDC             Director, National Curriculum Development Center
VC                 Vice-Chancellor, Makerere University
World Bank-24138



_ 45 -
ANNEX I
Chart 3
UGANDA
Education Enrollment Pyramid, 1980
MALES                 FEMALES                                                    Population
Standard                                                                                                   Total
Age      Grade                                                                                                  Enrollment    Male         Female
23        -                                                  0.1  -                                               0.1        103.3         103.9
22        -                                                 0.3  -                                                0.4        107.1         107.1
21        -                                                 1.2  0.2                                              1.4        110.9        111.4
20        -                                                2.8  0.7                                               3.5        115.7        115.7
19        -                                                5.4   1.6                                              7.0        119.5        120.0
18       S6                                               8.6    3.0                                             11.6        124.3        123.2
17       S5                                             13.9  ,,  5.0                                            18.9        128.1        128.5
16       S4                                            22.6        8.9                                           31.5        132.9        132.8
15       S3                                       41.4   ' //        21.1                                        62.5        137.7        137.1
14       S2                                 70.8 7'"  *"'/'   '           42.0                                  112.8        142.5        142.5
13       Si                             854            I.               /   5                                   143.7        148.2        146.8
12       P7                            89.0   ,/'/' </             .'7",  66.1                                  155.1        154.0        151.2
11       P6                               75.7  "',<"'                    '59.4                                 135.1        159.7        157.6
10       P6                              823    /                    K'>'    660                                148.3        165.4        163.9
9       P4                               75|3 =                              61.5                              136.8        172.1        170.3
8       P3                              77.7                         /        66.9                             144.6        178.8        176.7
7       P2                               76.7  "      ' ' '    7              66.9                             143.6        185.5        183.2
6        P1i                                   49.4   >.''       , .    471                                     96.5        193.2        190.7
5                                                         5.2    4.9                                            10.1        200.8        198.2
(Thousands)
200     160      120       80      40        0       40       80       120     160      200
(Thousands)
Notes: Enrollments include primary and general secondary schools only.
Secondary level enrollments by age are estimated.                                                                      Wodd Bank-24139



LV,A1.1. A,
T1iTI1  0Th'lCTT0T14m p>0'
Tot.1           TotL1                                                                                                                                  ft.j-o   T-so
N -   F-rj-o  1-                                                CRoil W-rks   f-lft-r    Ro-ks   Eq.ip-art               V,rhIl"-   Books. Eq,t. CIvi  W-rks .                      io            id~           'OoSoo                rJo                   T,-si,r                   U us              Ug1.nd. 0.
1.00  Li-ry_ Ld-.~~~~~~~~~~~ll                                                  ..~od S.ppli.s               .od V.hl-lr  F ...it-r   &                                                                                             i5sS  5,  00    C-ols  (0001                (0001
1.01  oT  ok~Rso   1-Ok                                               -                         5,000        --               --         5.000          5.000                     --1.0(0                                                                                              6.000            6.010,0
1.0   Toa-hiso  kqopoo_  112  lPpI i_o--                                                                    600              --            600            610                     -                                 --                                            1201                   720             72,1000
I .03  S0-01   I.ro    0n1   0ls-                                                   --
()  Rooi   orros.0                                                                       -         -                              -           100-                                                                              -210                                        1.200            1010
(51)    Chlb0d 00                                                                           --                   -- 5    -           5              150                     3.-0                                                                                                    1110             100
1101 Cholkb ... -d500                                                                                                   -           500              50                                         ..-                                 -5 00                                         '                 6.06
(IVI 2-1-sis   Rooks                                             -- .                                2.1100-                      2,000           2.8000                    -40-                                                                                                 3.34              13641000
(VI     poo                                     ~-                                           .       i200                -        1,2000          1.210                     -                   ---20                                                                               ISO4           100,000
(VI)    Possll SlnP .....                                      --               -           .-        IS               ---          50              150                    --.1  30                                                                                                io1101
Osb-To...  1.0k                                1.00            8001        5,000     5,300                       10.300           12,2100-                               ~                      --                                         2.440                 L4.640          1,464.000
2.00  Sooo-Ldsy. G.- sornlN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0000
0.1 .otoks/lkoo   Rok                                                                      2.00          -                        2.500            2.500                                                                                                     634 -  -  0          3.8100           3800.001
2.02  Solno_   nd  bioo E..s...JL  Pqslp-oO                             -              -           --       3.170              -         3,110            3.110                     -640                                                                                                 3400             31114110I
2.03  T-ht.&10  Eqnlp-,o   -od Ssp,li..                                 --                          -         20.-200                                       200                                                                                                                            360.  -  -4021  0.11
2.104  Ad.oiot-toi-  E0iso   -s,  OSPPIIos--                                         --                     311              --          3000             300                     -_-3_--O
S.b-TotOl 2.00                                                            2,3500     3.6701.10                                     670-                                                                                                      2334144.10
3.011   T-b.kooksLlb-oryiooss A.-                                                                  50                                      SW -  0          30                      -                  .---                                                         100                    600             111011
3.02  SI 0.00 Eipsos-                                                                -           -          2311             --           30              23110~-                                                                                                  46                    276             22.1600
3.03  T-hol.s  kq.ip-.eo  ..d S.pplir                                  ---                                   10-- 100                                       00----2 I20                                                                                                                                 12_000
S.b-.ToiOl 3,110                                                             500        330                         830101                                    ---                                                                             610W9,11
4.001  Fi1g..  -sd Li- T-obsi..l IsOtiLtoo                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  12.0O10
On)  Too.t -nd LilsO-o  Rooks                                                               Ice-  4    --               -           1100              00too---                                                                                                20                    120
(6)  W-rkohop Tool, osd Eq.lp-t51---                                                                   100              --          100              i10                     -                   .             --                                             20                    1201             12,1000
4.12  Rsg-dio foohnlol Co. R
() Too  and lIjb-oy Bos, k.-                                                             250        --               --          250              000                                                                                                      so ---51              304              1,10
(k)  Workshop Tools  .52   qolp-o,--                                            -           --          50               -           511              50                                                                                                      to- -.I                60               6:.0011-
4,03  Ug..daCO!    Co-one0 cc2404-0
Tn) los   nod Lib-roy Ook A                                                              21110       --                          200              200                                                                                                      4 -  -01              24              2.1
4.014  slaNOon ..I    lo  04024105_,,
(a) 005  .od Libr-y Rooks .-                                                             200        ---                          2001             2001-                                                     --                                              02112.11
SnO-T,r.l 4.00                                   -                -          7511      200              --.                          11 30                                      -                                                             1901               -1,1 40            U4.000
5.00  Makeror  Uaisersity0
5.111  Llb-ry  look.                                                    -                           350       ---                          350              350                     -                    .---211                                                                            620              12.000
5.02  Rth.billt.llOs  of D-rit-il-20                                                    -          -           -                 .     ____                .10-                                                      200                   -                          --                 2400120.0
S.k-T-l.s  5.0112200                                                         350         -                           3511          2.3                       -                   .            200                   --70                                          2.1120            r162.000
6.00  Ed-Vti-s R r offOi-io
.1101  Ahdl,stsirotRto Eqsip-os                                          --                         --         I51SO                        ISO             13ISO.--                                                            --                                    30                    1111             111.000
6.11   los,  Oky cl-s-                                                                 -          -          --               ISO         1511             ISO                     ---                                ---                                            30                    18so.0
"'T0              I3o         300                                                                                                                       60                    36110,01
7.00  PrCoec1_                                                                         tolisNaIS  -1           5031             711        120              130                 i.10                   ..      -                            810                       --                 1.3l10            131,0001
11.00  Stodlo -                                                                         - --                  --               --            --             .-           -                            300             ----                                            --                    300              30,1000
Nos-  Cost              wUS 11                                3.300            US                                        21r10  E0- 73'0E03     '3T.t3                   11.110                3110o        2T0           -0                                41 60                YS.30            2,110.000
(J ....ry 1. 1983   In Ug-odo 61,                        330,0110        51,1100     9011,0110  9711.000          22,1100 I11112,1111      2.313,1110                1111,110            10,000         211,O08000                                    411110606000         2,897,0100
a)Physlo-l  (37)                                               IlOT         --            --         --                 30         ---Z5                                                       50           1111                  100                       100
Rn RO 0                      ~~~~     ~     ~~~~~3311  -- --         --I                           I               341                     55                 IS            20                     a1                      415                    854
6  Ugsd, 01..                       33.1000           -             -                       1,100       1,1110          34,1011                 5.500               1.000         2,000                    No11                 41.500                                       85,460
65  VPuss  ls- -nt  (144)                                         10             67            0        Il               121          120            ISO                     16t                161            111                  "11t                      1tax
15 1u5s                                  652           146        1.092      t1I64               28       2.2114           3.1183                   iOs                 50            40                    .1                       302                  4.176
0 UgaJ.. .k.           ~~~~65.300     14.600      109,2110  116.4011            2,000    228.400           3118,3011.00                                5,1100          ,100                 I ,600                  10200                             .         i,10s
P-ject TOL.1       10 )i                               4.283            956       10.192    101.864               5      21,315           26.554                  1340                  365           261                  104                    537 7                  34,000
0 R1S.d  SIh.                   428,300         95.600  1,019,200 1.0816.4010            25.9001  2.131.300       2.1130.400                 3.1100             36,500         26,01,                0,0                    53,7000                                   3. 410U,11 JD



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Table 2.02
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Project Cost by Category of Expenditure
Uganda Shillings         US Dollars
Category                       (millions)            (millions)
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total % of
Base
Cost
1. Civil Works                  66       29     95  0.66   0.29   0.95   3
2. Construction Materials        -      235    235   -       2.35   2.35   8
3. Furniture                    16       65     81  0.16   0.65   0.81   3
4. Library and Text Books        -      910    910   -       9.10   9.10  31
5. Equipment and Supplies        _     970    970   -        9.70   9.70  33
6. Vehicles                      -       22     22   -       0.22   0.22   1
Sub-Total (1-6)             82   2,231  2,313  0.82  22.31  23.13  79
7. Technical Assistance         11       99    110  0.11   0.99   1.10   4
8. Architectural!
Engineering Services          4      16      20  0.04   0.16   0.20   1
9. Transportation of Goods   62         354    416  0.62   3.54   4.16  14
10. Studies                       -       30     30   -       0.30   0.30   1
11. Project Administration        2        6       8  0.02   0.06   0.08   1
Base Cost
January 1983 (1-11)       161   2,736  2,897  1.61  27.36  28.97 100.0
12.  Contingencies
a)  Physical                14      71      85  0.14   0.71   0.85
(3%)
b)  Price Increase          31     387    418  0.31   3.87   4.18
(14%)
Sub-Total (12)             45      458    503  0.45   4.58   5.03
Total Project Cost (1-12)    206   3,194  3,400  2.06  31.94  34.00



- 48 -
UGANDA
ANNEX II
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                        Table 2.03
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
YEARS:  |   1 9 8 2      |    1 9 8 3      |    1 9 8 4    1       1 9 8 5           1 9 8 el
--- --~~-- --------------- -------------1 ----------------- I11----------------- -------------------I
QUARTERS:    1  2   3   4      1  2a/ 3   4  | 1  2   3   4        1   2   3   4  | 1   2bJ 3  4  !c/
1. Primary Education                                    I                 I                 I                                   I
_________________         ~        ~       ~         ~        ~       ~        ~~                ~~~I  I        
a) Text and Library Books           ILLL     LLLLLLLLIL  *****########|XXXXXXXX#####XXXX|XXXX####XXXXXXXXXI
b) Equipment and Supplies           I             LLL|L   *****########IXXXXXXXX#####XXXXIXXXX####XXXXXXXXXI
c) School Emergency Rehabilitation  I            LLLLIL  *******######XXXXXXX#####yXXXJXXXX####XXXXXXXXXI                    I
2. Secondary General                   j
_________________      I                l                 l                 l                 l        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
a) Text and Library Books           ILLL    LLLLLLLL)L  *******######I####XXXXXXXXXXXXXI####XXXXXXXXXXXXXI
b) Science and Equipment            I   LLL     LLL I   *******######XXXXXXXXXX####XXXXtXXXX
c) Teaching Equipment               I   LLL     LLL I       **** ###m###IxXxmxXXX)UX    I
d) Administ. Equip. and Supplies    I                |LLL   ****   XXXXIXXX
3. Primary Teacher Training Colleges   I                |                                                     I                 I
_________~~~~~~~~__________________  ~ I    I                 I                 I                 I 
a) Text and Library Books           ILLL     LLLLLLL I   *******######XXXXXXXXXXXXX    I
b) Science/Teaching Equipment       I   LLL     LLL I   *******######I#XXXXXXXXXXXXX
4. Specialized Institutions            I                                  I                 f                 I                 i
=_______________________ ~ ~   ~       ~        ~        ~         ~       ~        ~        ~~                ~~~~~~ I  I            
a) Text and Library Books          ILLL    LLLLLLLLIL   *********####IXXXX#####XXXX####IXXXX
D) Tools, L4uip-ut                  I   LLL     LLL           ****####|XXXXXXXXX####XXXXIXXXX
5. Makerere University                                                                                        i
=______~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~_ ~I                            I                  I                
a) Library Books                    ILLL    LLLLLLLLIL   *********#I###|###XXXXXXXXX
b) Rebabilitation ef Dormitories                DDDDIDDDD*********    ICCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCCiCCCCCCCCVVVVVVVVVIVVVVVVVV
6. Education District Offices                           I                 i
Equipment and Vehicles                            I   LLLL*****    |DXKKKXKX          I
7. Project Administration                                                                                     I                 I
_~~~~____________________~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~                    I                 I                    I
------------------- -                                                  I
Equipment, Furniture, Vehicles   I                I   LLLL*****XXXXI                                                      I
I                I                 I                 I                 I
8. Studies                             I                I        AAAA     IAAAA   AAAA      IAAAA   AAAA                        I
_______           I                l                 l                 l                 l        ~        ~~~~~~~ I
9. Technical Assistance
a) Deputy Director (28 m/m)         I                I        oooooooooloooooooooooooooooloooooooooooooooooI
b) Procurement Manager (24 m/m)     I                I        ooooooooolooooooooooooooooolooooooooo
c) Distribution Manager (24 m/m)    I                I        ooooooooolooooooooooooooooolooooooooo
d) Accountant (24 m/m)              I                I        ooooooooolooooooooooooooooolooooooooo
e) Training Specialist (6 m/m)      I                I             ooooloooo             I
f) Short-Term consultants (4 m/m)   I                I        oooooooooloooooooooooooooooloooon
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ ~~~~~ I_ _                      I                 I_                          _   _
Legend:
LLL = Preparation of Lists/Tender Documents                a/  Date of Effectiveness (estimated at 06130/83)
= Tendering Period/Award of Contract                   b/  Completion Date (06/30186)
= Production/Printing/Consolidation                    c/  Closing Date (12/31/86)
XXX = Delivery
DDD = Design and Preparation of Tender Documents
CCC = Construction/Rehabilitation
VVV = Guarantee Period
AAA = Studies
ooo = Man-Months of Specialists



-  49  -                             ANNEX II
Table 2.04
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
(US $ Million)
1/                               Accumulated           Undisbursed
Quarters -         Disbursements          Disbursements            Balance
1                      -                     -                   32.00
2                    1.40                  1.40                  30.60
3                   2.00                   3.40                  28.60
4                    3.20                  6.60                  25.40
5                    3.80                 10.40                  21.60
6                   4.40                  14.80                  17.20
7                   4.80                 19.60                   12.40
8                   4.00                  23.60                   8.40
9                   3.30                  26.90                   5.10
10                    2.50                 29.40                   2.60
11                    1.60                 31.00                   1.00
12                    0.60                 31.60                   0.40
13                    0.20                 31.80                   0.20
14                    0.20                 32.001/
1/ From Credit effectiveness.
2/ Equivalent to SDR 29.1 million.



- 50 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT RELATED SURVEYS AND STUDIES
1.          The surveys summarized below were undertaken by consultants to
the Government of Uganda, in the context of the preparation of a third
education project for which Bank Group assistance was being sought. The
surveys were financed under the IDA Technical Assistance Credit
Cr. 1077-UG).
2.          Sample Survey of Government Aided Schools (March 1982).  The
sample survey covered 110 educational establishments (primary, secondary
and primary teacher training levels) distributed countrywide and selected
by the MOE according to pre-set criteria, including, among others, their
representativeness and accessibility. The survey collected information
from each establishment on the availability and condition of, and needs
for, physical facilities, furniture, equipment, books and other school
supplies. From the results of this survey it was possible to identify, for
inclusion in the project, the items which would have the strongest impact
on the rapid rehabilitation of education at the various levels. The MOE is
now committed to collect similar information for all other schools, so that
the goods to be provided under the project might be distributed in an
equitable manner, according to the needs and conditions of each
establishment.
3.          Feasibility Study on the Production of Furniture in Uganda
(March 1982). This study surveyed and assessed the timber,
saw-milling/drying and furniture manufacturing industries in the country
and reported on their production capacity and product standards.
4.          Text and Library Books Survey (April 1982).  A delegation of
eight Ugandan Government officials, representing the various types and
levels of educational institutions, visited London in February 1982. They
were assisted by the British Council and the Publishers Association. After
reviewing materials produced by over 100 international publishers, the
delegates prepared tentative lists of books, including the estimated
numbers which would be required for implementing the curricula of the
Ugandan schools at all levels. Cost estimates were derived from informal
price quotations provided by the publishers. During appraisal of the
proposed project, the tentative book lists were reviewed. It was agreed
that they required reduction and refinement and that further technical
assistance was needed for such an operation.
5.           Selection Criteria for Text Books (July 1982).  At the request
of the Government of Uganda, the Book Development Council (The Publishers
Association International Division) provided the services of two



-  51  -                    ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
specialists to help Ugandan officers refine the book lists prepared during
the Ugandan delegation's visit to London, and reduce them to a size
consistent with the financial allocation set for text and library books
during the appraisal of the proposed project. The Council, prior to
departure of the specialists to Uganda, prepared a detailed document
setting forth the criteria to be applied in refining and reducing the book
lists as originally prepared.
6.          School Equipment Priorities (June 1982).  On the basis of the
Government's project preparation, global priorities for school equipment
had been identified. An equipment specialist, who visited the country in
June 1982, prepared the detailed lists of specific equipment to be provided
for the various types of educational institution under the proposed
project.
7.          Survey of the University Halls of Residence (May 1982).  A team
of architects and quantity surveyors carried out a survey of the 14
residential structures (including eight main dormitories, extensions and
annexes) of Makerere University. The team identified the most urgent
repairs required to prevent further deterioration of the premises and made
a preliminary estimate of the cost of their rehabilitation.
8.          Survey on Distribution of Materials (June 1982).  On the basis
of the Government's project submission of September 1981, and discussions
with the Government by a Bank Group who visited the country in December
1981, preliminary rough estimates of the type, volume and destination of
goods to be provided under the proposed project were prepared. A team of
distribution experts visited Uganda in April-May 1982 to study means and
logistics for the distribution of the project goods. The team, after a
thorough field inspection of transportation, storage facilities,
administrative procedures, etc., submitted to the Government a detailed
report making specific recommendations on the system of distribution
(Annex IV) to be used, which would be financially the most effective under
the security conditions prevailing in the country.



-  52  -
ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SUPPLY AND DELIVERY SYSTEM
Background
1.          The combined problems of distribution and the conditions of
insecurity prevailing within the country were identified during project
preparation. In May 1982, a field survey was carried out by a team of
specialists for the purpose of gathering more precise information and
formulating a strategy that would minimize the risks involved in the
physical delivery of the goods to be provided under the project. The
supply and delivery system described below reflects the recommendations of
the team of specialists.
2.          Consolidation.  Following procurement of books, supplies,
equipment and furniture and according to previously planned schedules of
delivery, the goods purchased under the project would be assembled in one
or two locations convenient to most suppliers (probably one location in
Europe and a second in the Far East since much printing for large
publishers is presently carried out in Singapore or Hong Kong). Goods
would then be packaged and crated according to pre-established requirements
lists, and consigned and grouped in pre-identified sub-distribution points.
Individual crates would be assembled at the consolidation point and put
into containers.
3.          Shipping/Forwarding.  Containers would be shipped through
Mombasa, which would be the main port of entry and where appointed freight
forwarding agents would be responsible for transfering the containers to
rail and truck, while being responsible for all aspects of documentation
and insurance.
4.          Rail and Road Delivery.  Through studies, it has been
established that transport by rail would be most advantageous in terms of
cost as well as security, if containers are used.  By consigning the
containers to three or four railheads within Uganda, goods would by-pass
Kampala which would eliminate the need for central warehousing and reduce
risks of pilferage. From the railheads individual consignees would be
supplied by road. If necessary, good and secure storage facilities are
available on a rental basis from parastatals and commercial firms at the
railheads, as well as at other key locations. With respect to road
transport, there is presently a considerable surplus of capacity within the
country. Most transport operations, particularly cooperatives, have a
pattern of.deliveries from rural areas to main centers of population, the
reverse of the project needs, and would welcome the opportunity of return
loads. This means of transportation could be used at a marginal cost to
the mutual advantage of the transport operator and the MOE and would be
additional to the transport capacity of the existing fleet of the MOE.



-  53  -                          ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2
5.          Security.  It is expected that containers will reduce risks of
theft and pilferage up to the railheads. From then onwards, through the
use of radio, the local population would be informed of the arrival of a
shipment of goods to a certain sub-distribution point. The transfer of
responsibility from the transporters/forwarders to the heads of schools and
other institutions would thus take place with full knowledge and
cooperation of the beneficiary parents and students. In addition the
district inspectors of the MOE would be involved at this stage of the
delivery operation.
6.           Inventory Control and Maintenance.  Because of the quantity of
goods involved, the variety of sources of origin and the complexity of
documentation, all procurement, transport and delivery information would be
computerized. The consultants with the PIU would train their MOE
counterparts in the use of a computer, which would be supplied as part of
the project. The computer is intended as a two-way channel of information,
first to establish for each institution covered by the project, lists of
equipment and supplies which will be delivered, and second to record,
update and store information on each institution regarding enrollments and
other educational statistics, supply needs, existing condition of
buildings, etc. This information would be obtained originally from the
sample survey of Government schools carried out by consultants in
February-March 1982, financed under the Technical Assistance Credit, and
later extended to cover all schools. The proposed project would thus set
up the mechanics necessary to establish a centralized supply and inventory
control department within the MOE, which would ensure that the provision
for school needs is carried out in a timely, equitable and efficient
manner.
7.          A computerized system of information would also serve as a
basis for establishing a maintenance program. The consultant group within
the PIU, as part of its terms of reference, would train MOE staff in
appropriate maintenance procedures, as well as in preparing manuals on the
same subject. This would ensure that all educational supplies and
equipment provided under the project would be used and maintained according
to established principles. The system would also be able to provide
information on the physical maintenance of buildings and their need for
repair.



-  54  -                           ANNEX V
UGANDA
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Reports and Studies Related to Education
A.1 Education Statistics for 1980, February 1982.
A.2 Report of the Uganda National Education Conference, January 1981.
A.3 Educational Development in Uganda, November 1981.
A.4 Education Sector Memorandum (Brief Study), January 1982
B. Reports and Other Documents Related to the Project
B.1 Proposals: Third IDA Education Project, (Government project
submission), September 1981.
B.2  Sample Survey of Government Aided Schools, March 1982.
B.3 Feasibility and Cost Implications of Producing School Furniture
within Uganda, included under B.2 above.
B.4  Textbooks, Library Books and Periodicals - The Delegation's
Report, April 1982.
B.5 Selection Criteria for Text Books, July 1982.
B.6 Equipment Appraisal and Tender Submission, June 1982.
B.7 Makerere University, Halls of Residence, Preliminary Survey, May
1982.
B.8 Survey Report on Distribution of Materials, June 1982.



-A,
THIRD EDUCATION PROJECT                                                                                      ('j
Main pavead roadsf/7 n                                                                                                                                                         -
(Other main roads;                                                      A     tn /         r
Lekoirivar irsoonnltiono                               
4  Iserealiosal airpost                                  />~n 
Other a irports                                                     4          A
r SwamepsV 
Soot elevations In molars oboes sea local      ->       //                                                              0/                                            __
-    atlosal parks Sa me reseraves---
  DisHtrictonpiloit                                                                                                    /          Y              ,t~1
  Nolirnal searoal         -~~~~    7               2                                      ~~-/  -.P\kMOROT> -7
*  District bouslniar                                                           n.                                               2-A                                                             --
In lteraational honanaries             ~               K        C(~>                                                                             'N                                                                         
p                                                   2                      N~~~~~~~~~p
/  I  -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IT1
~~(   WI R:           A     N                                       --                                                                                                      n         Fn



