Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15291-GUI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
May 10, 1996
Industry and Energy Division
Western Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY
Curiency Unit                        Franc Guineen (FGN)
US$1.00              =              FGN 1.000
FGN I million                       US$1,000
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
I ton                  =       1,000 kilograms (kg) or 32,154 troy ounces (oz.)
I troy ounce (oz.)     =      31.1 grams (g)
I carat (ct.)          =      0.2 grams (g)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ANAIM        Agence ANationale d'Aminagement des Infrastructures lUinieres
Aredor       Aredor Guinee S.A.
BNED         Bureau National d 'Expertise des Diamants
BSMM         Bureau de Strategie et de Marketing Minier
CBG          Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee
FRIALCO      Consortium of international aluminum companies which invested in Friguia
Friguia      Guinean alumina production company (operation near city of Fria)
GDP          Gross Domestic Product
GIS          Geographical Information System
HALCO        Harvey Aluminum Company of Delaware (consortium of international aluminum companies
which invested in CBG)
MEE          Ministere de l 'Energie et de  'Environnement
MF           Ministere des Finances
MMG          Ministere des Mines et de la Geologie
MRNEE        Ministere des Ressources Naturelles, de l 'Energie et de l 'Environnement
OBK           OJJice des Bauxites de Kindia
OFAB          Office d'Amnenagement des Bauxites de Boke
PESTAP       Public Enterprise Technical Assistance Project
PPF          Project Preparation Facility
SAG          Societe Aurifere de Guin~e
SBK          Societe des Bauxites de Kindia
SMD          Societ Miniere de Dinguirave
tpy           metric tons per year
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND  PROJECT SUMMARY  .............................................. iii
1. INTRODUCTION                                                                                                     I
2. SECTORAL BACKGROUND                                                                                               I
A. Mineral Resouices and Miiiing Operations .I
Minieral Resources ..............................................2
Mininig Operations .............................................2
B. Thle Role of the Minilig Sector in the National Econoiy .............................................         4
External Trade .............................................4
Domiestic Impact ..............................................5
C. Sector Issues ............................................5
Mining Policies .............................................6
Legal Framekwork .............................................7
Ilnstittiolns .....7..........................................7
Infrastructure .............................................7
D. Goverinment Strategy ..............................................8
E. Tlle Bank Group's Role ............................................8
3. THE PROJECT ......................................................................................................................10
A. Pro ject Ob jectives and Rationale ............................................. 0
B. Project Description ............................................ I I
C. Pro ject Costs and Finanicinig Plan ............................................ 14
D. Economic Analysis ............................................                                               15
E. Project Implemenitationi ............................................                                        18
F. Proculerilem lt ............................................                                                 19
G. Disbursemilenits ............................................. 20



ii
H. Accounting, Auditing and Reporting ...................................................... 21
1. Environimenit ......................................................                                             22
4. PROJECT  BENEFITS AND  RISKS ........................................................                               22
A. Benefits ......................................................                                                  22
B. Risks ...................................................... 23
5. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION                                                          ..  23
ANN EXES
1.       Recent Developments in the Guilleani Mininig Sector
2.        Project Description
3.        Traininig Program
4.        Cost Estimates
5.        Economic Evaluation
6.        Key Project Activities and lImplementation Schiedule
7.        Project Managemenit
8.        Supervision Plan
9.        Environimenital Managemilenlt Plan and Data Sheet
MAP  IBRD 26931
This operation was prepared by a team consisting of Messrs. H. Harald Burmeister. David Jones (AF5IE), Heiniz Henidriks (IENIM),
T. Mpoy-Kamulayi (LEGAF). Cherif Diallo (AFlGUI). Loup Brefort (PSD), James Moose (EC I IN), Alighani Alikhani (Consultant)
and Claude Ginet (Consultant). Mr. Birger Fredriksen (AF5DR) and Ms. Silvia Sagari (AF5IE) are, respectively, the Acting
Department Director and the managing Division Chiet for the operation. Mr. Francois Laporte is thc Lead Economist and Mr.
Emmerich Scliebeck the Project Advisor.



iii
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                Republic of Guinea
Beneficiary:             Ministry of Mines and Geology
Credit Amount:           SDR 8.3 million (US$19 m2 illion equivalent)
Terms:                   Standard IDA terms, with 40 vears maturity
Onlending Terms:         Not applicable
Project Objectives and
Description:             The project objectives are: to strengtheni the Government's
capacity to act as facilitator and regulator of mining
activities; and to help attract private investments for mining
sector development. The project comprises: (i) a legal
componient. aimed at improving the overall legal and
regulatory framework for the mining sector; (ii) a data
component, aimed at furnisling essential intormation.
including a mining data bank and a geological map; (iii) an
institutional component, aimed  at strengtheniing  the
Governmenit's capacity to facilitate private investment and
applv regulatioins in the mining sector; and (iv) a
restructUring componenit, assisting the Governmenit in
selecting  options  and  preparing  detailed  plans  for
restructuring, privatization or liquidation of those mining
enterpr-ises in whiclh it still holds a major interest. In
addition, the project provides for traininlg and equipmnenit to
support the four main componenits.
Project Benefits:        The project will help open the doors to private investment
in the mining of bauxite. alumina, gold and diamonds, and
possibly other minerals. As a result. Guinea could further
consolidate its leading role in world bauxite exports.
strengtheni its role as an alumina exporter, and become a
significant regional producer of gold. The total export value



iv
of minerals could be expanded to a level of US$600-800
million per year, and Government revenues from mining
maintained at annual levels of US$ 100 millionl.
Risks:                   Despite assurances and good intenitionis demonstrated so
far, there is a risk that the Government may not follow-
through on implementing all measures which the project is
designed to develop. This risk is believed to be low because
of the demonstrated Government ownership of the project
and because the Government has recognized that it would
incur heavy financial losses if the measures were not
implemented.
Economic Rate of Return: 23 - 55%



v
Table 1: Estimated Project Costs
(In USS million, including taxes and duties)
Local  Foreign   Total
1. Legal Component               0.2       1.1      1.3
2. Data Component                 2.8      6.2      9.0
3. Institutional Component        0.8      1.4      2.2
4. Restructuring Component        0.3      1.3      1.6
5. Training                       0.1      0.3      0.4
6. Project Preparation              -      0.5      0.5
Total Base Costs                  4.2     10.8      15.0
Physical Contingencies        0.3      0.7       1.0
Price Contingencies           0.2      0.6       0.8
Total Project Costs              4.7*     12.1      16.8
* includinig US$3.0( millioni taxes and duties
Table 2: Financing Plan
(in US$ million equivalent)
Local           Foreign      Total
Government    4.6                  -          4.6
IDA            0.1               12.1        12.2
Total          4.7               12.1        16.8
Table 3: Estimated Credit Disbursements
(in USS million equivalent)
FY96      FY97      FY98       FY99       FY00
Total          0.7       4.2        3.1        2.4        1.8
Cumulative        0.7       4.9       8.0        10.4       12.2






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
1.   INTRODUCTION
1.1   The Government of the Republic of Guinea has requested IDA's assistance in
financing a project designed to strengtheni the Government's capacity to act as facilitator
and regulator of mining activities and to attract private investments for mining sector
development.
1.2   Total project costs are estimated at about US$16.8 million equivalent, including
taxes and duties, of which IDA would finance about US$12.2 million equivalent, and the
Government would contribute about US$4.6 million equivalent.
2.    SECTORAL BACKGROUND
A. MINERAL RESOURCES AND MINING OPERATIONS
2.1   Recent developments in the Guinean mining sector are presented in Annex 1.
Guinea is the world's leading exporter of bauxite (with a share of 40% in world trade),
the first African country to operate an alumina plant, and a known (albeit small) producer
of gold and diamonds. Historically, mining has provided about 80% of Guinean exports,
70% of Government fiscal revenues and 20% of GDP. Though its share in fiscal revenues
has now dropped to below 30%, the sector is still economically very important and may
be considered to be underperforming. Presently, three bauxite/alumina companies
continue operating and one small new gold mine started production (Societe Miniere de
Dinguiraye - SSMD), while industrial diamond operations have halted production. Of the
bauxite/alumina companies, one (Socie&j dies Bauxiles de Kindia - SBK. a bauxite
producer created under a bilateral agreement with the ex-Soviet Union) was affected by
the collapse of the Eastern Bloc market and is now incurring heavy losses, another is
struggling chronically in the border zone of profit and losses, and only the third one
(Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee - CBG, a large bauxite producer with international
partners) is making substantial profits. The poor overall status of the sector contrasts with
Guinea's good geological potential. Agriculture and mining are singled out in the Bank's
Country Assistance Strategy presented to the Board in April 1994 as the two sectors with
good potential for future growth. With sound policies and competent administration,
mining could become a driving force in the national economy.



2
Mineral Resources
2.2    Guinean identified bauxite reserves are the largest in the world. While the
exceptional high-grade reserves of the Sangaredi plateau are now almost depleted, the
remaining reserves are of a quality similar to that of other important bauxite producing
countries. Gold is Guinea's second most important mineral resource. The West African
Birimian rock formation. which is the basis for gold mining in neighboring Mali, Burkina
Faso and Ghana, covers also a portion of Guinea. Each of these neighborinig countries
produce 2-6 times more gold than Guinea. Most past gold mining in Guinea hias been on
alluvial deposits; the industrially more interesting primary deposits lhave yet to be
explored. Based on the successful exploration of primary deposits in neighboring
countries, the prospects for new gold discoveries in Guinea are therefore good. The
known diamond deposits of Guinea are also alluvial, and exploration for the industrially
more interesting primary kimberlite pipe deposits may be attractive to some investors.
Guinea's Mount Nimba and Simandou iron ore deposits contains ore of excellent quality
and large quantity. However, for economic, political and envirotinmenital reasons, these
deposits can presently not be developed.
Mining Operations
2.3   From  1989 to 1993. the aggregate revenues of Guinea's three bauxite/alumina
companies dropped from US$555 million to US$422 million. During the same period,
aggregate profits dropped from about US$230 million to US$85 million (Table 2. 1).
Table 2.1: Key Financial Results of Mining Companies
(ill US$ illillioll)
Revenue    Profit (before tax)
1989    1993    1989   1993
CBG          331     289     183    92
Friguia       140     109     36      0
SBK          84       24      11*   -7*
Total        555     422    230    85
* estimated
Source: Mining compunies
2.4    Compagnie des Bauxites de Guinee. CBG is by far Guinea's most important and
successful mining company, with a dominant impact on the country's balance of payment
and the Government's budget. The company is owned 51% by a consortium of major
international aluminum producers (HALCO), and 49% by the Government. Its operations
are based on the high-grade bauxite reserves of the Boke area. The company operates a
large surface mine (production capacity: 12 million metric tons per year - tpy), a captive
railway and the port of Kamsar. While railway and port were built especially for the
mining operation, they are owned by the Government and were administered by Office



3
d'Amenagemenl des Bauxites tie Boke (OFAB). which also was responsible for housing
and municipal services. Due to international price developments, decreasing ore grades
and increasing production costs. CBG's financial results have been decreasing. As part of
a program to reduce costs and increase efficiency, the Government dissolved OFAB in
May 1995. and decided to transfer most of its assets to a new agency named Agence
Ncationale d Amenageement des Infrastructures Minieres (ANAIM). CBG already operates
and maintains the railway and port. The elaboration of appropriate plans for the transfer
of ANAIM's social assets is included in the proposed project.
2.5   Friguia. Friguia is the country's only and Africa's first alumina producer. While
small by international comparison, the operation is important locally and has become the
object of national pride. The company is owned 51% by a consortium of international
alumilum producers (FRIALCO), and 49% by the Governmenit. Its operations are based
on the relatively low-grade bauxite reserves of the Fria area. The company operates a
surface mine, an alumina plant (production capacity: 0.7 million tpy), a captive railway
and a dedicated port section in Conakry. Due to the low-grade bauxite and the plant's
small size, the company has beeni struggling chronically to achieve positive financial
results. As a consequence. two of the four partners in FRIALCO have been contemplating
pulling out of the venture. To improve the company's results, the Government plans to
gradually transfer municipal services presently provided by the company (in particular
electricity, water and road maintenance) to the city of Fria. While the financial impact on
Friguia would be limited, the action would provide a positive signal for foreign investors.
Technical assistance for the transfer of services is included in the proposed project.
2.6   Societe des Bauxites de Kindia. SBK is Guinea's only fully state-owned mining
company, created under an agreement with the former Soviet Union as a counterbalance
to the Western-dominated CBG. Compared to CBG, SBK is small in terms of bauxite
exports. Its operations are based on the low-grade bauxite reserves of the Kindia area.
The company operates a surface mine (production capacity: 3 million tpy, but actual
production less than 2 million tpy). a captive railway and port at Conakry. Due to the
changes in the former Soviet Union, the market for SBK's low-grade bauxite collapsed,
at the same time, SBK experienced major managerial problems and incurs major financial
losses. To regain a positive cashflow from operations, managerial improvements and
significant personnel reductions are required. The elaboration of appropriate plans for
such changes is included in the proposed project.
2.7   Other industrial mining activities. Until recently, Guinea had an alluvial gold
mining operation. Soc0ete Aurifer de Guinee (SAG), and an alluvial diamond mining
operation, Aredor. IFC was a partner in both ventures but subsequently withdrew from
Aredor. The private partners stopped SAG's operation in 1992 and Aredor's in 1994.
Depleting deposits and lack of profitability were important reasons for halting the
production. SAG's mineral rights were acquired by an Australian mining company with
the intention to conduct exploration for primary ore. IFC has been instrumental in this
acquisition. The Government started negotiations with international diamond producers
to get a similar arrangement for Aredor's mineral rights. A Norwegian group recently



4
invested in a small heap leaching gold operation near Dinguiraye, Societe Miniere de
Dinguiraye (SMD). The operation started production in the first half of 1995. Several
other small foreign groups hold gold and diamond exploration permits, without engaging
in active field exploration.
2.8    Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining. Artisanal and small scale gold and diamond
mining was legalized in mid-1992. Registered production, in particular of diamonds,
increased rapidly. The sub-sector employs a large number of people and is therefore
politically important. However, economic and social benefits are more difficult to assess
for this type of operations than for industrial operations and there are significant social,
safety, environmental and regional development issues connected with it. It is believed
that, mainly due to tax evasion, only a portion of all artisanally mined diamonds is being
sold through official channels. Also, industrial mining has often been hampered by
artisanal mining. An analysis of the sub-sector with a view to better harmonize, regulate
and follow-up its various aspects and impacts is included in the proposed project.
B. THE ROLE OF THE MINING SECTOR IN THE NATIONAL ECONOMY
External Trade
2.9    Value of Exports. The value of mining sector exports declined by 34 % over the
last four years, although the sector is still dominating exports with an estimated share of
79 %  in 1994. The decline of sector exports is mainly determined by the dominant
bauxite/alumina sub-sector. The decline of the bauxite/alumina sub-sector is mainly
caused by a deterioration of aluminum world market prices; quantities exported remained
essentially the same (Annex 1). A significant increase of cartisanally mined diamonds
since 1992 did not lead to any increase in the total export value of the diamond/gold sub-
sector since the decline of the sub-sector's industrial activities has more than offset the
quantity gain (Table 2.2).
Table 2.2. Mining Sector Exports
(in USS million)
estimated
1990   1992    1994
Total Exports   817    657       626
Mining Sector   756    577       499
Bauxite/Alumina   613    449     375
Diamonds/Gold    143    128      124
Source: IMF
2.10   Foreign Exchange Earnings. It is estimated that the net foreign exchange
earnings of the mining sector represent about 40% of the sector's export value, or gross
foreign exchange earnings, and that the sector's contribution to the country's total net
foreign exchange earnings presently is about 45%.



5
Domestic Impact
2.11   Fiscal Revenues. The Government's fiscal revenues from  the mining sector
dropped by 66 % in the period 1990-1994. As explained above, the decline is attributed
mainly to the bauxite/alumina sub-sector, which suffered from a drop in world market
prices and an increase in production costs. Despite the decline, recent fiscal revenues
from the mining sector still represent about 30 % of the country's total fiscal revenues
(Table 2.3).
Table 2.3: Mining Sector Fiscal Revenues
(in US$ million)
1990   1992   1994
Total Govt. Revenue   445    400    351
thereof from Mining Sector   299    180    101
Source: IMF
2.12   GDP Contribution. The GDP contribution of the mining sector has been constant
at 22% since 1990 (Taible2.).
Table 2.: Mining Sector GDP Contribution
(in US$ million)
1990    1992   1994
Total GDP        2,818   2,974   3,395
Sector GDP        626     661    740
Sector as % of total GDP   22.2%   22.2%   21.8%
Source: IMF
2.13   Employment and Local Economy. As mining is a capital-intensive industry, the
sector plays a limited role in national employment; in fact, the industrial mining sector
directly employs less than I % of the country's total labor force. Guinean mining
operations continue to function as enclaves. The local population and authorities benefit
from by-products, such as free or subsidized municipal services (electricity, water, road
maintenance), subsidized food allocations, and low-cost imports of consumer goods.
C. SECTOR ISSUES
2.14  The country is still benefiting from the major foreign mining investments of the
late 1950s and 1960s when first, Friguia, and then CBG and the Soviet-owned Office de
Bauxites de Kindia (OBK - now SBK) were created in the bauxite/alumina sub-sector,
and Aredor and SAG in the gold/diamond sub-sector. No new major investments have



6
been made after these early bauxite and alumina projects. CBG turned into a singular
success, and efforts of the Government were concentrated on retaining maximum
revenues from this operation, while the full geological potential of the sector has not been
adequately utilized. The reasons are foremost, Government policies which have been an
obstacle rather than an incentive for private investments, a legal framework with
significant shortcomings, poorly performing institutions and a lack of infrastructure.
Mining Policies
2.15  Non-competitive and unstable policies are a major obstacle for mining
development in Guinea. The framework under which the mining industry operates is to a
large extent a legacy of the country's centralist policies of the 1960s and 1970s. At that
time, the Government argued that the value of a mineral deposit is equal to the equity a
private partner puts into a mining venture and that the state therefore would be entitled to
a 50% free ownership. The Government has been applying this formula to all mining
operations, except to SBK, which was politically driven and ruled by special
arrangements. In today's competitive mining world, this practice has become outdated
and short-sighted. While the Government decided to reduce Guinea's 'free participation'
from the traditional 50% to 15% in new agreements, many other countries have a lower
or no free participation. In addition to participation, Guinea has been imposing various
taxes at high rates on mining ventures.
2.16  Since the late 1980's, sectoral policy changes were introduced in a piecemeal way
and without consistency. In 1991, the Government published a mining policy paper
calling for a reduction of the State's role as owner/operator of mining ventures and a
strengthening of its role as facilitator/regulator. However, no changes were made in the
ownership and management of existing enterprises, and attempts to strengthen the State's
facilitator/regulator functions were ad hoc and had no major impact. So far, Guinea has
been concentrating its efforts on attracting new investors in gold and diamond mining,
and facilitating artisanal and small scale mining of these minerals. But the bold actions
needed to secure and improve the results of the dominant bauxite mining sub-sector, such
as reduction of redundant staff and service units, have not been taken. A clear and
consistent vision of where to go and plans of how to get there is required. However,
commitment to change is now growing and significant first steps in a new direction have
been made (para. 2.22).
2.17  The tax regime for mining companies is determined ad hoc and a consistent,
comprehensive and stable regulatory framework for taxation does not exist. On several
occasions, special taxes and export taxes not foreseen in original mining agreements were
introduced. Overall, the level of taxes is not competitive with those of other important
mineral exporting countries. Under recently negotiated gold exploration and mining
agreements, Guinea reduced the income tax pertaining to operations covered by these
agreements, but introduced at the same time a royalty. However, in a positive
development, in early 1995, the Government reduced taxes payable by Friguia to improve
that company's financial viability.



7
Legal Framework
2.18  A major revision to Guinea's first Mining Code of 1986 was discussed and
adopted in principle by the Government in June 1995 (new Code). The old Code had
shortcomings with regard to exclusiveness and extension of mining rights and provided
for too large discretionary powers of the MMG. In particular, the old Code neither
provided for exclusiveness of mineral rights for any tract of land nor for automatic
extension of mining rights after successful exploration. However, these important
safeguards for security of tenure, which most investors insist on, were only partly
incorporated into the new Code. Establishment of a clear, non-negotiable and
internationally competitive tax regime, anchored in the investment and mining codes and
possibly supported by a model contract, is another feature important to investors which
would be addressed under the proposed project. Finally, appropriate environmental
legislation and control, which has become important for mining ventures around the
world, is weak in Guinea. Under the proposed project, a review of the latest Guinean laws
and regulations pertaining to mining, the fiscal regime and the environment would be
undertaken, and steps to enact and apply amendments and new legal instruments would
be defined and prepared.
Institutions
2.19  Until October 1994, mining was part of the Ministry for Natural Resources,
Energy and Environment (MRNEE) which was split into two new ministries: the new
Ministry of Mines and Geology (MMG); and the new Ministry of Energy and
Environment (MEE). In December 1994, all senior positions within MMG were newly
assigned. The former Bureau de Stratigie et de Marketing Minier (BSMM) under
MRNEE, was dissolved and replaced by two new units within MMG: one for promotion
of mining development and the other for management of State participation in mining
ventures. These two units are considered to be important and their heads have the rank of
Directeur National. Apart from these two units, there are two conventional Directions
Nationales: one for mining, administering the granting of mining rights, and one for
geology, in charge of the Geological Survey. In addition, there are two ministerial
advisors (one for legal and fiscal matters and one for technical matters), a Secretaire
General (with rank and function of Deputy Minister) and an Inspecteur Gene'ral. The new
organizational structure is compatible with international practice and need not be a
constraint to administrative efficiency.
2.20  The new mining administration wants to address existing issues of institutional
efficiency through training, capacity building and restructuring. The proposed project
would support the needed measures.
Infrastructure
2.21  While well endowed with mineral resources, Guinea lacks an adequate transport
infrastructure for new high-volume mining projects. The few operating railway sections



8
and ports are all dedicated to the existing bauxite/alumina companies (CBG, Friguia,
SBK). Road density is among the lowest in Africa. Power is generated by mining
companies for their own consumption. Capital costs for new industrial construction are at
least 50% higher than in other bauxite/alumina producing countries, such as Australia,
Brazil or India. This is due to the lack of local industrial supplies and qualified
construction contractors in Guinea, a serious disadvantage compared to competitors.
Guinea's economy cannot afford public investment in new infrastructure for mining; such
infrastructure has to be financed as part of mining projects. Therefore, to compensate for
its lack of infrastructure, Guinea has to offer attractive fiscal and other terms to potential
mining investors. Despite the poor infrastructure, Guinea offers good prospects in two
segments of mining: (a) in expansion of bauxite/alumina operations; and (b) in new
gold/diamond mining. As railways and ports for the existing bauxite/alumina operations
are in good condition and probably could be adapted to higher throughput rates at
relatively low cost, expansion of bauxite and alumina production based on use of the
existing transport infrastructure may be financially attractive. For new gold/diamond
mining operations, due to the high value and low volume of the product, the lack of major
transport infrastructure is normally not a critical impediment.
D. GOVERNMENT STRATEGY
2.22  The Government's basic strategy of shifting its role from an owner and operator
to that of a facilitator and regulator was declared in its mining policy paper of 1991 (para.
2.16). This strategy, however, was not implemented because of the earlier lack of will to
analyze the sector's issues and to address them appropriately. Recently, the Government
has recognized the serious deterioration of Guinea's competitiveness in international
mining and the shortcomings of its legal and institutional framework. It demonstrated
resolve to implement its previously declared strategy by improving the mining code
(para. 2.18), reducing Friguia's tax burden (para. 2.17), abolishing OFAB (para. 2.4),
starting public stakeholder discussions on mining policy issues (para. 2.26) and changing
the mining administration (para. 2.19).
2.23  The sectoral development strategy fits both the Government's and IDA's goal to
promote sustainable economic growth in Guinea. As Guinea's balance of payment
problems are growing, it becomes increasingly important to secure benefits from mining.
The tax revenues gained from mining can help to sustain programs directed at reducing
poverty. Given the significance of mining, improved procedures and changed attitudes in
the sector might have a spill-over effect for the economy at large. An improved mining
sector could thus become a driving force for the country's economic development.
E. THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE
2.24  Past Involvement. In the late 1 960s, the Bank financed infrastructure investments
for the CBG Project (Loan 557-GUI), and thus was pivotal in making this project happen
which financially became one of the most successful mining projects ever financed by the
Bank. In 1986, the Bank approved a Mineral Sector Management Project (Credit 1637-



9
GUI) to improve institutional capabilities and the investment climate. This project
enabled the Government to negotiate with HALCO on increased bauxite exports by CBG.
However, due to insufficient Government commitment at that time, the project did not
achieve its objectives regarding institutional strengthening and investment promotion. It
is felt that the Government has changed its attitude towards the sector and is now
determined to implement the strategy introduced in 1991 (para. 2.22).
2.25  Lessons Learned. The lessons learned from the Bank's previous involvement in
Guinean and and West African projects in the industrial and mining sectors concern
mainly the lack of Government commitment and counterpart funding, and the lack of
adequate cost accounting and auditing. During preparations for the proposed project, the
Government has demonstrated significant commitment to its objectives (para. 2.22). It
conducted a workshop in March 1995 with the participation of all Government agencies
involved in the sector, private investors, and the public in order to develop a consensus on
the required policy reform measures. The program to be supported by this project is
designed to prepare and facilitate execution of such measures. Appropriate procedures for
the timely availability of counterpart funding and arrangements for accounting and
auditing will be established. Agreement has been obtained on payment of annual
counterpart funds at the beginning of each year (Para. 3.31).
2.26  Rationale for Present Bank Involvement. The Bank's Country Assistance
Strategy for Guinea, discussed by the Board on March 3, 1994, identified agriculture and
mining as the two important sectors for economic growth. A project preparation facility
for a mining sector management project (PPF 756-GUI) was approved in 1992, but its
utilization was initially delayed due to insufficient Guinean commitment. However, in the
second half of 1993, the previous line ministry invited the Bank to assist in analyzing the
sector's issues. Early in 1994, during a mission to update the sector review, a number of
possible actions were discussed with the Bank to remove rigidities in mining legislation
and existing mining enterprises, and to develop the sector's potential. In October 1994,
the new Minister of Mines and Geology expressed his resolve to act and requested Bank
assistance to implement reforms in the mining sector. Thereafter, the Government
demonstrated its commitment to implement its new policies on several occasions (para.
2.22). Given this commitment, the sector's potential and continuing significance for the
economy, and the Bank's experience from past involvement in Guinean and other mining
projects, the Bank is well positioned to provide support for a project aimed at refining
and implementing new and better policies fostering the sector's development.
2.27  IFC and MIGA. The Bank's involvement in the project which has been
discussed with IFC and MIGA is requested to be beneficial in helping implement IFC's
and MIGA's strategies for Guinea. Both institutions have recently shown an increasing
interest in the Guinean mining sector. IFC was instrumental in attracting the first major
private investment in gold mining exploration Societe Aurifere de Guinee (SAG), would
like to become a partner in this venture when it goes into operation and is also
considering to become in the future involved in the bauxite/alumina sub-sector. MIGA
has received several enquiries regarding the mining sector in Guinea and applications for



l0
insurance coverage from three gold/diamond ventures. Guinea became a member of
MIGA in October 1995.
3.   THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND RATIONALE
3.1   Project Objectives. The overall project objectives are to strengthen the
Government's capacity to act as facilitator and regulator, and to attract private investment
for mining sector development. For this purpose, the proposed Credit would provide
financing for technical and capacity building services needed to: (a) revise the legal and
regulatory framework; (b) furnish adequate geological information to private investors;
(c) improve the efficiency of the administration; and (d) restructure existing mining
operations in line with the new policies and regulations.
3.2.  Project Rationale. The proposed project would provide technical assistance for
capacity-building and improvement of the Government's legal and institutional
framework, as well as for redefinition of the State's role in existing mining enterprises.
The project is founded on Guinea's historic role as an important mineral exporter, its
decreasing competitiveness in an increasingly competitive international mining scene,
and its relatively good mineral potential. Worldwide, mining investors search for
favorable geology and competitive government policies, even in countries with poor
infrastructure, such as prevailing in Guinea. The country is clearly underperforming in
relation to its mineral.potential. Its geology is favorable, but its policies and practices are
insufficiently competitive. The priority needs to turn this situation around are increased
capacity building and improvement of the legal and institutional framework. Actions in
this direction are particularly important for Guinea because of its poor infrastructure.
Accordingly, the project would support a two part strategy. The first element of the
strategy is to attract investment for new mining projects for those minerals which have a
relatively good geological potential but which is under-utilized or not utilized at all. New
gold ventures are preferred investment targets, regardless of a country's status of mining
development. In addition, prospects exist for diamonds and, possibly, iron ore. The
second element of the strategy is to improve the governmental and public framework in
which existing companies operate, in order to make them more competitive and clear the
ground for eventual expansion and modernization driven by private partners. The two
elements of the strategy are linked since usually mining investors look closely at the
success of existing operations, in particular for investments in large-volume operations,
which are the target of many international mining firms. Alternative project designs
which have been considered principally as selected include variations of the size and
scope of the data component (described in detail in para 3.5 below) which accounts for
about 54% of the total project cost. To aresult, the project strategy and package of project
components as selected were found to be the most cost effective option to assist the
development of the mining sector and the promotion of investments therein; the project
thus would finance only the mapping of the more promissing regions of Guinea and



exclude training of MMG personnel to do mapping themselves. The legal agreements are
designed in a way to ensure that the project implementation will be linked to Government
actions which show its continued commitment to the objectives of its sectoral reforms.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.3   The proposed project comprises: (i) a legal component. aimed at improving the
overall legal and regulatory framework for the mininig sector; (ii) a data component,
aimed at furnishing essential information for investors and public administration, such as
a mining data bank and a geological map; (iii) an institutional component. aimed at
strengthening the Government's capacity to facilitate private investment and apply
regulations in the mining sector; and (iv) a restructuring component, aimed at preparing
the restructuring of existing mining enterprises. A full description of these components
and their sub-components is provided in Annex 2. Terms of reference for consulting
services and service contracts described in the following paragraphs are provided in the
Project Implementation Manual of March 25, 1996. MMG will use such terms of
references in accordance with review procedures acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.26).
3.4   Legal Component (US$1.3 million). This component would finance the services
of an experienced international firm to provide assistance to improve legal and regulatory
framework for the mining sector so as to put Guinea at par vis-a-vis its competitors for
mining investment. The component is central to the country's development strategy as
discussed in the Country Assistance Strategy paper of April 1994. International mining
companies prefer countries with clear laws and regulations which leave little room for
negotiations. Guinea's new mining code will be examined in this regard. Cross references
to related codes, such as the investment and environmental codes, will be checked for
consistency. Regulations will be reviewed. All tax regulations applicable to mining will
be reviewed for consistency and also with regard to competing countries. A model mining
investment contract will be prepared. based on the mining code and consistent with the
fiscal regime. Environmental legislation and control pertaining to mining will be brought
up to modern standards. An investigation will be made of the labor code and the
collective labor agreement for the mining industry to determine if these are hindering
efficient management of mining operations. This assistance will be provided by a
grouping of law/accounting consultants who will give in-the-field assistance to Guinean
counterparts. The work will be coordinated by a small working group whichl includes
representatives from other ministries and which is headed by MMG's Legal and Fiscal
Advisor. It is anticipated that the working group will submit proposals for any suitable
amendments to the Mining Code and regulations to an inter-ministerial commission for
review and approval by June 1997. The Government agreed to: prepare by March 31,
1997, draft implementation decrees and legislation aimed at harmonizing codes relevant
to mining; submit by June 30, 1997, such draft legislation to the Bank for review and
comments; and, by December 31, 1997, take all measures required on its part to improve
its mining legal and regulatory framework.



12
3.5    Data Component (US$9.0 million). In the absence of suitable local expertise,
this component would finance service contracts with internationally experienced
engineering consultants to be executed under the supervision of experts from an
experienced geological survey agency under a twinning arrangemenit. The objective of the
component is to efficiently furnish essential geological informatioll of public domaill.
This is an important service customarily maintainied by the responsible government
agencies in all competitive mining countries, to allow them to attend to the needs of
private investors and to keep a register of the country's mineral resources. There is ample
evidence that mining investors prefer to work in countries with well developed geological
data systems rather than in countries with poor data systems. The Bank has  been
supporting the acquisition of geological and mining data banks in other countries,
including Argentina, Bolivia, Ecuador and Tanzania. In view of the high costs of' such
data banks, several alternatives were considered for Guinea. including reduction of the
geographical area to be covered, the density of the data and the scope of the field work. It
was concluded that in Guinea two important tasks have priority: (a) installation of a
modern mining cadastre linked with the Geographical lnformation System (GIS); and (b)
mapping of only the northeastern part of the country, whiclh despite good mineral
potential has never been mapped in the past, at a scale of 1: 200,000, the minimum scale
internationally considered useful for this purpose. In designing these tasks, care has been
taken to find a reasonable compromise between the need to keep costs low and the likely
success rate for investment attraction, high. As one way of achieving this, existing
satellite images and aerial photography would be evaluated before proceeding with field
work for mapping. Also, to reduce costs, limited geophysical data would be collected by
overflying the area with a small aircraft equipped with instrumentation to measure
anomalies of the earth's magnetic field. on an as wide as possible grid, ahead of field
work on the ground. A comparison, done with the help of outside sources, with similar
work executed in Bolivia, Ecuador and other countries shows that costs of the methods
selected are well within the international norm of US$80-150 per square kilometer, when
expectations of good results are better than average. While a direct cost recovery of this
component is not possible, the work is an important integral part of a package of
components which is expected to yield high returns in the form of Government revenues
from future mining activities (paras 3.13-3.19). Due to the highly technical nature of the
services to be furnished under this component, the firms to be engaged to do this work
would have to be prequalified. For cost efficiency, the work would be broken down into
three separate service contracts for (i) airborne geophysical survey, (ii) geologic mapping
and (iii) installation of a modern mining and geological data system. Each service
contract would be awarded on a competitive basis to a prequalified firm with the
requirement to deliver complete end-products. Coordination and supervision would be
provided by an experienced foreign geological survey agency to be engaged under a
twinning arrangement with MMG. It has been agreed that experts will be engaged under
such twinning arrangement with a foreign geological survey firm  to assist in the
prequalification and contracting of firms for the service contracts, the supervision of
contract execution, and the training of key Guinean staff for maintaining the data system.



13
3.6   Institutional Component (US$2.3 million). This component would finance
consulting services to help increase the efficiency of MMG's core administrative
activities and divest or reduce its non-essential or commercializable activities. This
objective is fully compatible with the country's and the Bank's goal to form efficient
institutions for execution of government policies. The key administrative functions of
g,ranting mining rights and keeping an independent public register (mining cadastre)
would be made more automatic and fully transparent. Appropriate parameters to monitor
such change are included in the list of project performance indicators (para. 3.22).
MMG's controlling function with regard to environment, safety and health in mining
operations (mine inspectorate), would be strengthened. With regard to artisanal mining,
the consultant would focus on administrative and organizational aspects to clearly define
central versus regional responsibilities, to separate and protect industrial from artisanal
small scale mining, and to adequately address the environmental, healtlh, safety, social
and regional development problems of artisanal mining. The promotional role of MMG to
attract private investment for industrial mining would be strengthened. The role of the
State in administering its interests as a shareholder in mining enterprises would be better
defined and appropriately institutionalized. The Government's laboratory services and the
applied geology services would be reduced and, to the extent feasible, separated from
MMG. commercialized and offered for sale to private investors. In line with the terms of
reference described in the Implementation Manual, MMG wants to prepare by October
31, 1997, for review and comments by the Bank, a draft action plan to commercialize
these services, and finalize the action plan not later than December 31. 1997 by taking
into account the Bank's comments. The role of consultants in all above mentioned areas
would be to assist the Government in elaborating detailed proposals for the improvement
of organization and procedures, and  training key Guinean staff. The costs of the
Institutional Component include a provision for the operation of a temporary unit to
coordinate the project (para. 3.21), as well as for annual assessments on project
implementation progress. (para. 3.20).
3.7    Restructuring Component (US$1.4 million). This component would finance
consulting services required to select the most appropriate measures (such as
rehabilitation, privatization, or liquidation) to be implemented with regards to the
following State-owned mining companies: Aredor, SBK, CBG and Friguia. One of the
goals of such actions is to give a strong signal to potential investors that the Government
is committed to implementing its new policies. As a preparatory step, a preliminary
assessment of the technical, operational and financial situation of Aredor and SBK is
being conducted by qualified consultants with financing under PPF 756-GUI. The
Government agreed to: submit to the Bank by October 31, 1996, the results and
recommendations of the preliminary assessment of Aredor's and SBK's operations for
review and comments; undertake, by December 31, 1996, detailed diagnostic studies
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the most appropriate restructuring
schemes for SBK, CBG and Friguia; submit to the Bank by June 30, 1997, the results and
recommendations of such studies for review and comments; and thereafter, implement
action plans in accordance with modalities and schedules agreed with the Bank. While
MMG will be the executing agency for all studies and proposals relating to divestiture, it



14
will closely cooperate with other government agencies involved, such as the Comite de
Privatisation and the Direction des Marches Publics et du Portefeuille de l 'Etat under the
MF.
3.8   Training (US$0.4 million). This component would finance the cost of local
seminars, workshops and basic training courses, as well as the cost of participation by
selected MMG staff in seminars abroad which would complement local on-the-job
training, an integral part of the consultants' assignments. The local workshops would
further consolidate consensus-building, covering important and broad issues on which
several expert opinions would be obtained. In addition to the training financed under this
component, special courses would be held under the consultant contracts for the four
major project components. An outline of the program for training activities is presented
in Annex 3.
3.9   Project Preparation  (US$0.5  million). This component comprises the
refinancing of the Project Preparation Facility (P756-GUI), which was established in
1992 for the preparation of a Mining Sector Management Technical Assistance Project in
an amount of US$0.25 million and augmented in 1995 by a second advance of the same
amount.
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
3.10  The total cost of the project which would be implemented during the period 1996
to 1999 is estimated at US$16.8 million equivalent. The foreign exchange component is
US$12.1 million (72%). Local costs are estimated at US$4.7 million equivalent (28%);
they include taxes and duties (US$3.0 million equivalent), project management costs
(US$0.4 million equivalent), and local supplies and services acquired under the project
(US$1.3 million equivalent). Cost estimates are based on 1995 prices, with 8% added for
physical contingencies and 2.5% for annual domestic and international price escalation in
1996, 1997, 1998 and 1999. Project costs are presented in Annex 4.
3.11  The financing plan includes an IDA Credit of US$12.2 million equivalent which
would finance US$12.1 million, or 100 % of the foreign exchange costs, and US$0.1
million, or 2%, of the local costs. The share of local cost-financing by IDA has been
calculated on the basis that: (a) IDA would not finance local taxes and duties; and (b) the
Government would contribute 10% of total project costs net of taxes and duties. Local
costs financed by IDA represent a portion of local supplies and services to be furnished as
part of larger service contracts. The Government would finance US$4.6 million
equivalent (of which US$3.0 million are taxes and duties, and US$1.6 million other local
expenditures). The availability of possible cofinancing by other donors has been
investigated, but no opportunities have been identified.



15
D. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
3.12   The purpose of this economic analysis is to give an indication of the Project's
probable net impact on Guinea's economy. Appraisal of the Project's costs and benefits
has shown that its potential rewards are considerable. The Project's main components
focus on capacity building and technical assistance. Economic analysis of such projects
always bears the potential of significant errors since there is only a probabilistic
relationship between inputs and outputs, and since the outputs are heavily dependent on
intangible factors like the Government's commitment and its reputation in business
circles. The guiding principle of this analysis has therefore been to see whether the
proposed investment is worthwile from the country's viewpoint, on conservative
assumptions. The economic and fiscal analysis has been carried out over a notional
(conservative) 15-year project life.
3.13   Fiscal Impact And Cost Recovery. The Project involves public spending and
both public and private benefits. Incremental fiscal revenues would mainly come from:
(i) taxes and royalties from new mining exports by private investors; (ii) taxes on
incremental exports of bauxite and alumina by CBG, SBK and Friguia; (iii) elimination
of subsidies to cover SBK's operating losses; (iv) dividends paid to Government by
companies remaining with public shareholding, or proceeds from the sale of
Government's shares in the companies to be divested; and (v) taxes levied on new private
sector activities peripheral to the new mining areas. To ensure sustainability of the
mining operations which would provide these recoveries, relevant incentives, including
tax incentives, will be provided in the new mining code to secure private investors' long-
term interest in Guinea's mining sector. This analysis assumes competitive future tax
rates which are lower than present rates. The results of the fiscal impact analysis are
shown in Table 3.1 below.
Table 3.1: Fiscal impact (15 -year project life)
(Present Value* in US$ million)
Project costs                   12
Fiscal revenues
Government's revenues
*  from new mines                   8 (low) - 36 (high)
*  from existing mines (incremental)       40
Elimination of subsidies                   I I
Dividends                                n.d.**
Privatization proceeds                    n.d.
Taxes on periphal activities               n.d.
* Present Value: based on constant 1995 prices, tuture payments discounted
12% annually over a period of 10 years after project completion
* n.d.: not determined



16
3.14  The portions of the Project that do not directly lead to recoverable revenues
include the Government's capacity building and the improvement of the mining sector's
legal and regulatory framework.  These activities are required as first steps of a
permanent reform process involving the policy changes (e.g., changes in tax structure)
necessary for competitive positioning of Guinea's mining sector in the international
market. The expected incremental fiscal revenues amply cover the project costs, including
the non-recoverable portions.
3.15   Cost-Benefit Analysis.  The Project follows two strategic approaches: (i)
development of new mining exports by attracting foreign investments for new mining
ventures, in particular for gold and diamonds, and (ii) restructuring and divestiture, and
expansion of the existing bauxite and alumina operations of CBG, SBK and Friguia. The
two approaches are closely linked, since investors want to see success in existing
operations before deciding on new investments. For the Government, the combined costs
of the two approaches are fully reflected in the total project costs. The assumptions
underlying this analysis are given in paragraphs 3.16 and 3.17.
3.16  The main benefits taken into account for new mining ventures are: (a) royalties
and taxes paid to the Government by new private investors as proceeds for the sale of the
country's natural resources, and (b) new employment at wages that yield more than the
opportunity-cost of labor. Private investors' capital and operating costs, which originate
from abroad, are not included in the Project's costs. Similarly, their after-tax profits are
excluded from the benefits of the Project, since these profits are assumed to be freely
expatriated. Some of the profits may in fact be reinvested locally, however, since the
amounts of reinvested funds are unpredictable, they are not taken into account in this
analysis. The high scenario for output from new mines assumes the discovery and
development of two or three medium-sized primary gold deposits and of one primary
diamond deposit. Given the proven occurrence of gold and diamonds in Guinea and
based on exploration and mining results in other West African countries, this assumption
appears reasonable. However, all mining ventures carry an unavoidable geological risk
and to account for it, a low output scenario assumes that only one gold operation of the
size of SAG's previous operation would be restored, as well as a diamond operation half
the size of the previous Aredor operation. Other new mineral ventures, such as
development of the high-grade Mt. Nimba iron ore deposit and any base metal or
industrial mineral deposit, have not been taken into account, although their development
could be facilitated by the Project. Profits of new local private enterprises created in the
vicinity of new mining areas, and the incremental wages generated by these enterprises,
although part of the Project's benefits, are being ignored because no safe estimate can be
made of their magnitude.
3.17  With regard to the improvement and expansion of existing operations, net benefits
to the national economy result from: (a) the incremental production of expansion projects;
and (b) efficiency improvements of the three companies. Similarly to new projects,
incremental production from existing operations yields incremental royalties and taxes,



17
and also provides some incremental jobs, albeit to a lesser degree than a new venture. The
efficiency increases will release labor for other economic output (valued in this analysis
at the shadow cost of labor) and eliminate Government subsidies to SBK. The
investments required would be solely provided by the private partners. The costs and
benefits to the private partners are not considered in this analysis. It is assumed that
bauxite production at CBG would be expanded by 40 percent and that one additional
alumina production line would be added at Friguia, two likely events if the restructuring
supported under the Project is carried out. Withdrawal from non-performing social
activities by the three companies is a benefit and essential for sustainable regional
development, but has not been economically evaluated for the purpose of this analysis.
3.18   Based on these principal assumptions, and considering the opportunity cost of
capital at 12% and the project life limited at 15 years, the net present value of the project
is US$91 million equivalent for the low scenario of new mine development and US$180
million for the high scenario of new mine development. The corresponding internal rates
of return are 55% for the low and 70% for the high scenario. Details of the assumptions
and calculation are presented in Annex 5 and the main results in Table 3.2 below.
Table 3.2: Cost and Benefits
(in constant 1996 US$ million,
future payments discounted 12% aniLtially)
Cost             1 2
lo11w    h10
Benefits     103       192
Net Benefits   91        180
IRR         55%      70%
3.19   Sensitivity Analysis. If no new mine development is assumed, the rate of return
would be reduced to 48%. If no incremental benefits from the existing operations are
assumed, and only the low output scenario for new mines would be achieved, the rate of
return would be reduced to 23%. If costs and benefits of the private investors are included
in the return calculation, the base case return (low output scenario for new mines) would
drop to 17% (this is assuming that the capital invested for new mines and expansion of
existing operations would yield a return of about 15%). Table 3.3 summarizes the results
of the analysis.
Table 3.3: Sensitivity of Economic Rate of Return
Economic Rate of Return
Base case (low new mines scenario)            55%
No new mines                                  48%
No incremental benefits from existing mines   23%
Private investors included                    17%



18
E. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
3.20  Timing. The project would be executed over a period of four years and is
estimated to be completed by December 31, 1999. A summary of key project activities
and their estimated tilming is shown in Annex 6. Detailed implementation schedules, cost
estim-iates and training plans were prepared as part of the Project Implementation Manual
with assistance from a consultant financed under PPF 756-GUI. Adoption of this Manual
by the Government is a condition of effectiveness. Assistance from consultants engaged
under short-term  contracts would be needed throughout the project implementation
period, due to the highly specialized nature of the work to be conducted under the project,
ilcluding the annual assessments of progress achieved in project implementation. In line
with details specified in the Project Implementation Manual, MMG will prepare project
implementation progress assessments, with assistance from consultants financed by the
Bank.
3.21   Project Management. MMG  would be responsible for managing project
implementation which is to be fully financed from the Government's budget. The
Minister. MMG, has appointed a local Project Coordinator who has high-level managerial
experience in the mining industry and has been involved in the project since its
identification. The Coordinator is responsible for coordination of all project activities,
conducting the contracting of consultants and all other procurement activities, assisting
the provision of logistical support, and communicating with the Bank. He has direct
access to the Minister and the Ministry's logistic support. Each component is headed by a
manager who reports directly to the Project Coordinator for the execution of the project.
Thlese managers have been assigned from among the highest-level officials of MMG
directly in charge of the respective functions (Annex 7). The managers will appoint local
counterparts for each foreign expert and, in consultation with the Project Coordinator,
propose to the Minister which staff is to receive training. All contacts with other local and
foreign agencies will be facilitated by the Project Coordinator. The execution of the Data
Component, sub-contracted to qualified firms on a competitive basis, will be assisted by a
foreign geological survey agency under a twinning arrangement acceptable to the Bank
(Para. 3.5). MMG agreed that the execution of any parts of the Project will be headed at
all times by staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank.
3.22   Performance Indicators. MMG. assisted by a consultant and in consultation with
the Bank, selected ten annually set performance indicators to gauge progress achieved in
project implementation. These indicators refer partly to the timely execution of
consulting services and partly to timely decisions and actions to be taken by the
Government. The  agreed  performance  indicators are  included  in  the  Project
Implementation Manual of March 25, 1996. MMG agreed to implement the project in
accordance with the Manual and not to modify the Manual in any way which, in the
opinion of the Bank. may adversely affect the execution of the project.
3.23   Project Sustainability. Important features supported by the institutional and
restructuring components (para. 3.6 and 3.7) relate to an increase of the efficiency of



19
existing mining companies and the divestiture or liquidation of non-essential services.
Such measures are important for the sustainability of the Project. The Government agreed
to carry out a mid-term review by December 31, 1997, and promptly thereafter adopt on
the basis of this review a program for the continuation of project execution and
implement any measures required to sustain the Project's achievements. Continued broad
support for such measures would be strengthened through local workshops conduLcted as
part of the project under the training component (para. 3.8). and a continued participation
in conceptualization and design of further measures to improve the mining sector is
expected. The Government agreed to hold workshops annually, with topics and other
arrangements. including proposed budgets and lists of participants, acceptable to the
Bank. Further measures aimed at increasing sustainability are the training of key staff and
development of specific instructions and procedures for efficient administration. MMG
agreed to submit, not later than 6 months after the project closilng date, an operational
plan satisfactory to the Bank for mining sector management following project
completion.
3.24   Project Supervision. A Supervision Plan is slhowni in Annex 8. Supervision
missions are scheduled at four-months intervals during the first year of project
implementation and semi-annually thereafter.
F. PROCUREMENT
3.25   Procurement would cover consulting services, service contracts, training and
workshops. A  procurement plan  acceptable to  the Bank  is presented  in the
Implementation Manual of March 25, 1996. Among consulting services, the largest
contract would be for assistance in improving institutional efficiency, whiclh includes, in
addition to special studies and advice, training and materials needed for efficient contract
execution. Other contracts for short-term consulting services are foreseeni for legal and
restructuring matters. Consultants would be appointed in accordance with the Bank
Group's Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (August 1991). Among service contracts,
the largest would cover the preparation of the geological map of the southeastern part of
the country. Other service contracts would cover an airborne geoplhysical survey of the
area to be mapped and the installation of a modern mining cadastre and inlormation
system. Service contracts which are listed in Annex 5 would be procured under ICB rules
with prequalification based on Bank standard documents. The training category would
cover the cost of conducting local seminars, courses and workshops (hionioraria, travel and
transportation of training personnel. conference room rental, refreshiments/meals, video
and copying equipment and communications), as well as the cost foi participation by
selected MMG staff in courses and seminars abroad (fees, travel costs and subsistence).
These services would be procured through prudent shopping and selection of individual
consultants in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines. Table 3.4 summllarizes the
procurement arrangements.
3.26   All contracts for amounts of US$100,000 equivalent and more, as well as all
contracts above the equivalent of US$100.000 and US$50.000 respectivelv for consulting



20
firms and individual consultants would be subject to IDA's prior review. However. for all
consultant service contracts, terms of reference, single source hiring, assignments of a
critical nature and contract amendments raising the value above the threshold would be
subject to IDA's prior review and approval. The threshold corresponds to a desirable
percentage coverage of the total estimated value of all contracts.
Tahle 3.4: Procurement Arrangements
(in LJSS million equivalent, includiing contiiigecies)
Project Elements          Procurement Methods
1CB       Other       Not IDA-    Total
Financed4"'   Costs
I Consultant Services   -         5.8(2)        (6 5(      (3
(4.6)                   (4.6)
2. Service C(onitacts  9.6 ('2             -               9.6
(6.7)                              (6.7)
3. Training             -          (1.4          -         0.4
((1 4)                  ((0.4)
4. PPF Reflinancing     -          (1 5          -         0.5
((1.5)                  ((1.5)
Total                   9.6        6.7         ().5        16.8
(6.7)      (5.5)                  (12.2)
Note: Figures in parentheses are' the amc un zslts to he jinanced hY //),.
(1) Locail taxes ntd co(unteLrpart lu1nds.  (2) Includingp/)F/ject inanagemient.
3.27   Delays in procurement have been a major problem  in other projects in Guinea. To
reduce the risk of such delays, terms of reference, shortlists and letters of invitation for all
major consultant contracts have been prepared prior to negotiations. The appointment of a
project coordinator with industrial management experience, which has been effective
since early- 1995, is further reducing the risk of excessive delays for this project.
G. DISBURSEMIENTS
3.28   The proposed project is expected to be completed over a four-year period; funds
are  expected  to  be disbursed  over four and  a  half years. The  Bank's  standard
disbursement profiles do not provide a suitable basis for comparisoni, due to the special
nature of this project. The disbursement categories and the percentages of expenditures to
be financed by the IDA credit are shown in Table 3.5.
Table 3.5: Allocation of IDA Credit
(in US$ million equivalent)
Category              Amount         'Yo of Expenditures to be
financed
I. Consultant Services           4.2             100%*
2. Service Contracts             6.1             85% *
3. Training and Workshops        0.4              100% of foreign and 85% of local
4. Refinancing of PPF 756-GUI     0.5
5. Unallocated                    1.0
Total                             12.2
* net of local taxes and duties



21
3.29  All disbursements of the proposed Credit would need to be fully documented.
Expenditures against contracts of less than US$ 100,000 equivalent and training programs
costing less than US$ 50,000 equivalent would be made against statements of
expenditures (SOEs). MMG would be responsible for preparing withdrawal applications.
The documentation for withdrawals under SOEs will be retained at MMG for review by
Bank supervision missions and for regular and semi-annlual audits. The Credit would
refinance PPF 756-GUI.
3.30  To facilitate disbursement, the Government would establish a Special AccouLnt In
a commercial bank to cover Bank's share of eligible expenditures. Out of an authorized
allocation of US$500,000, an amount of US$500,000 would be made available from the
Credit upon effectiveness. Once SDR 670.000 has been disbursed under the Credit, the
balance of the initial deposit (US$250,000) would be advanced to the special account.
IDA would replenish the Special Account upon receipt of satisfactory proof of incurred
eligible expenditures, accompanied by a bank statement and reconciliation of the Special
Account.
3.31   Lack of counterpart funds has been a major problem in other projects in Guillea.
Budgetary provisions for local costs would be inscribed annually in the operating budget
of MMG. The Government agreed to open and maintain a separate project accouLnt and to
deposit in the said account by January I of each year amounts agreed upoIn with the Balnk
as counterpart funding for the relevant year (Para. 5.1). Assurances have also been
obtained that funds deposited in the Project Account will be used only for the purposes of
the Project. Deposit of the counterpart funds for the first year of project implementation
in an amount to be agreed at negotiations is a condition of credit effectiveness.
H. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
3.32   MMG will establish and maintain a project accounting and finanicial management
system satisfactory to the Bank. A qualified auditing/accountinig consultanlt will assist in
establishing the project accounting system and audit the project's finanicial statemelnts in
the years 1996 through 1999 with financing under PPF 756-GUI. The establishmelnt of
this system is a condition of credit effectiveness. Agreement has been reaclhed on the
terms of reference for performance of audits by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank of the project accounts in accordance with appropriate auditing practices and in
such detail as the Bank may request. Audited reports will be submitted to the Bankl not
later than 6 months after the end of each year. Appointment of the auditors under a multi-
year contract is a condition of credit effectiveness. In addition, the Special Account and
Statements of Expenditures will be audited annually and audit reports submitted six
months after the end of each fiscal year.
3.33   MMG agreed to submit to the Bank: (a) not later than one month after the end of
each quarter, a project implementation progress report; (b) not later than October 3 1 of
each year, for the Bank's review and comments, annual draft work programs and budgets



22
for the following year acceptable to the Bank; and (c) an implementation completion
report within six months of the credit closing date.
1. ENVIRONMENT
3.34  The project is rated as a category B project. An environmental management plan
and  data sheet are attached as Annex 9. An environmenital audit of all existing mining
operations will be conducted as part of the project. Improvement of mining-related
environmental laws and regulations is an important task under the legal component of the
project. The new regulations would address appropriate reclamation of land disturbed by
mining and protection of waters from leachates and waste from mining activities. A
special focus will be on regulations to control the impact of small scale mining on
environimenit, health and safety. Use of mercury for gold amalgamation and of cyanide for
gold leaching may only be permitted for qualified mining enterprises which can comply
with the required safety and health standards. Consultants will identify the improvements
of the institutional framework needed to allow  an appropriate execution of the
Governimenit's regulatory function for environment, healtlh and safety. The Government
agreed to have the environmental audit of the sector conducted by independent
consultants and completed by October 31, 1997, under terms of reference acceptable to
the Bank and with financing provided under the project.
4.    PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. BENEFITS
4.1   The principal benefits of the project are incremental mineral exports, tax revenues,
employment and regional development, as well as efficiency improvements in the
sectoral administration. The economic analysis shows that even if the project is only
modestly successful in attaining conservative objectives, it is likely to have been fully
justified from an economic viewpoint. The project would help open the doors to new
private investment in bauxite, alumina, gold and diamond mining, and possibly other
minerals. As a result, Guinea could further consolidate its leading role in world bauxite
exports. strengthen its role as an alumina exporter, and become a significant regional
producer of gold. The total export value of minerals could be expanded from the present
level of US$500 million per year and Government revenues from mining could be
stabilized at or increased beyond US$100 million per year.
4.2    Without the reforms supported by the Project, there would be a high risk that the
Government's fiscal revenues from the mining sector could further decline. No new
private investment might be made in, and existing investors could withdraw from, this
sector in Guinea. Public and semi-public mining companies' profitability would be likely
to continue to decline, requiring further subsidies to cover their operating losses. Without



23
the reforms, other benefits expected under the Project would be unlikely to occur,
including Government's capacity building, in-depth reforms of the mining legal and
regulatory framework, and expansion of operations of existing mining companies.
Mining activities could then turn to a burden on the Guinean economy. Without the
reforms, the Data Component may still be useful in leading to a new mineral discovery
and eventual investment; however, the probabability of this to happen would be greatly
reduced.
B. RisKs
4.3    Although projected internal rates of return are high and robust under several
assumptions, there are limited risks which could endaniger the long-run prospects of the
sector and the successful implementation of the project. These risks are mainly seen in
three areas: geological, political and financial. The geological risk consists of not finding
mineral deposits which will be sufficiently attractive in the future world mining scene, a
fundamental risk of mineral exploration in general, which is carried essentially by mining
companies except for the cost, borne by the Government, of the initial geologic mapping.
This risk has been mitigated by restricting the mapping work to a promising area and by
not incurring any costs with exploration activity. The political risk consists of the
Government not following through on implementinig all the restructuring measures which
the project is designed to develop. This risk, however, is believed to be small because of
the demonstrated commitment by the Government to the program, as evidenced by its
initiatives to improve the mining code, reduce export taxes, abolish OFAB and start
public stakeholder discussions on mining policy issues, and because the Government has
recognized that it would incur heavy revenue losses by not implementing the program.
The financial risk consists of the possibility that counterpart funds will not be available
when needed. To reduce this risk, appropriate budgeting procedures will be established
and annual advance payments required.
5.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1    Agreement has been reached that the Government will:
(a) prepare by March 31, 1997, draft implementation decrees and legislation
aimed at harmonizing codes relevant to mining: submit by June 30, 1997, such
draft legislation to the Bank for review and comments; and. by December 3 1,
1997, take all measures required on its part to improve its mining legal and
regulatory framework (para. 3.4):
(b) conclude contractual arrangements satisfactory to the Bank for twinning with
a reputable international geological survey firm to assist in the



24
prequalification and contracting of firms to execute the service contracts, the
supervision of service contracts execution, and the training of Guineall staff
for maintaining the data system (para. 3.5);
(c) submit to the Bank by October 31, 1996, the results and recommendations of
the preliminary assessment of Aredor's and SBK's operations for review and
comments; undertake, by December 31. 1996, detailed diagnostic studies
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank for the most appropriate
restructuring schemes for SBK. CBG and Friguia; submit to the Bank by June
30, 1997, the results and recommendations of suchI studies for review and
comments; and thereafter, implement action plans in accordance witl
modalities and schedules agreed with the Bank (para. 3.7);
(d) ensure that the execution of any parts of the Project will be headed at all times
by staff with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank (para. 3.21);
(e) implement the project in accordance witlh the Project Implementation Manual
and not modify the Manual in any way which, in the opinion of the Bank, may
adversely affect the execution of the project (para. 3.22);
(f) by not later than December 31, 1997, carry out jointly with the Bank a mid-
term review and promptly thereafter adopt on the basis of this review a
program of actions as required to remedy any deficiencies in the execution of
the project and to further sustain the continuation of project execution (para.
3.23). Prior to the review, the Government would furnish to the Bank a draft
action plan to remedy identified deficiencies;
(g) carry out workshops annually on topics under arrangemenits, includinig
proposed budgets, qualification of selected speakers and lists of participants,
agreed upon with the Bank (para. 3.23);
(h) not later than 6 months after the project closing date. submit an operational
plan satisfactory to the Bank for mining sector management following project
completion (para. 3.23);
(i) deposit counterpart funds into the project account by the first day of each
calender year. in accordance with the draft work program and budget agreed
upon with the Bank for each year, and use these funds only for the purposes of
the Project (para. 3.31 );
(j) in accordance with terms of reference acceptable to the Bank, have audits of (i)
accounts and records and (ii) statements of expenditure performed by
independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, in accordance with appropriate
auditing practices, and submit the corresponding reports to the Bank not later
than six months after the end of each year (para. 3.32):



25
(k) submit to the Bank: (i) not later than one month after the end of each quarter, a
project implementation progress report: (ii) not later than October 31 of each
year, annual draft work programs and budgets for the following year, and
finalize said work program, investment proposals and related budget by
November 30 of each year by taking inlto account the comments and
recommendationis made by the Bank and carry them out promptly thereafter:
and (iii) an implemiientation completion report withini six moniths of the credit
closing date (para. 3.33); and
(I) not later than August 31, 1997. submit to the Bank an environimental audit of
the mining sector by independent consultants, under terms of reference
acceptable to the Bank and thereafter adopt the recommendationis of this audit
(para. 3.34).
5.2    Effectiveness of the proposed credit is subject to the following conditionis:
(a) adoption of a Project Implementation Manual satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 3.20).
(b) deposit of an initial amount of US$300,000 equivalent into the project account
(para. 3.31 );
(c) establishmenit of an accountinig and finanicial management system  for the
project satisfactory to the Bank (para. 3.32): and
(d) appointmiient of indepenident auditors under a mUlti-year agreemiient, acceptable
to the Bank. who will audit annually the accounts and records of the project
(para. 3.32).
5.3    Recommendation.  Subject to the above terms and conditions, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of SDR 8.3 million (US$12.2 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Guinea. on standard IDA terms.



26
ANNEX I
Page I of 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IN THE GUINEAN MINING SECTOR
Selected Economic Indicators
Exports
1.      The value of miniing sector exports declined by 34 % during the period 1990-1994 (Table 1).
The total sector's decline is mainly determined by the decline of thle dominianit bauxite/aluminia sub-
sector. The   decline of the bauxite/alumina sub-sector is mainly caused by a deterioration  of
aluminum  world market prices; quantities of bauxite and alumina exported remained essentially the
same, or even increased slighitly for the major producers  . A  significanit increase of artisanally
mined diamond since 1992 did not lead to any increase in the export value of the diamond/gold sub-
sector; decline of the sub-sector's industrial activities, whichi achieve much higher uinit prices 2 more
tiian offset the quantity gain.'
2.      Guinea has been relatively well protected from  a sharp decline of interinationial aluminum
prices, whiich amounted to about 60%  for the period 1990 to 1994. Thie protection is provided by
complex  pricing  formiulas which  have  production  cost componenlts  as well as interinationial
commodity price componenits related to the preceding year. Despite recent temporarv production
cuitbacks of major aluminum  producers to reverse a price decline, structural surplus production
capacities will probably persist for a longer period. Production from  the CIS will probably contilnue
to enter world markets and keep long-tern aluminum  prices ulider pressure.
Table 1: GUINEA - Mining Sector Exports (in IIS$ million)
estim.   estilml.    chUnge
199(     1991      1992      1993      1994       94/90
Total Sector        756       719       577       575      499        -34%
Bauxite & Alumina       613      589       449       433       375       -39%
CBG             367       359       316       289      260        -29%
Friguia          166       154       106       109      103        -38%
SBK              80        76       26        35        12        -85%
Diamonds & Gold        143       130       128      142       124        -4-%
Industrial         65        56       48        34         i        -1/00%
...............................................    ................................................................................ ....................
Aredor           45        40       31        34        n         -Io)"%
SAG             20        15       17        0         0         -/00%
Artisanal          51       40        44        50)      61 ......0
C)iam.          2         26        36       36 .                 60%
Gold            26        14        8        14        21        -19%
......................... . ........  ........  6.................   k................   ..............
Central Bank        27        35        36        58       63         /33%
Source. 14IF
I/ Since 1990, CBG and Friguia increased their export quantities by about 5% and 1%. respectively, wihile export
quantities of the small producer SBK dropped by more than 60%.
2/ The average value of industrially mined diamonds was about 350$/carat. of artisanallN mined diamonds about
75$/carat.
3/ The Bank's International Trade Division forecasts aluminium prices (in constant terms) to remain at the present
level for thc following 10 years. This level is about 25%,o lower than the 1989 lcvel.



27
\NNEX  I
Palte 2 otf
3.      Fiscatl Reveenies. 'I'he goveriinenit's fiscal revenules frol  the inning sector dropped by 66 %
since 1990. The decline cani be attributed lainily to thle hauxite/a tim 1.ima suil-sector: diamionld anid
gold mining lhad almost no imipact on the declilc'. Despite the declinle total tiscal re\enuies from the
iiiiining sector are still high in relation to the COuLtry's total fiscal revenliues and the in iniii   sectors
turnover. In 1994. total taxes paid by the Guilnean mnillilnl secto r still represented ahoLit 3i0 %  of all
Guinean fiscal revenues anid 20 %  of the minintg sector's sales revenluies (\\Iile internlationally
exporters of bulk mninerals ty picall  pav less tlhanl   0 %taxes in relationi to tleir sales-).
4.      Other Economi7ic Indlicators. GDP ( Conrihillion. Since 1990. tle G[)P conitr-ibuitioll of thle
m ining sector remainied stable at aboLut 20 %. Bank staff estimiate thiat the sector's GDP conltribution
is tin likely to grow  in future. In the nedcCilini-term, ani inicrease of alum mum  prices, anld hience also
protits fromii bauxite mining and (iDP conitribLItiol. imaN bIllepossible. loever  in tIle lon0g-rull
miii iiing contribution to GDP will probably decline tor two ilia'or reasons (a) metal priccs are likely
to conitinile to decline in real terilis: and (b) Gulinea nieeds and is HUi\ely to achileve, economic
diversification Outsicde ininill.
5.      AeNet Foreign Exchange Earnings. AlthoLighi deciing. it is estimaited thlat the miniing sector's
contribuition to the country's niet foreigii exchange earnings is still in thle range of 40-50 %. Mainly
dLie to the higoi taxation of tle sector, the ratio of net to gross toreign exchange earning.ts remainied at
a high and constanit level.
Government Policies, Legal Framework ani( Institutions
Mining Policies
6.      Recent mining policies lhave been directed towards recliced inivolveimenit of the state anld
diversification ot the sector. In 199 1. the Governimlent adopted a nii in ing policy paper whichi was
pirepared bv MRNEE and preceded by the Baik's sector reviev. A first miajor aclieveimentt, vhich
cani be largely contributed to this policy slift. was the signinig of exploration agreeients witlh two
imnportant internlationlal mininlg firms. Cyprtus of the   U.S. and Golden Slhamrock of Aistralia, in
November 1993. To diversify and expanid inining actiities, the government legalized anid regulated
artisanal diamond minii ig in mid-1992. and at the same timie extenlclecd tile regulation. with in inor
imodificationis, to small scale gold and diamiiond mines. As a result, registered Otitpiut from  artisanal
diamond miniing increased shiarply. However. dtie to lower liidistrial activity, the value of total gold
anid diamondci mining did not increase.
1I'iIull o1,  nit II    aLI I is'iil Il LiiaImIIolld  InIiIlioI"  incrca.lcL   ihtarpl\   it ltiln oIII\  il    ilaCl imIpaCt oC   I iscal IrC'CflLICS.
Iaclcd on a t\lpical profit margill ohl 15 ".. ncomtC ia\ ri ol 4(0 ", and n1cgliiblc or l-no il /nxpolr taxes or royaltics.
Recently, Cyprus sold its explorationi anid miining rights.



'-8
ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5
7       Despite reduction of the state's free participation In the recently negotiated agreements, the
contract conditions appear still to be not t'ully comipetitive in interniationial coinparison. In the new
aoreeimen,ts. the Governlmenit reduced its traditionial 'free participation4' fiom  50%  to 15%, wlhile
sub jecting the companies to norimal Guilleani imsport taxation. ManY couLitries have a lower or no free
participation of the state. Interinationially, a compelitive tax package tOr mining comipailies may
consist of 1-3%  royalties, 35-45%  incomile tax, and exemliptioni froim  ilmport tax if the product is
exported. In Guineia, according to thie o ld practice, mining comiipaniies are typically subjected to 65-
85% income tax and 5.6% import tax. Under the recentliy negotiated agreements, Guinea reduced the
incomile tax to 30%, but at the same timile itinoduced a royalty (export tax) of 5-7% and significalitly
raised the import tax together with a mulItitudle of' smaller cduties, although Guinleani miniing
companies export their total produtction.
8.      Legal Fram7ework. In April 1992, two laws vere adopted: (a) a law permitting the artisanal
miililig of diamonds and other gemstonies and their mar-kleting throLIgh authorized sales agencies
only; and (b) a law providing special small conicessioni areas for snmall scale minies for any minieral,
ulicler special slhort-terimi renewable permillts. The law on artisanial diamonid minlilng was suppleinenited
bv a decree creating an office for official estlimationi of the value of exported diamonds. Besides this
legislation, a law creating a mininig development fuLid was adopted In July 1992 (so far without
practical implications). A  new  mininig code, aimed at attactingi more private interest, has been
adopted inl jLuly 1995. A water code, rescinding tihe right to ftree water for any Guineani. hlas been
diafted but still nieeds parliainenit approval (the code would allow  mining coinpanies to charge for
water supplied by themn to the p)Liblic). A new labor code is also inder preparatioll.
9.      Inslitutions. In mid-1992, the Gioverinmemit created a Bur-eazu NValtiontal dl'Experfise des
Dicaannts (BNED). with the role to estimiate the valuie of exported diamonids. The bureau became
part of MRNEE, but is located In the Cential Bank building. Accordinig, to statistics of Antwerp
purchiases of diamonids originating, from] West Africa. a significant amoulnlt of Guineani diamonds
appears to be bypassing BNED. In August 1993, a new limnspection GL)/iwrle dles Mines was created
and added to MRNEE as an additional Ullit in the rank of a D)iricciion Gcnrale. The new Inspection
('c)I>rule hias extremely wide-rangilng functionis and finds it difticult to cooperate with other services
ulider MRNEE. Its maini manldiate is conitiol of all activities of MRNEE to assure efficiency and
conformilityv with rules. Overlap and interferenice with othel- uLits of MRNEE are considerable.
Recognizilig  its weaknesses. MRNEE  contracted  technical assistaiice services to address its
organizational problems6. The work had only limited iilpact. In October 1994. MRNEE was split-up
into two new  miniistries: the Ministry of' Mllines and Geology; and the Ministry of Energy and
Environmiiienit.
In tlle Sekou l'oure era, the: value o' thc miicrali deposit (cooitributcui I\ tlhe stIte) \Vas considceted to he 5() % ol total
pro ject cost, and served to justifv higher dividends'taxcs tbr the go\ Crnment. Ihis Guincan practice is unique and
non-competitive in intiernational .nining.
Stratcgy for African Minimnt. The W\orld Bank. ii ,-
Coiltraci sviyith 'I raclehel from Belgiurn. OlnalcL`d h'e Al In,1n l )cx  (,lpmeC1 Banlo.



ANNEXI
PNco 4 of5
Industrial Mining Operations
(BG
10.    CBG's exports represent abotit 60 O ol'file comiintr's total exports. Prices anld \olInies are
kept at satisfactory levels by a stable grotip ol sllareliol(rcu!tCoLtoilrCl-s (thle world's major aliulrmuill
prodLIcers). T'le pricing f'ormuina softens the effects ofmliajor  market sings Nomirnial SalleS VOILIIuIeS
are contracted  Uith  built-in1 tax  iCCeltiVeS for f    11r11i   N 0luileS. -[hIICsC nInuLIsuIa  safeu>pards are
important to GLCinea. HovoeNer. protection caniot bc iotao I. Tle shareholders are stron,lh aftecled( by
world aluminumii   imarkets. and pres:urc on) CBG to reduice Costs is i   easing. 1 hle 11 l1ii -  crade (62%
Ab203) ore reserves of the Sangairedi ininie are declining. For replacement, CB3G  invested in tlec
Sidikoum  iiine, whichi hias lower-orade (55,%  Ah'0 ) ort reserves an1cd is located further axva\ f1ro01
the railwas loading station. For the next i 5 N ears, CBG wxill be inining, 80 %"(, ol' its prodtuction in tlle
Bidikoumn in me, and 20 % in the Sain-aradi iiiine. Thlereafter-. the depieted Sanigaredi ii ie will have
been replaced by the Silidara minie  w\hich has sliglhtl', lower-r ade o re than thle [3idki.ko1nn  iii ne.
CBG  recenitly also stai-ted to in\vest lbor overlhaulI and moderniization, includiing environmental
improvemiienits, of its prodLIction) facilities iII Kamsar. 'Thsi  in',estment is needed to imainLainl
productioni capacity. It wvill be compieted in aboLlt 6 monflis.
I 1.    CBG's finanlcial results are wkorsening-, and rcjanice on external! financinlg is increasi-g. Fro m
1991 to 1993, revenuLes (Iroppe(i by abotit 20"%. while prodiuctioni costs increased by aboult 30%) The
drop in reveluLies is a reflection of initernatic;ial price developimenit and the lower grade of' thle ore.
The increase in productioni costs is c aused  bN hig-her FixeYd co(sts coCninected with thze rceUnt
investmienits anid hiigher operating costs conInecteId With th1e 13icBioiiin ininic. CBC  is finanicin,g its
investimlenlts by long-terill borrowing anid uses externil shlort-term brid-e financ ing. Fe ICduIce costs,
the Goveriument dissolved OFAB in MaN 1 995 and sIartcd niepotiations w\ith CB( f'Or the tak-e-over
of essenitial services bV CBC in a more elfficient arrangenmcni.
Friguia
1I2.    The companiv achieved a reicord prodtiction in ]'i)93 and it, operations iuinpr-oved tcchnlically
aild environimenitally. In 1993. I- rig.ia produiced 640,000 tOIlS o1falu1-m ia, 3 ` o ilore tlhanl in 1 989 anid
14 %  more thian in 1992. Giveni the relatively s;mall size of thle plant and its older designi, technical
results are good. Tle difficultics connliected with lilc recenat tranisition fhorn flourv to sanidN alulilia
produCtioll lhave been solved. Enviro,imental impact of tie planit hias beeni significanitly imipr-oved.
13.    Despite improved operations, financial results deteriorated sharpl\  L)ue tco a drop in alLiumia
prices by about 20%  from  1989 tO i993, rczenues decrcaseCd accordillyiv, while amunmal operating
costs remainied approximatel\ constaint (uiit costs in real termiis \were reducecd, in parlicuilar with
regard to materials consumilption). In 1994, the maroin hetween revenues anid operating costs did not
cover the fixed export taxes and capital COStS. Which inCreased (lIie to i nvestmenlts '4liis is despite
considerable conicessions in debt restructuring miade by lenders. A program  to further reduce costs
was niegotiated withi tile government in February 1995. As part of this program, the provision of flee
social services by the company to tile pmnhbic IS to be plnased 3Olil ONer two years.



30
ANNEX I
Page 5 ofl5
,SBK
14.    SBK's onlv clienit, tihe Nikolaev alumilina plant in likiraine. switchled to procLIC bauxite on
initernationial spot markets, withl a devastating effect oni volume anid price of' St3K's olutput. At the
saime tinle, SBK is experiencing major operationial anid imanagerial problemis. Wlile the comipaniy
incLirs imajoi finanicial losses, it could, in principle, be profitable anid could even attract foreign
investimienit. bit 1not witiloLit substanitial prior restirLcturin. T1 e company has limited lo   grade
bauxite reserves (46 % Al,03 and 10 % moisture). The ore cleposits at Debele. the existingI mine, are
limited to about 15 iililliol tons, or 7 year-s at a production  rate of' 2 inillion tonis per year. More
reserves exist in the area, but thleir exploitation would reqLir-e investillenlts, for wilich a positive
clecision caninot be miade in the companiy's present status. In the past, the companiy's operationis were
depending to a large extent on teclhnical assistance tromii tihe formier Soviet Union. Now, this
assistance hias been shiarply reduced  Managerial expertise anid controls are poor. The number of
personinel hias alwavs beenl larger- thian in comparable westeril operationis, after the recenit drop of
productioll to 50 % of its previous level, excess personiniel hias becomiie a miajor problemi. In 1995.
SBK started to reduce persoillel. SBK's poit facilities cainnot provide for proper blenidinig, nor are
thiere any ore drying facilities. Tilese ilmajoI tecihilical shiortcomililngs arc a hianldicap for developilig
newi markets.
1 5.    SBK's finanlcial records are rudimnenitarv. Ho[oever, it is clear that the company's finanicial
results deteriorated shiarply. Revenues diropped fi-oii US$72 millionl in 1989 to lJS$24 imillionl in
1993. wihile operating costs inicreased fromil US$22 mlillioni to US$25-30 million. A startinig balance
shieet is still not available. The finanicial outlook is alarming. The alreacly low 1993 bauxite price of
15 $/t dropped furthier to 10 $/t ini 1994. and reachied more thlani 12 $/t at the eiid of 1995. With
anniual sales oft 1.7 maillion tons, annual caslh detficits firoml operations imay be substanitial.
.4, *1 ,,4o
6.    The company, now ftully state-owned, stopped operations in 1994. whieni the previous private
partner (Bricige Oil of Australia) withdrew. Tlle compalny hlas been producing diamonids of good
gemstone quality at a rate of about 100.000 carats a year. valued at about US$35 miillion. In its last
years, the operations have been plagued with an over-sized beneficiatioll plant, increasinig transport
clistance, decreasing ore grade and illegial artisanial mining on its prope-ty. The Governiment is
nlegotiating xviti tf reign investors a sale of Aredor.



ANNEX 2
Pa-e I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUIINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Le-al Component
I      Cocles andtl Rezgiltiliolis. The nieNn ininlg code and related codes, suchi as tile investmenit and
envirolimenital codes, xvill be cliecked for consistency, and cross i-e'ef-ereces between the codes will be
imnproved. An invenitory of existing regLlIations will be made. anid priorities for tlieir review
established. Importanit regulations wvill be addecd to thle extent they' are missing.
2.     .M\81odel (Conorale. [he Gover-iinmenit wishes to establislh a imodel investmnt contract for
ining veltures, wiichi is anchiored in the iiiinilig code anid coimprises the fiscal reg'ime as wvell as all
otlher importanit conlditionls applicable to iiiininii  ventui-es. Finanicial/econiomilic implicationls of tax
rates will be analyzed. The opportUlnitV to lhave two separate ini 'ngr tax rerimes wvill be investigated:
onie reolime l'or venitures wvlici are part ofan iliteriiatioiiallv vertically integrated proCLuctioll chiain
andc clo niot sell theil- product in the world mar-ket (bauxite/alumi.na). and anothler regimne ftor ventures
wlichi sell thieir product in tile World imarket (gold/diamionds). As preparationi ftor the decision on the
tax re-iine for bauxite/alumina veiltljes, the recenlt developmeniits anid outlook in worldwide trade of
bauxite, al.uni ma and al-imiiiuntii viwll he studied, and trailln-, seninars/workshops will be hield.
3.      Envi1onmuem. Aui elvironinental audit of all existing mining operationis (industrial and
artisanal) wvill be conducted. Enlvironimenital laws and regulationls pertaininig to mininig will be
reviewed a id brouilit to ilodei-ti staiidards  An  nlssing important regulations pertailning to
enxironillent. hlealtlh andl safety iii ininim  \v Ill be elaborated and appropriately anchiored in tile
in inijig and enivironimlenital cocles. TI'lle responisibility tor enfor-ceimenit of regulations will be claril'ied.
4.      Labior. It vxill be iiivestigated to wxhat extenit the labor code and the collective labor
areeinellnt for the m    -ining inldustr-y ancd tlheir application are lhinderingr et'ficient maniagemiielit of
mininig operations. Complailts by mining companiies about obstacles posed by tihe code and tile
a_trecimienlt, as well as by practices relating to tlheir application and jurlisdiction.  'ill be analyzed.
Proposals for chianges or amenlcimenits of code and agreemelit, as well as for establishiing better
application and jurisdiction procedures wvithin the ininlilg sector will be made.
Data Component
5.     ,liining (CaitdIre (&  Gc'olgrhial(liCli In1fin)a-1Wiio7 S'ysfein (G1IS). A  system  for digitized
recm-dcling ot'thie inin inig cadastre anicd relevanlt iinino informiation will be designed andc installed. The
sx steml x'ill incorporate the imost important elemienits of the GIS, iiicliding a digitized version of the
topographical and gcological iiap. Electronic hardwvare anid softxvare will be supplied withi the
systein. Guilleanl operaiors will be trained. aiid the sNsteni *vill be turned over to DNM. ready for
operationial use.



32
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 3
6.     Airborne Geophysics. As preparation for geological miappinig and field work, a grid with a
distance of 1 km betweeii the grid lines will be flown over a 75,000 km2 area in Northeasteril Guiniea
for an aeromagnetic and radiometric survey.
7.     Geological Map. A geological map of a scale 1:200,000 will be prepared for an area of
75,000 km2 in Northeastern Guinea. The area has been selected because of its mineral potential and
relatively unexplored status. Satellite imiages, aerial photographis and topographical maps available
for this area will be evaluated and used for the preparation of the map. The geoplhysical data
collected under the project will be evaluated for the map preparation. Some drilling will be executed
in the weathered soil cover for control of the geophiysical data. Any knowin minieral occurreiices, as
well as geological and geophysical anomalies will be verified in the field and their exact location
determined. Copies of the map will be provided for sale to potential investors.
8.     Twinning Arrangentent. A twinninig arrangemilenit between the Ministry of Mines and an
experienced geological survey of an industrialized country will be concluded to assist in contracting
and supervising the execution of the service coiitracts for the Data Componienit (i.e., supply of the
mininig cadastre and elements of the GIS, airborne geophysics and the geological map). The foreign
geological survey will advise MMG on organizationial and staffing aspects with respect to operation
and mainiteniance of these geological services. and will train kev MMG staff.
Institutional Component
9.     Concessioning and Cadastre. MMG's services for concessioning of exploration and mining
rights, for the official public registration of sucih rights and for related documentationi will be
reviewed. Efficient organization and procedures wliich assure clarity and security  for concession
holders will be elaborated.
10.    Mine Inspection. Assistance will be provided to improve the adminiistrative functions of
executing environimenital, safety, health regulations and controllinig the complianice of mininig
enterprises with the regulations. Proposals will be elaborated to strengthieni organizationi and
procedures.
II.    Artisanal Mining. The economic, environmenital, safety, healthi, social and regional
development aspects of artisanal mining will be analyzed. Assistance will be provided to strengthien
the roles of MMG and of regional authorities in artisanal mininig. The problems of separating
artisanal from  industrial mining and protecting mininig land allocated to industrial minling from
clandestine artisanal miners will be analyzed. Ways to improve environimiienital, healthi, safety, social
and regional development problems of small scale mininig will be elaborated. Proposals will be made
to improve organizationi. staffing and procedures of the Direction Nationale des Mines and of
regionial administrationis.
12.    Promotion. Organizational aspects of better attracting and serving private investors will be
reviewed.  Professional documentationi about the Guinieani minnig sector will be prepared and
disseminated interinationially as an information aid for potential foreign investors.



33
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 3
13.    State Participation. Assistance will be provided to better define the roles of MMG and the
Ministry of Finance in administering the State's interests as a silareholder in mi-niig enterprises.
Proposals will be made for lean and efficient administration of the State's shares in minigig in line
with good corporate practices regarding organization and management.
14.    C.ommercialization  of Services. At Guineani request. options to  commercialize  the
Government's laboratory services and the applied geology services will be evaluated. Plans will be
elaborated to separate and commercialize/privatize those sub-services for whiich a demanid exists.
Assistance will be provided to find and attract potential investors for such services.
Restructuring Component
15.    SBK Assistance will be provided to elaborate aiid execute a short-terimi restructurinlg plan to
turn the company profitable. The short-term  restructurinig plan should  ilclude administrative
adjustments, personnel reductions, lowering of the costs of fuel and othier iliiportalit inputs, spin-off
of nonl-core activities and improvemlent of sales. The iilvestinlenit ineeds for a medium-term
conitinuationl of the operatioins will be identified and the existing assets evaluated. Options to
privatize the company will be assessed. A prospectus for privatization will be prepared.
16.    ANAIA. Consultanits will assist the Governmeit il elaborating details of the leasing
agreement for railway.and port. Consultants will assist the Government in evaluating ANAIM's
social assets and defining options for their divestiture. Detailed proposals for preferred options will
be elaborated.
17.    Friguia. Consultants will assist the Government in implementing its commitment to separate
social services (electricity aind water supply, road maintellalice and lospital) from Friguia within a
period of two years. Technical assistance may be provided to mullicipal/prefectural administratioli
and new entreprelleurs.
1 8.    Aredor. Consultants may be required to assist the Government to find a niew investor.



34
ANNEX 3
1'a0e I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUlINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PRO.JECT
TRAINING PROGRAM
,Sources of Recruitne7eni NMinistrv of M'ines and (ieologx
Types of Training:      (a) local coLirses 1or specialists aili( individual oin-thie-job training provided
by consultanlts (this type of traiillnin  is palrt ol coLIisnItiltn  seC\ ices for the
fouL miaini project co Ilponeits: cour-ses. tim in  and palticipat ion will be
specified in tlhe relevanlt contracts for colisultinisg services):
(b) local CouIrses for basic skills plrovided by local firmils (e.,g. lanluage.
familiarity  witil basic comlpliutel sothware  and  elemiienits  ol ftilanlcial
iimaniagenilenit);
(c) local semiinars andc workshops wvithi attendenice of stakelhokiel-s and a
broader local aLidlience. condUcted with assistance firomil indepenclenit experts
or conisultanits engaged tlinder the fotu -r miailn project compollents: and
(d) participatioin of selected statlf in foreli,wil couIrses of sIort dul-atio.
wvorkslhops anid semi mars.
Resl'nsihi/itv:         ConsuIltalnts assist in ident IN ing trainingt nleeds and tinaliziil- the trainling
program: task ilianagers aici the Project Coordinator are responsible for
design anid executioni of trailnintt activities, the Minister ot Mines and
Geology is to approve all foreign training.
Timing:                The  training  activities  vill  b e  coniducted  thirougilotit  tile  project
implemenitationi period (JanuIarv 1996 to July 1999).
Ex)e(tc(d Results:      Familiarization of MMG  stalf with imioderin  and efficient imiethiods of
-administering mininIg andl geologv: consensus strengthening lt on critical
issues (through participatory workshops)
ReenteingW the          Not applicable (ino traininig over longer period).
workplace:



3'5
ANNEX 3
Pa-e 2 of 2
Major Training Activities
4I)/J)lU (. j\ (
Description1                    Tiinzisg     ora/lic'l/ww7t         /H)'vol'-cm1C1
Local Courses for Specialists
Mininig Legislation, Fiscal Regine          1'96-1998           14            DNM. CPDM.BGPM
Contract Negotiations                       1996-1998           4                    C'PDM
Financial Analysis, Auditing                1996-199S           6                CPDM. BGPM
Mine Inspection. Environment, Safety        1996-1998           9                    DNM
Mining Cadastre. Mapping                    1996-1998           11              CPDM. DNRGM
Regional Geology, Mineral Explorationl      1996-1998           5                   DNRGM
Local Basic Courses
English                                     1996-1997           13                   MMG
Computer Software                          1996 & 1998         2')9                  MMG
Basic Financial Skills                        1996              5        DNM, DNRGM. CPDM, BGPM
Local Seminars/Workshops
Mining Regulations                          1997-1999          70                 MMGC MEE
Artisanal Mining                            1997-1999          140        MMG. Govt.. Regions, Miners
Role of the State, Privatization           1996 & 1998         50               MMG. MF, Govt.
The Value of Minerals, Tax Issues             1997             50               MMG. MF. Public
Foreign7 Courses/Sem iars
Investment Proniotion                       1996-1999           8             CPDM/Legal Advisor
Mining Inspectorate                         1996-1997           4            DNM/Technical Advisor
Geological Survey                           1996-1997           4                   DNRGM



36
ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF GLINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
COST ESTIMATES (in US$'000)
Local        Foreign           Total
Legal Component                     250           1.085           1,335
Afain Consulting Services                  183            796             979
Codes and Regulations                44            19()            234
Model Contract                       43            185             228
Fivironment                        74             320             394
Labor Code                          23             1I               124
Special Stdies and Services                67             28')            356
Bauxite/Aluiniia Study               21            93              114
Environmiental Audit                45             196             241
Data Component                                  2,727         6,297            9,024
Service Contracts                         2,033          5,889           N.522
Mining Cadastre and GIS         228            510              738
Consultinig Services          163           365              528
Compuiter Hlard!Software     65             145             210
Geophysics                          661           1,479           2,140
Geological Map                      1,744         3.901            5,644
C'onsulting Services          963          2,154            3,117
Field Work & Equipment       216            484              700
Twinning Arraingement                      94            408              502
Institutional Component                         809            1,486           2,295
Consulting Services                        259           1 140           1,399
Concessions ani Cadastre            22             97               119
Environment & Mine Inspection        55            23,7            292
Artisanal Mining                     18            78               96
Promotion and State Participation   72             315             387
Commercialization of Services        20            8                108
Advisor                             47            205              252
Teclhnical Progress Aundits         25             120             145
F.quiptnent & Project .ltcmagemnent        550           346              895
Restructuring Component                          268           1,165           1,424
Diagnostic Study                           122           519              641
Assistance ibr Imipleinentation           W17            537              639
Training                                         148           266              414
Condulctinig Local Seminiias/Workshlops    148            44              192
IParticipation in Foreign Seminars          -            222              222
Sub-Total                                       4,2')2        10,2,89          14.491
Physical Contingenicics                          294           7,20            1,014
Price Conting'encie.s                            226           55/              777
Refinancing qf PPF -56-G{I1                                    500              500
Total                                           4,772         12,060           16,782
thereof:       Taxes & Duties          2,963



37
ANNEX 5
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUTINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION P'ROJECT'
ECONOMIC EVALUAITION
A. Assumptions
General
Commodity export prices                  Economt7ic henefits (,% ol ey/pn ivic')
1o1 (illkes  fax*  luhor-  /Ottl/
alumina        Sit    160            aluminia      3-1     4 4     4%    11%
bauxite       St      25             bauxite               %     8       16io
gold          MS/t    12               gold                               27 7% I  27.-'0
diamonds      $/cl    250            diamonds    '%        5z     I    25%
* *5% of profits ranging from 1nZ0/ (aILmini;a) tO 20% (gO]d)
** based on cost a1nalysis of e\isting operations. IbOr alu1mna and hauiNte incremieintiil local labor as shlare
ot incremenital export revenues from expansion
Incremental Production due to Project
2001   202   2003   2004   2005   2006    2007             2008    2009   2010
New mines - high scenario
gold              t           1       3       5       6       6        6        6        6        6        6
diamonds         Mct         0.1    0.2      0.3     0.4     0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.4
New mines - low scenario
gold              t           I       I       I       I        I       2        2        2            2
diamonds         Mct        0.03    0.04    0.05    0.05    0.05    0.05      0.05      0.05     0.05    0.05
Expansion of existing operations
alumina          Mt          0.1    0.2    t).3      0.4     0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5      0.5
bauxite          Mt           1      2       3        4       5        5        5        5        5        5
Cost Reductions at Existing Enterprises
Frigaii       CBG        .SBK
present production cost         M$/a                12    I         161     23
thereof   labor                  M$/a              ,3           29          9
labor reduction                  share            10%]         I5%Zo       30%
M$/a             I .          4.3         2.7
total
labor reduction at shadow cost ( 10%O)   MS/a     0.1         0.4         0.3        0. 8
subsidy reduction                     MS/a          -            -         2)         2. 9
totdtl net economic benefit           M/S a        (. 1         ). 4       3.2        3. 7



38
ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
B. Flows and Results
Net Economic Benefits of Individual Operations (US$ million)
fromn New Alines                        fiom Exislting OperaJtions
:'xpalsOioSl    .       Cost redduCiolOfS
I'Ct'LZ     golN               diamo,nds        aluloinai   kauxitel     CLBG &        SBK
Ihigh    low   .   higli   low                                    Friguiac
1998 
1999                                                                                     l
2001                                                                                     2
'(001 .  3         .          6                                4
2002    ID0                   13                    3          8              1          3
20(3     16       .3          19       3                       12             1          3
2004     19       3          25        3           7           16             1          3
)00  .  19                   2 25      3           8          20              1          3
,006    19        6          2 5      3            8          20             I          3
'00      19       6          25        3           8          20              1          3
2Dob     19       6          25        3           8          20              1          3
?009     19       6          25        3           8          20              1          3
2010     19       6           25       3            8         20              1          3
Summary of Costs, Benefits and Present Values (US$ million)
Pro'ect costs                        Net Economic Benefits
(withoultprice    New minies            Existing operations           New and
contingenlcies)                                                        Existing
y eazr                     hi-h1     low          expansion        cost        higil   low
reductions
1996           19
1 99          -6.2
1998             9 - 3 9
1999          -3.1                                                        2              2
2000          -0.9                                                  2           2        2
2001                         10        5              6             3           19       14
2002                        22         6              11            4           37      21
2003                        35        6              1 7            4          56       27
2004                        45        6              23             4           72      33
20(15                       45         6             29             4           78       39
200(16                      45       l10             29             4           78      43
2007   .                    45         1 0           29             4           78       43
200s.  45                             10             29             4           78      43
2009                        45        l 0            29             4           78      43
201(                        45        I0             29             4           78      43
PI'           1 '12                  23             66             14         192      103
(i =I )1/2%R
IRI?       ?0)%   5 ;:5.'S  



39
ANNEX 6
Page I of 2
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES AND IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Key Project Activities to be completed before mid-term review
Year             Borrower's               Action to be taken                Expected Output            Completion
Objective                                                                                Date
1996        Provide appropriate    sign twinining agreement          independcnit qluality atid cost      Apr. 96
geo-information                                          control
Restructure mining     complete transfer of raiiwav and   cost reduction                     Dcc. 96
operations             port from ANAIM to CBG
complete study for restructuring   implementable restructuring        lune 97
of SBK and Aredor                programii
Reform mining          hold workshop with                strengthiened conrmmitiment         Nov. 96
policies                participation of stakeholders
1997        Modernize mining       study international               assessment of Gtinea s               May 97
legislation            bauxite/alumina developments    cotnpetitiveness
create government commission    facilitation of legal eniactmiTcit   .June 97
Restructure  nz;ning   elaborate action plan for SBK     start ofirmplementation bv          June 97
operations             and Aredor                        Go% ermeint
elaborate service spin-offs at   start of implemlientatioti by        lune 97
CBG, SBK & Friguia               Government
..............................   . .....     ....................... .  ........  :.......................   ............................  ......................... ........................................ ....................    .... ......
Administer the         improve concessionitig and        transparency and security of        .ltne 97
sector efjiciently     cadastre                          mining rights
strengthen control of            iilproved reputation and             June 97
environment & artisanal mining   sustainabilitv
conduct environmental audit      basis for improverment of           .lulv 97
environm. legislatioti
review codes and regulations     proposal for changes of             Sept. 97
legislation
design model contract            proposal tor legal enactmenit       Sept. 97
define commercialization ot lab.  start ot implemilenitationi by       )ct. 97
& applied geology                Goverinment



40
ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 2
Implementation Schedule
(Execution of Consultant and Service Contracts)
1996                    1997                    199                     1999
Lcgal ( (olnvOnen-
C odes and Regulations
Model Contract
Labor Code                                        _
Bauxite/Aluniina Study
Fnviromnmental Audit                                  _
I.)aIC (Coniptw.n
Miniig (Cadastre and GIS
(icophysics
GJeological Map                                _
Twv inning Arrangcment
I,75'istirii'Onnl ( Otn/)17L'fl(i?
Inmplemiieintino Regulations
Promoting Invcstment
Admiin. Statc Participations
Comenercializinig Services
Revll rzcluring Comqponeni
SBK/Aredor
Sepa(ration of Services                        -



41
ANNEX ?
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
PROJECT MANAGEMENT
Project Coordinator
(with assistanot,
.................................................................................
overall rcsponsibility. logistics.
communication
Project Administration
.4dministrative Manager
............... ...........................................................
*     secretary
accountant
foreign relations officer
(customs, travel. accomodation)
Legal Component                              Data Component                                      Institutional Component                            Restructuring
Component
Legal and Fiscal                    Director                  Director                   Director Mining                 Technical                     Director
'4dvisor                     Promotion                  Geology                                                     Alcvistcr                 Participations
..................................   .. . . . . . ......... .. ........  ........................................   ................................... . . . . . . . . .   ................ . . . . ..   .... .. . .. . .. .  .................
*     codes &                    *     GIS and                  geological              *     environment,            *     separation             *      SBK
regulations                      cadastre                map                            health, safety                of services            *     Aredor
*     model                                                    airborne                 *     artisanal                                            *     ANAIM
contract                                                 geophysics                     mining                                               *     Friguia
*     labor law                                          *     twinning
arrangements           ____                           __



4?2
ANNEX 8
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
SUPERVISION PLAN
Bank Supervision Input
*   initially three. later two supervision missions per year
regular commuinicatiorn with local Project Coordinator, facilitated by local Bank ottice
* joint mid-tern review in the tield
*   tinalization of the ICR
Borrower's Contribution to Supervision
*   preparation ot'a project implemenitation plai
*   da) to day monitoring of'progress
*   preparation ot anIlual report and activity plan
*   arr-anigemiient oflaudits for project aCcounts
*   coordiniationi ol'missionls bN consultants and Bank staff'
*   preparation of the ICR
IDA Supervision Missions
PfW'eeks *
,hiiprox. Dcte                Pzopose sSkill Requirements                         Bank Sta(    Consultants
tunie 96          starting tield work by consultants    Task Manager                   2
Consultanit                                  2
October 96        review of impleientation progress     Consultant                                    2
February 97       review of impleiiientation progress   Task Manager                   2
lunIe 97          review of implemietation progress     Consultanit                                   2
October 97        mid-term review                       Task Manager                    3
folilow-up on formulation of          Consuiltant                                   3
restructuring program and legal       Lawyer                         2
enactments                            Financial Analyst              2
Enviro. Specialist             2
luole 98          foillow-up on restructuring           T'ask Manager                  2              2
Consultant
December 98      ftollow-up on restruCturing             lask Manager                  2
Consultant                                   2
tune 99           preliaring project completion         Constiltant                                   3
* for field work only



43
ANNEX 9
Page I of 3
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT PLAN
Present Environmental Impact of Mining Activities
1.     The economic and social benefits ftromii indcurtial mininig in Guinlea exceed many timies the
environimental costs, whilch consists mainily of changing the nattural status of land and the qualit) of
water resources. Today, Ilmost mining companies are highly aware of the detrimenital public relationis
impact of sub-standard environilimenital practices anid, therefore, take steps to mitigate environlimental
impact of thleir operations. In Guinea, Friguia completed recently a new dam to store tile red mud
residue form  its alumilia plant and de-dustilIg of its aluli.iina charginig facilities in tihe port of
C'onakry. CBG is currenitly reducinlg dust emissions from  its drying kilns at Kamsar. Contiar-y to
inidustrial mininig, crtiscanal mininig could hiave high environimilental costs in comiiparisoni with
econoiic benefits. The extent of environimlenital damage and the relationshilp between envir-onimenital
costs and economic benefits are subject of an enviroiinienital audit and a broad study on issues of
artisanal mininig financed under the project. There is a r isk that artisanal minlers, if not appropriately
controlled, may increasingly utilize mercury and cyanide for amalgamationi and leaching of gold,
wIhicIh could result in an environlimienital hazard. Attentioi will be given to this aspect durilig thle
studies on1 artisanal mi-ninig.
Managing Environmental Impact of Future Mining Activities
2.     To mitigate the enviroiinmenital impact of increased future miniig activities (a possible. if not
likely result of the project). several actions are expected to be taken to improve m1aniagemilenit of
environilimenital aspects of the mininig sector. Such actions would be fully in line withi the National
Envir-oi-nenital Action Plan (NEAP) adopted by the Govermilenit in 1994. While the project finanlces
consultanit services to support analysis. capacity buildinig, and improvement of the legal and
institutionial framework, it does not provide any finanicing- for past or future mitigationl of
environlimienital damage. For sucih damage, the principle of 'thle polluter pays' is to be applied, as
stated in the NEAP. As part of tile project, the enivironimlenital impact of all existing mininig
operations will be audited by qualified consultants ulider terms of reference agreed withi thle Banik.
The audits Xwill forn the base for elaborationl of proposals to improve the legal and regulatory
framework. Thle consultant's report will be reviewed at the project mid-termi review, and agr-eemilent
withi the Government on actions and a schedule for their implemzenitationi will be sought at that time.
Tlle followving actions are envisaged and supported by thle NEAP and the project:
*  Inp1vroveLment of Legcal atind Regulcatorv Framnework.  All enlvironimenital laws and regulationis
pertaininig to mining will be reviewed for consistenicy, appropriateness and completeniess (thiis
review  is part of the project). limportanit missling regulations would be adopted. Appropriate
standards for monitorinig the environimlenital impact would be establishied.
Institutional Strengtheniing. The respective roles of thle Ministry for Energy and Enviroiiielt,
the Ministry of Mines and Geology, and local autIlor-ities with regard to mnonitoring and
enforcinig thle application of enviroiinmenltal laws and regulationis for' thle millilig sector will be
clarified (part of the project). Organizationial changes may be made to inicrease efficiency, and
key staff would be trained.



44
ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 3
*  Environmental Assessments. The new eniviroli-nental regulationis for the mining sector would
seek to include the requirement for an Environmenital Assessment for any new mininig project.
The procedures for such environmental assessment would be discussed and agreed withi the
Bank.
Inf)rl?nation. A procedure for aninual reporting on environinenital aspects of the mininig sector
would be established.



4 5
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 3
FNV1-CNMENT7AL CA,TA SHEE   =.OP cqt  -=   S
IN TI.  E_:J.A    NCING                   .
Country:                     Gui-ea                                 Project 10 4o.:               GN-P -t-I 
Project:                     1v4r.iLn g [rnvesnMent P.1o10otion
Appraisal Date               June 19. 1995                          IBRO Amount (Sm):             N. A
Board Oate:                  FYr'96                                 IDA Amcunt Sm):               { 1.'
Managing Division:           AYFSE                                  Sector:                       \ini
Lending Instrument:          Spec:foc In%srt                        Status:                      \esona:ons
Date for receipt of EA by Bank (Category A projects):
EA Category:                 B                                       Date Assigned:               June 6. 1995
I'Please oo not :eave any reirs ianK uise o. . r7_c ce :e,eocec 'vnen actoncra!e,
Date data sheet preparedlupdated: janzar'. 18 ,996
Major Project Components:
The project consists orf our comronents fLegai. Ser.ices. Ins::;;icr.aI. and Resni-:turing) aimed at redeflnin  the roie
ofthe Gover trnert in the sector anc s:r..r.thenirr.o the Go-..-ntn:'s c:aacit\ :3 a.nrac: privat: in%tsiments for rnin:r.g
sector de,eiopment.
Major Environmentai Issues: (,cent.,ieo cr S       iSnec:ec m zrolec:)
Artisanal gold mining is a traditton in Guinea. Due to increased exploration by foreign mining companies,
it is likely that industrial gold minng using heap leaching rechnoiogv wil start shortly. W-hile this
rechnoloav can be conrrolled satisfactorilv in an industrial operation, it poses serious environmental and
health risks if applied by non-qualified artisans or small scale miners. 1: is doubtful. whether exis;ing
regulations and administrative capaoilities can assure proper enx ironrmental protection.
Other Environmental Issues: (of esserscope associated witl propect)
N/'A
Proposed Actions: (to mitigate environmental issues Ca=-oes aDove;
An environmental audit of existin_ mining operations in Guinea will be cartied out bv a consultant
financed under the project. The results of this audit will be the basis of a review of existing environmental
regulations pertaining to mining and, to the extent required, for the drar'ing of new regulations. Assistance
will be provided ro strengthen the Government's capacirv to conrrol and enforce environmental regulations.
Artisanal and small scale mining will gain special attention in the proposed regulatory review and capacity
strengthening.
Justification/Rationale for Environmental Category: (pmesents reasons 'or env,rrnhnerra: care,z;rl seiecreo anc ex;,atlanon o.
any cnanges from in 'al classification. mncuo,n, iv'ier,er any cnanSes relate to attemafrves)
The project co, .sts of capacitv building only. Review and improvement of en, ironmental regulation and
enforce-rent caoabilitv are part of the progrzm  supported by the projec:. The principal aim  is ro arrracr
investment from  international mining firms. Such firms normalls follo%% -; ironmental policies \\hich ale
equal to or superior to the requirements of the countrv thev invest in.
Reporting Schedule:
The envrronmental audit report is expected to be completed October 31. 1997
Remarks: (gives srarus or an7y oU7et enve , r..i s.cxes /ists locale;'=-Zs 3rc :_31 VG:I :_nsulted anc .e'aca egor/ A
envwonrnental assss.ments A e!e MaCe OL.^ic localv le'/s wvhe.trer borrower n2s gire, per;ss,on rto release EA et )
N A
Signed by.                                                  Signed by
OoertirnD,n1           rif                                             vironrient Division Chief






rII                                                     9                               I                                            I
1S4'                                        12                                             G  U  I N   E A                           8-
SEN EGAL
-------------r-                                                          MINING SECTOR INVESTMENT PROMOTION PROJECT
Koundarm h, <  
GU INEA- EAcondam                                                                                        -_                  o
flICCAtI                                 *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Mal.
-12       BISSAU                                                                                          r                                                                              12
Gaouod
*Koubio                    oSMD                        oSAG        /t
/Touque       Dmnguiraye                   Tnci3
,                         Sangoredi                                                                                  NiandokoY                                M   A   L  I
,. S j~~BBole                     Telimselre*ooa  gt 
Kamstir                                             Dula                                                     K =             5   Mand
*Friua O f V ?wr,att
OTondon                _M m u                                                              tK nkan           /       /A     
Boffa
-10                                         s -    -Faran                                                                                                                               10"-
A T L A N  T I C           Dulbhrh     oa                    S I E R R A   L E O  N E sori6ay
OCEAN             Conokry                                                                 .
Forecariah     ,                                            >,                f\i -
0   04   0801010-- AREA FOR GEOLOGICAL MAPPING                   f     A;edorAKeooane                                           T E
0  A2O4   60  80 100 120    -- Beniyo                     MINK6rouaneeduGu                                                                                             C OT E
_______________MINES                                                                                            Kssidougos,
KILOMETERS                                       *    IN OPERATION (BAUXITE AND ALUMINA) ?                                                                                  E
14                                                                                                                                              DIOR
I                                0     UNDER CONSTRUCTION (GOLD)            'I                                                                             R
MAURITANIA       j                           OTHER PROJECTS (DIAMONDS               .                                          Beyla
AND IRON ORE)                                 mGcedo       u  Macenta
THE    SENEGAL'<             MALI                             PAVED ROADS                                                                                )        '
Arca of m-p          _+- E   RAILROADS                                        (;--,$                                                 c
GA M B A-'-S   5  ~ 5~ /~'1                                 RIVERS                                                                                         II-'
GUI E~-l                                                                                                                                                                            8
BISSAU                               So (,iNA    B          INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT                 r                                                                           c
GUINEA              ( ',FAO                                                                                                                           The b-oda,-e, -olo-,
Con         c kry* - `                                   AIRFIELDS                            J                           \Nzerekore    Lola6 Mid-r-un')        dernfont,-ns  d-owy
Sl ERRA LEONEf-.   s   COTE        .:             6   NATIONAL CAPITAL                                 LIBERIA                          (       Y             on th,s snap do not
I        r~   Jg   D IVOIRE                         ADMINISTRATIVE REGION CAPITALS                                   I                                     The World 8-nh Goup 
LIBERIA \                            0   PREFECTURE CAPITALS                                                    I                                 n s dolus ntf ny therletayl
--- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                           1N                                                  or oeanendor snet   3.
100 8I{                                             orvaccetanceof  -hs u
0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10









IMAGING
Report No:         15291 GU I
Type: SAR



