Page  1
                                                     CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2874 GUI
                     DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
            (Mining Sector Investment Promotion Project)
                               between
                         REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                                 and
                INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         Dated July 2, 1996
                                                  CREDIT NUMBER 2874 GUI
                    DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated July 2, 1996, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA (the
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility
and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
has requested the Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                              ARTICLE I
                   General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the
modifications thereto set forth (the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement.
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
      "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall otherwise
      agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account of expen-
      ditures in the territories of any country which is not a member
      of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services supplied from
      such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any payment to
      persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such payment
Page  2
      or import, to the knowledge of the Association, is prohibited by
      a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under
      Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the
following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)   "ANAIM" means Agence Nationale d'Amenagement des
Infrastructures Minieres, an agency of the Borrower established and
operating pursuant to Decree No. D/95/169, dated June 5, 1995, of the
Borrower;
      (b)   "AREDOR" means Association pour la Recherche et l'
Exploitation du Diamant et de l'Or, a societe anonyme established
pursuant to an agreement, dated July 7, 1981, concluded between the
Borrower and a group of private investors and operating in accordance
with the commercial laws of the Borrower;
      (c)   "CBG" means Compagnie de Bauxite de Guinee, a mining
corporation established pursuant to an agreement, dated October 1,
1963, concluded between the Borrower and a group of private investors
and operating in accordance with the commercial laws of the Borrower;
      (d)   "FRIGUIA" designates a societe mixte known as FRIGUIA,
established pursuant to an agreement, dated February 5, 1958, as
amended on February 10, 1973, and February 5, 1995, concluded between
the Borrower and a group of private investors and operating in
accordance with the commercial laws of the Borrower;
      (e)   "MMG" means the Minist
re des Mines et de la Geologie of
the Borrower;
      (f)   "SBK" means Societe des Bauxites de Kindia, a state owned
enterprise of the Borrower, established and operating pursuant to
Decree No. D/92/244/PRG/SGG, dated September 14, 1992, of the Borrower;
      (g)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation
advances granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to
exchanges of letters, dated July 8, 1992 and August 26, 1992, and July
27, 1995 and August 4, 1995, between the Borrower and the Association;
      (h)   "Project Implementation Manual" or "PIM" means the manual
outlining the procurement, disbursement and other implementation
arrangements for the Project adopted by the Borrower pursuant to
Section 5.01 (d) of this Agreement;
      (i)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (j)   "Mining Code" means Law No. 036, dated June 30, 1995, of
the Borrower relating to the exploration and carrying out of mining
operations within the Borrower's territory;
      (k)   "Parliament" means the Parliament of the Borrower;
      (l)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in Section
3.04 of this Agreement; and
      (m)   "Service Contracts" means the contracts concluded to procure
geological services required for the database and referred to under Part
B of the Project.
                             ARTICLE II
                             The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Development
Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight
Page  3
million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open
and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to
itself the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project
Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to
pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the
authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be
cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn
from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30
of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of one percent
(1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty
days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the
respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower
from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate set as of
the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a)
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the
next payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agree-
ment.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as
the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of
any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)
in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of Section
4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant
to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum
on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-annual
installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing October
1, 2006, and ending April 1, 2036. Each installment to and including
the installment payable on April 1, 2016 shall be one percent (1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two
percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790 in
constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years, and (ii) the Bank
shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the Asso-
Page  4
ciation may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration
by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the terms
of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by requiring
the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not
yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have been repaid.
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise such
modification to include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the
amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the grant
element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to
paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the Borrower's
economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the Association may,
if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment
to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph
(a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE III
                      Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through MMG with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate admini-
strative, financial, engineering, mining and environmental practices,
and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of
this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance
with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be
governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. For the purpose of Section 9.07 of the General
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the
Association, and furnish to the Association not later than six (6)
months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for
this purpose between the Borrower and the Association, a plan for the
future operation of the Project; and
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of Section
3.01 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   open and maintain a Project Account in a commercial bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;
      (b)   deposit into the Project Account an initial amount equi-
valent to $300,000;
      (c)   thereafter, deposit into the Project Account by the first
day of each calendar year, an amount equivalent to the budgetary
allocation appropriated for the purposes of the Project in accordance
with the provisions of paragraph 3 (b) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
and
Page  5
      (d)   ensure that funds deposited into the Project Account shall
be used only for the purposes of defraying the cost of expenditures
incurred in the execution of the Project.
                             ARTICLE IV
                         Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the
Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in para-
                   graph (a) of this Section including those for the
                   Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
                   accordance with appropriate auditing principles
                   consistently applied, by independent auditors
                   acceptable to the Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than six months after the
                   end of each such year, a certified copy of the
                   report of such audit by said auditors, of such
                   scope and in such detail as the Association shall
                   have reasonably requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other information
                   concerning said records, accounts and the audit
                   thereof as the Association shall from time to time
                   reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure,
the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, records and accounts
                   reflecting such expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the Association
                   has received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account or
                   payment out of the Special Account was made, all
                   records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
                   such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are included in
                   the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                   Section and that the report of such audit contains a
                   separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their preparation, can
                   be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
                              ARTICLE V
                     Effective Date; Termination
      Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has deposited into the Project Account an
Page  6
initial amount  equivalent to $300,000;
      (b)   the Borrower has recruited independent auditors in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement;
      (c)   the Borrower has established, for the purposes of the
Project, an accounting and financial management system satisfactory to
the Association; and
      (d)   the Borrower has adopted a Project Implementation Manual
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                             ARTICLE VI
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 6.01. The Minister responsible for finance of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance
            P.O. Box 579
            Conakry
            Guinea
                                            Telex:
                                            22399 MINFIN
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                  Telex:
                   INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.          82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of
America, as of the day and year first above written.
                        REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
                        By  /s/ Mohamed Aly Thiam
                                          Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  7
                        By  /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib
                                            Regional Vice President
                                                             Africa
                             SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so
to be financed in each Category:
                              Amount of the
                                 Credit                 % of
                                Allocated           Expenditures
                              (Expressed in             to be
      Category               SDR Equivalent)          Financed
1.    Consultants'            2,850,000              100%
      services
2.    Service                 4,140,000              85%
      contracts
3.    Training                   280,000             100% of foreign
      and workshops                                  expenditures and
                                                     85% of local
                                                     expenditures
4.    Refunding of               360,000             Amounts due
      Project                                        pursuant to
      Preparation                                    Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                        of this Agreement
5.    Unallocated                670,000
                                ________
               TOTAL           8,300,000
                               =========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of
the Borrower; and
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the
date of this Agreement.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to
be made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for
goods and services under contracts not exceeding $100,000 equivalent,
under such terms and conditions as the Association shall specify by
notice to the Borrower.
                             SCHEDULE 2
                     Description of the Project
      The objective of the Project is to strengthen the Borrower's
capacity to improve the competitiveness of its mining sector so as to
enable it to attract private investment for mining ventures in the
Borrower's territory.
Page  8
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Streamlining of the Mining Sector Legal and Regulatory
            Framework
1.    Provision of advisory services required to streamline existing
legislation pertaining to the exploration and carrying out of mining
ventures namely through a review of: (a) the mining code with a view
to drafting the required implementation decrees; and (b) harmonizing
the provisions of the mining code with pertinent provisions of other
legislation which are relevant for mining operations such as: (i) the
investment code; (ii) the labor code; and (iii) environmental laws and
regulations.
2.    Carrying out of workshops to foster the participation of relevant
agencies and entities concerned (i.e. technical ministries, local
government, trade unions and mining corporations) so as to build a
national consensus on desirable policy reforms for the mining sector.
Part B:     Development of a Geological and Mining Database
1.    Creation of a national geological and mining database and establish-
ment of a reliable mining cadastre.
2.    Production of geological maps.
Part C:     Institutional Capacity Building
1.    Strengthening the capacity of MMG to: (i) better carry out its
responsibility as regulator of the mining sector; (ii) promote the
divestiture by the Borrower from mining ventures; (iii) increase its
performance in the timely granting of mining rights to potential
investors; (iv) monitor compliance by mining ventures operators with
operating standards mandated inter alia through environmental, safety
and health regulations; (v) maintain a reliable mining cadastre to
register and secure the rights of mining titles holders; and (vi)
adequately exercise the rights of the Borrower as shareholder in
existing mining corporations.
2.    Formulation of appropriate regulations (i.e. environmental, health
and safety) for the carrying out of artisanal small scale mining
operations.
3.    Strengthening the capacity of relevant central and local govern-
ment authorities to enforce compliance with the regulations applicable
to artisanal mining operators through provisions of appropriate
logistical support for surveillance and monitoring of artisanal mining
operations.
Part D:     Restructuring of State Owned Mining Corporations
      Carrying out of diagnostic studies and formulation of action plans
for the privatization or liquidation of AREDOR, and for the restructur-
ing of SBK, CBG and FRIGUIA.
Part E:     Training and Workshops
1.    Provision of on-the-job training and study tours abroad in topics
relating to the mining sector for selected MMG staff.
2.    (a) Carrying out of workshops to disseminate information pertain-
ing to the Borrower's new mining policy namely with respect to attract-
ing foreign investments for mining operations within the Borrower's
territory; and (b) formulating a strategy and related documentation as
required to implement the new mining policy referred to in paragraph
(a) above.
                                * * *
Page  9
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                             SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Service Contracts
Part A:     General
      Contracts for the establishment of the geological database
(including geological survey maps production and installation of a
mining cadastre) shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and
IDA Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 (the Guidelines)
and the following provisions of this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, service
contracts shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and paragraphs 5 of
Appendix 1 thereto.
2.    Prequalification
      Bidders for service contracts shall be prequalified in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 2.9 and 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
      Items required for training and workshops may be procured under
contracts awarded on the basis of shopping procedures in accordance
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project
shall be furnished to the Association for its review and approval, in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in
accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant Guidelines).
For complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on
the standard form of contract for consultants' services issued by the
Bank, with such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Associa-
tion. Where no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by
the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Association shall be
used.
Page  10
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section, the
provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring prior Association
review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection procedures, letters
of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and contracts shall not
apply to (a) contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated
to cost less than $100,000 equivalent each, or (b) contracts for the
employment of individuals estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent
each. However, said exceptions to prior Association review shall not
apply to (a) the terms of reference for such contracts, (b) single-source
selection of consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to contracts for
the employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to $100,000
equivalent or above, or (e) amendments to contracts for the employment of
individual consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent
or above.
                             SCHEDULE 4
                       Implementation Program
1.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   implement the Project in accordance with the procedures set
out in the PIM, and, except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Borrower shall not amend, abrogate or waive any provision thereof
which, in the opinion of the Association, may materially or adversely
affect the execution of the Project; and
      (b)   maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators
included in the PIM, satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out
of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof.
2.    For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Borrower shall:
(a) ensure that each Part of the Project is carried out under the
responsibility of an expert with qualifications and professional
experience which shall be at all times satisfactory to the Association;
and (b) conclude, for the purpose of execution of Part B of the Project,
contractual arrangements, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, with a geological firm of international repute, in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
3.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by October 31 of each year, submit its draft annual work
programs for the Project and related budgets to the Association for
its review and comments;
      (b)   by November 30 of each year, finalize the said work
programs and related budgets by taking duly into account the comments
and recommendations made by the Association;
      (c)   promptly thereafter, carry out the work programs referred to
in paragraph (b) above as they shall have been finalized in agreement
with the Association; and
      (d)   submit to the Association, not later than thirty (30) days
after the end of each calendar quarter, a report of such scope and
detail as reasonably determined by the Association, on the progress
achieved in the execution of the Project during that calendar year.
4.    The Borrower shall: (a) not later than March 31, 1997, prepare
(i) draft implementation decrees required under the mining code, and
(ii) draft legislation aimed at harmonizing the mining code with the
provisions of other relevant legislation referred to under Part A.1
(b) of the Project; (b) not later than June 30, 1997, submit to the
Association for its review and comments the draft legislation referred
to in paragraph (a) above; and (c) by December 31, 1997, take all
measures required on its part to improve its mining legal and
regulatory framework, inter alia, by enacting implementation decrees
required to give full effect to the mining code and by introducing in
Page  11
Parliament proposed amendments to the mining code as agreed upon with
the Association.
5.    The Borrower shall: (a) by not later than October 31, 1996,
submit the results of the technical and financial audits of AREDOR and
SBK to the Association for its review and comments; (b) by not later
than December 31, 1996, carry out detailed diagnostic studies under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, to select the most
appropriate restructuring schemes for SBK, CBG and FRIGUIA, and to
design adequate action plans to carry out the said schemes for each of
the aforementioned state-owned enterprises; (c) by June 30, 1997, submit
the results and recommendations of the said studies to the Association
for its review and comments; and (d) promptly thereafter, implement each
action plan referred to above in accordance with implementation
modalities and schedule agreed upon with the Association.
6.    The Borrower shall conduct the workshops referred to under Part A
(2) of the Project under arrangements approved by the Association; said
arrangements shall include, inter alia, the terms of reference, the
selection of topics, the duration of each workshop, the proposed budget,
the draft list of participants and the qualification of selected
speakers.
7.    Not later than December 31, 1997, the Borrower shall carry out
jointly with the Association, a comprehensive mid-term review to assess
the progress achieved in the execution of the Project.
      (a)   Without any limitation to the generality of the foregoing,
the review shall cover the implementation and management aspects of the
Project, including policy reforms, the performance and use of the
technical assistance personnel, the role and performance of national
experts involved in the execution of the Project, the status and results
of training, reporting, accounting and audit performance, disbursement
and procurement procedures, and the level of amounts deposited into the
Project Account.
      (b)   Not later than thirty (30) days prior to the said mid-term
review, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its comments,
a report in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request,
including an evaluation of the progress achieved in implementing the
various components of the Project, and a draft action plan containing
proposals for remedying identified deficiencies.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, promptly thereafter: (i) prepare and
adopt an action plan, acceptable to the Association, based on the
recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review; and (ii)
thereafter, carry out the said action plan for the remaining period of
Project implementation.
8.    The Borrower shall:
      (a)   carry out an environmental audit aimed at assessing
potential damage to the environment by mining operations with a view
to formulating and enacting appropriate mining operations regulations
required to promote environmentally sustainable mining operations
within the Borrower's territory;
      (b)   submit the results and recommendations of the environmental
audit to the Association not later than August 31, 1997, for its review
and comments; and
      (c)   adopt the recommendations of the said environmental audit
as agreed upon with the Association.
                             SCHEDULE 5
                           Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through
(3) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
Page  12
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect
of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to
time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent
to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule,
provided, however, that unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to
$250,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit
Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 670,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account
shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower
shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for a deposit or
deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower
shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
                   for deposits into the Special Account at such
                   intervals as the Association shall specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association the
                   documents and other evidence required pursuant to
                   paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                   payments in respect of which replenishment is
                   requested.  On the basis of each such request,
                   the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
                   withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
                   the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
                   shall have requested and as shall have been shown
                   by said documents and other evidence to have been
                   paid out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account,
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably
request, furnish to the Association such documents and other evidence
showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule,
the Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement;
Page  13
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of
the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit Account pursuant to
the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated
to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding special
commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of
the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the
equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories
shall follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice
to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and
to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure
or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule;
or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A)
provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so
request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of
such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower
has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time that
any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to
cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association
such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
