Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Repor No. 11714-BR
STAF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
-MS GERAIS S MICIPAL MANAGMNT
AN) ENVIRONM         INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECT
JUNE 21, 1993
MICROFICHE CODY
Report No.:11714-BR    Type: (SAR)
Title: MINAS GERAIS MUNICIPAL MANAGEM
Author: SHEEHAN, MARY
Ext.:39383 Room:I 7131 Dept.:LA1IN
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department I
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Thi document ha a restdcted distibution sod may be used by recpients only in the performance of
their otflkia duties. Its contents may not oterwise be dbisosed withd   Wodd Bank autbhorian



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
January 15, 1993
Cunrency Unit = Cnrzeiro (CR$)
US$1.00 = CR$13,440.86
CR$1.00 = US$0.0000744
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ISCAL MR
January 1 to Deember 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AMM         -  Associado Mlieira de Munidpios - State Association of Municipalities
BDMO        -  Banco de Deenvolmeno de Mias Gerais - Minas Geris Sta.? Development Bank
CEP         -  Catxa Econonmca Federal - Federal Savings Bank
CEMIG       -  Companhia Energica de Minas GeraJs - Minas Geris State Energy Company
CODEMA    -  Consefio Munipl de Desenvolvimento do Meio-Ambiente - Municipal Environmental
Development Council
COPAM       -  Conselho Eswad  de Potwca Anbiental - State Eavironmental Policy Council
COPASA      -  Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais - Mnas Geais State Water Company
DIU          -  Depaawmeo de Infraesrrutura - nfrastrcture  Department (Project Unit)
ELA/RIMA   -  Estudo de Impacto AknbientalRelatorio de Impacto do Meo-Ansbiente - Environmental Impact
Assessment
FEAM         -  Fundag4o Estadual do Melo-Ambente - State Environmental Foundation
1P           -  Fundaf,o Joto Pinheiro - Joao Pinheiro Foundation
FMIS         -  Fimancial Management Information System
PNS          -  Fundag'o Nacional de Saude - National Health Foundation
FPM          -  Fundo de Panicipa$o MunWal - Municipal Participation Fund
GOB         -  Government of Brazil
ICMS         -  Imposto sobre Cbrulgo de Mercadorias - Value-Added Tax
IGP-M        -  Indice Geral de Pre'os de Mercado - General Market Price Index
IPTU        -  Iniposto sobre Propriedade Terriorial Urbana - Real Property Tax
PAE          -  Pano de Apdo Es*rategia - Strategic Action Plan
PDO          -  Programa de Desenwolvbnento Operacional - Operatona Improvement Program
PLANASA    -  Plano Nacionl de Sanewnento - National Sanitation Plan
SEAM        -  Secrearia Esdad  de Assuntos Mukicipais - State Secretariat for Municipal Affairs
SEP         -  Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda - State Sereariat of Fmance
SEPLAN      -  Secretaria de Estado do Plane3amento - State Secretariat of Planning
SErOP       -  Secretaria de Estado de Transporte e Obras Pdblicas - State Seretaiat for Transport and
Public Wodrs
SOMMA       -  Programa de Saneanento B6sicow  Organiza$o e ModemdWa4o Munipal - Municipal
Management and Environmental Infrastructre Program



FOR Oms:IL USE ONLY
NG  ERI BU  MPA
AMEN RNMNTiOL 22SsUCnoMMM
srs; APPRAISAL
Tabk o clt"tsX
LOAN AND PROJECr SUNM&RY   .................    i
L   PROJECT      O     UE .................................. 4.................. 1
IL  THE URBAN       S    CQ .................................  -.2
A. Intf e ........ 2
B. Urbanatdon: StUcue:andTrends ......                  ............ .................. 2
C. Provision of Urban Jhnstructu  and Suvios ....     .............. 3
D. De..n.a..zan    ......                          .       ........... 3
.L  1he    ----o---- Conteo    ..   ...     .............                                   4
P.  Se     ategy: A MeIum-Tem  Vision for te Role of Municipalities   . . ................ S
G. TheStamefOf    Gerais .. .               .        .............. 6
H. Bank E rie In the UrbanS              .       ................... 9
L U*aSectrStrategy ............ ..... 9
moL        .........................  10.. . . . .. . . . . . . .. . . . . .1
A. Proje Objeives and aonale ...........................                                   10
B. Ptoj Descuon                        .         ......... .1......... I
C. ProjeDesFeatms            ........            ..........................    .           14
D. Ppojed Costs andFIncIngPlan .........                                    ............ 14
E. Ml  Borovr and the Execing Ageny  ........              .    .    ....................... . 16
F. Sau sofProjectPrpaaon ........................... . . . ...                             16
IV. ZBME=                           ........       ..........................                  17
A.. MISOLAAProgrn             ..................................                           17
B. The SOMMA Municipal Dvepent Fund            .................................. 17
Tsreport s basd on th fidinp of an appais  maion which visd  rail fiom Januq 12-22, 1993,
conidsing of d. Sheehan, tk managw (LAIN; B. Varon Lenis, sanltary enginwe R. Gilbet, economist; and
V. Coelho,  vir     aspedida  (onmunts). LA. Caalo (LLA), M. Sugar (LOAEL), M. Fra' (on
leave), E. Codato (LAIIN, T. Campbell (IATAD) and E. Mbi (AFSCO) also p*ipated in projec
prepadon.L .Michelse, S. Abmad, L Lewin and A. TWunt (LAI"N hped with report prparaton. The
Pee Reviewers for the poject wear  . hks ad C. Butne (UM    ). G. T. Nankan (SASVP) was the
PrW's Lead Advisor. A. Faiz, 0. Grmesand R. B. Stchn m th managing Division Chief, Projec
Adviso, and Deatme  Dircor, respectively, forthe project
Ths document ha a retted dstbutioa  may be used by recipints only in the performane
of ther offici duties Its contets may noot erwe be discosed without World Bnak authoizati



C. BDMG's Appya7  iPme   ......................................  19
D. Lega .A rgI ens  ..............            ........    . ......  ......... . ... . .  21
E. Procurmm   .........          ...................           ..... ............  22
F. II      zne      ..............................      24
G. AcounIg and             Armaeients ...................................  24
H. Monihing, Mid-Taom Reew adEvauan  ........Eaao...................... 25
I.          entaImpamcStudies ............................. *                          S.  25
J. mplementationSchedule ........        ................ ...............   26
V. FINANOM  ASPEEC OF THE ZRODEC   ......................  26
A. StaeFinances ................ ....*,  26
B. MunicipalFinanes .... .. .2...............   27
C. CostRecvery Policy          .........*..............*                                  28
D. DIne       gofSOlBIA  .....*............... ........ 28
E. Sustnability             ...................................                    ...    29
VL PEENBEBMDR AM                        ..  ..............              ........   29
A. Fiancialands       onaliact .......................... ....... . 29
B. Einnetnd Hedth Bnef .................................... 29
C. Implicatonsfr SectordaPoUh   ..      .................. .............   30
D. PovertynImpac .................. ......... . 30
E. EconomicBenefits .......................   30
F. Risi                               ......  ....... ......#***#.**..........  30
V                                               ... . ............ ;          ...... .    31
TABLES:
2.1 M icdpal Revenue Sources ..................... ..                ..... .. ........ . 4
2.2 RelativeImpotnanceofMunicipalitieslInBrazibnPublicaFin e  ...................... S
3.1    auuCononen  ...............................................  12
3.2 ProjectCosts byCompontet ......................*......   14
3.3 Project Financing Plan          ... ....................................  IS
4.1 Sub-ILoan Tems and Conditions    .      .       ..........................................  18
4.2 Project Costs by Mement and P...Me......   ......................  . 22
5.1 MunIcipa Revenues and Expenditrs In I s Geais ........ . .   ........................... . 27
ANNEXES: .... .....................................................   33
1. Pgie Orig
1A. lhe Projein Support of Decentrlization  . ............. . ......... *.*..... 35
1B. lesonmLeaed from Previous Projec  ....           ..     ......        ..... O*. ..*. 39
2. The Urban Sector in Badl  d in the Stae of Mn    Gewais
2A. Municipal Fisa Regime: Tax Asslgnent In Brzi  ....... . .   ........................  . 44
2B. EvoludonoftheSizeof the TheLevels,ofGovnmmesatn Brazi  ................. 45
2C. MInp tesi           StatandIheirPbpolstionbyzSize Grp ..........        ..........  46
2D. InCatos of Reative Wedth in tho Stft  . ............................... . 47
2E. Wat  and Sewerage Covege Levels and Instttona ArrngnI       s in the State ........ 48
2F. PolicySttementofDecentaiodnand MmicipalStg                goftheStat   .......... 49



Pago No.
3. Pxoes
3A. ProjectDeslgnMatix .............................................  54
3B. DetalledProjectDescription  .........................................  55
3C. DetiedEstimateofProjectCosts  ...........               ..........................  64
3D. Oudine Term of Refence   r Studies  .....................  66
3E. BDMG: he Exeuting Agency  .           ......................................   69
3P. Ihe FwdaAo Jobo Pinheiro  .........................................  77
3G. COPASA Financal Statements and Plan ..................................   79
4A. SOMM   COrgankAtion Chart .........................................    82
4B. Ptoject ksittional and   plem       on A     ge........................  83
4C. SOMMA OionalArrgenens  . .....                   ................................  84
4D. SOMMAA Fd Sn ation and Cash Flow Diagram             ...........................           97
4E. Etimated Sample Contac Profles ..... ................................   99
4F. Esimated Disbursement Schedule    ......................................  100
4G. Selected Key Monitoring ndicators     ..................................... 101
4H. Project                Schedule .       .       .................................... 103
41. Supervision Plan .,................  104
SA. Fhiancial Situaion of the State ............... 105
SB. Structure of Municipal Revenues and Expenditure in Selected Mucipaities in the State  ... 107
SC. Debt Capacity of Municipalities in the First-Year Pogram  ...............                 108
S5D. Cost-Recovery Instrunments ............... 109
6. 2ect Justification
6A. Eoonomic and Financia Evaluation of Sub-Projects ......... ................. 110
6B. EnvironmentalAspects ...............                                                      113
7. Selected Documents in the Project File ..... ........... 115
MAP: Economic regions and selected cities in the State of Minas Gerais, IBRD Map No. 24654.



IgguzK:    oStat of Minas Garas.
Mmy:          Banco de Desometo de Mas Gerais (BDMG).
Amddeft:   Municpaities in Minn (ends and seled SSta agenie.
Mimi:         US$150.0 mtaiion equivalent.
Tems          Repayable in 1S years, inlung five yeam of grace, at te Bank's standard vaible lnteredt rate.
C!W2ee0ves:   The objectives of tie proposed proj  am to: (a) skengthen amuicipl finnca    _       in
support of the recn dectralihrion                      ass retforasce tothrouhcesohica
mobiiatn, and tning amnd m tves for efficent allocatn of tesours for both cuent
expedture and cap  ita nvestment; and (b) Improve II   II eniomnal ueeti  o  u,tms
develomen of a cohereat Stat strategy for loed provison of wawt and swwm     services,
Investment in porty basic sanion Infastructuae, and provision of tehcalbin
formunpa a   dii   tn   onvironmdenal              ien  addon, the project ais to begin
mobiln  private resource  tot municpl service pvion, te  cooperative regional service
provson in mal, institutionally weaker muncipa nd initiate tr   of muniipal magemen
skls to the lessdeveiloped North of the Stat.
Hon:   Tbe proposed projet would conis of five coponents: (a) an inonl dml_gmo m
to upgrade municipal financial administrtin and improve municipa manan and envionmena
plnning; (b) an h   IM Ju           imo   9mm  ut   p       d     v    c sm ad
relatd services, pmarly water, seworuge, draing, solid waste, seet pavin ad lhting in the
State's muniia; (c)  "1 gm    tmoI test pivate sector prviso of muniipal sevs,
and regional cooperative EInin runr  Nor              ;       and (d) and (o) tw  ggfe
focuing on: the devewopment of a Stateide w stra   for local proviion of water and  we
services; and mediumem opdmDs for municipal nfrastutu  finance.
Terms:        Th SSte would use Bank funds to capitaie a municp  develkope  fond, managed by the EDM,
whih wold make sub-loans to munwiipalities and selected St  ac. Te loans would be relent
at a varibl inest rat of about 12% in ral tms (ajusted for inflaon, and nding a spread
to cover the costs of program adminisraion and foig exchae rs) adjusted binally for tms
of five, ten and flfleen years (depending on tpe of Ivstkent), including on to  ee yea  gace.
Bam           IThe pincipal beneft of te ptoposed project would ber (a) enhanced municp  resource mobilization
as a result of inrsed prperty ta  and use- g  reveus; and (b) geater dficienoy in
_anaSemat of cuen expendtur  and prortzat in of in         . It e project's enfructur
investments would have dgnificant positve impact on envir  conditions In the Sta. Benefits
would also incude increased access of a largp poton of urban poor to basicnfiatuctur services.
Decu  of th selection of tho Stao of Mims Genie, te project would address eneeds of a broad
cros-section of B ra's municipatie. t s expetd that about 150 of the munIcipalIties (tho with
popuation over 20,000), repmetng about 75% of to Stae populton, would padcipate In the
enfiukuctm compone, while about 300 nmunipali, or aboutt 90% of the State's populton
would padcipate in the oional devdopment component
(I)



I~~~~~~~~~~rer IIE I It



An NVRONNMM  TLnr                     uPRr
L PROJECT ORIGIN
1.1   Brazil's 1988 cnst   n ro bamaa entd th           monc of munIcipalitIes, giving them
bot gree resposbilIties and  eased revemes tc i1fil their new reponsibil l hese reforms
are estimod to leavo  ui les bet off in 1993 tham they w    In 1989 by about one-third, on
average, lagely fom  edea  and sta tafrs     but also fm  nowly-rated own sources.
esponsIbites which peious had been delat  to higher evds of pvemet due to lack of loca
reso s ad Bris centralistc system - in pa uar in the area of provison of hsuctre and
soca savices - are now back In the hands of municipa mayors. The dhalleg I fbr municipalties to
provide these servc  efficiendy, i.e., I ingly relying on own rather  a  tansfer rsources,
borowing prudeny.    _              d, Iesting in cost-effective projects, congtctng-
out atd pdv szn savi  where oVWh.
1.2    he poposed project ge  out of the Min  Geras State Govenmens dual objectives of
supporting sound fhnancial m_emnua and fisc r ib      at the loca level - which diminishes the
burden of servi  provsion on Stte resources - while adsing preing basic sanitaion needs.
Alhoug war  suWly cover  is high (94% of the urban population), sawage collection ad treatme
(53%  and 0.5%, respctivdy) ar lower   n ohr states    i    m       tive siz  and wealth.
Fw tmore, Joint prvis  of these sevices   less common dtm  In odter states (the Stae company
prov s jug 53% of war  and 21% of sewrage sevices, with the remainder locally provided). The
Staes goal i to pdie seae and seek innovatie is tionl arangements for efficient services.
1.3   1his  the fiflh In a sedes of municipal deveopment projects designed to support Brazil's
d     1      (soo   Ane IB). Th e&a  projes bav reached the mid-tem reiew stae and lessons
from ts           of project have been Irported into project deign. Like its predecessors, the
proposdprojet's prmary objective is the srengfning of mucipal fnancil maagemt. Where the
odwe ammpsa  an g of uban sevic, the proposed projecs focus ib limited to environmenta
6 'w dDcure In dte basic sanitaton seco  (wat, sewerage, solid wast ad drainage) priorized by
the State, since eperec has how the po       imple ment   a          of a narrower sectoral
focus. In additon, the poject seeks to provide a  m  strgy for efficint wate and sewerage
service prvso  nd to explore pvaiato of municipal services. The project also alms at foil cost-
recovery for, inra _structIre sub-projec fianced, wheprovidigfor limited, well-targeted grantsthrough
an Idende  Pio projctd In t  Stes poorer North.
1.4    f nmuiciplities a  to be respoble for exeditu  on many types of public goods and
services, refom of the role,  ction and financial mngm et of local pvee    must be designed
as a oweent pad . A set of cta  to  osse dedgn of muicipal policy-making and reforms and
its applicaton to dhe cm  of Mia   eri i shown in Ane IA. I i tis anysis, along with the
leon (Amn  IB), which has prinpaly guided both th Bank ad Stae ems in project design.
1.5    he proect wa Idetid in May 1991. Three misi  to Mia Geras asisted the State in
ptoec pepaio   h  projet was appraised in Januay 1993 and negotato  completed in May 1993.
'I Delopd in 2r7.. Vs   .q ttMdotwf  &cm Dew        s in AU h ISM, 1M.   2(3R  No. 10616.BR).



-2 -
EL THlUE UAN SICR
A  IntrodIon
2.1   The 1988 constitutional reforms have enonced th Importance ofmunlcpalW   In Bil's fdera
system, so that they now have both geaer   sbilies - in padeular In to area of provision of
Infasructure and soal sevices - and   esed rmes fom ow  and taser s       s t fulfill 
mw resposib. Ti rem   comes at a tm  when Brazil's municpalWes conuo             c
challenges in the aequate and efficient povidon of srvic. Agait te bakound of macroeconomic
crish  hich bn i th e rly 1980s and high nubation rate (as rura poor migrated to cities, driven
in part by the crisis), minipalt  fCe the de owing st of A_,IM: Te fir i low productvity
of            assets. Brazil1's mau  Infraclure networks a  among the most extenie in th
rgion. however, these a     assets have not been adequatey maintined andre mufficient to moe
the growing demand for service. Second, with populatio presure and the eonomic crisis, the Inr
economy has provided services In an        faion which hus led to egrdation of the urban
ecosystem, particulaly in  wa aras.  hrd, ov  the past decade, povery in Bral has become
hoemir_y an urban problem. Although the absolute numbs of rur poo are bigh, urba poverts
sha  as inreased to nexly half of tota poor. Fourth, with crisis has coo failure of fedal
nastructuredelivy progrn, creatin an              ad resource gap. And .ff1   despite tie
decetralzation, mumicpties codiue to be 4opndet financially on fedeal and state tsfars, with
less tha oneflfh of revemues geneated by own sources on avere  These, factors point to a need to
egthen municipaies' capabilities to efficiently gmane   both their resources and resonsibilities.
D. Uba o: Shute and Thads
2.2   Brazil's fedal stur of government      p      26 stae and 4,493      a .    h
about 7S% of its 13.2 millionabitants livig In ura area In 1990, Brazil s one of the most
popu urbn societies in the woV.  In addition to ihe umegacides of Sib Paio and Rio de Janeiro -
- with metropolitan region population of about 16 miion and 11 million  spec y - Brazil has a
ftlher nine citides with more than one million inhabit, inludn Beo Hor te, the capial of Minas
Gean  and the country's hid4argest city (ereon popuoation of 3. million), and numerous
m    msized cities (with poplations of 100,000 to one mion). The largest        of urban
populon is fnd in the me developed Southeast region of e contry (of which the State of Mns
Geas Is a pat).
2.3   In the past, apid urba popation growth reqrd a major fft by public sector authrities to
keep up with the inrea    demand for urban Infrastructr. Durg the 1970s, Bri's urbm poulation
grew by 4.4% per year. Migrats leaving dqerssed rural a , the populatons of which fell by 60%
during the decade, helped fuel this urban demogaphic growth. U izaon  ts slowed in the 1980s
to an avae of 3.4%. P        y reults of th 1991 census ha  so fa not yielded data on uba
populao, hower, the census hndicates a sinfcant dow-down in B        d aphic growth to
1.9% per year over the 1980-91 perod (agai  2.5% per year dudrng 1970-80). Ths reduced pae of
popaion growth may gve n            some oeadtng spc to makb much-needed I           in
the quaity of urban services proided.
I/ Tdoeooto  _a be        u     d    tea. Dug 199Q _ppxW y 300 .wmuniuinWe
sd bainas th cattal to abA 4,800.
2/ Ouba=, ang| mcomkhrd to be   o  p     w  popd  S            20,000.



-3 -
C. Providon of Urban                and Serices
2.4    Duing the peid of I        e  cetrism prior to the new Constitutio (1961-1988), local
ubn hifrastructure was delved trough an eteive network of federal and statsuons. Naiona
urban policy was  ormuled by the National Commission on Metropolitan Regions and Urn Policy
(CNP) during the 1970s, by an    -ministerd National Urba Development Councl (CNDU) in the
mid-1980s, and finally by a short-lived Misy of Urba Develomen (MDU) from 1985 to 1988.
Troughout the nte priod urba inastructure fincing was dominated by WO National Housing Bank
Bow Nadul de HaM         o - BNH). BNH dchan ed the proceeds of workes' compusory savigs
(GTS) Int housing and sniadon Inrstmt. Among die  ost mort, BNH-financed programs
were dhe Nadonal Sanaton Pln (Ma  Nacoi de SMnenm  - PLANASA) for waer and sewerage
work, execued trvgh state water and sewrage companes; and the Nationd Low-Cost Housing Plan
(Piao  lonad de Habkagdo Popuar - PLANHAP) for low-cost housing programs, also exeued
through st  agcies. Urban transport was centralized as wetl, under the Braziian Urban Transport
Company (i)pis Brasie ra de DwIhorta Ur*waos - EBTU).
2.5   Th    efforts deliberately ecluded municipalites n the ame of centass nati
coordiato objectives and economyofscale gains. Sice 1982, fderal goverment fiscal deficits have
obliged a steady rere  from the use of dtese centra f cing institutos and their policy-mig
bownapats. ISo principal financial btamWiby of the Government of Brazil (GOB) and one of the
couty's lagest b   , the Ca1xa Ecoxmic Federl (CEF), has iherited die remainder of these earier
programs wihout die rsorces t ustin them. The effective colLapse of these centralized fiacing
scemes in the early 1990. could have been seen, in reospect, as imiltable since they relied on
le subsidies In th   absence of meanigful cost recovery.
D. De tlon
2.6    MuniipIties remained weak durig ftiod   of militay dictator   (1964-1985) when
finandci resources were concetated in the hands of the fedea  govement. Afer the restrai  of
democracy in the 1980. and free econs at al levels of governm   the 1988 Constion re d
a watershed. Key provisom of die Constition consolidated the proc  of decentralzing autority away
from the fideral govenent Atie  30, for example, spels out the responsiblitles of municipalites
with respec to tax colection and die prvsion of loca serices; Articles 156 and 158 proe for
enhanced fisca remes for munices to meet these respo ilidies.
2.7              n      luO  1 eaons. The Constiuton increased both municipal shared and own
revenue sources, at the expen  of federal revemues (Annex 2A). Betwen 1988 and end-1993, the
mnicip  share of fedeal noome tax (IR) is exet to icrease from 17% to 22.5%; federa idustial
product tax  M  tO inctease from 16% tO 22.5%; ad vaue-added tax colected by states (ICMS) to grow
from 20% to 25%. Mhe Contitton also stablised a new municipal tax on fuel sales (iVVC) as well
as giving excusive collecdon rigts t municipalities for the prperty tra     tax MIM  whiuh was
foerdy shared with states. In the short run, addiiona fiscal revenue will accrue to municipalties
mosBy thugh increased rovenue sbaing, pdmarily ICMS. New municipal taxes are not epecteDtO
susiue property tax (IPU) and service tax (ISS) as municipalities' princW  own sources of revenue.
Studies show that by end-1993, these reforms wiUl have increased rmuicispal reenue by a ly
one third  By that tme, municipa  har of all taxes collected in Brazil should reach 23%, again  a
'I FPen_o Romez and JloRRoba R. Afoa, A R*nna Fca na Neiw Cbx&*Wr  in: RMM de Ath*sh*w;b
-eLJe O D., 1969.



VI~~~jV
U                       0                        t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l
I              i~~~~~~~~i  .Ci2~~~~~~~~~s
I        Ii~~~~~~~~~~~- a            ii
jil;  A~~~~~~~  1.ji~~~~~~i;~~~J  I"  U"~~~~J
0I.        ti   ~ ~ ~                Li i
-    I  ~~~~~~~~jJ  ~~~~~~I~~~~ej~~~~~ 1 ~~~tgP~
A~~~;~I!
U  :    ~~~                    tj~~~ [Ii !ih! hen  C



deied about 2NA% fm ows sources such as prpaty taxes. Better local service provo will nacmas
resdn' wiines to pay both local txes amnd ur charges.
Reveu
As percent of GDP                 2.4           2.5           5.2
Asshdaeofpublicsector             10.1          11.5         14.6
Expendiuro:
As percet  of GDP                 2.5           2.7           4.3
Asshameofpubicsor                10.6          11.1         11.3
Sow..: -rf 2  Cno 1mge offMomi4  Seet Dewia hi dhe 19f3, MRD Report 10161-DR
U12   Tlee important linkages with the macroeconomy fA   municIpales. First are the negatvo
effcs of endemic inflation: (i) pam      of prperty and other tax, impotant sources of own
renes, are difficult to adjust for Iftion; (l) fnanciad s     n, notoriousy weak in smaler
municWities, must to be agile and efflcit to manage Iftio; and II high infation makes adequat
plannig and budgeting virtaly impossible. Second is the potei  for a municipal debt crisis, If
boowi   not done on a prdet scale. Off-budget items such as sppliers' credits and rollover of
existing debt are commo, prmily in the larger mudicpalities  hich have a hbistoty of borrowing (the
smaler one do not). Caidon will need to be exertd in ensuring that discretionary transfers ar not
relied upon to sevice impdent borrowig, and that rollovers, tansufe  and suppliers' credits are
aequty acunted for in calculation of credi Hmits. And third is the paucity of adequate, consiste
financial reporting and fiancal data across mun   ies with which to moni  progress on
Implementaton of policy and impact on the m       of the cowntry.
F. Sector Stratg: A Medium-Tem Visin for the Role of Muicipaliies
2.13   The Ban's asistan  strate  in Bra  is to sort policies and invetme   hat wil encura
eoomic growth and socW develomnt In the contx of mc  stabity. Empsis   on
efficit resource allocaon, increased efficiency In the public sector, improved envir
manageme  and the ppropriate targetig and ddeiery of seviea to the poor. Ihe Bank's strategy In
the rban sector has been tO support dece izaton re     s which took effect in 1988, and foster
among Brai's muicipiies mulation of eficiency, strmtening of final resources and
management, and increased fiscal responbilty,   t  the m       m c policies of the federal
government.
2.14   With decenizaton, micipties at as quasi-aonomou managers of exeditur on servie
such as beath, education, wat         was  coectin draiage, paving ad public trans
Micipalkies, in hory, have a comparadive advantage In he tovision of thee serCes becau  local
gover     , particly folowing a ren to dem        ly-ecd leader, are more knowledgeable
about local neds and are better at respodig rapidly to chanes In these needs. bis does not meam th
m uIciplits shoudd provide al servics by themselves. For many of these acivities, n
should rely on tho privte sector through concems , conacting or investmet precipaion, e
the scope of service deiv. Since many of these servic  are Itmet goods in the productinof
private sevices, municipal  Ifn in    agn  these expeiture will also cobute to he
deminationofBrBl's mcperfmance. Municipaitiesshod also contbute to a rtur
tO 8sutible       enc   growth tugh their own fiscal effor  and ensure eir financal
and heat by manmizing te reenue they can raise from their own sources. The loca



taburden - nluding locl tax levels but alo loca user f  and the pricing of loca sevces - should
Inagly be ddemined by the levd of demand fo serviws.
2.15 I I sum, over the medun-term municipalIties will need to place greater emphasis on efficency
and fnacal management. The challeg for munIcipalities today is to establish their own m
of Iitructueddery based upon their ieasing fisc aunomy. To this end, improvedmuicipal
an   can hep to fill the vaum  left by the demis of nati  programs.  he key goals for
municipalWes wll be to:
*     mobBil  more effectvely their own resources, widening their tax bases and exploring alternative
sources of reve  such as user chrges and b d      g
*     aLoca these rsouces more eftlcienty trugh rigorous appraisal of investments;
*     incrase efficiency In the use of resources for current expenditure through he    ovement of
day-to-dy adminisraton;
*     egage the private sector, through privatation and conacting out, for those municipal
vb        and serices it can provide more efficienty;
*     prudently borrow maket resources to fund priority operations with bigh economic and financa
rates of ret; and
*   hqbeg  tO p   and budget more effively whie xplicilty monit    financial p once.
G. Me State of Mn  Gea
2.16  The name genera  mines' was given to a newly-eated captaincy of coloni Brazn in 1720,
becae gold could be foud almost everywhere. Today the State of Mns Gerais covers an area of
587,20 square kilomers (about the same size as France) and is the noternmost state of Brazi's richest
Southes ren.   is thie only densely populated state in Braz which has no coastine. Covering such
a larea, its teain is qe varied: extensive scrublands, or aenwds, covering dth northem half up
to the bounday widh the ounts capital, Btasfiia; udlating cleared forest bntd in the souhern part
of the Stato;     us  regos near te State capital, Belo Horznte; and several impora  river
basins (see map).
2.17   Mia Gerais is the trd largest state in area and second in terms of populato   it has 756
municipalits, by far the largest unber of any Braiian state. With about 7S% of its population lving
it cites, Mns Geras had an ura populton of some 12.0 million In 1990. Municipal populaton
by dsze  oup is provided in Anmex 2C. As shown, the vast majority of muicipalides are very smal:
72 have less than 20,000 inbabitants and ar  entally rua towns. The rmaIng 150 municipaties
withb populations above 20,000 represent 74.4% of the States poputon. Preliminy rWesults of the 1991
ceonu idicate that 212 muIcipes, mostly small ones, acuay lost populatlon durwing  e 1980W91
pedod. At the other end of the scale were the fastest growing cities of Sete I agos and Montes Claros,
w    amual popuation increases of 3.3% and 3.1% respectively.
2.18  National4evel tends have nowhere been more apparent than in the State of Mins Gerals. The
Staes domina economic acdvity, particualy in the southern regions proxime to the pdmary marets
of Sbo Pauo and Rio de Janeiro, has shifted over the past decade from agricture (30% of Stae GDP
in 1960, fallIg to 15% In 1989) to the urban-based heavy industrial sectors, which grew from 14% of
GDP in 1960 to 28% in 1989. Changing ecoowmic tends and employment  qoptnities led to a
dramatic urban on, with urm populi  more than doubling over the period (from 36% of total in
1960 to 78% In 1989). Although this ecomic act   has enabled Min to beoome one of Braz's
weathet es  - GNP was US$38 bilion, or 10% of the aoal total in 1990 - ths wealth is
'1 SDNNAM     Lat



-7 -
unevenly distributed, with 35% of the economically ave po on In 1987 suving on just two
minium  salrs, compared with the naton  rat of 29% at tis level (se pam 2.24 and Awn  2D).
Under the stress of Increased popuaton ad indequa  mant_ e, ur    bftuure ha become
significantly degraded, pardcularly In the ar  of sitaton, where enviomet, health and povety-
aleviation concerns play an importat role. The sataon sectors have bee identified by the State
govment as among those with bighest plority.
2.19  Tbe Regions. Minas' hig deg  of geographic and economic statification make it a microcosm
of Brazil.  For planning purposes the State govek-nme  has diided Mias  erais nto egh
macroerSlpons (see map). By far the most doveloped of the  responsible for 63% of the Stt's
industri production, is the Mestlrgica e Campo dus Verentres macro-region, whee the capital, Bedo
Hordote is loced. Also is- the recndy privatized USIMNAS steel plat In th  M    o e Alto
Paranla regio, GDP per capita is esmated at 34% above the State avera, derived frm arcua
and idusra sectors linked to the markt of the State of Sbo Paulo to the south. Tbree other
macro-regions have per capita GDPs near the Ste avrage: the southern macr-region, bordetg on SAO
Paulo; the Alto Sao Fra co, an expanding agriculural region; and the Mata macro-region borderng
on the State of Rio de Janeiro. The three poorest macro o  are located in the norteast of Mis
Gerais and together account for 51.6% of the toal of the terri    of the State. Of these, the worst
socecoiomic conditions are foud In the Jequtnhonha macro-region, where the ave    GDP per
capita is about US$400 per capita  Rural migration to escap drought condios smilr to tos of
Brazil's arid Northeast region feed rapid urban growth in the maco-           Rio Doce
mac-region suffers from a decline in agriculture and many of t mnicipalities have declnn
popations. Finally, the NAest macro-region, preominay agricultural, has also boee I decline,
but includes an area of incWient i izaton, notably in the major ciy of montes Caros.8 Under
the project, a pilot program for coopative regional urban sevice delv    would be undertaken in two
of these macrregions, Alto SF 1)cco and Je.
2.20   he Eonomy. Mins Geris has the third largest GDP in Brazil. Per capia ime has been
estmated at about 90% the national average, or about US$2,400. Mirring its macro-egions, the State
has a diversified economic base. Agdture was responsible for 15% of state GDP in 1989 nd
generally more productive per hectare dt  the average for Brazil. Coffbe is the main product, but there
also sificant production of maze, soybean, beas, sugar cane, rce, potatoes, and tDbaco. Catde
and dairy products are impot    e.  M s Gorais is more wellknown as an industri state,
however, with          g accounting for 28% of GDP In 1989. Heavy industry, notably meallurgy
(in, stee and aluminum), chemicals and non-metal miea are well rrsed In tho Stat. Ming,
especially for iron ore, reain an impora  actvity, in which the o  of GOB's giant p-tl
CVRD (Co,npa     do Vale do Rio Doce) are paa_mon  Other importt industries are teies and
food processing. With the economic slowdown during the 1980s, and the contraction of the domestic
market, all sectors responded to the all in domestic demand through e s   of eports and today,
Minas Gers has become one of the pincpal exporting states of Bi (second only to SAO PaWlo).
2.21  State Govenment Plns and Prrities in Mh   Geraa. The developmnt plans of the presen
State an are set out in Its phlrlna plan, or Plano Pluwa de Cwnwe  do                de
Mbins GeCams 1992-95. The plan  umes fsc  on s  wilm limi govement acton for the
forseeble future. It is pessimistc about the possibility of further increasing ICMS colecos and
Is Pat of di mawo-;on is ncludd in do aa underd te esonIt of SUEN, thdal psvnmes
S          fArftIo Northesa The mnGaaa of SUDE   onsit of 42 nmIpasr that saupptofth
'1 AD data td Noe: DMG,RNm
f AB dda Wm for XIDU     MWO, AJ6nd  1X Dkdmw * PWWWM (ol I - SO    J.fPX)



-8-
disd lca dvotmh rentogenth  of sevcing the Stots debt (ChoprS). Greater munici  particiao
o develom thet      wit h exaten  financ  support are seen as means o overom  tfe present
difn ds in the or ot in l planopod project is dd as net of the ky state gove   t proSmu
in the plur_nmd phn, emphasis which is reflected In the Policy Staement on Decentization and
Munipal Siwhich sets out the Stats policy intentions regarding municipal management and
urba sector strate  in the medium-term, and the projects role in achieving this (Annex 2F).
2.22     dc Sadtation.  The State's plan gives pmary impotnce to heat, education, basic
santatn, trnsport and ero         The basic sanhation setors (water, sewerage, drainage, solid
waste) have been given special prioity, due to their spillover effect on health and environment, and as
a resut of the reent failure of federal instons and progrms. Basic sanitato   needs, particulaly
regding sewerage, are pressing.  Although water supply crerage is high (94%  of the urban
populadon), service provision is inefficient and _ais poor. Sewage collection and treatment
(53%  and 0.5%, respecdvely) are lower ta  other states of its compartive size and weath.
Furthermoe, joint state provision of water and sewerage Is less common tm in other states - the State
company provides 53% of water and but oly 21% of sewerage services, with the remainder localy
provided. While the National Health Foundation (FNS) provides technical assistance to about 56
municipalities, most provide service on their own. The Stats go  is to priorize sewerage and seek
Inoatve isttutnl arrangements for efficient service povion. The callenge today is to ensure that
potable water is safe and free from pollution by iusti and rsiial effluent. Annex 2E provides
the covage leveis and instituional arrangements for water and sewerage sevice provision in the State.
2.23   Brnhmnue.  In a large state like Minas Gerais with intensive industrial, m    and
agricultural actvities, envir lI issues Invitably arise In comnectio with the process of economic
develpment. Among the most serous of these are: (a) pollution of rivers by   ustria and domestic
effluet, pesticides and fertlizers; (O) soil erosion through mining acdvities and  agricultua
praices; and (c) de-forestation, particularty in areas of agdcultural expansion Envime problems
are already acute in paru of the Stae. Pollution of the Rio das Vdhwa, for example, which skirts the
metropolitan region of Belo Horlot, threatens water supply to the capit. This problem is currently
bei  addressed with the support of the Bank under the Mia Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control
Project (L  3554-BR). Although there have been signs of improvement (one study show  that
respiray circulatory and abdomi  illnesses, classifiedas amenable to reductionthroughImprovement
in basic s8atao  had fallen as causes of death from 57% to 36% in 1988),       conditions
in the State's cities remain of concer   Municipalities, with the support of State environment
authorties, must assess their key   I env a  problems and determine prioriy actions to address them.
2.24  Poverty. in spite of the significant economic developmen that has taken place in Mas Qeis,
poverty in both urban and ru  areas has remained acute and worsened during the slowdown of economic
gowth during the 1980s. Esmates for 1987 IndIcae thi 35% of urban households in Minas Gerais
had Incomes of less than two minimm salaries per monthV (widely consiered to defin the poverty
ine fora famly of fourlving in n& urban ara) mpared to 29% for Brazi (Annex 2D). A study of
Brazi's metropolitan areas found that the share of the total population living below this pover"t line in
Belo Hor te rose fom 18% In 1980 to 35% in 1985. Mun         ies can help assess the uban
needs and productie possibilities of ther populations and develop local provisions for the urban poor.
O/ BDMG, Table 15, SBCPLAN-MG (1991).
3/1 39. O  wminimum au is crntl equl to about US$60.
"I Son Rocha, Lih de Pohrezrp. as RegiUes MOopoItana, P. &ab Metad da Duada de 80, BERA, 1988.



-9-
H  Bnk bpermae In the Urban Sector
2.25  Lasons Lmned. Since 1978 the Bank has made 17 loans for urbn development and transport
projecs I Brazl, totalling US$1.6bilion. I additon, 16 loanstotlngUS$1.9billonbave been made
for water and sewerag projects since 1971, lo largly In ua ara. With this long history of Bank
Involvement m the sector, many   mt  lessom     can be drn  Rcet OED audits of projecs
completed dudrg the 1980s have emphasized a need for strengthening of munipal reource mobflization
and access to fincing, and noted the lack of involvemen of both state and municipal authorities in the
urban planning process, and a haphazard approah to e ea    magement. Greater employment
of appropriate, low-cost techologies in the waer and seweg sectors has been   ded, along
with more integrted, cross-sectoral approaches to enviom     manag_       d  Ivestent
prioritiaton. Furthermorreports have commnted on excsive complexity of poect, ambition of
objecdves and weakness of executing ageces, sugestig the need for si con of project design,
greater flexibility in project Implementaton nd new and more effective means of supervision. Ihese
needs are greater In the North of the country, where imple I   capacity is weaer.
2.26  AccordtIly, and following the recent decentrization reorm  in Braz, project design and
objectives have begun to shift toWAds Impg  the capcity of the states and municipalities to
ffectively assume increased resposbilities for efficient maagemnt of rsources and servces under a
new generton of municipal development projects, mong the frs of which ae under implementation
in the southern states of Santa Cataina (Ln. 2623-BR - P1OU1B), Paran  U. 3100-BR - PEDU) and
Rio Grande do Sul (Li. 3129-BR - PIMES). The lat  two have recenty gone though midterm review
evaluations. The proposed project atmpts to build a bridge between te epences In the South and
planed operations in Nohem  states such as Ceat and Pambc. AnnexIB pres   signifcant
lessons learned and means by which these are Ioporated Into the design of the proposed project.
I. Urban Secor Strtegy
2.27   Urban sector stra  In Brz is based largely on rece  sector work, in particular the report
BrazUi: The Callenge of Mwndpl Secr Dewlopme  In te 1990), which identfies three key areas
for reform: (a) responsibility for poliCY coordntio; (b) desi  of asfer; and (c) municipal
expitue and revenue mangemeat While eq y Ipotant, it is recognized that these refrms must
be Implemented through discrete  smen  and according to diffing tmetabls. Given the difficulty
of addressing through one project the needs of apro l 4,800 Brazfian    ts, the Bank's
urban stateg in Brazi - consistent wih the couty's poltcal and fiscal detalization-has involved
lending through the more manageable vehicle of the states.  Iplemao  strategy for policy
coordinadon reorms (the locus of which is national), is dirctd through policy diaogue, using such
avenues as workshops to diseminate secto work and tecicalt aito the line agencies. Reform
of the state/municipal transfer system (the locus of which is the state) is done trgh policy dialogue and
lending - wit the trgetinlg of projects to fiscally responsible states such as Mns Geras. One element
In the deinion of fiscal responsibility  the reduction of  gotiaed trsfer, in which Mia has made
significaprogres (from 32% to 10% of total from 1990 to 1992). Finally, lendi  wil directly target
local reforms in municipal revenue and expenditure  anagement, one of the primay objectives of the
prposed project. In sum, nationa-level ss   wil be addressed lagely trough policy diaogue and
technical assistance, while local management issues - and suot for fiscal responmibility and well-
designed tranfer systems at the subational level - are tareted pimary trough lend. Annex 1A
presents a smmary of the proposed project's application ofthe reom aon of ts sector worL



- 10-
m. THE PROJECT
A. Project Objectives and Ratonale
3.1    Objectives. The primary objectives of the proposed Min Gerais iunildpal Management and
Enionmental nfrastructr (SOMMA) Project ae:
(a)   to  IEnShen Muni    quancialvm         in support of the recent decentrzadon
reforms, through technical assistance to increase ownresource mobilizaton, and training
and Incentives for efficient allocadon of romurces for both current expenditur and
capital investment; and
(b)   to impmr    iromn aw m      ntgm  in , k, though development of a coherent
State straW  for provision of waer and sewege services, investment in prioriy basic
sanitation inastructre, and provisionof ate cal aistance and trbai  for municipal
dminitraons in environmental managemnt
In addit   the project wil test the viability of two alternatves to municipal service provision: prive
sector provision of municipal services; and woperatve regiona seviprovison Inpoorer, institutionally
weaker Northern municipalities. Annex 3A prese  the project objectives, means of achieving them
(tools and policy conditions), key monitoring indicators and risks in matx format. This matrix,
developed on the basis of urban sector work and lessom leaned in previous projects, establishes the
frmework for project design. Consistent with the Bank's goals for the sectr, te projects primary areas
of emphasis are first, improved public sectr mage_m  (fiscal reonibility, efficiency of
investmes), second, onviomental management and, third, to the extn  possible, private-sector
development and poverty-alleviation.
3.2   Project objectives are explicitly esosed in a Policy Statement of Deentlization and Municpal
Strengthenn of the State of Minas Gerais, preseted to the Bank duri  Negotiations. The Policy
Statement sets out the Staes commitment to s gthening loal govements, thrugh sound fiscal and
mitative magement, accountbility and effiiency In investments and cmTent expendiur  and
equity in sevice provision. As one of the key means of achieving these goas, the Policy Staement sets
out the State's Intenion to reduce discretionary trsfers to municipalities and instead chamnel these funds
as         to whe SOMMA program, where they will be invtd accordig to clearly-defined criia.
Ihe text of the Policy Statemn is presented in Annex 2F.
3.3    RatInale. lhe proposed project is an integral part of the Bans urban sector strategy
suportng the decentralization reorms which took effect with the 1988 Conion (para 2.27). IThe
project wi foster among the State's municipalities stimulation of efficiency, strengthening of fiancial
resourmces and management, and increased fiscal responsibility, sUping the mc  policies
of the State and federal governments. By improving service corg  levels and  isting In frmuating
a more integrated approach to municpal management of urban  nation services, the proposed project
would also improve the overal urban eniomen  of the State. Findly, the prosed project would
initiate efrts to mobilize private sector resources (both equity capital and credit) for local investment,
and begin to extend the benefits of improved municipal financi mangemen to Brazil's poorer North,
where the Ban's uban development experience has been less succesaflu. The proposed project also
provides an opportuity to apply the lessons learned in the sector, in pudcua trugh similar projects
in the country's S h, to a state which represents more closely the diverse needs of the country as a
whole.



-11-
3.4   The projects tming s planned so as to adcieve the greatest possible lmpact: muicipal deons
woe  held In October 1992, wIth new mayors beginning thek four-yea terms as of January 1993. The
impl_ation stra will be to accomplish as great a propordon of the objectves as possible within
the fist three to fimur years of project iplementation.
B. Project Desipdon
35  'no projec consists of five components: Part A -  sdtutImn   d,    mpsing
US$29.4 millon, or 8% of tot project costs; Part B - enIronmental Intrte acoountag for
US$292.0 milion, or 88% of costs; Part C - pilot program, totling US$10.7 million, or 3% of costs;
and Part D and E - studies, acmcuntig for US$1.6 millon, or lessthan 1% of costs. A detailed project
desdptin is provided In Annex 3B, and summarized below. ;election crteria sad methoology for both
Istitional development and infrastructure subroject  e set out Chapter 4 on Project mplmttio
and in Ane 4C.
(a) bsevbment
3.6    The inutionl  developmt component (Part A) consists of technical wistance, training and
small office-technology equipment puchas  for municipalities. Of the total 756 munIcipalities in the
Stt, it is epected tha about half (repenting about 90% of the population) will participate I this
componn  which would be the key to entry into the SOMMA progrm. Individuaized tecnical
asistan  and  t     plans would be developed for each muncipality, on the basis of a diagnostic
questionaire based on rapid-      methodologies successfuy employed in the South of Brazil and
sewhere. Needs would be evaluated in fthree aeas: (a) fisca and administrative; (b) planning;, and (c)
o alnd basic saniaton services. Ihe menu of possible Iteventions would Include, beer aita:
- fiscal and adme: upgradi  property tax cadaste Qncud    revauing existing
property,  cusion of un-registered property); Imprving prou, pol   and phyi
fstrucure for bllMing and collection of property and other taxes and tariff;   boving
procuementprocedur;
*     plannIng: preparing nd updatg of master plans; updating real popey mapping; works and
construction codes and technical standads; and
*     uurnmn and base sntation: establisbing (and ratonali         land-us and zoning codes
and regulats; saning  local eomental enfo                   agencies (CODEMAs);
encouageme  of regina cooperadon through water basin authries; prepaing long-u
marginal cost pricing studies, as input to revising user-charges to be based on economic costs.
3.7          _        would Include cost esdmates, and would be cateized as high, medium or
low porty dpeni  oan urgency and on their impact on overal municipal fhnncial management.
Tohicd  assistmc interventions would be coupled with on-t-job training, to ensure dectiveness.
On the basis of the dignosis, a Strategic Action Plan, or Plano de Apdo Emragia (PAO  would be
disc d and agreed wth eah municipality (or locnependent waer company) in cosultaon with
local groups and        v     bodies, setting specific target for finncia  and  siutional
Improvements. In order to encourage participation in ths Ii   phase of the project, and to ensure wide
access to all municipalities, prepation of PAEs would be gra-financed. One committed to such a
sgbhctory  PAE, municipalities would be eligible for loans for techncal assae and grs for the
accompanying tining. Following inition of this process, and providing adequate creditwors (see
para 4.9-4.11), client n  es (or water andlor seweage agecies or compaes) would be ele
to aly for loaos for infatuce imtments. T           a  a    nce loans would be Inke  to



- 12 -
perbma    standards rgding resource mobilization, cost-recoveay and managm   efficiency which,
I tur,  would be linked to Subrojct digibility criteria for ifsucu  (par. 4.124.17).
3.8     his approach builds on past sector work and project ex ene by establishing a longerm plan
for strgheig of local governments.  he Institutona development COMPOnn Increases the level of
comitment for capacity strengthenin of local governments by working through a state-lel Institution,
the  Fwando Joao PYero (FJP), which will develop a strategy, create prcedr, set stand"ds and
norms to faciitate isionl strengthenig of municipalities (see Anmnx 3F). Imple              of
technical assistance and training woul be done dtrough privae sector, univeiy and other provides,
with standard-etng and suevision and monitoring by the FJP, which over time wil shif to providw
"wholesal   ntvtos aimed at fostering private sector delivery of tchnical assistance and  Waning.
Tecical asistance under this component would also be provided to strengthen the FIP In this apex tole.
A draft proposa for stegtei  of PIP to fulfill this role was agreed during Negotiations.
(b) Enm1Juk canid nmm
3.9       im        t ft cre invesmn  (Pa  B) would focus on needs in the highpriorty
sanitaon and rdated inauture sub-sectors. It is estimated that about 150 municIpalities (ikely those
with poplatio  over 20,000, resnting about 75% of the pputin) would patcipat in the
InFrastructure componet (Annex 2C).  Sub-project ivesmet would be fMly repaid at longterm
lrket-appoximing iere  rates (para 4.5), with full cost-recvery via user-charges based on
economi costs, or indirectly via increased property values and tax collection as a result of Infrauc
ImprovemeNt (pm. 5.7 and Annex 6A). Investments shown in Table 3.1 would be eligible:
Inesmet                                       Decpin
Wat_         wate tratnt ad amplificdaion # prduon; Icementalwok ftesion and domesti
connecons; opeatonal and commetwa mpovements, suh as S.mg, ink d_eeci,
-rehabMton of equinme.
Sewa         BEqum   for trement  tms, extenion of newoand domesic connoedon. Wel40sted, low-
sttechnoIogi, in paticula in smal commmie, would be enc ged
Soul Waste   Sold wast colleon equpmen, consucto of landfis, and equ_m    r final disposl In this
_componet ao weltsd, aert  low-cost soions would be _nac sed.
Pain and    Steet pain,  mo- and miro-drinage, flood and erosion contl, chan g of crk, 'is
Dange        sa it_w_._
Lh8t n      Extendon of service, and an eer  conserato program to inta  -   ficit Bght bulb.
3.10   Watr and sewerage services (egally the responsibility of municipties) are provided by the State
company, C&xdea hde Sowuemode Mbhs Gerai (COPASA), independent and municipal companies
as well as by mmuicipal government departments (Annex 2E). Thus, while municipalities would be
primary sub-borr   s, water and sewerage agencies and companes would also be digible for subloans
to undertak Investmt on behf of the municipalities for which they hold service concsions.
4I Wih th eo_n of Bet Horizont and Contgem in the wter and we   setor, sinc the mor sa   setor
ivstmet of tso  tes wi be finned under the Minsu Ge  Water Qutand Polluton Conr Ptojet (La. 3554BR).
The wo prjtsm anlly complementar  Bel Horiot and Co_tam wi be ncouragd to ene the  stuona
development compnentof SOMA, whl SOMMA wM encour  sma       nUller  _   b    dopd ooopo,
m b apoh ad tdw technea eaation and ootreovey teiqu  adopted uderdto Water Quaiy prje.



- 13 -
3.11  Investments to be undaken by COPASA fail no two categories: Incremental expansion of
waer and sewerage connetons, to be Implemented on behaf of municipalities which ha  granted
concessions for service to COPASA; and Ivestmes In network Impovements, such as mering, repair
of equipment and leakage detection. The laer lnvestms - which enable the whole COPASA system
to oprato more ffidiently and thus Improe svice and econdions at the Stt level -
do not directly beneft individual municipalities, thus COPASA would begin these invosments wihout
the municipal participation in SOMMA. These Investments are expected to comprise no more than 10%
of the total project. System exaon investments, which direcey befit indiv   municipalitie, will
be implemented by COPASA once a municipality has comittd to entern the SOMMA program.
(c) Pot  ogr
3.12   The project includes two small pilot programs (art C).  he first will assess the potenta for
privabt on of curreny publicly-provided municipal servics (such as        , bus and other
trsport terminals, and other services) and test alterative privzti methods. The two primary
avenues under the project wUi be subloans to mun c     for construction of iastructu  to be
opeatd and maintained by the prvme sector under concesslo  and sub-loas direcdy to a private sector
fim for construction and operation of the service. The first area tested woud be slau hous, for
which there is active prive sector hnterest and a strong heal-laed    eative for improved seice.
In paralle to the test case, BDMG would undertake a study to determine fturer poten   municipal
services to be privatized, xamn   economic ch, financial and commerc  viability, and the
need for reguation bth for helth/safety and financial regulation to protect conmers from monopoly
power). The theoet  fraework for the stdy i sown in Anme 3B. Theo secnd pilot would work
through an associaton of smaller municipalities in *e North of the Sta to help bufld experience in the
special requim  of ihese weaker mucipalties. The aociation would borrow from the Fund
(through a consortium) and undertake cooperative Iestments in local sanitadon needs common to several
municipalites. The f irst associion to be tesed under this pilot is in the S. faico region (see map).
If successful, the pilot would be eteded to the poorer and more hlenging Jecq udonha region.
3.13 Both pilots are designed to test innovative techniques for municipal service delivery, on the basis
of clearly-dined objectives, and both inlude explicit performance mont.  During Neoai
agreement was    ed on tholowing: (a) a proposa for Implemetio of the micro-regiona pilot;
(1) terms of refenco for the study mpoe  of te priatzan pot, and lea  agements for the
slaughterhous test case; and (c) funding limits for each pilot, and th  during the mid-tem review it
would be deteine whether to discontinue or expand the pilots.
(d) State  Wimes
3.14   Two studies at the State level (Parts D and E) we  agreed durg the cose of project
prepaLation as priory areas for reerch and inovative strategic planing in the medium tem   Fist,
In light of the partcular coverage and bitittonal c Ii  of the water and sewerage sector in
Mih  Gerais, and gradual weakeing of the federally-operated PLANASA system, the Sate would
undmea  a onsultant study to develop an opeatonal strategy for the water and sewerage sanitaion
sector in the State, emphasizing pulWy service prvion at the locad level. Second, in order to guide
development of medum-term policy for SOMMA, a second study would amine options for finacng
(equity capital and debt) of infiuure services for which munidcpalities ar  constutionally
resposible. One of the objectives of the study would be to sk altatives for mobizing domestc
pvate savis for longrm inastructure Inesmet. During Negotaons it was agreed that the
Water and Sewerage Sector Strategy Study would be an obHigaon of the State to carry out, wit the
odstance of EDMG, while the Municipal Infrtas t Sdy would be an obligation of BDMO. Tems
of r    , as well as timetables for Ilent  of the studies (to be completed no later than mid-
term  view), were agreed during Negoation. Outline terms of refore    ar shown in Annex 3D.



-14-
C. Dedgn Featurs
3.15   Project design has been guided by the Bank's on-going economic and sector work dWogue wih
the GOB on policy in the udn sector (see Annex 1A), and lessom learned fiom past project (se Annex
IB). Several key desi  featus emerged during project preparion, including th following:
*     ongoing dialogue with the State Govnment on policy reforms regadn: sound fiscal
m nagent (the Policy Statement); and increased efficiency and equity In the water and
sewea  sector (the State's Water aod Sewerage Sector Stra    Study);
*     fil cost-recovery for ifastructre Investments, at market-equivalent Interest rates
*     defiition of a pool of 30 pre-appraised 'first year munic t   with eligible investmens
totaling US$60.0 million (about 20% of estimated in6ructure investments);
*     single- rather  a multsector focus to simplify project desig and comolidate beneft;
*     operational manua preared arly, and tested durig project preparation;
*     computaizaIon of all evuation and monitodng which wil form the basis for the States'
municipal financial information management system (FMIS);
*     transparent financi arangement with a ll costs included In the oiteres rate 'spread';
*     pilot programs to test aenative methods of service provision, to be contiued if successu;
*     strategy to atact pive sector capital for investment In municipal serices ad in SOMMA
(Prvatlzation Pilot Program, and Municipal Infrastructure Finance Study); and
3     limited grants for dwelopment of PAEs and for ting, as a means of providing incentive for
entry and wide access to all municipalities.
D. Project Costs and FJhuncdg Plan
3.16 Project Costs. Total project costs are estimated to be about US$333.1 million equivalent,
Induding price contngencies and Indirect taxes. Ihe proposed Bank loan of US$150.0 milion equivalent
would finance about 45% of total costs (50% of costs less taxes). Detailed co  estates are presented
i Annex 3C and s_dmrzed in Table 3.2.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a S
bD                                2Q2    66 Zt   24%
Do1ako                              139.5       46.S        186.0     25%
Rol   20msbw                    AU                                25X
Fact Pmg8"                             6.7        3.3         10.0     33%
SIE Shur=                              0.7        0.3         1.0      33%
WTAL BAM  OSTS uusIM                  A,,au :.                          2%
Pa=u Wtisa,l wcSieat  bl1                                           2S%
TStALtaROlB   OSTS                    2492        Au2        _          25%
dai sbt US$30.0 min In;                    .      ,atms.



3.17   As thown, tot  project costs iwnude US$27.5 milion oquivalt (or 8% of basn costs) for
ishtial developme  and US$273.5 million (or 88% of base costs) for irtructuro. An addional
US$10.0 million (or 3% of bas co) woud be spent on the two pilot progms, nd US$1.0 milon
(or less t    19% of base ost) on studies. Due to high Brazflian infladon, costs bave been caluated
in aew (bas csts of Jaluary 1993) and cOnvOet  tO equivalt US doas at praing exchago
ates. ITe   e    scale of Investments at the local level was detmined by the edmated demand for
services, bmrowing capacity of municipalWes, and cuterpart payment caacity of the State and
municipalities (se para 5.9 and Annex 3B)? Because the Bank loan would finance a tim-slice of
municipal iveme, total project costs are not precise and should be see as indicaive.
3.18   The foign exchange component is esimated to be about US$78.7 million (about 25% of base
costs). bndirect taxes arm about US$30.0 million (10% of base costs) and will be financed by sub-
borrowers or the State.' Physical coutingencies have not been budgeted due to the project's
c   approach, desbd  above. Project costs inlude puco ntingencies of abo  US$21.1
mMion (7% of base costs).' Rough cost esfimates for c"i wors are based on ext    eng   n
designs and unit cost of comparable investment in Brazfl, supportd by engineering esim    and recet
coo    prices. Consultant service costs are based on prevaing local and foeig person-month rates.
3.19 t  oagcn  Plan. The project would be fianced by: the proposed loan, toalling US$150.0
million (45% of project costs); State resoures of about US$85.4 million (26% of project costs);
munciW cnterpa of about US$72.7 million (22% of project cos); COPASA for abou US$23.0
mlio q(7% of project costs); and about US$2.0 million Oess than 1%) private sector participation for
investments under the proposed pilot program. The proposed loan would finance all foreign exchange
costs (about US$83.9 million, including contingencies), plus about US$66.1 million of local
expenditr. The project's ptoposed financing pla is provided in Table 3.3 below:
Pivat                         Bank %
bnL Dev.          7.0       74         -        -        15.       29.4      51%
Bdvk. bJfa.       74.4      63.2      23.0      -       131A      292.0      45%
Pilot Pzomj       3.5       2.1        -       2.0       3.1       10.7      29%
SL fitd                                                            Li=  =  D.I  Lab  56%
rYAL              4SA       72.7      23.0     2.0      150.0     333.1      45X
(as%oftotal)     26%      22%        7%        -       45X       100%
2Y }7WOne mm es he eparesed interst in dh progam to date, ad 30 bv pented elgible swb.uect (of
te 30,  ttoalad  fial evaluaon have been comWleed fr 22).    projes fi year pam of Inetmnt sI
basd on te proposed Inestmt of tes 30 nmunies
'I Abtough exmpton fiom impor dui fr mateils ptocourd under id finacinSg Is no longe a poliy of the
GOB,    duties are not consideed based on the assumpton hat the eecuting agon  wl  iod h obtaing wai
41 P  ice aoe  calnulated on dt basi of the esimad diu       t schduL (Annex 4P) and O.D. 6.50
(Octob1992 in which th Dans MUV ine averag about 3.08% per yewa ove p thei_ popiod.



- 16 -
3.20  DurWg Negotitons, agrmn was reached on the project fincng plan and the Borrower's
guante  ngarng ncsswy projet countpart funds.
E. The Borow and Ezecuting Agency
3.21   The Borrower wouldbe the State of Mias Gera. lhe State would use the proceeds of the Bank
loan and its own counterpart funds to capialize a municipal development fund managed by the Banco de
Desnvotemo de Afins Gwais, S (BDMG), the States development bank. During Negodatio, it
was agreed that BDMG would execute Parts A-D of the project; the State Setat of Plaig would
execute Part E, with the assitce of BDMG. It was also ageed tat the State would caus BDMG to
perfom satsfctoily under the project. BDMG was created with State Law #2,607 In 1962 as a public
autarky,u wholly ownd by the State. I was the fis In what was to become a system of State-owned
development banks. BDMG's Presidet is appointed by the Govern. Shares are held In the name of
the State. Ihe Seary of Planning serves as Chairman of the Ban's Board of Directors. All bankig
actvity in the State is coordined tirough the State Seretariat of Finance (SEF).  BDMO I
headquatered in the State's capital, Belo Hodzoe, and has regional offices In eleven m d
cities around the State, and representative offices in Brasilia and Rio de Janeiro.
3.22  BDMG is a well-perfoming bank by mo  standrds and is the highest rankd Briian
development bank in tums of lending and profitability. As of end-1991 its total assets were on the order
of US$600 million. In recot years the BDMG has made significant effors to improve its equity postion,
somwat eroded dur the late 1980s due to nn-performng (largely federal govenment) obligatios.
This was done through negotation of terms and a State equity capital increase following the sale of State-
owned company shares (on which BDMG was a lead advisor). In 1991 the Bank's employees numbered
530. BDMG's Board of Directors approved in Apil 1990 bncorporaon of the company's assets, equity
and liabilities into a socedade andma (SA), or public company, which has increased its autonomy.
BDMG has succsfully execued severa multilateral agency-finaned progrms, including the Bank-
financed PROFLORESTA Project (Loan 2895-BR), and is executing agency (through a soerate project
unit) for the Minas Gerais Water Quality and Pollution Control Project (Loan 3554-BR). An institutional
and fanci apprais of BDMO is prded in Annex 3E.
3.23  Since the SOMMA Program is expected to continue aftr the project ends (para 5.10), project
hmplementaton responsibility wil reside with a pre-existing department of the BDMG, the Department
of Infrastruc-Ire (DIU). The DIU has maged municipal infrstructure investment funds fnanced with
CEF and other resorces. Following its recent strengthening In preaation for the SOMMA program
para. 4.8) the DIU consists of a grup of 15 technical staff, four support staff and one manager. A
technicalge  agreement with FJP would   ure, Inter ala, ta tehnical staff from the PIP wil be
availe, as needed, to assist the DIU in the Iiutional developmet component of the projecL
F. Stu of Projct Prepartion
3.24  Project preparation was begn by a unit within the Plnig Department of the BDMG in
coordinan with SEPLAN, the Secretay of taona Relats  EAI, the Serety of Municipal
Development (SEAM) and F1P, asisted by etern  conlts. During the preparation period, four
missions were held, as well as workshops with other municipal development projects (i the States of
Parani and Rio Grande do Sul). Several confere    have been held to date with muicipal mayors, and
30 municipalities with suceflly-evaluated ub-projects are prepared to sign Participation Agrn .
Detaled designs for the COPASA component (20% of inftastructure investment costs) and the public
lHghting component (8% of costs) are finalized. Designs for infrastructure investments for the first-year
ptogm  (US$60.0 million, or 20% of costs) are undey and will be completed by July 1993. The
Operational Mual was agreed durig Negotation (para. 4.3). Ihese and other documents relatd to
prect preparaton, are avlable in the Proect File (Annex 7).



- 17 -
IV. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. The SOMMA Program
4.1   The Minas Gerais Muncipal Management and Environmental    u     Program (SOMMA)
is design  to be a long-term State program to support development of locd fancial management
capacit and prit inastructure  estments. Through the proposed project, the Bank loan and State
countepart funds would capitalize the SOMMA Municipal Development Fund which would onlend
resources to municipalities for: (a) technical assistance twards Improved financial, Intiutonal and
management; and (b) economically-viable ifasucture ivtment on the bis of well-
defied sub-borrower crei ti    and sub-ject eigibility citeria. Counepart fund  wd be
prd        by local goverment and loans would be repaid at market-apximating  rA (pma 4.5).
4.2   SOMM's Board of D)irectors includes repr es of the SEP, SEPLAN, SEAM, te
Secret  of Trasport and Public Works (SEMOP), and the Asociaon of State Municipaities (AMN).
The Secretary of Planning would presido vver the Board, and would handle policy matters related to the
Program through an opetional Executive Secrtariat. BDMG would be solely respone  for day-to-day
imp   ont of the Program. The organition chrt for SOMMA is preented in Amex 4A.
Institutional and  gpleeonaf arraements for the proposed proJect are deied in Ane 4B.
4.3    Opeaional arrangements, based on those developed under similar ongoing program  in the
southern states of ParanL Rio Grande do Sul and Sant Cataina, are set out in the Progams Operona
Manual. hefe volmues include: volume l- basic orientionguide for municipalis; volume 2 - sub-
project eligibility crita; volume 3 - sub-borrower eligbility criteri; volume 4 - pruremet manmal
and mod documelts; and volm  5 - monitring ad evaation. Durn Negoiation the Operatio
Mau  wa reviewed and found to be satisfactry, and it was agreed that the SOMMA prgm would
be operaed in acd wih the Manual.  he appwroved veion of the Mana was isued by the Board
of Diretors of BDMG on June 9 1993. ne Manu is descrbed futher in Ane 4C.
S. The SOMMA Munipal Devlopment Fund
4.4   The SOMMA Municipal Development Fund (SOMMA Fund) was establised wih State law
#11,085, dated April 30, 1993. The SOMMA Fund would be located in and managed by the BDMG,
which would perform all sub-project and sub-borrower evaluation (see paras. 4.9.17). About US$144.0
million equ ent of the Bank loan would capitalize the SOMMA Fud, together with Stae resources,
in a relatonip of  proximay two-to-one. (is is equ  o the full amount less about US$6.0
millin, wiMch, together with Sta counterpart would finance preparation of PASs and traing - hrough
a seprte grat account - and the State studies and technical assistance to PJP.) The SOMMA Fund
would onlend o municipalities, muicipal water companies and COPASA for up to 75% of the cost of
eligible Institutio  development and irucure sub-projects. Ihe remain   counterpart (minimum
25%) woud be provided by sb-borrowers, tough payment of nvoices, or in-kind labor conrb tions.
4.5 Terms and Conditions. Sub-loans wo",ld be made to sub-borrowers in three categories, with
tem  of Up to five, te ad fifteen yes (including grace peiods of one to tree years), depending on
he cot-recovery profie of the Invesmen. Sub-loans would carry an interest rate aee  duing
Nepation to be calclatd on the basis of the cost of the World Bank loan plus a -spread- of 3%



- 18 -
(Yieldin an esdmated project average rate on the order of 12%).' The ineest rate for sub-loans would
be vaiable, ajusted semiannually on the basi of the Interest ra  on the Bank loan  All sub-loan
balces, dissemets and rpayments would be denominaed In cruzeiros. Duing Ngt 1atic ms t was
aWeed th  subloan amounts and balances would be adjusted for  aion usin the Idce Gwl de
PMs de Mer4do ([GP-), Issed by the Getulio Vargas Foundaton, an Index commonly used in the
financial sectr to maintain h rel value of balances. The spread woud cover the adminstrtie cos
of manig the SOMMA Fund and the risks associated with foreg excage fluctuadon (auming the
adjusteat index moves rougy in tandem with the devaluation et the cruzero). Residua risk due to
diffe   s In the movement of ths index and the devaluadon of local curreny agns h currencies of
the Bank loan would be borne by the Stat. Given the high rat of Brazilian inflation, and f cial
market ditotion, during Negotiations It was agreedthat the in     rate would be dicussed anmually.
Table 4.1 prens sub-loan tem  and condiion for each type of invetment
via  \.0    LA                                                 .W10- I'W. .
R-    Gram
IWTOpof i   _bnet                   TOm           Pedod
Cad  Upgrades, Masr Plns, Othd Teonal Anoo,
Pchas of Sold Wast EBu_nt Water and Sewe  System     up to         up to
Iovwmee, Pdvataion Pilot Mro-Basin Fiiy Sudios       5 yea         1 yer
We Dstrbi and Seowe   Cledoni Connectos.             up to         up to
PavalWllt, PUbrw LW&& o8, o-Di10 years                            2 yea
Wftr Pnxud  and T    _det S _epT _ef=  SoUd
Wasb Dlqmn4 Msao-DnJn>D, Wwro-A. tciw P"t            upto          up to
| hn_       | 11         _ I _I | | _t  ~~~~ ~~~15 yms  3 . 
4.6   It w  farth  agreed durig Negotations that sub-oans would be guaned by municities'
vauedded tax (ICMS) a              (or, in cases where thisI i sufficient, by the munici
patciaion find (FPM)). In the case of COPASA, other water companes, and the private sector pilot
investent, it was agreed tht guarae  would be made by pledging of revues, or physica or
finanil assets. Under a previous municipal program Idm red by BDMG (Annex 3E), there were
no aman, and no need to call on guarantees. If a ca  of non-payment occs, requirg th invoking
of a guarantee, BDMG would not re-lend to dth sub-borrower unti the situaton i satisfactoriy resolved.
In order to ensure a wide ditribution of project benefts, it was agreed during Negons that no single
sub-borower would be able to borrow annually more thn 10% of toWal sub-loams made without prior
coultbaon between the Borrower and the Bank (in the case of COPASA, no more tham 20% of the
total). In order to ensue project flexibility In the eady years of implemeton, tds limitation would
tae effect only in the project's third year.
4.7   Flow of Funds. Annex 4D prves a diagm showing the projected flow of finds f*om the
vario  finncing sources to BDMG and sub-borrowers, and a simuation of funds flows on bis of the
tem, estiatd lending, and renms to the SOMMA Fund over a twenty-year period. As shown, if the
project i implme_d accrding to sdcedule, the revolving natur of the Fund would enable it to lend
on the order of US$25-40 milion per semester in the five-year period following project compledon, or
rouoly the same order of magnitde as Fund lending during the peak of project ecuton.
1I huhis  also ooasdera proybog4r waka Intes rates in Brad!, ask its coprbl to thleta. (18 yer,
10-2)under t) h o ly sounfsturfinancd avblef im pubfio.aseorba  (tNsaoolDevelopment Dak
(INDE) and Fedwra Doonoado Fund (CU)) andf to thseetablishd undewsnuk Bank-financelod peels in otber tates.



- 19.
C. IDMG's Appial Proes
4.8   BDMGs DlU would mMge all aspects of m gemet  d opetion of the SOMMA Pogam,
nludg prepaaon of all subborrower nd sub-project appraisa acordig to selecton crkeria set out
In the Operonal Manual. During project prpation BDMG made dgnifican dforts to pre   for
tis project: it agreed to strength the DIU wih additional technical stf ented Ito ageemes with
the Ste water company (COPASA), the Nadonal Health Foundation (FNS) and FJP for specialized
eptise In the preparation of the project, prepared working drft of the Operational Manual, ted
proposed procedum trough preevaua8on of a groW  of 30 fir-year municipalities, geed to purc
and insal upgraded computer equipment in the DIU, araged for electro   mmunication with Bank
headqurers, and recently lanched a publicty campaign for SOMMA. Durn Negotations the Bank
was furnied with evidence of  ysa ctory increased staffing (four addiionl technical staf) and
comput erzation (threo additional computers and three additional printers) of the DIU, and it is now fully
preped to Ia  operaton of SOMMA. Annex 4C ses out in detail BDMG's pprais  process,
providi  an llusration of su-oower and su-project evaluati  for a sample case, the city of Patos
de Minas, one of the Progras first-year municipalities. The appra  pces is summized below.
(a) SubBoffower l;igibiC
4.9    All municpalities in the State, plus municipa water and/or seweage  tord es and COPASA,
would be eligible to pardcipate t the SOMMA program, providing they comply wih miimum criteria,
and undergo a detailed finac  and insiuto   appraisal. FWI sub-borwer eligibiity crteria are
detaied in the Progrms Operol Manual, Volume 3. Key steps for enry are as follows:
(a)   signtr  of a Participation Agreement (ConvDnlo de Panicdpap) which formalizes
m    pal Wnerest in SOMMA and commiment to its principles;
(b)    compleon of an  sitial nd financial diagnosis, accordig to rpid
methodology developed and tested under simlar programs in other states;
(c)    establment of an agreed set of instittion-building acdons, with dlealy-defied
perorance targets, oudined in a Strategic Action Plan (PAO );
(d)    demoed compliance with Federal legislation on payment of taxes and othe&
obligato; and
(e)    demonstrati of debt capacity according to fedal gidelines for public sector borrowing
(set out in Senae Resoutdon #36, 1992).
4.10   MnicWities with independent water and/or sewrage c   nes wOuld also present the last
three years' f       stamets, in addition to the above conditions for the parent munipalt.
COPASA's Iutiona and financial sionhas been appraisd, and found to meet minimum conditionq
for entry Io the SOMMA Program  The Botrower agreed during Negotditone    N  that COPASA
would maintan and improve its pefmace according to an agee Financial Plan which tgets Inqey
operaoal and fical per nc  Idicators (see Amnex 3G).2
4.11   To undetake  frutctue sub-los, municipaides and water agen  woud demonst:
(a)    debt capty acording to federal guidelines for public sector borrowing (para. 4.9);
(b)   avbility of required couart funds (minimum 25% of proposed project costs);
(c)   ability to provide aguarantee;ad
(d)   compliance with federal regultons regading inta-govermn     debt.
2/ Consisted w bh arVa ad ameomeu reachod under dhe rweedy4ppred Mins On= Water Quahty and P*Mn
cat P,oj  (.& 3554-U).



-20-
In addition, munIc vitIa wich hav not upgraded their reside      and   mmrcidal proprty tax
cadaste sin  the new Constitution took effec (end-1988) would commit to upgrding them in the PAB.
Municipal watr and/or sewe  compaies would agree to undertake a marginal cost anysis of tariff
and incorpor the resuts over the pi  of the project. Ibose    and conditi  arm staed in the
Operonal Man  and woud be made explicit In sub-loan contrac between sub-borowers and BDMG.
(1b) ft -te Ei g$ fW4   4. 1
4.12  Sub-project eligibility crita are set out In tie Opetional Manua, Volume 2. AU sub-pojects
would undergo techical, economic, fiancial and e ental evaluation by a team of BDMG staff.
4.13  Te _na evaluadon involves analysis of demand for th service, and densatio   tha the
dose alternive Is the least-cost means of meeting demand. This eauaon wou  be pefomW by
BDMG engis with the assistance of spiized technical agts as necessy (for example for sdid
wasto disposal, or alternative sewg tratge m). Proposas wil be reuned to muicWities for reion
if necessary. In the case of sew    tream    and solid waste diosal subproject, low-cost, well-teste
alternative techologies such as anaerobic sw e teatm   shoud be encouraged, wher appropriate.
Sewage treatment and solid waste disposal Investents would be subject to specific te cal analysis to
determine tho vIHIty of isolated investents In single municipalities. In cases where the only viable,
or the least-cost, solution to sewerag or solid waste pollution is multi-municipal or regional in nature,
municipalities would be encouraged to form water basin associations and work colaorati   develop
a viable subojct. Gran financing, admintd separately from the SOMMA fImd, would be
avalable for feasbility studies for hs type of opeation.
4.14  EconomIc cost-e t anlysis would be done to detemine projet viability. The minimum
citeria for sub-projes would be at they provide an intel rate of return which meets or exceeds the
opportunity cost of capital, estted to be about 12%. In the case of    g sevices such as
water, sewerage and public ligdtng, economic benefits would be calculated on the basis of tariff revenues
as a proxy for wDIne  to pay. In the case of non-me reve nue  sepism, such as drnage and
paving, economic benefits would be based on increased Ind values as a resut of the infrastructure
improvements. Becse of the difficulty in quafyi  full economic benefits for solid wate disposal
and sewerae  _treate  subprojects, for those subwprojects costing less than US$1.0 million (and for
micro-regional sub-projects), estim    of per capita benefits would be sufficient, prvidng the technical
solution is least-cost and benefts are shown to be largely witdin the munIciplt (Annex 6A).
4.15   huandal costbeft analys would provide the basis for determining cost-recovery. All
infrastructure sub-prjects (with the exception of some sewage tment and solid wate disposal), are
expected to achieve full cost recovery. Sub-projec inestments would be aked to specific targets to
incree user fees and ta, to be agreed with municipalities in the PAE and reflected in the terms and
conditions of subloans for inftrce investment. For exaplo, the case of Patos de Minas, shown
in Anne 4C, the municipality wil need to increase its bettment charge in order to provide fuIl cost
recovery for the proposed storm diag sub-project
4.16  All necessary environmentl evaluation and  ment would be part of requiredo
(see para  4.32 and Ane 6B).    I        assessments, where required, would be completed by
private consutants, ev_atd by PEAM and submitted to BDMG prior to sioatu  of sub-loan contracts.
1 umplwhic  hs t   Adlod ., 1hS.  of PJua"m dob.SpedeAmex4wD otpduiuy swstt
breape, wic hve bes  e4.s oal, with rbl. la Soo Ann4D.



-21 -
4.17  Infastucture nestments would be linked to specific technical assistance intervons. For
exmple, investments In solid waste collectizo and disposa, if deteed to be a municipal priorty and
econocally vble, would be accompanied by appropriate  creaswe in the relvt user charges and/or
taxes, tcical assistance in zoning and land-use, In the Improved efoment of local env l
reglons and training for Involved staff at the local level. hI this way, the instudonal development
and infhstructure components would be fWlly complementay. Given the Importance of maintaining this
linkage, RIP will work closely with the BDMG project teim on the recommended package of tchnical
ss        inteventions for each municipality. For each sub-borrower, a team of one engine, one
econom Wslfinancil analyst and one institutional speciist wi  be assigped to work together with local
authories, from diagnosis and PAE to euation and supervsion of the Inrastructure invetmets.
(c) eviewcedu
4.18   Given the large number of small and medium-sized sub-pojects expected during this project,
BDMO would undertake the evauation of municipal sub-components beyond those evaluated during
Appraisal (the COPASA compone  of about US$60.0 million, first-year municipal iftructr
Invetm    totalling about US$60.0 million, and the public liting component of about US$22.0 million,
or a toal of about US$142.0 million) according to agreed criteria set out in the programs Operational
Manual. During Negotions it was agreed that for sub-projec  expected to cost more than US$5.0
mili, the Bank would have prior review of al prwopsed tehical, economic and finacial aspects; ex-
post review would be undertaken below this amount. The limit would be US$2.0 million in the case of
sewae treatment and solid waste disposal, which are more likely to employ less well-ested technologies.
Sub-projects would be considered for review until three months before the projec's Closing Date.
(d) Technical Age
4.19  Tecical agents would assist ncipalities and BDMG in the preparation and evaluation of sub-
pojects. Municipalities would be fee to seek technical advice from State, local, university, pdvate or
other sources. bh order to provide a guaranteed source of experdse, several umbellaw technical agent
agreements would be signed at the project's outset. During Negotatons it was agreed t  technical
agent agreements satisfctory to the Bank would be sigped with any competent agency, as needed, for
the puposes of evaluation and supervision of the project. Umbrella tecical agent agreements with
COPASA for water and sewage, and with the State electicity company (CEMIG) for public lighting
would be igned prior to Effctiveness. A technical agent agment has already been signed with the
Nadonal Health Foundation (FNS), which furnishes technical assistance for water and sewerage services
to municipalities which provide service independent of COPASA, pimay in the North of the State.
A teical agent contract satisftory to the Bank would also be signed with FJP prior to Effectiveness.
The agreement would Include elaboration of PlP's responsibDies as *ape  tedhnical assistance
institution: developing a coherent framework for the insitutional development component, including
sdM questionnaires, diagnostic prcedures and guidelines, and model terms of reference for key
technical assistance Interventions; as well as supervision, evaluation and monioring of the tchnical
asstace component.
D. Lgal Arrangements
4.20  Implementaton arangements for the project would be fomalized in the following legal
documents: (a) the SOMMA fwnding Law; (b) a Loan Agreement between the Bank and the Borrower,
the State; (c) a Guarantee Agreement between the Federd Government nd the Bank; (d) a Project
Agroeemet between the Bank and the Executing Agency, BDMG (e) Particiaion Ageement (cownos
depxnipa4lo) between the State (BDMG) and particIpatig  ncipalies; and (t) Sub-Loan Contacts
betweeni BDMG and participating m    a       municipal and independent water companies and
COPASA (see Annex 4C). Areem    on the final veri  of the model Pariciation Agements and



-22 -
Sub-Lao Conta   was reached durig Negotations. k was also agreed tha all conditions present in
tho lgal agments betwen the ank and BDMG, the State and the Federal Govenment and COPASA,
would be reected in the s, as necessary.
F. Prourment
4.21   All prorement of goods and works would be cried out following the World Dans Gudelwnes
Jbr      e Pro awM   May 1992). Past Bank-financed projects have encounr  delays and difficulties due
to dicrepancies between Bank procur   guidines and Brazilian feeral and state lelateon. Specific
dcmandes betwee Bank guidelines and these loca laws ar: (a) price as a fctor In consultant
selectin(b) number of bid envelopes in competive bidding; and (c) use of brackeedng and price ceilings
In competitive procedures. A ruing of the federal Mlbwnl de Comas last year upheld the positon that
Bank guidines should prevail over local law under Bank-financed projects. Furtherorem, a new national
procurmen law which is co_istet with this position has been recenty passed by Congress. This new
law, combined with the us of stadard bidding documet (Par  4.26) should help to reduce
procument problems prviouly enoountred.
4.22   The proposed procurement arangements for the project are      in Table 4.2 below.
Civil wors under the proposed project would represent about 62% of total project costs; equipme  and
materals about 32%; and codtant services, includw technica assstance, training, studies, engeering
desi  and works supervision, about 6%. Amex 4E provides esmated profles for sub-project contracts.
~~~~~~~~~I                                             IEo T&
CbillWoda                         38.5       155.6      125       20C.6
(17.3)     (681)      (50)      (911)
--uii eSand Matoulk               67.5        30.0       8.8      106.3
(30.4)     (13.5)     (3.5)     (47.4)
ConsultmMSwio                      -          -         20.2       20.2
(11.5)    (11.5)
kTMAL                             106.0      18S.6      41.5       333.
of vAtBn iscd(47.7)                         (0)        (20.0     (M.X
.,,.nwod ,,hW  ulo d      b"an ) a d bbSaoobns
4.23  Cvii Worla.  be eimated value for civil works co ct is US$206.6 million. Due to the
widW ran  of szes of mnicipalities paricipating in the project,   e will be a nunber of small conacs
as wel as larg ones. Most contracts will be scattered throughout municipdles in the State and average
US$100,000 - US$3 milion in value, with a few ecceptions of large work ove US$5 million, to be
eed by COPASA and lgter municipalies. Its eapected that the smaller, dipesed contracts wi1l
not be aave to fore  bidders. It is thereore proposed Ihat al contracts for civl work estimated
to cos the oqulent of US$5.0 milion or less up to an Aggated value of US$155.6 mMlion wil be
proured on toe basis of loal  cmpetkit  bidding (LCB) prcedures satifto  to the Bank. Forei
fims wil be allowed to parftipte in the biddig. Above these lims, procurement wil be carried out
on the basis of intatonal competitve bidding  CB), under Bank sle8in. Local shopping



- 23 -
procedures acceptable to the Bank would be allowable for m     civir work contrac mated to cost
the equivalent of US$100,000 or less, up to a tot agpgra   value of US$12.5 millio.
4.24   Goods. Purchase of equipnt and materials b  eed to tota about USS106.3 millon under
the project. Ihe majority of these pures wil be small machinery, equipment and merdals necry
for the installadon of infastructue srvices, and most contrts ae e d     to rag  bewe
US$50,000 - US$250,000. lhere will be sigfican scope for economy-of-sae purching of
equipment, however, in the case of wat and sewerage investments to be executed by COPASA and
public 1ighting ilnvestmen to be executed by CE?G. Tn both cases, thes State companies wil procure
goods on behaf of the municipalities and a speal effot  will be made to Ideny ICB packae. For this
reason it Is proposed that all contracts for equipment and mateals esmate to cs the equivent of
US$250,000 or less and not exceeding US$30.0 million in agrega would be procured on the basis of
LCB procedures satisfactory to the Bank, with foreig firms allowed to participat in the bidding. Above
these limits, procurement will be carried out on the basis of ICB under Bank guidelines. ICB doc_
would Indicate specificaly whether domestic preference would apply in b  evaluaon. Loca dsopping
procedures acceptable to the Bank would be allowablse for small eqpment pues estmated to cost
the equivalent of US$25,000 or less, up to an aggegate of US$8.1 million.
4.25   C_oult  Serices. All tecical assice studies, t ng, egineerg desig and wors
supervision contrs, amountg  in total to about US$20.2 million wil be procured in accordance with
the Bank's Gddelbesfor dte Use of C utat (August 19), icluding proposals from ftip aod
local fim. Due to the dispersed nature of the sub-projects, and the large number of epected small
concts for technical a ce and training, project design and supervon, duing Netato  It was
reed that Bank ex-most review wil be used for contnt sevices    ng o less ta US$100,000
(although terms of refee    wi be reviewed), with prior review for aU conultn sevices  pected to
cost ore than th amoun'
4.26   Stadrbidding documents and contracts for civil works and services under ICB, LCB and local
hopping methods are set out in Volume 4 of the Opational Manual. A draft leoer of Initaon and
sample coract for consultant services will also be included in the Opeaonal Mual. ADI  m
under ICB (about 30% of total project costs) wl be subject to prior Bank review of advertig, bdding
documents, bid eauation and contract awards.5 In the interest of expditing project execuon, all
procrement under LCB wi be reviewed by BDMG's DIU, which is eperienced in tis type of
procurem    review. However, LCB procurement processes for works expected to cost US$2.0 million
and above, and toalling about US$90.0 miion, would be subject t the Bank's prior mview. The first
three LCB proemet for both goods and works, regrdless of amount, will also be subject to the
Bank's prior review. The proposed prior review arangements would prvide a prior review coveag
of about 65% of the toW  cost of Bank financed goods and works, which Is considered Wpropriate. Al
other procurmnt pocesses will be subject to ex-post review by sampling. If the Bank determines In
the review by sampling hat procurement is inconsistent with agreed pwcedur, the Bank would reve
the contract review procedures, and no expendiures for such kems will be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loa   F murteme, the Bank may cancel an equivalant amo   of the Loa  In tis even, th
Bank may also require ex-ant review of subsequent LCB documents. Audit  responsible for the
verification of project accounts would be Instucted to eamine and report on the use of these p
procedures. A genal announcement of the types and sizes of COtract to be awarded during the
subsequent year would be published by BDMG at the beginnin of each year in local nd International
4/ To confxm with guiden establishd in OD 11.10 (Anne C) dated Novnme 1992.
sI As pe OD 11.00 (Am= C) of Novnmber 1992, when bids am Inited oan a fxed-i, besk he documeots wd
Iwld, a specific        provison to protet bide fiom extension of bid vadty.



-24 -
journas of wde cirladon. The teb for the first such advertsement has been fern1sbd by 9DMO and
would be published in Deweopment Business once the proposed project has been presented to the Ban's
Board of Directors. The above procurement aragements were ageed duing Negotiadons.
F. Disbursement
4.27   The proceeds of the proposed loan would be disbursed according to the following categores ad
percentage:
(a)   for subloans for technical assitce and      e, 60% of sub-loansb
and 100% sub-loan amount in the case of foreign epnditures, excluding taxes;
(b)   for training grants, 50% of all subloan disbursements; and
(c)   for consultant senices for studies, 100% of all expenditures.
Allocation of loan proceeds is shn in Table 3.4. Disbusmnsare expected to be completed over
a five and a half year period, as reflected in Annex 4F. A disbursement schedule somewhat shorter ta
the regional profile of seven years is Justified by the experience and competence of the executng agency
and the project's tming within the local electoral cycle (para. 3.4). The Project's Completion Date would
be June 30, 1998, and Closing Date would be December 31, 1998.
4.28  In order to ensure efficient and timely implemeion of the project, it was agreed durng
Negotaions that a Special Account in the amount of US$8.0 million equivalent would be established in
a bank acceptable to the Bank and the Borrower. Because the projec would involve a substantia number
of smal contracts, disursement for civil works contracts amouanting to less t    US$2.0 milion, for
purase of goods moundtg to less than $250,000 and for consulta  services amount  to less tha
US$100,000 would be made under the Saement of Exenditures (SOB) procedure, prepared and ceIfied
by BDMG, which has adequate accouting conttols for this puWose.' Expenditres for coas above
these limits would be documented. All documentaton would be reta     by the DIU for inspectio
during Bank supervision and be subject to review of enal auditors. Because several sub-projects are
wel-advanced, retroactive financing of up to 10% of the loan amount for eligible expendures incred
after Januay 1993, but not more tham 12 months prior to loan Signaure, is recommended. During
NegOaions, these disbursement arrmgements were agreed.
G. Acooung and Auditing Aragn
4.29   The accounts of BDMG, the project's executing agency, are examined annually by prvate
ernal auditors, as well as State-level government auditing bodies.  Accounting practes and
pOcedures, including the chart of accounts, have been reviewed and found satiscory. During
Negotations the following accounting and audit arrangements were agreed: (a) tha BDMG would
maintain a separate, consolidated project account of sub-project expenditures for monitoring and audit
purposes, to be audited along with BDMG corporate acounts by private exteal auditors acceptable to
the Bank; (b) that the projet accounts of parcipan  municipalities be maintined separately, and be
subject to annua audits by the Stats 7Hbamal de Cmas, or Accounting Trbuna, as curretiy practiced;
and (c) dth COPASA maintain separate project accounts, to be audited (together with corporate financial
) by private externa auditots. These reports would be furnished to the Bank within six mounts
of the end of each fiscal year.
S/ Moatut awio would be poded by G=; fo ndviual constn fUld



-25 -
IL Monitoring, Md-Twrm Reviw and Evaldtlon
4.30  In addition to BDMG's site visi, sub-borrowers would be aepectd to pren peiodic progress
reports on project Implementai   (with periodicit eablishd In subloan contat), on the basis of
which BDMG would furis concise quartly progress  ports to the Bank.  hese reports would
compare actua and forecast progess. Ihe ded range of project monoing Idicators i provided
in Volume S of the Opat          Man.  Thes   cu   sandard sgeed pfobrmance indicators
monitoring physical, fiancial and operatioal pros of Iid  sub-projects. and 4 a  project
pefrmace for all sub-proJects. Included are specfc Indicators for COPASA, as agreed in the
COPASA Fincial Plan (Anmex 3G). A set of "key impact lndiators' and targ, selected from among
the goup of Indicators to be monitored durig the project, hav been agreed, Including: (a) number of
Participation Agreements signed; (b) nmber of PAPs completed; (c) overall project completion,
measured in e    s; (d) discretonary as a percent of total State trasfs to nil; and (e)
average property tax per capita in the State (see Annex 4G). These indicator, aon0g others, would be
monird In quarterly reports. It was agreed during Negotiaons that quatedy rports be furnished no
later tham 30 days after the end of each of the following quarters: Marc 31, June 30 and Septembe 30,
and an annuls report would be prepared for the December 31 perod, to be funished within two months
of year-end. These reports would include,  wer alia, the monitorn indicators set out in the Manual.
Repor tng           would begin with the first fu   arter following Effetns.
4.31  In order to review project progress, and If neceay reorient hpi on, it was agreed
durn Negotiadons that a mid-term review would be scheduled a         two-and-a-haf years
(betwe  thirty and forty months) after Effectiveness. In order to ensure Its useuness ad that effective
evaluaton procedures are established during proect implntatn, the broad objective of this review
a  included as part of the Operaonal Mana and are shown in Anex 4L The mid-term review wod,
bsw  alla, review the agreed progess on the pilot progrm  and stdies, and make specific
,-- mnundadons for condnutin in the case of the former, and impl   of recommedations in
the case of the latr. Et was also agreed that the Borrower, throu  BDMG, would also prepare and
frish to the Bank a Project Completion Report within six months after the Cloig Date.
L EvUiron49meta impat studies
4.32   Specific guidels for evaluation of nzuclpa projects wih  iamc t have been
established by the State envI  al agen, Fdao E         l   d  ombm          AM) for the
puroes of tho project. The new rles establish guidelines for eroel s       by pioject size
and expected impact (on te basis of physical measures, such pipe size for water and sewerage). These
gudines ar rougy comparable to simlar ones In other stes, and are compatble with both federal
govenmet law and Bank guidein. There are three categories: the first, for projects of significant size
nd mact, would be a fu  nvirnmental impact a smet and report MAIRIMA); the second
cateoy, for projects of smaller size and impact, would be a simplified      assessment, or
environmenta control report (RCA). The third category of investments would requi only licensing.
Enronmental assme  under the project wil be prpard by prvat cotants and reviewed by
FEAM. Full enviometalt impact    _         will need to be done for about 10% of appraised first-
ye  sub-pjects (sewa    treaument and landfill projects and larger drainag projects, principally to
ensure adequaesting), while about 15% wI reqire simpler impact reot and th remainder licensing
or no action at all. Et is expected that subserojcts financed under SOMMA would reflect
these percentages.  e Operational Manualstiptes that         asessment would be conducted
as needed, consIst  with Brazilian law and Bank guideines, pdor to signt  of sub-loan contracts.
Durig Negia        it was agreed that EmA/RIms and RCAs would have been comleted for sub-



-26-
proJects wh envioment  impact,' consistent with Brazilian and State laws and Bank guidelines, prior
to any disbursement on the relevant component. BDMG would provide tecdhica assistance to
municipalties and ovesee the environmetal screing proces, fom selection of consultams (Or which
It wiU mslntain an open data base of firms) to subsequent evaluation by FEAM. BDMO wil also
maintain an agreed model set of terms of rerence for eironment  assessmen, prepaed in
conjuntion with FEAM and the Bank (Anmex 6B). During Negotiations the State provided assurances
that FEAM would comply with its review and evaluation responsibilides in a satsfatr and tmely way.
J. Implemaon Schedule
4.33   Annex 4H presents the proposed projects ageed implentadon schedule, which outlines key
actions in project execudon fOr smooth implemeion. his wM be frther detaied through the use of
project manment software, to be established and programmed during the projects inception mission.
Of priay iport    are targets for Participadon Agreemen with m es, procuem    of major
work, and progress on tedchical assistance intevenions. This schedule is to be prepared on a roling
quartery basis. AIrgeme for project supewrision are outline in the supervsion plan in Annex 41.
Pbysical project supervision wil be caried out by the DIU and coultants on the basis of site chec.
BDMG's 30-year expience as a development bank will greatly aid supevision.
V. FINANCIAL ASPBCrS OF THE PROJECT
A. State Fiances
5.1   Sound fiscal and financl management, in particular over the last two year, places the State of
Mins Gerais in stable financial condition, despite recession and   onomic difficulties in the country
as a whole. Responsible fiscal management of the current State administraton has been a key factor In
colaboration between the Bank and the State in praation of the SOMMA project. The State relies on
own    ces (ICUS and other ta) for about 60% of its tota receipts. As of end 1991,  a revenues
were US$4.9 bilion, compried of US$2.9 billion, or 59% own source tributary revenues; US$0.9
billion, or 19% federal govermen transfers; US$0.7 billon, or 15% from credit operatio; and US$0.3
bilion, or 7% from other sources. On the expenditr side, curret exp   represent about 77% of
all expenditures, with personnel cosu equalling 42%, signIficantly below the legally stipulated 65%
Maximum   he remaing 23% went towards capital exp, of which about US$140 milion was
invsmnent exenditure, lower tha In previous years due to the constran of recesion. he Stats debt
burden is manageable giveS its resources, and debt service cover    and other financial atios are
satsfactory. IThe State asembly has passed authorization for borrowing fo the SOMMA project, whkh
is well wihin it federally-stipulated credit limit. Financial projections assume a 5% annual real Increase
in both fisca revenue and expenditue over the next five yes. Detais of the State's historic and
proected financ  siuation appear In Amne SA.
5.2    According to the State's pluram_ development plan for the I992-1995 period, and conssten
with genraly accepted evaluation, the decentalization reforms and possible future is  refrms wil
not bring Icreased own re es for the States in Brazil's federl sym  Thus the Stateis agevely
pmotg  gater municipal financial independence and respibilty, as confirmed in its Policy
Statement of Municipal Strengtening and Decentraizaton (para 3.2 and Annex 2P), where the State
sets out its view of the proposed project as a key instrument in its staW    r faievAng gre    muni
fiscal respnsibility and idependence. n fact, Mi  has succeeded in reduci negodated grans ftom
/ Alioug  o imea uatdr dho pjoat, t  wou il  amy impact ad p_= for  m, if aoar.



-27 -
32% of tota grnt finds provided to just 10% of fiuds fwom 1990 to 1992. A foml prposal to
condition l Ihnstruct urein em funded at the Stae level on a specified muncpal coupart (for
benefit        s)   p ing leiswati  action.
5.3   The Staes borwwing capaci was estimed on th bass of 1992 epected perfrmance and the
nwly promulgated, sigen ferda legislation () regardIAg  d,tobe about US$900 milion
annually. Ihe Stts's two top priority Inveme  to be financed by milateal crdit ar: the Waw
Qualty and Pollution Contrl Project (L. 3554-BR, US$145 million); and the prposed project
S. Munclpal F     _iae
5.4   Following the fis  decenlon  d a nst              refoims, both munipl  rewources ad
igpodituroIncreased      iy. Municip    ditues rose from about 11% of to tot disposition
of final revenue (aveag over h last two decades) to about 17% in 1990. ExpedItres Incraed  from
about 11% to about 14% of totl (see ACn 5B). The effe  of hsre ant yet fully dear, however.
Lat  seem to have benftted                            more than smaaller   ic i,  did
tose with a larger economd i base over txose weak  ecoomies.  Mos municiplties,
however, ar much better off finanily folowing the refom. Ti can have a perverse impact on own
re ces, however; for ample, Contagem, the Stats second-largest city, reeived among the highest
ICMS tnsfers whie own revenes decreased during the period.'
5.5    Miost munic Ies I M          rely heavily on tran s from the Federal and State gov et.
Table 5.1 beow indicates munipal revmuo sources on the bas of a sample of 217 muals. As
shown, own-source revenues, prmaly rpresed by IPTU and ISS, reprstd on averg   about 21%
of tot  rvenues In 1990. The project would generate  eased own reven Itugh criteria which
would emsur cost-revy  rough user- ges, betmnt fe, and property and other tae.
2               I   ~~~~~~uss--   5Of-                                    S 7  of
R Iam                   000       TO     I     vww                US$      Td1
TIde                       40.        79    CWra            1M                  7 n
ICms                     2089       37%
Odr                      236.7     42%
own Souna                  117.0      21%   Cagial                   1484       25%
WmIU                     18.4       3%
O_b.                     98.6       18%    T(TAL                   58.8      100%
TOTAL                      5626       100%   De1                     (2)         3%
5.6   Debt Capact. Mos municipalities bh   borrwed pviously only on a liHmted basis, tough
small           lInes of credit opeated by BDMO (tota of US$100 mlon beween 1980-1992) and
CEP lons to larger municipalities for sanitat    This will be the first c   for lag4cale municipa
boowing in te Stat.              in general a  cd hy  dsnc hey ha  not previously
borrowed and are now better off ta previouly. Howe, ther are svrad lag muwhi
$1 A Mmw LqWegE. 2Whtat" e P/*ta sobrew as  mnow Mimie4b BDDMG, 199.



-28 -
are sgdficaly levenged, ad mus botrow with extreme cautn  Simulations prepared on the bai
of Fe y 1992 data suggest that 538  unWpaltes (with 97% of the Stato's urbn populatin) have
a legl Indetednes limit of about US$216.0 million. Of th tota, 29 municipalitles bave a limit gre
ta US$1.0 mllion per year, 36 have between US$500,000 and US$1.0 million per yea, 244 between
US$100,00 and US$500,000 and 229 less tha US$100,000. Annex SC shows  e debt cacty  of 22
first-ye  municipalities to be US$64.5 million, and repaymen capacity US$134.8 milli
C. Cost Reovery Polcy
5.7    All sub-project appraisas would be based on the pidnple of cost recovery. Services which ar
revenue-earning (water supply, sewerage, solid waste colection) would recover cost tough as and
user dages, while services which  anon-venue earning  aWng, drainage) would be reovrd
trough Iaes in property valuation and subsequent prperty and btmnt ax. Annex SD
contains a breakdown of the cost-rcovery instrumens f  al components.
5.8    Pcing Poecy. As set out In the SOMMA Operation Mamnu, ta    for reenuvg se n icz
would be set so as to recover costs (on the basis of long-n margina costs, with a pwvio for the
financial health of the entity). Tariff studies would be done under the  uonal devetopmen
component, and tariffs restructed gradually over the life of te proect according to specific arge
established for each nicipality in the PAE. COPASA's curet taiff stucture and level provides for
reasonable cost recovery; tis wHi be ensured twough its compliace with agWed financa and
opeationa targets in the COPASA Final Plan (para. 4.10). In a state where a lr  potio of te
sewerago service provided is throug  mnici  agencies separty fm water sevic, the  I lle
sop for cross-sus fom water to sewerage, or from the economy-of-scope gais fom joint
provion. Thus marginal cost anaysis and prcing will be combimd with efforts, thog a study at te
Stat level to exam    ituonal arrangements and altnatives for establish0joint prvon of water
and  seweae  services, whether th'ough  Joint municipa e  c ies,  pvaation,
munlcipalization, and contracting Out.
D. Do  of SOMMA
5.9   In order to dimension Inestments for the SOMMA program, the Stat ad BDMO evaluated
sevral key a$rea: demand for resources; municipal and State capaciy to borrow and repay loan hinds;
and Sate and mmuicipal techical, hstittonal and financial absorpdve capacity. First, the Stat
sponsored a study wbich demonsd   that over the next decade    ly  US$3 billion, or about
US$300 million per year In Investments wer needed in the State to adce  the objectves of ineased
service coverage levels. Second, as part ofproject preparation, in July 1991, BDMG undertook a survey
of 25 of the Sta's larger cities, reprenting about 3 million inhabitans, or about 20% of the popWulaon.
The study confirmed hat the most widely demanded investment were water supply, sewrge collecton
and trement, solid waste collecton and diposal, street paving and drainage, and idefied potetl
iWesments on the order of US$100 miUlion. Third, BDMG prepard an evauaton of the credi limits
of about 400 of the Staes  cipalies, r seng about 95% of the pol Ion. is evaluation
showed a tot debt capacity, according to feded guidelines, of about US$600 million on the basis of
the muicipal fiscal year 1990. Finally, the Stat Govement de        Ine its hitoric finalnl
statements that for the past several years it has been spending on the order of US$200-250 million on
nd  capital investment, laWrdy In urban                is the o  aent of thes huds whih
would go into the SOMMA find as State couart. The proposed project scope of about US$330.0
mllion for infrastructue and ntiutonal development investments over a six-year peiod (or about
us$ss.0 million per year) wasbsed on these findigs. With State  uterpatof aboutUS$15.0 mon
and a simil amount from municipalites and water companies to be provdled each year, the project is
conservatively dimensioned. Smulions dicate hat about 120-150 of the Staes muicipates (those



-29 -
wih poplatio gretew       20,000) will pardcipa  In the  faucture component and about half of
th Stes   cIpalies (90% of the population) in the  Instit    development compont
5.10. The firm commiment of the govermn of the Stae of Minas Gerais to project objectives, as set
1xth in th Policy Staement presented by the Borrower at Negodations, Is a prmary  tor contbuting
to the projects likely susnabilky. An  pedeanced actig agency is a sed fctor. PFuer, the
prposedprectis the fif In  a seres  of smila  projes  wblch ar  being succfully implemed n
ote states In Brazil. UTe proposed project was developed beaing in mind the specific lessons leared
in thes previous projecs. Maket-equivent Interet rates, cost recovery at the sub-project leve, and
the facd    the Bank loan would be repaid by the Stat (making Bank unds a peman   capiizatin
of the SOMMA Fu    Increas the project's c    of finanal s8talnability.
VI. PROJECT lENEFIIS AND RISKS
6.1    Ii beneft of the proposed project would be enhanced muncpal reource mobiliaton as a
eult of weased wpr ty tax and user-chge revene and greaer efficie Iny I   _        of loca
_itsHW        fo both operati   and Invtment. Ihe projects uniaon Ivetment would have
sinficant posidve impact on environmental conditions In the Stae. Becas of the sdecto of the State
of Mns Gerads, the project would address the needs of a broad cross-secton of Brazs municipalities.
Benefts would also Inldude the Increased access of a lag proporton of the st's urba poor to basic
i  servines.
A. Flnanc   and IfttutIonal hIpat
6.2   The prposed project would stegen the finan  mi  a     t of local pvenmen, enab
thm to bette pro  the services for which they are responsible fbolowing the consuiarefms,
thus fUly suort  the governme's den objectves. Ihe project would also srgthen
local goverments  I.  Specifically, the project would help local govemnment develop the
capaciy to efFctvy prioritz, prepae and evaluate economically-viable nvestmet projects; en
municalites to Icea    own-source revenues - through appopprit taxes and us-charges based on
ecnomic costs, and Impv  collecton pracdces - and icetiVe to control current expendie; and
seek al    ve meam  of efficient service-rovision  rugh the private sector or through regional
cooperdon. Mhee meaures wil make local pgvmen better at provAidig the svices for which they
arers   sible, and will support the maroe c policies and objectives of the fedea gvrnent
lb8 project will o  begin to mobilize pivate sector capital for municiW inveme   In the State,
amilarzing the priva  secto with municipaliies and building their rdi.  n ths way the
prposed project would als  s       sound flnaial sector polcy and the govments overall
oeconomic objectdves.
B. E- ---ndr_-l and Realt& Benefits
6.3   Because of its focus on the basic sanitation sectors, the project Is expected to have signfica
env      -a benefits, pimaly teated to Impoed solid wste colection nd diposal, Iprved
draig  and sewerage collecdon, reduced water diuton system leakage and wae losses, a more
intgrd  aproah to management of sanitation services at the municipa level, and inreased efficiew
nd ulit of siceprovisionftrough the development and impleM to of innovative
The c al assistance omponem  wil mficthe drat   of munii    nironmea



-30 -
legislation ad strengtheung of municipal nronen  councils, consisten with the ciation
strategy of the Stat's  onm l ay. By encouraging local and regional cooperation, the poject
will also stimulat solutions based on mico-basins, and will consolidate, wihn the smaller municipalities
in the State, the experience of the Minas (eras Water Quality and Pollution Control Project (adressing
the polluion of watvas in the capita). No serious  visues    foresee  En*onmental
aspects of fie project ae trated In deta in Anex 6B.
C. Implcatons for Sectoral Policy
6.4    With the Policy Staement on Decentrai    ansd Municipal Strengtening, the Bank and the
Bonrwer have ane dfective Instrument for futre dialogue, and for assessing policy in the sector. The
project wil further develop the strategy for the sion sector in the State, in particular poviding
increased mwnicWuizatioe of services, exploring options for joint provision of water and sanitation,
and examng a broad range of institutional arrangements for provision of sanitation services, includi
private provis, mixed municipal ad Stat provision, etc., thrby adrsing one of te most citial
efficiy issus the State faces in the sector. Finally, the Municipal   ructure Finance Sud  and
Pvaization Pilot Program wil begin to develop altenaves for mobilizing private sector savi   for
long-term investment In municipal services, consistent with financial sector policy objectives.
D. Poverty Impact
6.5    While poverty alleviation is In Itself not a primary objective, the project is ex   to have an
important impaci on the overall situation of the poor in the State. In add!,lon, infructru  investments
would provide inreased service access to the poor (below the poverty line) In percentcges rouly
proportional to the share of poor in the total State populaion (estimated to be about 30% of total). The
poor in margina urban popuatons, will benefit trough life-line rates which would gradually be built
into tariff stuctures to be reformulated though margina cost studies. Ihe pilot program for regiona
infrarcture service delivery in the So Francisco region in the North of the State wi be a povety-
targeted program, where municipalkies with Icome less that US$500 per capia wil be eligible for
Pcal State grans tO cofic their invements. Twelve of the 14 chies expected to participate In the
fhrst phase of this pilot fall under is limit. The success of this tagetng would be monhord, and the
pflot would be contiued, If succesfl, in Jecquitlhonha, the Stae's poorest region
E. Economic Benefits
6.6   The weighted-averge  pected rate of return for the infrastructue component Is about 27%,
based on a sample of sub-projects representing about 65% of total proposed project Invsnts. The
remainder of sub-projects are expected to yield rates of return vaying from  12% to 90%. Subpoject
selection cArtei ensure a minImum 12% economic rate of return for all sub-projects. Detailed economic
ost-benefit and sensitivity analyses are presented in Annex 6A.
F. Risks
6.7   The major project risk b iplemeion of the instudevelopme  program, which is a
challeg  compone  requing significant advance planing, in particular in a state with such vaied
municipal Istttonal capcite. For this reason, ageed tecbnical asstce and traiing programs and
trets for muniipl  to enter the project's first-year progam have been preared and progress on
the institutional development compone  will be linked explicitly to the inlfastrucro  ompon  for all
sub-boers. This risk is also migted through the execuing agency's access to the experience of
ndegboring southern stat  with similar projects. Ihere are few tchnical riskso  with the



-31-
poject, snce most InOrastructure ivestments ae of a rouine nate, with the excepdon of cetain
sewe        trtme  sub-projecs which may employ low-cost altnatv tecnologes stll somewhat
iovtive and less-well tested. Amounts allocated to thi ty  of sub-project are limted, and Bank prior-
eview of sub-project proposals minim    this rislk  nher is a risk that State govenent decdons In
1994 may be dirupdve to the project, however the fat that municipal mayors recenty took office
(Januy 1993) for four-year terms which coincide with the project Imlemention period, diminisbes
thi risk somowhat by ensuig ontinuity at the local level. The executidg agcy is a sophistcated and
well-managed development bank, with experience in maaging urbar devedopmen projects and working
with muldila   agencies.
VII. AGREEBMS AND RECOMlMATION
7.1    Df  HgZgdW=, agreement was reached on the fllowing:
(a)    a proposal for implementation of the micro-regional pilot; te   of reference for the
sudy component of the privatizatdon pilot, and legal arrangemens for imple ion of
the slughtousetest case; funding limit for each pilot program, and thateth mid-term
review detemine whether to discontinue or expand these pilots (parm. 3.13);
(b)   terms of reference for the State studies, and timetables for thkeir i me l  (to be
completed no later than mid-tem review, para. 3.14);
(c)   the project finacing plan and the Borrower's guarantee reg      necessary project
conterpart fiuds (par. 3.20);
(d)    tdat BDMG execute Parts A-D; the State excte Part E (through its Planing Secretariat,
wi BDMG's assistance) and cause BDMO to perform sasfarily (para. 3.21);
(e)   the final vesion of the Operational Manual (issued by BDMG's Board June 9, 1993), and
dWt the SOMMA program be opered in accod with the Mau  (para 4.3);
M     the sub-loan intrest rate to be calculated on the basis of the inerest rate of the Bank loan
plus a 3% spread; the IGP-M to be used for ad-sting local-cuency sub-loan balances;
and that this rate be discussed annually (par. 4.5);
(g)    appropriate guarantees tO be provided by sub-borrowers; and that, being In the third
year of implementation, no sub-borrower borrow annually more than 10% of the toWal
project amount (with the exception of COPASA, lmited to 20%) withou prior
consultation with the Bank (para. 4.6);
(h)   that the State cause COPASA to maintain and improve its performnce, according to an
agreed Finmcial Plan (pars. 4.10);
(O)    tat the Bank have prior review for those sub-projects expected to cost US$5.0 million
or more, and US$2.0 million in the case of sewage tratment and solid waste disposal
sub-ojects (pars. 4.18);
0j)   that Tecnical Agent aeements satisfactory to the Bank for assitnce with eauation
and supervision of sub-proJects be signed with qualified agencies as needed during proJect
implemIentation (para. 4.19);
(k)    model Pardcipation Agreements and Sub-Loan Conutc; and dt  all condidons present
in the ageements betwen the Borrower and the Bank be reflected in the sub-loan
coacts between BDMG and sub-borrowers, as neesy  (pars. 4.20);
(1)    procuement            satisfactr to the Bank (pa. 4.21-4.26);
(M)   disburement a gements sa ctory to the Bk Inluding establishmet of a Specia
Account (paras. 4.274.28);
(n)    audit arrangements saico  to the Bank (parm 4.29);



.32
(o)    quatelNy monitoring reo, Inluding one deted annua rport be fnhed to the
Bank on the dat agreed, to hnlde, tnter alla, the agreed Implementto schedule and
motoring Idicator inth  Operational Mauma (para. 4.30);
(p)    hat a mid-tem revIaw be scheduled about two and a half yas ater Effctvess; and
tha the Borrwer prepar and fhmish to the Bank a Ptoject Completdon Rot within
six months after the amlng Dats (para 4.31); and
(q)   that the Stae cse FEAM to perform sisfctry (para 4.32).
7.2    As agreed, pQia to A    atlgn . the Stat provided a fia version of Its Policy Statement
on Decentralization and Municipal Strenig, dated April 1, 1993 (para. 3.2).
7.3   Prior to Lou            , Teci cal Agent          satisfactory to  o Bank would habe
bee signed betwen EDMG and the following: COPA;A, CEMG and FJP, wit the lat to Incude
specific responsibities regarding PIP's role as ae  instdion for the instional devdopmet
componet (pa. 4.19).
7.4    As a Condhion of     nO  appropriateenira asssmem consistentwithBrazilian
law and Bank guli (includig rsettlement pls, if nsary) would be undertan (para 4.32).
7.5   Subject t the above condtions, the project   sutable for a Bkloan of US$1S0 olion
equivent, to be repd over a perd of 15 years, including five years of gre, at the Bans standard
vable interest rae. Retroactive fiacing for up to 10% of the proposed loan amount for eloe
incurred after Janury 1993 is also reomded (par. 4.28).



-33 -
ANNEXES 



*35-
BRAZL
MINAS GE   MUNCIPAL MANAGEMNT
AND ENMRONMEAL DNFRAOMcM  PROJECr
noe ft*do in SDor of    o
1.    The CM  for          ra       .  There areswev    ar_um        in favor of fidelism  or
d _onostsare that becew some public services have naionwid beneft (eg., deese,
resea) wo  oters are gogpicaly hwltd (eg., puc l            , allocative efficiy calls for publi
senvies to be provided (ad  eir cos shared  Iine &with    pnce. of tho reden   of the relevant
benefit region  Tha is, servies with aionwide beneft should be provided for natonally; serices wi
loca beft sould be provided for locally. Det ao  is so justified for polical resos. It is
beliW d thdt          on is needed In order to lmit te power of one  dividual over another and that It
povides a taing   ground N- democratic governent. On th institutional fron, d lio appe
to filitae the lo  coordinao necessary in the case of muiple loca services (I.e., street paving, war
and sew_ag servioes).
2.    TIe Bra_la Context. Brazil's 19B8 Consditution is the most reon attempt of the country to
promb ote decetralzatio and federalism. Commien to ehne the role of st    an municipalities in the
oniduct of public polit is a cear darctistic of the Constitutional tex  The mConstitton bas inessed
municipal  'spIbti, so that they now cover, Lwer alia, ua public transpor,  pe-school and
sent_y eduaton, pevenive heath cau and land-use. As shown in Annex 2A, at the revenu leved 
number of municipal taxes has doubled frmm two - a tax on propery and a tax on servie - to four: the ura
property ta (IPTU); the excise tax on services in a number of tertary activities (ISS); a tax on property sal
(B  andafaeltax (I[VVCLh). Asaresult oftheseg, theshare ofnm ipes  itogovement
rvenues has mor than doubled. However, in absoute terms the effect bas not been as kaW  as expected,
de in lre part to the recessive economic envirnmed (see Annex 2B).
3.    Resio  and fiscal adjustmet have also motivated both te fedel and stae governmets to
asolerate the Implmetao  of the          es  as ed by te Consttion to the municipalities.
However, t is u tn Whether               will have the capiacty to assume these new   ibil
d to manage tr now resoure  efficiety and equitably. In several sectors, for istance beat  and
environment, municipi' e       e  b very limited.
4.    Fd       of Econom      and Sector Work. Rocent Bank economic and sector work - in paniauar,
te study Brxai:M Ihe     oifenge 0MuW       Sedor Dewwsd_ in the 19Js' -  bas idetfied swvd
isses in municipa management, one of the key ars of refrm   recommended in he repor. On he
expendiu  sde, municipalities d as     irsufficieIavestment lbeves and an oversized   inIsrion
whichas t d to consume most ofthe incse in mves through curnt exndit. n             e  venu
side, there is a clear lck of inceive to mximize own-revene and to be acounta   for finaal
User fees and propety tx  ae sub-optmay employed and negotated trnfer  ontne to
be major ims In muicipa budgtgs in sdeded camss. Mh need for trnspareny and sustaabgity requi
that ngoated tawsers be replated by formula-driven tase  and that extea-budgetary acounts (another
way of reoeiving and spending tesources) be included in the ordinary budget.
S.    TIe SOMMA Project and                  . le proposed Minas aernis Municipal
ad              In   _ fasucture(SOMA) Project fis Ito  e above contex by eicily adssig ho
It MD 3qp6 No. 10616M ry 1992



36 -                                  MM 1A
MU    01 mo       O  senoW in ml_ d 1 the setor wor. lb ma objtive is to ass the
kauties of tho Stt of Mas (erl in caryi  out thdir n -w  nsIbilit  as efficiety as posibe.
It does duda in sonSd ways:
(a)    Iho prect provides financial incentives to local nmet to earg ter Ines           capacity
and to prvide pubio sevie in a sustiae fashon - the use of full co-rovery thro    taift
and   es is h on aly way to enue  ta those public services w  be provided even after the     of
the project
(b)    It srnte  loca istitutiona apacity, with padculr emphasis on finca mmgemt and the
basi saniaionand enviom       nrst       tors,tr a      y mup  rpo ies. Ie
Institutional conte  will emphasize the folobwng activities:
*     provIdn tain   and tech      anil    for finncid nmangem;
*   _Xlpreenig dsmpb, reali guideh, perforance IndIcator and normtibon structu  to
aist proper         ;
idenffyn caall   no  be faU prvtzd;
*      designin appro   Inciv  to keep epnius under tght contol;
- local environng tad managemen councils and lgsaton;
esurngth  stentenn  of municipal tax adm initto  capacity primariy through
uprAdin Sand renovating property tax cadastre and  Vappropite traiing and
mvingtasreti  in poverty aia .
(c)    In addtion, tro                of its finacil and Institui    ddabal, the proposed project
wWi begin to move the St and            towards a Muniipa Managemnt bInf aon Sysii
MIS tacould hep monitor                  polcy, provide cnsie  repo      at all lev
om ananalysIa base o improve inrgov         al fiseca trases.
6.    Loca Goverment                 NonmAtv CWteria  Dat ds to be                       d in
term of bow load             ar dde    ng the servkes for which they an responsie. MI  abov
feraeced sector wo*k, usn basic precot  fwm economic ltratue, provides guld=ne   this d espect
It agues tat perfomance of the publo sector in gnal and of the munpitto in partcr ca be
assessed in tm  of,. (a) accountOu;ity; (b) productin fficiency; (c) demad efficiec; (d) equy; and (e)
miWmbift, mpieed in geaer dta as folows:
(a)         A         is a direct requiremen of hnc_eased.  Aout                to rloodo
is requid as a suwaant  tha the condct of thel dected offials i in Hlin with eo voters' wh.
to to highw lves of the govern_ent is requred when municipas act as ages
(or as spede) of fedea  or sotae gr-money. Rible financal dd  is probably th shigl most
moho  _eueu for  _
(b)    ?yNodfwPet Dn eaffiiec stiulte that sevice provided by the municipality should correspon to the
minimmcostprovisiL  ibabo meddrectly,obevig wheta muncipalthas osen
to least-co  soution to provide a give service, or indirecdy by looking at how employment has
evolved or how sigoift b the padcon of the pdrvae stor.
(c)    Demand efeq  rlats to the evel at which consumer demad i mtched by providon of publi
services at an economic cooL Demand efficy is meaurd by th dege to which public senvice
we financed by cost reovey a  d along te lin  of the benefit-cle- tos who benefit fvo
the good or servic duld be those   o pay.



- 37- 1
(d)    Equity goh als ude       thsngde dope to whic action incteas, or diminish intepeaonal or Inter-
5egiona nome dsa itist I sgemnery accepted that equit comncen shoud be pursned by higher
bvds ofpvamenL Loca p"mets ying ito, promote Income ditrbuton, with ther own
nuores u Into financial problems as higher-imncoe tax paycei itend to leaved the winnlty. MmI
realm ofthe toedl government should be limitd to fth provision of servIce for which s-bsdes
ane faible - for example wate supply financed by high-Incme groups and made avINabl to low-
income ones throug life-ine rate.
(*)                          and rveue be ninimized and imp Uie
thd reveon  autrity be. cs el  as possible to expenditre audtority.
7.     Table I indiaes te am  of anlysi and indicat  which an be used to assess the adequacy of
municipal olicqy making acording to these five criteda.



i1 ,\1,~f~a      tiXl'Ellt hilp
Iu'                         II'il,tii/itifiteiKill 



-39-                                 AMiN IB
MNAS G"S MUNICIPAL MEM
AND ENVIRONMNTAL NFRASTRUCTUtE PROJECr
1.    1. Section I of tis annex, focu is on the histodcal experice of nary two  of Book lendi
to Brazil In the ura and w     sectos. Many ofthes lessos, combined with th   nfiv  aceaed by do
polinca and fisa    -I     on of 1988, contiuted to tde    r   of a ww gof municipal
dvelopent pjots fousing on   _e          the cacity of local govenments to mange  d povide basi
srvioes. Lesos learned fm these -  recen experene are disus  in section I.
L  Ehitoried P   eetv
2.    Sihce 1978 the Bank has made 17 loans for urban development and tnsport projet in Br.zl,
ttling US$1.6 bMion. In addion, 16 loans t ing USS1.9 billion hav been made for bai saniaio
ojects since 1971, also largely in urban aeas. Wit tis long hisoy of Bank involvmnt in the ecor,
many impot  lessons ha  bee dwn. OED audit repots have pointed out signiflcant lesso: the Urn
Tnsport I Ptojec (1563-BR) audit drew atent  to th need for gVer feity in projeict  _  _
Mm adit of the Sites and Servic  and Low Cost Housig Pojec (1654-l" pointed out the rik of daln
With an unwilling borow  and weak ecutig aencies. On the oter hand, It noted that the project had
helped to change  NH  poliis towrds th  financing of more ot-dfedve and affiordbl, upgmding
programs. In respect of specific components for employlme  genetion which atemptd to address u
povery issues, audit  orts for the Medium-Sized Cits Project (1720-B1 and  o Noeast  topoitn
Project (2193-BR) note wat ... th co}mpe  tend to be very complex to implment, hav little polic
support at the loca level, requre    inved sments of Bnk staff time and en     . g. .
3.    Speciicaly regardg envnmeal degadaon in            areas, a recnDt OED Report, The Wod
Bank and Poujon in Sao Palo, (1989) sttes tbat:
... in spite of Word Bak uppot in poluton contol dftu sin   e eary 1970. .-.. expience
veals h limiions of takig a partial approach to polton olol ... reqrs both incre
emphasis on economic policy, together with technical, financial nd Institutional, msa   and
applicatn of a mom integrtd, coss-sectorl approach to public invetmen and the regulaion of
producve activities at the udr   or metwpolitn leveL
4.    FuremI ore, over th  past decad  the Bak and odter nstiuons hav  suppored rgoa
dewvopmt prms in non-urba setors whi  have had la   impact on U, sroundtg ubma aia.
In its seda Euwbwwuentalww &,udes in Braalthe OED recotly found tha: the phys    Impc on ura
areas of nany sc non-uan projes wee sbally u t              ; e provson of uba services oaer
the peat decade hav been far from adequa in the  regional dvp    rojetb, as the il deficibt of
I _fl-r    an ashelte have rpidy expanded due to economic succo  of the projeb; and mhe e etiv
involvemen of stae and loc  autho   In the planing and delivey of urban services hv be  viually
non-exsent If the Bank is rtequtd to suppaot a special progrm to addrss th e  nI  problem
of these dveopnt regios, it dould be prepad to do so.



-40- A-NNEI12
5.    In summauy,  s O       repots In Sge      nfored t  i.wd for
*      s"mple        design;
*      coodiaton and nsttonal strengtenIng at the loc level;
*           _        of Iho finncil mehasm  and poleo  for pro3jet imnta;
pwvision Of pwfonaam bnetvas to municIpli            ble for pe
*      reIabOl" finaning soutces for urba Investments;
*      mo  thomo  financl monoring of particiatn umIcipalities;
*                  of th lo  and innovatons in lw-cos sntation;
*      gater I_teg aog In pubc nvestme  planing; and
*      explit mecanism to address th envirnmnta impwts of di range of productie activit
i tho locus of utban aes.
6.    Ibeo  ct                 fand rter poliy innovaio wero incozporated, beginnin   te late I9O,
into to desig of a nw genern of mnicpal deveopment project whih focs ond thre g            of
locd gov_rnmental capacit for sevioe provision on tie basis of    municipel devopment find at
th St  lvd. lheso funds are dego ed to provide a reib  soue of faning for udw  luftatbuctr
Investm, mud  apropiate technical, eoomic and financial seleton crtoa which aim at th grat
yftkwy in un of  1ds.         _ b we compl_dby tbdno  sa _bm  nand traning twa
uimPmvcd ltandd manto         Mhe first of these projes wv  the Pamat Market Towns Pject (2343-BR,
folowed by the San  Cta  Sma Towns Developmeat Pojot - PROURB (2623-BR ad mom reoet
Munic  Diopa         Pojcts In th States of Pamnd - PEDU (3100-BR); and in ho State of Rio Gmnd
do Sul - PlM   (3129-BR. Thes project set the framwoA fur fther policy fmmiuatn for tde seor,
basod on th expeenc of    past two decades. The projects and teir cunt    a su ae shown in Tab  1.
below.
Piojo           Boud         Amwot         Mid-Tumt        PCR          Dbied
No.            Dta          (US$ M)      ReviewDat        Date         (US$ M)
2343-DR        023/83          52.70          NA            130o90        5.9"
26234DR        09/19185        24.50          NA.           FY9            17.6
31004Dt         622M           100.00         6193          FY96           43.4
3129-R         lot"            100.00         11/92         FY96           223
a, A -.Ap I30-, 1993.
IL Re" Et
7.     Som  le lesson ave emerpgd fom the PCR of te PRAM project (completod in 1990 and fium
md        vie  condted moe  recety for other projects. The lso  leand fm such projeb can be
divided ido thr  bread categoi: (a) fco  of comparative suoess, or thos which contriuted to smooth
and rpid achiveetat of objectives and which support the        of the baidc project desig; () pat
fact  of compastv dc    duo    teO   coidicions wh have boe lawely  solved; and (a)  sig
fators wbh   contnue to contrbubt to deays, oompcons or problens, and which  aeot yet fly
rolved. Ths factors should be ecitly onderd In the desig of            operations. lbe fira two



-41 -                                 ANNEi1X
am dlaboted In point fom, and the tird in a matil fomt wbich dmonsrate  ow th specific Isues have
been addrsed in th desigl of te prposed project.
*      Demd for Resources. The forecast demd for resourc  bas in fat ,mtlined, as reflected In
the complt commitment of Ioad une PRAM, and the forecat for flil disbursement under
do odim Ihm proje3o (sm &6nemedb_ InTa    1).
*      a_Commity Response. Communty/constlut rpon  has bee ex_tmy poidve to rformng
loca adm itrain, as ep_ssed In: willing          to pay though trf  and taes for services
efficnly provided roeleiodon of many mayors who partcipated in thes project; and wide cover
in all tate: PRAM achieved coveage of about 90% of all mnIclties i tho Stae; PEDU has
raed 99%; PMES about 30%;' and PROUlRB 99%.
*      InstItutIonal ConsGstency. Ptojects are most sucoossfl when  m    nder the Instiuonl
stctr of aprweexit   progamm. For example, a lare pat of the suess of the PEDU progm
has to do with the eadrie work do  unde tho PRAM projet  Many of th same systm  (for
_emeno, ummkoft, chunds for dhcudons wit mayors, etc.) ar st  in plc and have
sily been upgraded. Th impcaton fwr te popoed project Is              ofdthe dselecto of
EDMO as euting agen, since UDMO has had dsgifct epience, ledng to muniipaities
under oth  dmilr programs.
*_t    of Fu_m. Mhe PRAM proec sad th ongoing procts have demostated mnicipa
abilimy and willingness to ropay loeands. Guarte  hv not bee cled in any of de progmmes.
* I a  In  uNWIa Own R ". Tere i edee from  al fu poject ta municipal 
finazdal mangement has improved. is is most eiden in Parnt, whe  di  eond projetd has
gined from tle existeno of th first. A specific evaion of this will be confimed   owing the
mniderm  eview of th PEDU project, shedule f  June 1993.
*      Ting of Start-up. Bot Paara and Rio Grand do Sal bega at or na  th beginin  of the
mayoal trm      s undoubtdy has hlped in h pojec'                   D       ie      o
cycle a lg can be expected. The proposed project has been dtied so as to tak advantage of a new
mayorl cyce (wh beg  a fouryear tm   Janmay 1993).
S.     Thes faors       _        _   bwsuslaiit  of to oveall prject concept, ad Jsi*   ndeion of
folow-up operains.
9.     Three importat external fc    have in he past indeed projct          o, howeve (du to
in pat to collaboron between th GOB and the Bank), m    s  have ben take reduce or cage the
impact of these factor. Thes ara ar reltd to:   _     ;  obloa a          and dsuent.
I  saoul be noted tht in adit  to being apoved he monts aS. PBDU sd hs gSt$ a ier datt, PM   abso
1id so bestfi fhem a pzeios Stae prgrm, a did PSDU.



-42 -                                 AM  1s
*     IFist, procaneut      n      It under all project in Bazi have suffeed  e conasequene of
B    _zian prouremet leon's inconsstency wilth th Bank's pmew n  guidelines. n May
1993 a now fdeal procumet law was pad, dfecdvdy                     most of the serious
ncousitenMas. This new law, together with use of the Banks stndarbidding docuents, should
effctively emnate    y poemeat prblems which led to slpicat delays in other progms.
*      Second, the Senate Resolution stdng out guielies for pubic sector Ildn dt Imn the past
stpuated that all muicipalitles should be reviewed idivkidaly. As of 1993, condoned on the faet
ta municipal projects adopt fedeal creditworthins creia, ah Sate wfll approve its muncipal
bowing proga at the sam    e as th Ste's borwlng and the Federal (overnnn's guarn
is approved. This will cut down on the aecuting agency' ub-project pr_sg time, and save stff
time previously spe  lobbying the Senate committe.
*      Third, regarig  d, thlere isb no longer a B azil-wide requirm    to hold sa Speci
Accoun  in th Central Bk in Braslia. In the past tis has reated Sm   confuion and lag time
i dix         processes. As of 1993, Special Accounts may be held in a bank mutuay aogable
to the parties. This will also minim   prcess   ddays.
C. Cgmlicatg   or Dlayi  Factors
10.   Ih matrix shown as Tabl 2. below indicates t' oe key, unresolved factors of project compldcation o
deay, and oudines how the desipg of the proposed pre at Incporates measures whi  wM mDigate t  risk
Of such factos.
Lesson                                    Projet Deog
One of the key sores of               delay has b    broad    Inest     have ben limited
sertor focuw:   _    ,  Institionl and social sectrs have a to te sanion secors,
been _qrseted. Eqpien  demonsrates tha infrastracture       ddrmid by the State and by
invesmt are more qu y implemeted; socia sector              a sampln of mniipaltes to
invs    under both PEDU and PIMES ar behind schedue.        be among the higbest proriy
At midterm finds have been reallocated to i u    ,          invemes in the Sta.
primarily water sector operaona improvements. Part of reason is  Lnkage to the social sectors
diffity i dm i   priojcts with vaeied seocoral fews,        wM be done through  wproved
pudclariy expeise fr euation, supervision and monioring of   orat  wit ongiag
sub-project.                                                (eduaton, healt) projets.



-43-                                 ANkXJ IB
Ilrporation in
Lesn                                     Projec Desg
A second key sourm  of deays has been lack of focus and clarity in  The project has explicit lika
tho ititutional devdopment (ID) component. Capacity-building  between TA and infas ,
tecno  asisac was beg  with PRAM, however, it was not    with realistic, lmited
given pioity. PRODURE applied stricter conditionality for sub-   conditionality on sub-loans.
loans, but it was am enibred. Under PEDU and PIMES, explicit  Teams and conditions for the
tis between the soa development and infrasucture          Institutional development
components were estabished, focusing on efficient management  component bave been discussed
(financal/InstItutil). The conditionaity was in fact enforced  in detai (comparing approaches
somewhat too sticdy in the first years of PEDU (with the quest    used in PEDU and PIMES) and
for perfecon cauing delays). As a result, ID investments in  discussed with the State and
PEDUrs first year wenr low. Terns for olending for the ID  municipal mayors.  hese wil
component were also somewhat unclear.                      are cleady defied in the
manuals.
In seva of the project, Institutional arrangements wve not  Aceptable bylaws and statutes
cleadly defind, atiulay responstbilitie among insfituto.   for the Program which legally
Lack of lear stu  and bylaws made such progams vulnerable   bind institutional arragement
to changi  politicald fotunes; lack of separation between  have been approved by the State
Executive   C          of Directors and implementing bodies,   prior to Negotions. lbe
between ma_geeo M and supervision of program also created  project unit is a flly-
conltison at times. Key team member were sub-contaed to the  funcioning departmen of the
extng ageny, ratder than having permanent staff positions.  DDMG with career staff.
go I i'in is ee   to smooth implementafion and       BDMG has begun a (modulr)
adequate monitoding. However, much of the evaluation and   compridve scheme for
moniting has to be perfected during implementaion.         computerization of evaluatio
________________________________________and monitorinkg of the program.
Early and thorough marketing of the prograr is essential to its  lm State embared on a
sucess. Lawk of this compromises coverage. (PIMES did not  publicity campaign for the
have the benefit of that PEDU did of well established channels  program in January 1993, and
fom a previous program).                                   plans for marketing have been
Jnfonuaton gathering (for the purpose of the institutionl and  The Ptogram's Excutive
fiacial diosis) frm municipalitie is often complicated and  Secrat wl expicitly assist
tmeonsming, due to unfmilarity with forms, poor data, weak   municipalities in pmarng the
MsdWional acily.                                          conrect douenion, fteig
IEDMO f   this task.
I!llot compo s, if not be   right away, do not get offthe  The ters of refece and
ground. Housing pilots were not begun early in project     arnements for
implementation and goveanment officials lost interest.     impe nion of the two pilot
programs in Mba hae bee
agreed during Negoions.



C 
X~~ g                   Ig   .
Is          l                     d 
II                                  3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~....................................... .................  



*45-                                    h
BRAZEL
MINAS GERAS MUMCPAL MANAGEMENT
AND ENVROMETAL IKFRASTRUCrURE PROJECT
Table 1: Evoluo of the SEn of t2 MlM  Levels of Govem en
(ftm as % of GDPt
*              j.iI-v"   lmn       ieo        1,s
REVENUE           271       24         23.7      21         26.1      31.
Ceuta         14.8       15        15.6       1217      14.        13
Stub         94        6.7        58        65         7.         93
Municipal        2.7       2A         2A        25         3.8        52
E1CPEND1CDuE          25A        24.0      23.        243       32.7       310
Central       145        15.0      15.7      145        209        16
Stae         83        65         5C        7.1        81        102
MuIcipail        2.6       25         25        2.7        3.7        43
of whkkl
WAGES&SALARIES              83         7.1       63         6.9       9.7       105
Cmntl          3S        3.0.       25        25         4.1        3C
Statb        3.9       33         2.8       3A         4.0        5.0
Municipal        0.8        09       10          1        LC         1.8
GOODS&SERVICES              3.0       3.0        2.9        2.9       4.6        5.1
Central        15        1.6        1.6        13        23         26
Stat.        10        0.8        08        0.9        L4         15
Municipal        05       06         0.6         8        0.9       1L1
*IRANSR TO CONSUltES               9.0        9A       1           8.8        9A       10.0
Ceatral        7S        83        10.4       7.4        7.7        8.0
Stat         13        10         0.9        12        12         1.5
Municipal        021       0. 022                02        05        0QS
DNrERNALDBTSERVICE                   0.7       0.4        Q8         33        6.1        19
Central        0.4       03         03        2.8        5.9        1.8
State        03          1        0.2      0Q          0.1        0.1
Municipal        0.0       0.0       O          0.1       0.0        0.0
GROSS INVES                  4A        3.9        2.4        23        29         35
Cenal          1.6       Ls8        0.7      05         09         05
State        19        13         0.9        L2        14         2.1
-unIcpal         .LO      0.8        0.7        Q6        0.7        09



-46-                                  ANNEXI2
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT
AND ENVRONMENTAL SANITATION PROJECr
Tae 1: Minlclnelities in the State of Mhns gest
A-ad ThlrPoulaflon by ize  r
(as of 1990)
Populaton Garnp                                       Total Populaon
by Number of            Total
labbitants        MunioipaUtIe s    Inhabitants       % of total       cumulated
10,00 or less                418           1,931,360          12.0              12.0
10,001 to 20,000             154           2,194,638           13.6             25.6
20,001 to 40,000             78            2,142,082           13.3             38.9
40,001 to 70,000             35            1,893,666           11.7             50.6
70,001 to 100,000             17           1,431,437           8,9              59.5
100,001 - 150,000             8            913,877             5.6             65.1
50O,001 - 250,000             5            861,517             5.3             70.4
250,001 - 500,000             5            1,681,892           10.4             80.8
above 500,000                 2            3,104,365           19.2            100.0
TOTAL SrATE                  7222         16,154,834          100.0              -
Memo Item:
Totl aboe 20,0               15D           12,028,836         74.4%                       1
Tod BraziP                   4,800        1S3,164,000           _        | 
Sour8 : SUC   USELAN-MG, 3DMG.
'IiM lags m        ath. i S d e and their 1990 poputions ane as Mflows: Belo Horzote 2,048,861 (3,461,908
in tho Mdrepoln Region of    wr Bdelo Horionte, whioh includes 18  ); Juiz do Fo 385,756; Ubertladi
366,711; Montes Cawo 247,286; GovemaVales 230,487; Uberaa 210,803; Ipatig 179,696; S00 Loas 143,611;
Teoolo Otani 140,639; Pogo de Cds 110,152; ad Pats de Minns 102,698.
2 T w   723 min tbe Stat in 1990. The muw a  of lad do Min, whose popuation had not bees
ist- ated'in 1990, Ii not included. Dwing 1992,33 new municipa  wee odablished, big the etreat total to 7.
S/ PopulWado  1991, IBRD; number ofn fi  emted.



-47 -                                    AMIEX2D
BRAZIL
MNAS GERAS MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT
AND ENVIRONM NTAL 1NFRASMICrURE PROJECr
Incatoms of Relative WFath in M}fas ggais
Table 1: Monthly lucomme of Urban Households
Brazil vs the State of Minas Gerals
(as of l987
Tobl             Household lnoome Groups (nwbobe of   m hahaum per mn)P
holds      <1 1   >1<2  |>2<S    > S<10  |>10c20    > >20  |  ox
nundww(WM  34,291     4,081     5,967      11 ,14S     6,755        3,532      1 9S    857
% of tola      100.0      11.9      17.4       32.S        19.7         103         5.7     2.
cuulte          _         11.9      29.3        61.8       81 S         91.8       97.S    100.0
tm*(OOO       3,606.0    $5S        721       1,168        S91          3aB         17       90
% of total     100.0      15.4      20.0       32.4        16.4          8.4        4.9     2.5
===uldod      15.4      35.4       67.8        842          92.7       97.S    100.0
Soures: Dazi P.saa NAiodal por Amwotra dr Dwakiiles, Rio de o ude, 13GB, 1988.
Mis Usual: Ann" Estatuce de AMie Gerais, 1988-1989 - SUCEISEPLAN - MG; BDMG, Planning Dept
1I Does not inld pealone or household employees. Avmp pesos per housebold approzimaty 4.
21 On minhm salay in Bril currnty avere about US$60.
S1 Other pifin eier no respose obined, or fmilies wh no imnm, at alL



-48-                                   WAL
MUNAS GERAS MUNCPAL MANAGEWM
AND EINVRONMAL NWRASMUCTURE PROJECr
in the St  of MI      eis
Tabb 1. Covqe dE Wd  d SempSwv
-    [t   ~~1960           1970      1- 1980               191S
IOTAL                          18.7            30.6            493             7S.0
URBAN                          43.1            54.1            72.3            94.3
RURAL                          2.0             3.2             2.8             167
Co (do MXAL)       __       13.7         _17.7              33.S.8 
Su A  8,93222 8                 S0.0           53.0
IINS                             1,107           56         92%          56 701
btunio~~pslitIss~3,324                  320          sA..       412         OA..
NO service                                       -           -          260         35%
TOTAL                           12,463           756        100%  7_6              100%
_   . -..           _-                     -   -                  m
Sources: Table 1: SaIA-MG, fixw 3wak - baca          e
C DMO, COPASA
Table 2: Consukau adlats baWd on data from MBGBIDDUG/PASAAFNS/SRPLAN.



!if                   IIIX    fill   [I
sU.   Irl                 l           
{T~I                I                          in0  
Ii      a    iit                             i 
Xi                                    t. i           I -1#



-50-                               AN=Ii  2P
Policy SUatM=n gf Decetraization and Municipal StrengiheX
of tle State of Minas!aerais
1.    Promotion of economic development and improvement in the quality of life of its populadon are
the prmy objectives of the Government of the State of Minas 3erais. Bearing in mind these objectves
- along with the goals of ensuring the efficiency, productivity and competiiveness of Is economy - the
pres  adminisationhas worked towards greater equity in the development process, through measu
and actions that broaden and enhance the supply of basic goods and services to the State's populato
The govenment's activities are planned to take place mainly within the realm of Its traditional fumctions:
education, health, sanitation, and public safety. Ihese are the effective priorities set in the Multi-Year
Govemetal Action Plan (PPAG) for the period 1992-1995.
2.    The administration has estabLished the strategic outline for the implementaIon of its objectives,
two of which are of particular relevance: (a) the expansion of basic infrastture, especialy
envirome nta_l sanitation; and (b) the decentralization and strengthening of local govements, and  eir
partcipation in the provision of services. The latter objective derives from the recognition of excessively
cenalized decision-making and financing, which is no longer accepted either by society or under the new
Stae Constitution.
3.    Furthermore, greater efficiency in the provision of public services can be achieved through,
among other measures, the decentraization of such services to the local level. Bring decon making
dcoser to the population provides local administrators with the oppormity to better evauate specific local
needs, and decide how best to meet them - usually at a lower cost ta would be incured in the context
of a centralized decision-making process. Thus, the State government is implementng a strategy of
decentization to the lociJ level in all its priority areas.
Bfasic and lSnvironmental Sanitation
4.    Noting can better express the actual priority of this sector for the Minas Gerais Goveme than
the Program of Basic Sanitation, Organization and Modernization of Municipalities (SOMMA), which -
- together with PROSAM, the Water Quality and Pollution Control Program for Belo Horizonte and
Contagem2 - will constitute the primary instruments of State basic and e enta sanitation policy.
The Government intends to pursue in this sector its overall decentralizing policy, thereby superdming he
past centraized model of the National Sanitation Plan (PLANASA).
a.    With specific reference to the State water and sewerage company (COPASA), the
following guidelines will be carried out in the context of the SOMMA program:
COPASA will maintain the market area of its services, i.e., it will expand service only
to respond to population growth of the municipalities where the company already holds
the concession, and
/ Parday linanod by Wodd Bank Loan No. 3445-BR.



-51-                                ANNEX2F
COPASA wil increase its self-fiacing capacity through establisLment and mAnance
of realistic tariff policy and execution of operational development programs, thereby
overcoming its fincing constraints.
b.    Regarding autonomous municipal water and sewerage services, SOMMA will be the
instrument for executing the objective of broadening and improving the supply of these municipal
services. With the completion of the Sanitation Sector Policy Study and the Privatization of
Municipal Services Study, both to be financed under SOMMA, the State Covernent will have
the techical capability to promote the insutional restructuring of the sector through increased
decentralization, gradual privatzation of services, and establishment of a cooperative working
relationship between COPASA and the municipalities.
Sguppohe Dizatio
S.    For the State Govenmen, however, the objectives and role of the SOMMA program are not
restricted to basic sanitation, for the following reasons:
a.    The Federal Constitution has assigned a larger share of fiscal revenues to the
muicipalities. The impact of this measure has not yet been fully felt, because of the notable
decrea  In tax collection brought about by the recessionary environment. Notwihtanding the
merits of this initiative supporting fiscal decentralization, there are potentia risks as well,
namely, that of poor application of the incremental revem,es by municipal governments and the
possible option for fiscal retrenchment regarding collection of municipal own taxes.
With a view to reducing these risks, the State Government has devised SOMMA in order to
contrbute to the institutional strengthening of local administrations, with emphasis on the areas
of tax management and expenditure control. At the same dme, the State Govemment has
established as basic principles: (a) that untied, ad hoc transfers to municipal governmeus will be
reduced with each fiscal budget; and Ob) that these transfers will only be made to those
municipalities which fully collect all potential revenues under their authority in order to support
actions and projects geared to low-income groups.
b.    An effective transfer of previously State-level activities to municipalities requires that
local administraions be prepared to carry out these new functions. It is the State's inention that
the strengthening of municipal management will be implemented largely through the insttional
development component of SOMMA.
c.    The State Government is aware that investments in municipal infrastrucure, especially
in basic and enviromnene sanitation, require resources which cannot always be accommodated
fully wihin mnicipal budgets. As there are no sources of financing for municipalities for this
pupose, the State Government is establishing under SOMMA a revolving fimd, called the
SOMMA Fund. Its aim is to create a sustainable financing mechanism with clear and pre-defied
rules, under terms  th are consistent with expected rates of return for these infrastructure
invesme. Together with loan repayment by the municipality to the fimd, the cost recovery,
user-payer and benefit principles represent consistent rules for meeting the needs of the target
population as well as the finacial health of all municipalities supported by SOMMA. The same
principles are expected to be applied in operations within PROSAM. Moreover, by sponsoring



-52 -                               ANN=C 2E
the prparadon of a Study of PFnacing Options for  cpalIes, the Stat Govenmt Intds
to eplore the feasibility of othr sources of long-term financng for mmicipal infrstructure
mes, posibly as a cofining scheme with tie SOMMA Fund.
d.    St  resources destned to municIpalities under SOMMA constie  a superor altertve
to more direc ad hoc Stae transfe.        ence under SOMMA of agreed teical criteia
for municipa elgilty and sub-rojet approv - e.g., col     with the debt rpayment
capacity and cr   t       gudines for public entides set out In Seat ResolutIon #36; and
the requremnXt of tectnical, economic and financial vabiity for proposed sub-projects - ensures
the transparen access of all municipalities to the SOMMA Fund, and guantee ta resource
allocation wil be guided by parme   that lead to eficcy and equity.
e.    The enm al suti  in Minas Getals calls for a decisive State poicy t eosure
sustie development. his poliy wifll b eexecuted in the coe  of PROSAM and SOMMA
aloDg the following Hles: first, through the isitutional srengthening of the State enironment
enty (FEA) and the pardcipaing municpities n developing and --mpI _g anti_
actins; second, by having COPASA and the municipal water and sewerage asutities emphasiz
invesments in the colle  and treatment of domestc and industria sewerage, as well as in the
collecton and final disposal of solid wat.
t.    Lasdy, a wvised role for th public sector and a new mecaism for sasfying municipal
demand for sevice wil be tested tugh two pilot programs under SOMMA. On the basis of
the condlusions of the abovemeoned Study of Pr zvat    of Mnicipal Srvices, the viability
of private sector participaton in the delivery of municipal evics will be evuted under
modalities, schemes and appropriate regulations dth ensure optimal conditions for the proviion
of such services and for the protection of their consumers and us. Such evaluatio wi also
be conducted  rugh a pilot pdvatzatn of laugrse, whih wil also bring about
Important   In  public health and san on contrl. In order to met the svice needs of
ose municipal govenments with litle ecomic weight in poorer regios, an associative model
wil be testd tough a pflot program to be executed in the Ntern region of the State, which
will rely on the possible eonowmies of scale that may be reached if a group of municipaities are
served together in their commo needs.
Decenttidon hI O*m Secm
Educion
6.    The PPAG allocaes to h  ducaton setor an averago of 20% of effecdtvly-available resources
each year. T        resources are being allocated, in an inceasngly decentralized fasion, through a
program geared towards improving te quaity of basic educadon and reducing faiure (and consequendy
drop-ou) rates. The dc     b     s being implmented at al levels, from the teacig unk - which
now has ample pedagogical and adminisative automy, with community participatin in the dection
of scwol prinpals - all the way thou  to the regiondal education offices. For the imp l of
this program, cooperi  f&om th Wodd Bank is being sout



-53 -                               &kL&UKZE2
7.    lhe anual allocation to the health sector use  ected to be, ona srag, 9.2% of the resources
effecdvely avalable in the State budget. Key proposed actions aim at expanding access to health services
and implemenng In Minas Gerais the federal Unified Health System" (SUS) program. In addWon to
allocaton of reources, the Stadminitaon has also been eanusted to coordina wit the federa and
loca govenm_m the estblisment of a modd of integated asistance, within which the fuctions of
eoxcuting and managin health-care sevices would be left endrey to municipalities. Ibe State Secretariat
ofHealth wiU be responsible for stategy planning and policy-makdng, as well as for such services which
are only feasible when provided at the state level or In major regional centers.
Puble Safety
8.    Public safety services ae forecast to absorb an avge of 8% of the availble resources. The
StaWs objective In this sector is to modernie, broaden, and raise the efficiency of police ins ions.
The provion of suich services has tmitonaUy been caied out in a decentaized way, through local
military police unts and local civil police dprtmen.



BRAZIL
MINAS GERAS MUNICIPAL MANAGEMEN AND ENVIlONMEAL INRASTRUCrURE PROJECr GERAS
Im         mena          Saitutional nfrastrut  eecon cr b      imed       BWer q ualitydca         Cotcovey mechaisams
ianaem                   TA & traiponeng: TA     t arsgd rntdso regionld    own of aveooal           not enforced: taffs and
and as a coEWIM,        baimpr legin,           investmnts,      cost-       eimt    coucis    taxes not appbpriaely
zongown resounocs, cusat    r tone a lpopby bsuent and                      icmrees e d or collctd duo
prt    ionool           propertutx                  and  ltRs; no. mnipoas  to lack of pola willA
ivstat pdorhiztion                  .pafts with MSsys                       weak Bak betw
nev; no.  g   rnical duriifm n&
infratrucure cverae in compoents privte  cvet conomc cots, last. invetmentunitcosts  inceasei  mtnrupaluia
kwmawbomn         SAsioS ttmbw    Selection or"i  mked                 Water qualhy hsicto; _ottoa   _uab
prioriy an imation bet  TA & i lt ning fo r                     d assess  cost te c osla  n o. of ac tvc aned  not lemecd:nati    and
impsovies tegeslmson,    inv ptentsiHal piv of      (resulsofAetorstu)d y
DO6g communit        institutina 4and  ict and                             mosedo cogodod due 
incp aon ti ink of pnliiaW nm _
Create sustaienable      Permaehntsrel ng        eun baw : tnreifs           Sate  cveratios    Lckibof privat      f s neoct
finafing m covamgo if  componentl; pchve         covnr economin ats; vast-    of fond; t succe ss; in  icncd, minpit;ies'
prioritn seces; stu  toscai talc t;i; rcalsuted soint walighte   dist                                                  inpa_
t oi      role ci tal    mas*_etmbasnoicpa ofnc se snpnw           d
s tro   tue            tems; poteria pilo           NumBe of paor studW)
programn in ftgd  g
Crcf su_mbl             Pemnn  _vmn    _ und byhws: mWw4medbs                Rate of rocnttmo    Lac of pyivn setoor
fincuing to       for fwr  d deicier y cgnds   onkding ; r     prgialon   of eiod; sumber in su       ofidebe in ptdl ins
udban ktsu_msf resoues to bilc                   p31o; load    f_ doody   b    Mitg  prasc UCr coochins prme   in
iwisn_s, inchiding      proies; awuy to                                      copk*l rsb of           llght of distorim in
mob_zig piatempta   mobgizis privte capital                  ..municipd iallsBW                      fic  nanohl ndmf
Target bawf to broad    Infwuea_ iwvstmat   Seocton cf;* piot                Nundfer of paripang    Weabz, poorer
ranp of municipiaic,    crhiwa, pRot project in    prorant with ord gmnl    municipalities per       muicdaie wM not be
incuding to poor whae    niroregion              aod monitoring; msargl cos   region; nubr of stb-    a41 htavc     inre  m
possible and to North                            pricing studies             project in pilot prgrm   participation, despite
I                           I in North                 g    n
I These objectis ae sd out in the Stte' Polioy S_tment (Ann  2F).



- SS-                               AM=I  3B
MIAS GERMS MIMCIPAL MANAGEME
AND ENVIRONMENTAL NFRASMUCTURE PROJECT
Deled hq2drolndf
1.    Oudined below Is a detailed desciption of the project's compoents: InstItutional Developmt
(t A); Basic Sanitation and Related I ruct  Investme   (Pat B); Pilot Progrm  (Put C); and
State-Sponsored Studies (Pas D and E). Operational arrangements which set out selecton criteria and
lik the technical assis  and Inratucture sub-projects are set out in Anex 4C.
A. ntonaWlo DVegmA omnaXnen1
(US$29.4 million, 8% of project costs)
(a) Objective
2.    This component will be the doorway to entry Into the progrm. The speciftc objectves of die
component, consist  with the Sttment of Decentization and Muicipa  trgn   (see Amex
2'), are to:
*     improve local govement fpmcial            particarly ncasg own as a portion of totl
revenues and efficiency in current expenditures;
*     reinforce municipal aactv t plan. anrt. select and imniement effdibcie
i-vesnta on the basis of appropriate sdection criteria; and
*     strengen municipal =nM=me    plannig evaat   and manftadn& consise  ih the
State's objective of increasing decentrization of responsibilities for environmental
3.    Eligibility crieria wil ensure that all municialities enteri  the progm develop ai acceptable
institutional and financia development plan, or Strategic Action Plan (Pao de Apo Eratdgko, or
PAE) - descrbed in greater det  in Annex 4C - prior to beig eligible for a   loans. It i
estImated at about half of the State's 726 muniipalities will paticipat in  s  mponent,  ntig
about 90% of the Stats total population.
4.    Once an agreed program of instttonal development acdn is agreed, illuding boh trining
and thnical assistance, the municipality will demin sourcing of aista    on the basis of shorts .
For training, municipalities will choos among the Staes Fwdaoo Jo4o P}ner (PP, see Amex 3F)
and     nt consultant. Becawse of its comparative adt   in the provion of tning, it X
iely that a large portion of the aining component will be executed by FJP. It Is planned ht most
lassistc i      oterv     will be exeoed by independent constans accding to sds and
gdelines prepared by F1P and agreed with the BDMG and the Bank. For technical lstnd
municipalities will choose on the basis of term  of referene  and htort lists as stipulated Und  the



-56 -                               AM      3
Proras guidelines  d consistent with Bank prouremment guidelines. Becauso of thoe smal si of most
such technical ssitace and training conacts (estmated to be below US$100,000), BDMG wil review
tem  of referene, short lists and conts prepared by municipalities (with Bank ex-post review),
fllowing the Bank's OD 11.10. For coacts above US$100,000, the Bank will provide ds revew.
Sample terms of refern  for standard technical assistance investments, such as upgrading of property
cadastres will be agreed wih the Bank for tis purpose. BDMO will also maiain a database of
consulting firms Ieested in providing technical assita   to municipalities in thes  ar, to be
advertised annually. Ihis list wil be in no way be restrictive, and will be valeo   ncii
smply as a resource.
5.    Because of its fundamental goal of increasing local govemment own-resource mobilization ad
Improved efficency in both curt and capital expedit , the  stiona developme  cmonet
is directly linked to progress on inastructure inestme. This linge will be  tablished in each
mnicipality through the PAE and sub-lo  contrao, and  osedy monitored (see Annex 40).
(c) Technical AssIsance Investments (US$17.4 milion)
6.    The technical assistace sub-componet would focus on interventions in three areas:
3     fiscal and   Ir      ae:  upgradiog prope  tax cadastes (ncluding revuing existing
property, inclusion of un-egistered property); Impving procedurs policies and physical
infrastructr for biling and collectio  of property and other taxes and tariff; Improving
proment procedures;
*-  plannig: prepaing and updating of master plans; updati  real prpey mappig; wor  and
construcon codes and terch   standards; and
-     envIronmen and basic sanitation: establishing (and rationaliing) land-s and zong codes
and regulatons; shening local enviro a  en              e   agencies (CODEMA)s)
encouragemen of regional coperation trough water basin authorities; preparing long-
marginal cost pricing studies, as inpUt to revAg user-charges to be based on economic costs.
7.    Technical assistuce costs have been estmated on the basis of current market costs of similar
tedical as n  interventions in Minas Geras and other stat, estimated by RJP which is a provier
of such services. Tecical assi     investments averagg about US$75,000490,000 per municipity
for about 350 municipalities have been budgeted.
(d) TmanIng Invstments (US$8.8 million)
8.    The traing program is desige to complement the technical assstace component and would
be largely oriented towads on-thob training, rater      classroom lectures. k would include, bier
alla, the foRowi   reas: municipl bAing and budgeing, procurement methods, land-e planing
and usage of master plans,    on        protection and enfocment instruments, finncil and
adminisave managemet; ptoject evalu
9.    Local traig unit cots (costs per paticipa  per day) have been estmated on the basis of on-
going proam  implementd by PIP and other Brazilian agencies, averaged from aggegae costs pet



-J-                                 ANNEX7
evt  per day. Cost include rental of training facilies, trainers' fees and honorar  and travel and
subsistee costB for bo  trainers ad pardcipas. It is esmated that about 4,500 municia staff in 300
municpalIties will be trined under the project,
(e) Equipmet (US$3.0 million)
10.   SOMMA wIll also finance limited and wel-justified office equipment purchases, largely
computers, pinters, and other office teology upgrades which wil Improve the efficiency of processes
and iinmation flow in municipalities.
(t) State Te cal Assita    (US$800,000)
1I.   Teical assistn   for the Stats eoomic devlpment fondation,  P, would also be
provi   under this compoen  The project would finance preparation of FIP to dscharg th role of
apex municipal management institutin at the State level to develop a strategy, ceate procedures, and set
nDO  and standards to facflitate ntiutiond strteing of municiplits. In essence, the PP should
be iftg its modus opani   for istutona development of local goverments into a new phase,
increasingly mrked by normative standards, wholesale intv os aimed at ftering private sector
delivery of tenical asstance and Waining, and tie monitorn  of develpmen   The plan for
strenghening PIP was agreed during Negodations. The pdmary responsibilities of FIP in meeting the
objeces of tis plan, and fulfilling its ape role, would be set out in the tehi  agent agment
beween F1P and BDMG, to be signe prior to Effectveness.
B. 
(US$292.0 mWiO4 88% of project costs)
(a) Focus and D   oing of 9SMIMA
12.   Upon Its ety in 1989, the new State govement Idefi  the basic  saniation sectors, Including
wae, sewea, drainge and solid waste as among Is key pdorties. As set out in its Policy Statement,
the Stes itetion i t  tbe SOMMA progrm wll be Its primy vehide for such investmen  in the
State. Of the total 756 municiities in the State, it is expected tht about 150 munIcipalities (those wih
ppulations over 20,000, or about 75% of the Ste's population) would participate in the infrastructure
compo   M      cipal eligibilit for sub-loms would depend on fIlflment of the criteria for sdection,
eg., acceptable debt capaiy and adquae financia and isuonal capaity (set out in Anne 4C),
rather tan on municipal size.
13.   In orde to dimension inve      for the SOMMA program. the State of Mns Gerais and
BDMG evaluated several key area: demand for resources; municipal and State capacity to borrow and
py  loa funds; and State and municipal tehnical, bstional and fincial absorptv capacity. First,
the State sponsored a study whih demonate that over the next d   approimately US$3 bllio,
or about US$300 mIion per year in hwestme  w     edd in the Stat to ahieve the objectivs of
increasedservicecoveragelevels. Second, aspartofpojecppation, inJuly 991, BDMGundertook
a survey of 25 of the State's larger cities, rqesti  about 3 million inhabits, or about 20% of the
populati. The study confirmed tat the most widely deinvdestme   wer water supply,
sewerag  oecton and treatment, solid waste collecton and dispos, stueet paving and drang and
Idendfied potentiastments on the order of US$100 mim  TIr, BDMO prepared an vluation



-- 58
of the credit limits of about 400 of the State's municipalities, representing about 95% of the populatio.
This evaluation showed a total debt capacity, according to federal guidelines, of about US$600 million
on the basis of the municipal fiscal year 1990. Finally, the Ste Government demonstated in its historic
financial statements that for the past several years It has been spending on the order of US$200-250
million on capital investments, largely in urban infrastructure. It Is the equivalent of these funds which
would go Into the SOMMA fimd as State counterpart. The proposed project scope of about US$330
miion for infrastructure and institutional development investments over a six-year period (or about
US$S million per year) was based on these findings. With State counterpart of US$15 million and a
similar amount from municipalities and water companies to be provided each year, the pwject Is
conservatively dimensioned.
(b) First-Year Program
14.   The proposed Bank loan will finance, together with State and municipal counterpart resources,
a timeslice of municipal investments. A program of investments for the first year was identified building
on the sub-project idendfied in the 1991 survey and other interested municipalities. Tchnical, economic
and ficial evaluation demonsated that infrastructure sub-projects amounting to about US$60 million
in. 30 municipalities met selection criteria agreed under the program. This group of municipalities was
evaluated during appraisal and forms SOMMA's first year program. The investment ptogms of
subsequent years are likely to mirror that of the first year, although the exact mix of sub-projects camot
be demined in advance and will be subject to change depending on the priorities of the sub-borrowers.
Thus the physical targets, established on the basis of the first year progm, should be seen as indicaive
only and will be reviewed througbout project implemeon.
(c) Term and Conditions
15.   The infrastucture component is subject to the following guidelines: No municipality will receive
more tan 10% of total funds lent in any given year, without prior Bank agreement (to begin in the third
year of project implementation, in order to provide for flexibility in the initial two years). Given the
large irvements to be made in the sanitation sector in Belo Horizonte and Contagem under the proposed
Water Pollution Conrol Project (La. 3554-BR) in the Arrudas and da Onga Basins, these two cities (both
COPASA concessions) will be excluded from the infrastructure component (except for public lightg
invesmens); however, these cities would be eligible to participate in the Insitonal developmet
component, and the siuation would be reviewed at the project's mid-tem. All inuucture sub-projecs
will be bid and executed by the sub-borrowers, except in the case of the street lighting component, where
CEMIG, the State electricity company, will bid large packages on behalf of municipal sub-bortowers (see
pm. 23).
16.   As explained elsewhere, inftructure investments would be financed through sub-loans for up
to 75% of the sub-project cos0t from the SOMMA Fund and the remaining 25% (minimum) provded by
the municipality as counterpart, either in the form of payment of receipts for expenditr, or ind
labor contributions. The form of counterpart contribution would be agreed prior to contacng the loan,
and stipulaed In the sub-loan contrac between BDMG and the municipality. Rach sub-loan would hae
a grace perod and maturity corresponding with the sub-project's implementaion and pay-back periods,
respectively.



-59 -                               &IANNRX3B
(d) Water and ewaap _e          (US$186.6 millio)
17.   Eligble          under th compoent would be: (J) wate d rbudion coecto  and lbmite
producti  and treatnt; (11) swg collection and lmIted, primary low-Cost tology, treant;
and  i opAol    rov            such as m g. Water and swe  r    mge      will be excuted
by municipalities In cases whr ey opera  the "f,systs or by COPASA, the Ste water and sewgO
ComPa, in caes wher   operates municipal syems under conceion  COPASA wil also be digible
to borrow for opedo   Iovth,  e benefits *om which accrue principally to the company.
Sewa  treatm t invmns over US$2 million would be subjec to Bank prio review.
*     COPASA (US$61.4 miWlon)
18.   COPASA will execte a program of Investments limited to 20% of project costs anmually (so as
not to advesy afdct the total amount of hinds avala  to muncipliies), also to begin In the projects
dIbW yew of l   pe lnton  ihe COPASA program wfll focus on water and swage network expansion
(aCesd      wgetrw) ad op        l improv    t (PDO). This allocation would be explicitly
rested durg the mid-trm review.
19.   Network Exnson. bnvestn  totlling US$29.6 i11tion have bee apprai   to meet the
filowing target 272.5 km of wate pipes for 19,500 now connectons In 56 mnicipalitis and 270.7 km
of water and 130.1 km of seww     pipes to provide for 18,650 new wate conncio and 13,460 now
sewerg e       _   in 14 m.  COPASA would be the swer under     sub-
cmonent, ad tha   would pov   25% conepart in the foam of payment of e_uipmmt and works
bid. Nework exdso  would be done only in conjunton with municipal pdtipat   In SOMMA,
tugh  h o nal develop_m component, and shoud be bid in lae packages, once a gwup of
mnicia programs have been identfied.
20.   Opwa_Al I         eme     DO). 1nesw       of US$31.8 million w    evaluated. It w
estiated that these bi, compring micro-metering,                    revision of consumer
adasre and             of quipme  In 25 municipis woud          s billed volme in these
systn frm 20% to 100%. Financing a     mn_ would be theo-  as unde the netwok expandson
MUb - _M"     Watw metes and odter equipment woud be purchsd I lag lot fowing agreed
ICB procdur. Becae the sub-component beneft accrue primriy to COPASA (whm  expasion
bft  also accr  to the munils),  ese ins               would not be ihked to muicIPal
pmudipadion, and this o m 1pone  should be one of the first launched. I i envisindtht about US$5
millon In retoactve fiancing could bW spent on ths componenL
*     Munldpulltles (US$125.2 milion)
21.   Muicipl govrmen  and local water companie would bid and implement nbv         In
vaious war    d swer  investme. The mix of fitar yeastmet s ruhy equaly divided
bewan wate and sewea  investm , with each reaching a        Ily US$20 million. Low-cs
and alerive tedmologies for seweage trame would be pri . Sewerage treatmet Inves
would be eligible whe,  In addition to odthr selon citria, techa  analysis demonstat  thl
beneft to be prmarly on-site, or widdh the municipality. Those 'off-ste'w s   for which
beaft may be more broadly    d to otr urromunding            Ina water-basin ar  requr



-60-                               A N= 3
formation of a waer basn csortim and a diled feasility sdy, for which grant f_inag would
be avaiabe.
(e) Draa e         P ad Patng IwuIII  (US$76.0 million)
22.   MIcro- and macro-dra nage, ad amionf lood conol investmen would incude costucton and
in some cae r      labit  of draig  etwrk. Bocse land subjeat to floodig ar gay im
aluable, tue at-iskdc nr often the sies of Inoma low-Income stem . Project  mg
to about US$10 million uwder te first-year prom have ben evaluated. Diagosis of at-s   area is
part of the teccal    t     compon    in affected municipalides and would be dentfied In the
onsitutona euaton process. Urban stret ping, often In conjncin with micro-drainage  n
to a firther US$10 miion of thO fir-year progam. Pavn INesmen  would Inlbude local roads,
m             tais ad reated retg wal and drainage. Most    c                 ewcod to
participat In the prgm hwe pbl work dewhich ar capable of                 and supervig
hese rtvey OsIpl wowk. If durAg project impthe Bak and EDMO determin ta tis
Is not the case, the Stae Roads D(ea parew    de Eusrdas e Rdqge  -DEER), or other
qualUfd coltants,od hbe contactd to opere as a   nical ag  for works               and
M  Sold Waste Intm     (US$12.0 milion)
23.   ThIs coampt would comist of construction of sanitary landfills, limited atenativ disposal
tchnologie such   recyding and composi  pln, nd purce of l watecoll   and disoa
eqdum   TIh comone        de also inhuidenstucdionofde    waedhazrwdouswadposits.
Technical       bfor ev ton and supervision of sub-projects would be povid  by univesy and
loca specdiaized l. Approximately US$2 million in biestmet bave bee Iodfied under th
fit ya program  Solid was disposa mnve      over US$2 milion would be subjet to Bak prior
rview.
(g) Stre  ILng               US$ 2M33 million)
24.   TIb               would cnst off _nv      In lamp s         and dsoi   e      of
Ihe, pWk Mmioa network. Whe mu            ities  l    em    works, techical a     e fOr
b_pi         and sueviowil be provided by CEMIG, e Ste power comany, to whomnealy
in d iesho Sta ha" Vanted     1  for public liht. CEMG has sbo dsigd
ado    n      the componnt. Mudncip         woud borw, and ecute tee programs, under the
technica standards of CEMIG. In order to   iitate nIplmunicipal partic             in th
program would no be a pdor, but rather an ex-ast, conditon of ths componen   Equipme  and
Istltion of lamp replacement would be bid uing ICB procedue by CEMIG - on behalf of groups
of muite - to gain savi  due to onomy-of-sae packaging. The compet would be lmited
to less ta 10% of proec cost.



-61-                               AMB3I
C. 
(US$10.7 mUllon, 3% of co)
2S.    I  lpoj3ct includ. two  dl pio prgrm  (Pau C and D): one to sm the potnal fr
pvatdn of crny pbHcypivl  municipal services; nd the second to work wih asocia
of smal MDc        in the  orth of the Stae to hep buld expeiec in t  special   iemen of
th smal rual _ncipal  in ths rgIo
(a)   P    dlluo Plt (US$7.2 mi)
26.   lhoobjectlvofthopilotwoltdbetode    th_e potetadfoandtostthepp  of
pva    cr entry (in its bmdest dedinon to bidude f&il owneip, partia Intest,
I      _g opai, ontr       -out, ec.) in th rn  of rvics legly ttribuAe (dejwe or de
fiha) to  uic                piot would consist of two   _ :  fhg of   s           in toot
cue (Pat C), and a study to idefy liky ae  of gre_test e ficIenc pi    d   of munic*
sevices (t D).     first test cue would be       -  for whichtheisprivaesector interest,
no legal _       and an Important   tbe    ave for movied  vice. Ih study, to be
eOcute by BDMG In paald to the slaugher        ts case, would defin oth  services ad sect8 s In
which przv on would be possibl. Mh study would Invo,hr b aU rview of-
pnnim   -*~    910of these sweries on the basis ofpubli choic theoy, Incufdigthe need
rw   _ropdate       .-  tcw "elation (in dh cue of nual mon_poles) or halh/safety
a t l aend on ical     to     ;d
*     financIal/commercIal viability of the services and aof possible conditions to private
sector  ets.
27.   Tem  of  frenc for the stdy ha  been agee. The study would be completo  por to
embaring on ay futher twe cases, and in any caso no later than the pros scheduled mid-tem
reviow. The matdx hown in Tablo 1. on dto nx page ue basic public choice toy to outline th
aroach to be ousd to detei the feadbffiq of privatzaton of servic  ad wi guid praron Of
the study.



-62- iNL3
SW40$0 SbofMm Gb                                     Type Good    dveGdwE
Colsoeton, Usmit and dhtrbution of    COPASA, _oo                 toll (cowept 8ona.   yos, _ooua (with
_ate (thde_l, coouwla and              munipal os., mun_4a        commo-pol            asation) tuabn_t
laduu                                  dep., PNS                  colecton             (witb sdies) and
foleceln atd buute  of mwwq            COPASA, autonomous        tol (ecpt some        ye, colfriin NW
(tedeat   coumm      a  ha                         . *  _od _ hdutrla)(
dqis., PNS                 _tasmut) 
CoGoodon Uanmat and fisal dmidtiao    atnmu municipa cmi,  collectin pzlvA%e           yes, obollcln,
of sW woiw  (sdmtl, comomer             muniipad depIIiIo s.
and hioduidQ                                                     tollvUnt(wt
Pbollutocontrol                        PA    CODEMAS              publi, tol           ____e_ (____
Drana. and channoli  of rain wate     ____________                publi,oll WI_______
RomN  vivlceprovliic                  __________                                       Yes
Hdoal  ioopW nhl@                                                   -                  ya (with .s     a)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __ssi_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _     _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _        public               possibly
_      _    _    _     _    _    _ o  wnmcewaikdapublic                                PON"bl
_ ____ _______                                                 _W
U_     _ _ _ _ _   _ _    _    _  _   _   _ _ _  _ _   _  _ _ _                         possilyl 
_ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _   Imm i   _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _  public                possibl
_   _     _    _     ___                     __    ___             ___            _ _7W
T  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  __ -_        _  _  _ _  _  _  _  __.  ._            _ . .
|Town _rof -  n                                      pia  0os.    1ia                   yes
Sbj   ~       ~      ~        _ _ __ ___                 puli                  ___ _          e_
________________   ~~~municpaliIe                       pubic"ys(mroe
Ka bou_of publlp pbnub                  muow" e                     I                   poelf
Coaanof __w                             WWM                       publb                 POISA*b
D_d     of 4s  dm                      Muiosd             t        olpublio            yes In soea
S oI_                     ___ . D_             _ _ A s_ __.  -  d-  _w   _ 1 9 9 1._M M  .   .   .  .
Souros: IIDMO,G MJ                dt J,4f  1991; IBIID mIsson.



- 63-*                                 X    3B
(b) Mlao4lWon Pilot Pngram (USS3.5 miion)
28.   The pilots dual objecdvs are: (a) to develop experc  and lessons in muical development
In Bra's poor an rural-based Nort; and Cb) to test the possiblity for municipal develomnat through
regional oopadon. Ihe pilot will be teted first i the micrrg    of SO Fwncdsco, in the cewO
North of the Stae. 'he justficadons for choice of this region weo Its ratve povety per capita, high
grow  rat, and low degre of basic inftu      coverage. If successM, the pilot would be eteded
to th States poorestregon, theJeqWhon  reglon.   s rgion wll req   loner preparationtm
due to lack of data and Intiuional weaknesses.
29.   FlP would sst BDMO ln thcarying outofthe pilot: to be 8t out i thFiPTe     _ P cAgent
qpemwL  A proposal for                of the pflot was agreed during Negotiations, under which
tchnicians would betralned, through  e mnicipa assoation, to implemen low-ost _ 0ti  services
with locd municipal parction (labor) in works Im t n In two are  of t  association, defined
by wat basins. Municipalities would borrow joindy, hrough a consortium, for purcha  of equipment
with an erilcit State subsidy componet with eigibflity to be detemned on the basis of VAF/capita,
and m cpal  terpart provided thrug labor for execution of wodr. FIP would monitor progress
and prepar an evaluation of  perience with the targeting scheme, includig pota applicatons in the
rest of the North of Bm1zi.
D. SnmdI
(U3S$ 1.1 million, less t    1% of projea costs)
30.   Two stu  at the State level (under Par D and E) were agreed during te cous of poject
preparation as priority areas for research and innovativ staegic planning in te medium term. Terms
of referenc are shown in Anex 3D. The stdies would be completed no later ta th mid-tem review.
*     F     in lgHt of th parcar coverage and Insitutiona cir an s of the water and sewerage
sector in Mins Geras, and gadua weakening of the federally-operated PLANASA system, the
Stat would undera    a coonstant study to develop an       strtsegy for the water and
wrage seOt in the State, emphasizing particulady service provision at the local levd and
lnsdttudional    gements.
*     Second, in order to guide development of mediumterm policy for SO0, a seoCnd study
would amine opos for financing (equity capital and debt) of   asucturo  servis for which
municipalties are contutonally responsible. One of thfe objective of the study would be to
seek alteraves for mobilizing domesdc private savwin  for log-term Infrastur Iements.
V1 VAP, owMr qra_o,As.l, is a tuau.of m uuipainome(all poducnoaf goodsanld sue,b is mpoasts 
do Impae of sc babows) hich is Usuemt ad casl calbla Ot iB th bashea win IC ho   danUmlnao
Nd whicb as agmed to be on appofpriat p yuel    .



.64 -                                        s
NMAS GR MUCIPAL M                        W
AND EMNRONNMNrAL INIRASTfrUCME pROJCr
Detild nadma  of PmleotCas
(i US$ MIos)                                                *
coaecsmrr                   yowl       Tm:       YeW)      Yerw4      YowS    T_ul
A. IustitutonelDe,,apueg
odm1AUUhsM                                 1)33       28         1        363        2         I"        us
I10W4                                     LU           4        25         Lo        1.0        82       US
oCk( pam)                                  06         e         uso                  0                   la4  o 
SulaA.                            _      5         47        65         5.         U   _ 275          U
2SV       218        A         20         IA        24       412
WaeteSupp*                                90         7.7      140O 90               S4        40       14A5
S8pq                                     143        12u       2.         143        U         71.5    23.9
SoldWau                                   24         20        37        24           4       10        3
PehasdIn&arsuctu17                                   14        V.         17.W      103        875      205
1               3.1 71.1  303  21         1.9       65       2L.0
J       ;bsotbb4*                                         44 U7                                2ZO      U1%
Other                                     0.0        00       t00          0        0.0        13       us
CDPASA*M                                   15       9eS        1715                            573      21
S,uinJmuro  .u(PI"                        7.0        60        IQ         7.0       42        353      2135
Tmre.eataIS oa                            45         38         9         425 2.?             33        U%1
Subeowifl.                    547~~~~~~st  465     SU        St        32.        271      $II7%
c  P90UosPI
PublicMhSegndPebdoa                        05        0a         Lo   Q      1        00         IL7      us
Nm10R.hlDd          m                      0.7                  LO6 10    Q?         0.4        33       1%6
SubtoaulC                                12        11         29    _             04        100       121
D. SwdlattbsSw.L
Subla_D.                                 0         01 0, U                        00          LO      03%
IDTALDA   003 a         .                41*     1.         03        ELO        3S5       3120     111
Pi                                         L2        10         64        43         S2        2L1       67
IDTALMoJBCrOI!3                        U.?        Z0        IM..7      67*        4L7       gm      1017%
Cot baed ENd    hld Win, eginmd to  Iobwt S3.0 wM= or about 10% of pijet oostL  om
confingeWau an basUed an lb. Bmns MW   d  (Ocober1992), *Nab avm.s 3.08% auy Wover te pe        Due. to
do  pq_a.m1  appr Iat'pe undatdo ps,ceut, * -    onopodan bmw a  bOI         bdseted.



- 65 -                              AWI
Eshutd Pla Casts for the Firs-YMa  jZjaM
oIn US$ MMIon)
MunIclpaN~y                          WaSr       SawR D             _ia.     Was9       TOIAL
Bubscm                                               262                                   2.62
Boa Eapexanca                          0.15               '0J5
Co_cnhas                               638                                                638
GovmnadorVda zes                       114                                                 L14
Ipatunp                                              2.00         2.00        200         6X0
Itkuna                                               3.40                                  3.40
hoso Monioad.                          0.30          0.30                                 0.60
Juz deFoma                                           2.00                                  2.00
Lambd                                  O.15         045                                   0.30
Lawas                                                             1A4                      1.4
Machado                                2.00                                               2.00
NovaLma                                              1.50         lSO                      3.00
Patos de                                             1.50         1.0                     3.0
Pow AlMor                                                         2.70                    2.70
So.Jbao delRRa                         1.10                                                110
Sao Lourenco                           0.17                                                0.17
TrePontas                              130                                                 130
Ubeba                                                     .       1.0                      LO
Vargnha                                                           4.00                    4.00
Albnas M=0=                                                                               1220
Belo Odente                                                       190                      1.90
36dm                                                              2.00                     2.00
Cambuqufa                                            0.30                                  0.30
CnOwsolAb tAets                        LOO           0.75                                  1.75
DMnopolis                                                         2.00                     2.00
G    _anhaee                           2.00                                                2.00
Mual.                                                             2.00                     2.00
PaM                                    2.00                                                2.00
Pfrapora                                             2.00                                  2.00
'flmoteo                               2.00                                                2.00
TOTAL                                 209           16.2    .-  2201          2.00        61_42



-66-                                  ANN
BRAZIL
MONS GERAIS MUNCIPAL MANAGEMENT
AND ENRONMENTAL INmRASFRUCFURE PROjECT
L  Santatin Sectwo Str       In the State
Bacgoud
1.     Out of a ta 756 municIpalt  in th State, jus over hlf ar provided witb water servic by
COPASA wvi only abot 40 recve sewerg sevice *om te Sae company.' Thus, the santatIo
seodor in Mines G s I distinguished from that of the rest of Ba's   I  in that It has: (a) m
mqunicipal-run systms (watw and sewera) t   any oder state; and (b) a highe incidence of searat
of proviion of water and sewrg  than In any other ste. lhe low lvel of snwge coverp In the
Stato and bilit  of many syems to talc advtage of the cae economies in Invest, operaton and
mobdenanoo of a joiny-opeated system is likely a consequen  of ths instiuonal situatio   Ihe
backgrou  dsod clady set out the rnge of Ises in te sector.
*      institutional          (COPASA, mucIt, arole of municipalsi             , P NS
*      senrvic covea  (thi should focus on the uniquenes of MO hitina araangm en     d
possile csad Ulink to sevice coverag levels, and sd  include a detald rview of he curnt
stuton of COPASA (what an its problems, compao it fina_ay and operatomalyti odter
st  companies SAEP, CEDAB, SANEPAR, CORSAN, edc.)
2.     The Sta's objeciv  for e setor aro to pdoriiz sewerae investmen and encourg tfher
of  vices. The objectve of tho study should be to fornmuate a medum- to longter
stratgy for delivery of sanitation servies In te Ste, eavisinig extension of servic, finaning soureso,
IlwOeas  pdvate seor patcpion nd         logical   dio.  bis dould inlude a cle
s _owd of to Sate's objective for direcdon in he sector, setting out Staes stategy not to  ese
COPASA and to Icpuviz   sevices while providing Inentv  for seweorag   vestme. Tho
befts of joint pwovision of water and sewer   (conomies of scales in   estmen, operaton,
mahonance, bdg,                   onf water for sewer, elc.) would be eplicily addresd
Scope of Work
3.     The prpose projet could seve as a vdse to fith  defin an I              sttegy. Tho
stdy dsu exmin operaonl alte vs ad recommedtons for ways in whic SOMMA could
assist In theonof his strategy, in light of the paicular cacteiti  of the sectr in Min,
th demiso of PLANASA, and the recen   dfor mis. One possie opertonal meanism
1 My.ulx         aw roesw  1c aoeute in watr ad ewwmp morvi povidho (m d Nationa Hea
PonednM  hnn Fam porfV



a          ?II'r' I        'hElP            hilt1
St                      Ir't.I
a
3.                                     iiIi.
S
E                       WI
11111        sill                 181301.1      I$1
I  ih   flh;                 SJ  v
11                           I'  Ilk
j       Ep    I  ',
J             13th            81*1
U         11FI                         j   *11W
I    Ip                                   I       It



i l 2 ~~I                i           @  3
3  i NA        a}  iliiil                     1 
. Sfl;1|1,    I|iii                           i
r   * * .  * - *  *   **   .  * -  *  



-69-                                 ANB
MINAS GERAIS MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT
AND ENVIRONNTAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROJECr
1.    I  performance of BDMO must be a0n I ght of the oval cooomic envionent of the country
aod the Stab, as well as the particular      of th banking subsecW in Brazil over ac  last decade
or so. tree bwgound ators are of pariular Inest In rviewing the finvacia and instIonl situation
of the IDDMO: Fist, the heaty res to tho bakiag seo as a whole duri  the past sever years, as
a result of the Iflatioy cdsis, high real intet ae. and drying up of oreIgn and long-term credit
Seond, is tie reform of the banking sector, undetk  in late 1988, which alowed commal banks to
eer into dirtet consumer cdit, leasing, real estae credit and hvstmet, among odter serices. In
addidon, baries to entry were feed, and nealy 200 new bank were cretd in Bazil in the first half of
1990 done. Stat dvelopmet banks, however, have not yet beean  igible, formally, to eder into thes more
hlcatve makts; the purview of state bak has been limited to project financing Investtent and/or working
caa),  aantees, saboler participation, and otier limited services. And the third facor is te dalig
healt of the natonal economy geneally.
2.    EDMO's response to te factor has been to focus itB effrs in key strategic areas, developing new
makets which ar less prone to recession or which do not fae lSel consraints, searchig for new oendinu
sources, developing advisory servces, and moving out of th fieda public sector. In summary, BDMO bas
rsoded well to difficult cieal            , by seah   for niche markt and seking ateative
oeadn  paters and new cliet bases. EDMG contnues to be by most measur  of size, lending,
profitability and  _     th do most scce      of the sate development banks, and weill rpected in the
bakn ammnity genernly.
A ClM and
3.    The Banco de Desenvolvimento do Mna  Gus  - IDMG was crated wit State Law 2607 in 1962
as a public aularcy, wholly owned by the State of Mins loais. It was the first In what was to beome a
ssm  of Stawned development bak, linked to the nional development bank, Banco de
DeI)ncse Economkco e Sochl (MNDES). EDMO's Pres t Is appointed by the Govenor. Shaes
ae held in dte nme of the State Se y of Panning, who seres as Chaimn of the Bank's Board of
Dirts. All bankin activity in te Slt  I coordinated throg thio State Secrta   of Finance. EDMO
Is             nd ie State's capit, Belo   zonte, and hs  onal offioes In el     medium-sized cides
wxowid dfie S    (see map), and qsientdve offices in Brasili, Rio de laneho and Sao Paulo. In 1991 the
Bank's employees aumbered 530. An orgaLaon ht s hnluded on pag 74.
4.    Its Board of Directors approved In Apil 1990 incorporton of the company's asses, equit and
liabitie into a sodedad anonbag (SA), or mibxd capital company. TIh Stat contne to own 99.9% of
theo B s shs. W e thre ae no sewio  constri  to seling ses of the compay to private
sharholdes.



-70 -
S.     DMdO ofibr medium- and long-tem Ions for vnvestents In fi.ed assets and woiting capta for
pria  and pubio enies In th Seate, pdmaly in the aroao of miaing, Idtry, agrculu  and rurl
devdopmint and u1a Inastmu. Trdtionally B)MG has kn only a small porton of own resour,
wit       sourc  for lending comin fom onlenig of domestic and fo  egmore. in addition, DDMG
provd guans, coloea, urtie and exot finaing imd, In_rey, has moved Into the proviin
of ne mb    adVISorW s      i In corPorate e   s aMl          on, privatiation, debt onavesion
nd sil sateg  and conomic studIes. Notable teentl' w_o advisory svices  DMO provided to
CMIG In its pul se of dsh    and undewrting of a TLAEMG bond offn. IUDMO also provided
aVIsOry serICe0s in the plamt of shrs in the recentl pivatrtdon of USIMNAS, one of the first and
moOt Im t t eor I BIzil's pivadtlo prolm.  I)MG IhaS ao dveloped a no  mket leading
load fiaig consorla for Subta projects, beadn over 20 such syndies, for tot Invtmt amounting
to US300 mmon sie 1988.
6.    As dsw  in Tabl  1., BDMG'san  lending opeatbsave doerased sgificaty in volum, over
th post seval ya.  his s do to th oveall rsion in the B lan econmy, vich is paiculy
sharp inb indst  and agrcutul sectors which form  DM's trado   client base, and as a esl of
Iceing  scaroe fnd for onadin.  he buWk of the Bnes ledi  was to ft finhustl and mna
secotos (abou 34%). Of tol len opeato, jut 2% we  for publc so   noties (men largdy
),wi      remainder to te pvae scor (whincludes publicly-owned st  companies).
1985       1986       1987       198        1989       1990       1991
Lt      (MM        =2.I       371.2      441.3      440.7      238A4      103.3       60.4
bdustrl                  7%        13%        10%         9%         0%         23%        0%
MAtmS
Mdetl    &              42%        33%        42%        20%         19%        12%       23%
No-Meal                  4%         3%         9%         5%         S%          9%       21%
Agdclu                  16%        11%         7%        10%         9%          3%        6%
UrWan                    5%        11%         6%        40%        30%         16%       12%
_s_  &  Q_              26%        291        27%        17%        37%         37%       38%
ToWo 100%                         100%       100%       100%        100%       100%      100%
POW                     25%        17%        10%        42%         10%         4%        2%
75%        83%        90%        58%        90%        96%        98%
7.    Of the toWlm US$60 monI  new reores lent In 1991, 76% compsed             13% lendig
nd 11%      _ 00. T     i M lussotmd inh T     2.



-71-                                  Ann
US$S Mi       s      unE 
LeniG  OjMatio7                         159.5    :  71.S%       45.9      760%
Onlondlug                              126.2      56.8%       45.9       76.0%
BNI)7S                                 262        11.8%      21.9       362%
FNAME                                  49._      22.3%        9.6       1.9%
lewma                                  28.7      12.9%        3.4        5.7%
BACBISN                                 8.0       3.6%        2.7        4.5%
BNI)RSwIeSUUt_                          0.0       0.0%        2.4        4.0%
FDWSt                                   7.8       3.5%        1.9        3.2%
FRP                                     0.0       0.0%        1.9        3.1%
PROPLORESTA                             0.0       0.0%        1.0        1.6%
-SP                                     3.6       1.6%        0.0        0.0%
Od-                                       2.4       I.1X        1.1        is%
BDWM Own LendIg                         24.7       11.1%       7.7       12.8%
uar antOpetion                           60.0       27.0%       6.8       112%
TOTAL Opmton                            222.1      100.0%       604       87.2%
S.    As dwn above, a mrge pert of BDMG  1innc           pmeens onda          om  other baking
inttuo. Fnancg fom te ENDEs system in 1991 provided 40% oftoa opwaton, as wU as resources
fwm Fedra  prgams sch a CEP, pdmaily to finc Inuat           e w s in dh ior of tho Slta
St  funds for spcf pog s amounted to 3% of total. Exten  resoue amouftd to abot 7%, whIe
own Boank resouces to 24% of total opra , Inludi    _Ag s.
9.      d       ly   pestjust 115% of lnding,thse oinfrstucisato averocetly ree            d
up to 40% ofth  Band's lendn actvitie (and hIlude a la  cate y of lead   to pbi   ente&rls,a
prmay wate ad saibtin ulies). Ih oreet falig-off inoa                              m o
led to Ieased las in th Oa of _.ssbucturo, in Pariulad rStranspo TrtaI
nAstutue  investntalso Includu urbas Inrasr            audi as pai agnd stre  light, purhe of
school buses, cehes, d., &thgh CEP.
10.   Despite its comparavely redued leng volume, EDMO is On of the few pubcly-owned bans
whic ha main     d opetns with external fin   instutons. RDMQ has syndiaton opton wit
sm    of the larged Eurpean, Ameic  and Japaese bn, as wel as mst mor Bra n bas.



- 72-                                 AN      3
11.    CompaIo with othr stat dwdopm           bak Indicates that BDMO's size nd perfrmance far
outweigh th other ton or so stato deeopment bans. According to a publcaton of the Ba_la Assoiaon
of Development Fine nitutions (ADE), BDMO totesouos lent and oileat in 1991 mound to
nearly 50% of the total lt in the stats systems (vot ilud    BNDES), and was more than twice the seoond
lUrget state bank. In neay every other meases  of size and profiaity IDMO dominaes.1
12.   Historically stong, BDMO's financial peformne ovea the past two yes has eroded somewhat,
wilh the declining stat econmy. Averg  trn on equity (RtOE) for the perod 1985-1988 was about 10%,
however in 1989 fel to 6.1%S and to 3.2% in 1991 after a loss in 1990.  DMG's renues, lik the res of
the baing sector in Brazil during the past sever    s, have rlied heavily on income from short-tes
seities inesmn. Personnd expenses have been rdafively connt a about 2-3% of total rv_ens.
13.   Dudig the period 1984-1987 major sourcos of capitl eame fom: (a) bank gurntes  (26%); (b)
onenig  of federal, state and extenl credits (W0); and () own rsoure  and other (14%). Of the
onlenlXng, 23% was provided by FINAME (a fedea  governet fnd managed by BNDES and dirctd
towards ind    development); 15% by BNDES; and 11% external crdts. Ti aerge funding mix bega
to change in 1988-1989, howvr, as BNDES begn to withdrw its funding from state development banks
(filling from averg of 11% to jus SS In 1988).2 To balane ihese effc, CEF (tbrough its PRODURB
fnd) Ieased paricpation f*om about 1% averagp over 1984-1987 to 40% in 1988, and funding from the
Ba'S own rewores also Increasod from an averg of 14% to 19% In 1988. In additon, the Bank has
slody moved away frm rlon  on guarantees, tis being just 5% of onlent resou     in 1968. Tota
o-uding loans amounted to abut US$850 mMion at eand 1989 (US$l bilion, Inuding  antees), about
75% to the pdrvate sector and 25% to the public sector, avegep pedod of about 3-4 years.
14.   These trends vwer drven not only by exogenous fctors, but also by demand for loans. On the asset
side, the fal In dt fones of tho mining stor has been o _I  by a decrea  In its overall pecentage,
oftotal outang loans in met     , forexample, frm 18% in 19  to 11% ln 1989, and a correponing
inrase in some of the infi_structure-reated sectos, such as transport and communications (although loans
to publc en rses have also decasd, aeng overl Infrastructure lnding).
15.   Depie the fing economic peroman  of the state, and a seres of other impor    factors (such
as increased loan-loss resre rquiremet and the limiations on public enterpise borowing establhed by
Central Bank Resolutions), which have had an impact an the  an's financia health, its ovrall condition
remins very sound. In fa its opeatng raio has declined from 87.5% in 1984 to 83% in 1989, indicat
likely increased efficiny  and cost control in the face of reduced  vues.
16.   UDMO has made signficat efforts in the past sva yeas to impr    s cataol adequay, wich
was eoded though the need to set aside reatively large loan loss resoaes due to fdeal goverment
exposr. As shown in th atahed able, BDMO now has a bealty asset/equity atio of S. Mhe Bank has
taken svalaoy steps in this proc: Fir, esolving all ousading debt with two main feder  debtors,
Usminas and LAA. For the Udimas debt EDMO took payment in pdvatztion bonds, which It then sold
to a consortium of Usmhas employees.     his way, EDMO participat  in the fist major privatization of
'I E&aw*  do SLve fhoaeb   De,  eb. 1992.
2/ Nod that among to few remanig frei   olf t by BDMG is a Wodd Bk loan for USA48.1, offectve in
1918, for devehVment of faaa under the pgrgam PROFLOSTA .



-73-                                  ANNEX
the Bri p1 ra, whle also rsovin  a sedoius ssst qult  bs. Ihe Beak has also siged a
_emowndm of undesta           with the Fderal Govenmnt on  solun of det wit thoe ndonad aloohl
insituio  (AA), whi  was eztipisted In 1991. L     loss coverp b a          and consitent with
Btazllan logisatin and International standards. L    moov  rae Is also satsfctor.
17.   BDMO        _        strategy in the past sevral yeas has focused an reaining the Baks capital
adequaoy aio, blaning Ils pordolio idsk (away from tie publi setr), and developig a niche maake
speiaizing fiaal ser s tecnical and advisory services, and eadng consorta. Althoug ihe ter
Is stI only a sml porton of th overall  vnes of the compay It provides a lag put of the Bek's
z~ton. Sinoe 1968 about US$233  m    have been povilod tugh ovaer 20 financing syndicates led
by  MO, largely h the agricuture, Inustiallurgy setos. 1             Is s *'us about its movement
into sewvio proviion and expanding its role from tha of a radiiona developmt I ik (and fuher indict
It is likely prepaing to ent  the stock maret with a bond or shar offern Itl, a8iig to push the
_om    wof th lel defto  of the esnbies ad oblWos of a stae bak                   e  stasegy
is eaboateSd In a thre-year roil  stratesgic pln  I  plans objetves in the anet three year pedod include:
(a)      _ g of fiaes; (b) renvigoration of the utin twrgh nw ptogm  and new clents; (c)
and bu s m              partclry in the aea of cmMpuriztio
AgagMg PUcies d Andt    zmgM
18.   Acco_un   is don on bads of ntre of expes . Cost-ene acoutinad i beig Implemented
ftoethe with   i  unon. Account  inIs consistet with generally-accepted accounting principles,
including   om adjustments, wofaccorg to Fedel law 6004. Atou  the Bank is not reured to prset
financal stdat In a curecy of consta puaion power, It wM ake montly Inftion a4justments,
athet t    ammal as in te past, as of fisol yea 1993. For this ron, fth dollar odeom ed fina l
-hdoolu for the perod 1989-1992 should not bs seen as preis tansa     (sinoo a m   we  done
at yar-end and do not refect ac
19.    BDMG has extenive   eiene   lndag to the publio and pdrve sector. EDMO's Departm   of
U       J astructure (DIU), dated to be the Project Unit under the proposed opeadon, as been responsible
for all DMG's lenig to h muwcipa secr. In pula, it has ma  fncing avilabl under 311
opentios in about 200 muncilitsn th amount of abo  $153 milo sce 1980 under tgee main hes
of areit: (a) PUNDBURI, cailz  by Stat  souce (se bel); (b) PPODMRB, capitad by CEP;
and (c) FINAME ca ized by fbads flvn BNDES. Both to lter coasd dfuto            In 1991, and will
not be furiter capitalized  Ih FUNDE URfnd rains open, howe    CEP is nt providn rsue.
2D.   BDMG's DIJU has been appried by the Bank for opeatn of to proposed apeaton and found
adoqck".   n addionm to its prexist   significant exeiene with munp  borwers, BDMt
has, durig poject prqpati, DMO underta_. the following mneasres: i strengtheon  the
DIU wth addiona tec al staff, enrd into tcna aeements with COPASA, FNS and PIP for
seiaized expets for evuatio a                             pr   d wof ,gr drafts ofthe Operationa
Maua, ted poposed poce s thmoug preevastio of a goup of 30 m cpiies, purhased and
Inad upged comper equimen in the DIU, arngd for eectronI r cmication wit  Bank
hadquart, and more reoeny, launhd a publict prorm for SOMA  As a   ult of the  effots the
DIU Is now          y prepaed to initate operto of SO8A.



- 74                      A UlIDt 
_mgmo Ba  f,b fss
I Rw_ Jt
l~~~~~~~ M _da     _
at~~^ 
u~~~~~~~ok -Ll O__ 
I~~~~ RJ0m DM 
AU&        1om
_~~~~~~~Aowu .L   cBudD &



~~~1                                I
:3.   1   hi~~~~~~~~~~~ I   i3I~~~~~~~~~E   I*  w~~~~.*
i~~~~ ~~~~                                  ii a aggMiBiaZ  a  
.sR          NX       ts Spz   
a; B i       o3XS    X3;     glBt   til 85
ii~~~ Lt I3 RR1   iZXEiSt0a3;zS
;;EssSolsSX s        00;a1gi



on us$ sofMus,n Ud taliUm G
314Dc                  314DoC            314ou               304..
1919                    1990               1991               1992
AwStz                           109,571   100%          677.742   100%    511,000   100%    59,32    100%
cah a Secuddes                   2,691     0%             639      0%    53,944      9%       2,787      0%
airagOPU&*=                    356.901    44%          239,181    35%    112,217   31%    208,326       36%
Laain8OpmQaa                      1,582    0%             803      0%          0     0%           0      OK
Other C                         22,037     3%           37,825     6%     24,706     4%      26,561       %
OerAsm                            1.101    0%             495      0%        61      0%         354      0A
Losg.Tem Asson        *   3192                                               %699 223 806 = 31492.7 M4
Sec8dtes                        44.491     5%           42,722     6%      869       1%      2,491       4%
L-d_ Ogmam                     321,721    40%          307,876    45%    254,999    44%        271,291  47%
LmlngOpeutis              *       (824)    0%              (56)    0%          0     0%           0      0%
OtherLa   TeamAs                30.803     4%           30,171     4%     34,371     6%      27,004      5%
p-unAmW                                     is          2W2   J2i  2.U  .4   .2LS1
bavainets                          390     0%             241      0%        34      0%          I8 s
Prpay PlntE                     20,891     3%           14,177     2%     18,996     3%      19.956      3%
LeasdAists                       7,192     1%            1,941     0%        667     0%         261      09
DdvChwagp                          586     0%            1,720     0%      1,306     0%       L192       0%
Lialfnuilisad Rquk              809,571   100%A         677,742   100%    581,000   100%    579.312    10
UWab s                         u289.93                  233l7             215-081               - 013   m
DepadlA                         70,707     9%           91,791    14%     63,505    11%      55,461     10%
Local Onlmading                195,079    24%          166,167    25%    125,921    22%      90,480     16%
Feculgp Onlkaid1                14,505     2%           14,745     2%     13,647     2%      12,790      2%
Othe                             9,653     1%           11,007     2%     12,009     2%      19,275      3%
Leng-TernIAabillties            mAaz    ~                          d0h 23a11487      & 308.774 
Depoafita                       17,690     2%           21,749     3%     11,398     2%      16,344      3%
Dodla                          217,773    36%          235,921    35%    217,200    39%    234,013      40%
FoepOn1mia                      35,037     4%           24.552     4%     11,403     2%       5,131      1%
OtdLOIgTer                      10,9lo     1%           26,553     4%     22,024     4%      24,862      4%
Derenudlacum                       L013     Di            L^                  40                 22       Q
Shazeho1de'sEqgW        _       JjLIZ                    am                f4. J    J I   11%
8C,90     1%          39,760     6%       6,215     1%      16,889      3%
CaPal                                0     0%               0      0%     17,235     3%      40,910      7%
_d       m of   M              131,791    16            515        9%    132,70     23%    126,458      22%
RgvaL     R CapItal 3.un~       14,583     2%           13,421     2%      6,571      1%      7,015      1%
Rdd=dEaznlA(       )            1,863      1%          (21,033)   -4%    (69,30)  -12%    (7081)         2%



a77-                          ANMJE
URAZEL
MINS GERAIS MUNCIPAL M               E
AND ENVIRONME4TAL nFRF                     PROJECr
A. MuIiL3aI&ujain.MbuuKas
1.    Sectr Develop   in Mim  Gami and         IU seto wwt ompetd lot yer on
figl B a      n   z lays a fir
IIpe0dy to Iitutional w@skIm    d          Table O- Value of Merchand  Tax
of ppamtlon by all bves of govenment       by City Siz in M_. Gal, 1990
b lilt  owit to ds under t4     City        ICMB by Value
"Ib       I ,  IS ftd since 198. one won     Size Range  (US$ 1990
reOgnizd p-b  corno   the wide rnge-                                      
of In polaton siz and cqaciy of te 4000                  Ove      200        r
1 knin BiLn  min          us             ____         low1    100      200
eoonW    a r _xw tive sam*  of dd tangis qov             33       24       0
SO,OOOW
2.     1abl I, a   _umml of the ran4108 of   20,000.     11       65       70
p_dioan md waftin *al   723                  50,000_
Isa 4 ltloi  w  ,wA  eUSU          a o            -     
aoiato bewo   ta tre   sdro sad              Bd*w         2       S3       S5
ds h  maq ablo bet a  as a py for
instiutonl caacity in local governments,
beartigIn mind that a few statistica
"OWIYM - smll mnipaNowhich hous a single larg, wealthy Indutry- are aso reflected bem.
N d -a     such cases, te vast maorty of nmo u si eatgemely weak. At does-  time,
tog, week   H-1ane unlikly to be afhtekd directy by the Muniipa          progm oSEject
Then afteamsarcse nmirord in irtualy every country in the region Inevilably, WIth
-   'oliatin ~Brazi, with help frma te Back, wil need to devise a stratey of mt    to lOca
govenmetshat balances seg    eng fforts to suit both minority of govermmint with the bulk of
population a well as doe majoriy of goverment with a minor share of the papilatln  The proposed
project aWms Sl  to deal only with. te lagSt 40 percen of the   111f in the sbtat.
S.  I            ---.k I    uflouLm  rsJwmm         Mm goe propose p f roject is foced with a
common problem of linking two agecie, which. up until nw. have been institutionally sr'qmts and
untiwonaly distnct The funcii agenc, Banc de Duenvovlmento de Minu Geawk or BDMG has
been in busines for 30 year and appear to have a strog tehialwapaity in Bunan"a and economic
evaluatio  The tewhica agen for inttton" dsaqUig  eFnl           b    lhwo  O,v
cweaod at the begsnning ofth 1970h and, althouh weaened by the rcntw fisca and polhla criss in
the country,, is beginning to emerg somewhat reurihed*   follwing      of an emergency Plan



-78-                            K   3P
and am  leadnersip Mm two lutluton opstb in difaren thdqms and foramat, and an fa*zie
separated by an        cultural whic wm rquir tm  and dlr_ate            to ovwercom.
Some s    tons to lauhdi proo  an Inlued intde aide memoir, afttaced.
IL AMM R O P
4.    Ih Faad$e o1o J'bs ra (IP) w  creaed In 1969, asa foudato, foly ownd by de Ste
It Is Unbd directly to to. Secrtaria of Planing. As die Staes econononioadaae
foundatio, PIP dsvlps studies and undermtake rser  to undevpin die wok of d. State Planning
Seoreria which recelly has beg  to focus mor on effiliy of local govanmet and efedvely
theo             whid  came about with d  new Costuto
5.   TMe cpu of techia capacitn hew
RiP, _odkc wi lbray, e _let dab and           Tb T
f,zd=tod_                       S ctnlU  uw   Dpre ." P, M=Gri,
bubatonof inonnlo UkA    eq!pment                             199
assim tl IPndertak                         Core Units  .To.      Mstre   PhD.
hsUm  deieopento nSOMMA.M                                     ff
Preious prgrm  uder Ban ad DB joint
finaminglo seagm bh   d u loal n   h bav bld   Admln Dow    23        7        0
af k gbd  of tetxpeboo_ g 8Bva
dqxwt_f. of the PIP inth a1h of loed           Munll Dev    24        2        1
P"Mmat dun. Mm too" "got mentadm                  qlsor/     is       7        1
WI  _soiai  of  _ (Ie   !OWDOU   _d            cbv
k_nqwb             ddeivq  sdW, _ot ,m
by viw   nmwdo_kms _badm , a80                Fmnomic       47       30       4
a 3mph la ithk SOMMA projet. How, t                            -        -        -
I impoa  at thd two pogrms (PROD8MU            SOON          19       11       5
ndSOiMN ano _yntu             _d              P
budg        separde_ but    __adongy oordbAmAdmins           52       8        3
6.    Now dkieedehe fJ?. Be do  end                 o 
of do yearw, di Foundaios IIto have addional
_      8ughmmi of proesonal staff in two aW
cit-one  aw scool of            aothera statistical and n raoncr. T-es 8addosmw
s_oogd ite Foundatis capackity, but wil rqu  some shr un        to adsorb tm. TM
onfomton center nlves do.-transfer of 40 pfsIal ad Wst  personnL Aim SEPLAN (s_t
planig, ogather withyfo gateig and regary publshing statison socild and
aconomIc          _1a  t   stao te.To support dt    fwi ncton, di PIJ will, boe t   nd of to
yea, be takig ddivy of 25 PCs wit 486 chips. Beginning nt yr the F<owill beg  to
focus  oply nlsi of export4ed gowt of ndustry It h stae and tde social, territorial, and
I    ivuoodou of 1tis stategy.
7.    As eo FoPuAion expnds its sopo of apaciy, it shold also be layg pln forifting Its
mods apeandl fo                                        Int a W  phase,      1      arodei*  wd
by m_matve  dards,                        aiedolet   mdat fosterng prvateecsor ddivery of teicd
sttoeg  change dnieSranimongoricileforddopas r ngpeodqusliafbyor
strtei cdVe form  *ap ig prnile for FRls om-& pwposol for _oon  stesef.



-79-                                  ANI 30
MMAS GEM MCAL WGEMU- 
AND ENVIRONMNTAL INPIATRUCrUIE PROJECr
de                de Mns Gerais - COPASA
andEgn            Swan  (ign)
190         199         19         19          1n                                   1997
WaW  sbld (      )                    426,901     438613    4*4            *5         485M2       $M.790      527,19      $49,517
Se_ a"         )                      188,272     190,15      19844       203         2    6      2786        2403        25204
AOtag 1zf-Wu (UW)                      0549"   Q4111    O15    056    OOB7    087    07    057
AwP 1 UN-SMg (U518'i)                   U4461   0.3793   O.493    00                   0000         5000    0000    3O0
Awp TAM1  (lSUb3)                      05179       Q4113       0A42        0           O040        0           0.0         Q#160
L Opmdu  Rwes.                        329330      256,139     332,469     35MO36    3661          982,34      399640      417,727
Wt                                214,00       176,24      219,2       16874       264         O2          26,71       279,52
s    a                              8W95        72,13       95M354       14        191         1434        142,26      126
0dm.                                1A7S         7.7         7,866      10,230      14(A79      1L151       114         12,167
* Opmthg   OmSs                       2418        179,770     1903X4      198,06      2,1U8       211,798     214oM       225.
PW lmd                             107426      10448       114,23      118,794     12231        2339       1290        131,4
madls                                142        11325       1206        12,34       13,206      13,76      14,37       14979
Cimkns                              314         1.754                   1,943       UN          2,024       2,062 2      .102
Oth  Iatodab                       11101        9,571      10,144       m,6        1                2      12,31       1,77
Td   Pardes                         56          49,         5334        5549        57,861       05         62,33       64,42
B hd*                              266    29    29                    m399   248    22                     219   269
Odor 1Thd Pat.                     29,484      20,693      3413       32,05    334G            3563      3620Q    38,604
G                                    2,54        1,98g       2,%10       2321        2,331       24          258         2,
Fin d428 7                                      12,99        8,54        91000       9,716      10.145     119          MM69
a  D    _eda tlm  land    ui           289         74,910      79,440      91,719     1043        114,62S         64      13061
Depus & Pt. lot Acdhdoe              2,006       74693       742        90,1141    18,916       11368       120,964     129,817
Priwl  for a Did Debt                  323                     80          878         917         9S7        1000        1,044
4. Opeta  mama                         780          1.446      52W7        6021           33       56,411      59,421      6167
S. N1Nt NM-Opin Beams   44,1    48,43                              0           0           0           0           0           0
6.L N t Fdmd   Ns                     (14,27)    (.2)           4M)    (173)    (1,9                 .19      (2)S074)    (354)
7. Not IMt6. A4umea                 (40&701)      77,13           0           0           0            2          0           0
8 P.-'b oom                          (30423)       47,269      2,7         3O   37,           139  3,25        33,547      26192
9. Not   so   TA  Chop                      0       3A33            0          0           0            0           0           0
106 3.  Rmei   (LM)                  (3042         436         2,77        39          3793        33,252      337         2,92
RAIK1O
Opemih  Rail                           0.76        a99         081         083         05          0.85        08          05
MM emybm)                              1.0         100         1100        Ln          10          L0          10          1.00
.ANS Not Pbn     Am V It                NA          NA           40         4.1         3.4          3.1         32          32
it R_vA mnb



19          11          19          1                       1995       t19            99
S875.79    2     8    2,17330      2.8_6   25 7    2              1    2 ,41 
car"  AusV                            49A79       78,313       75,734      75         80,215       81          83,70       85,61
Cob                                   A.98       3191         7,931       85         81           86          9,104       9X2
Not A    u  Re                      30,148       3M0         26          23,373      2A637       30,346      32,320      33.767
iseoy                                51           41          302         315         3,m         3,446       34          3,745
Dde  PaMm  ned Otr                   3,178       3,725       38,725      3,725       38,725      38l5        38,72S      38,725
Smt-lbm I           _ to                 0           0           0           0           0           0            0           0
La* Tm  Ae                                          636,873   1367        1383        136         136,873     136,873     136m
Ibd P1    Ai                         82263    1403            9094   2,71. ,3,7225,715    2M                             2846,55
Nt Fi d AM_                          41,88      1,O         1,39U67    L,q %        1, 18    1811            18,905         t7
O    Fid Asbs                        7,192    1.6,740    1913,774   2836          2047    2612,891    2,0114           Z934
L         A_    md    Dop           114310      43934       513607                  102749      81156       97,28      1019
Work in Ptroe                        407,745      711,34      552,8       401.47      52992       40824       393,0       401483
Othus                                    106         213         213         213         213         213          213         213
L-T Itob           Amg                 1910         28          9,6         867         6740        615         43          202
:AUUA'ZS &c EQUKITl                  87,779   2.5989    2,173.301   2.26.676   2.356A0G7   2,434,331            ,41        84
Ost    13b                           128,390      1l1381       85,017      9315       85,422       90G462      99,64      1OZ,62
A:mO        ab                      26,1w 8      37,548      10758       25.M0      2U100        23,440      22,893      24425
test                                37D05        SA89        5           44039      39,19        41          50,39       30,132
&qBmi *ad 3tt Fal                   33,147        1644       23,24       24A74      24,          25,675      26,432      27,V9
Td L       q-T     ft               '4.184. ,AI              46            19,14 7U3' .79                 ' ,82             51
ia.  Omaut Pado                     390          Ulm9        505         44,739      39.199      41,348      sn          50,539S
Ib      Long-ISm. Det               3               1          ,        764         78538       84088       874,71      o.m
Othr   L-T Ubuilbm                     308        1t859       1859        181,5t9     181559      181,5M9     181t559     1845L9
Esqu                                  4867    1.952,347      3PQ0  13 06  ,S 747    1363                     1           1,439,890
TMTAL SOURCES                           222,        2 4         192,4      282          59,693     250199      255         280,2M
laoe"  Saes_                            138,24   t43            131,39     1763        105"       110,8        180,285    19145
Nut U    (Lou) man TM                (806)         43A36       267        59,15G       7,         35          33         26,19
pc
Dqratfoe                              2563        74,69       762        90         103,6       11S68       1204       129,817
Not Es          1rapaa                2221        Z4,8        242        2US5       149         23,L"       25.074      33,4
Moota  Cwreulma                      34,6         77,t            0          0           0           0           0 
0*.                                       0           a           a          0           0           0           0           o
Eismal Son""                             39A4       77,74       54,7t       87A         79,144     8U5         7501        8t1,
cIp                                     17         54723      2439        58740       22,420  29,2           32          44,147
PAZ                                    34,W        20,1        29,7       54          321         32,44       540        35455
IBRO                                       0           0           0      A706        24,0        1a943         712           0
ote                                     2ou            0           0          0           0           0           0           0
splq                                     54,0       W84      o     O            0           0           0,5
Fedl Oreemi                                  a          52 O.26    26                       a           0           0 
Ode Uabhy l       m                     111             e           0          0           0           0           0           0
TAL ,ALCATONS                           2225   202   12   2a2   2W9m9   25.9   25IM   20
Cai   ae st 179,374                                 10to2        97,       201,397     171444      190,6       10,7S       MAO
pi q      rIeI t                           0       87,9a1     5A"9       1U42        14,42       17104       165.770    17m,s
Odor t aesm aet                       179,4            0           0    0                 0           0           0           O
mtL *rnt   CmeIL                           0                   4u          6,40        691         9,4         0470       4.724
Cap '4 Mmkkuet. coo                        0        9,84        9,91      102  tO tt  tO,tU                   105          ,418
beereaaajD_susas in W1 ng Cop"           (,2)        a4         225        (5.8)         4,16t  *   (L5 )        1.59        (41)
DOb Seen                                 463         67,5       7,00         20         63,5        ai.        67,        f8e
Cub besuiSg Year                          4.491       5,497         92       793         ,2          849           2         9,102
Cub Is Tat                                USa        (2,)        4.728        345         274         27n          27         252
Cubh Bad yout                             5,497        ,192       7.9O       87                        2         9,10        9,284



- 81 -                           A1ikIBZ.3G
De ucdpdoa                 Unt         1992    1994    1995    1996    1997    Totl
1.  ftln Now Watw Mums              OOOyr           84      84  _ 4         84      84      420
2. Water Mter ReOai                 000/mo          15      30      30      30       40
3.  8aj Consupto                    K*wDm        0o7m    0.705   0o3        .MI 0.614
4. lasbladan of Macromete-s
4.1 RMBH                              No.           30      30      34                       94
4.2 Redof S*e                         No.           25      25      25                       75
4.3 P     _omttio Swions
4.4    in RMBH                        No.           50      50      63                       163
4.5   RIes                            No.          100     100      75                      275
S.  _akaLlllAdon Wa_a
5.1 Puamping St                       No.           20      20      24      26               64
5.2 A     _omazo of Sytm             No.           S0      50      S0                      176
Si  9w'pTsub                          No.           '0   ..30.      40 
5.4 Water Distbutics Newo            1KM.           69     100     100                      26
5.5 WaterC onetiou                    000            7       7       7                       21
5.6 Suetoizado  In Dittis             No.            8       3       9                       2S
IL SIGMA__t___   ______           No.d dIam          7.    7.    1             Jr
7. Cadute Expanson               000     _ucdoe    100    200       0      200      100     9
8. Coflo Peod                        Days           42      40      38      36       32
9. MU    dl Cost studies          No. stm           20      40
10. Tariff RU ruWeg                               _       J__une=
ILh_=-  -m 61--   -i  -i 
it. Unaccounted-for Water           Pmeret          36      34      32      31      30
12  anoicew d atrwai'                              680    7m       767     815      86
13. Tadff Value for Water &         USS/m         0.50    0.5     0.5      0.50 O0 50
Sew _a by Yer-s        ,_d
g ASi~~ - -X
1, lb. CPASAL FiumUia and DMunremmnbf omnt Plam zepusest the ounyaay etgle,  pefosmobjcie
ove  b   la ftwyer peiod. Devbloped In t  on   of the War Qwalit ad %     n Cool (18 ) gject
oan 3554-l, CPAS    tnto  mod t  goa st outI k. Pla twro  lb PR0SAM pjct, t  SOMMA
-t* dk_s ado     dem.



-82-                          4
BRZL
MAS GERS MCIPAL  G              Nr
AND ENVOWN-MENTAL SANrTATION PROJEU
SEPLAN        ffWP            SEP           SEAM          AMUb
(SsaaVark of   (SsOrOatIa Of    (Seotearada Of    (Ssmtarit of   (Amdadoa of
Manonin)    Ttafpa ad        Finam)     Muakcips Affu)    ulpit)
Paubo Wokcs)
--__
MunialiuM.COPASA                ma4          J _ _ _
_ _  _ ___     __  _  _ _ _  Te hnca of at BD__ _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _
| I -  |               l                      | .Agad
___ASAFM_   __I z



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



-84-                          A
BRAZ2
MNAS GERAS MUMCIPAL MMfAGW
AND 3INVONMINAL DmwRASMC fROJECr
1.    111 sun I divided into two paub: doe first present a detile  explanation of the operainal
a_aSemb sand evaluton prodes for SOMMA, deta   paculaily mthodology and cite&  for do
evauaion of suboroers and sbpojct; So sooond    tates this explation with exmplo   of Soe
analysos  ade for q  smple cms, the city of Pates de Minas, one of the 30 mudicl    evaluated and
conflimd for entry in tho p _rog s fit yea.
1    ty NM to the SOMMA Pt2mM
2.          objecaicve of SOMMA  e to:   _n be finmol    _             of           i  support
Of thO recet I             toi, through: (a) bthnical        an d tools to  ceae own-mouae
(taxe and u     arges)      zi    and (b) ing I   and prviding I      isfor ef iient reou
alocaton (both curet and capi  exp.asu) at to loca leve; ad Improve alnItg      j    InJthe
s through: (a) deveopig a coh_e  Sate sotgy for local provision of saniaton services; (b) investnS
in pdodty   _      _        a_In=sue; and (c) provid    technical assis    and rainig for muncp
3.     SOMMA i open to all nmoik         in tie Stae f Miss Geais, providin te municpaity adheo
to th   objctves and mots d  basic deily cdtea for th prog . Steps on t iticl d       pa to etry
in th Poam are presen    to Idt in te Ptogra's Operaona Mana, Volue I (Basio ,Mnu),x nd
expland below. The diagmm on pago  6 of hdis annex iusAes t  proes.
*      The first stp for entry Intdoe pogm  i te dgnatre of a Patcipaton Agemet between th
muicipaty and the Ste, indicadoig  wmicipal intes in and adherence to Program objecives.
*      The second step is co eion of a dignostc form the objedtive of which is to ghr data rdaed
to municil financial, fisa, plnning, a1  a              _      nd infatuctu  service
provision. Depndn on muncpal cqpbit   d pr ee, this fomr is compeed prepad by
th  nmuicipality almone or in cojon with tehnicw assitc fom pdvat conultab nst RIP.
i dagsdtioo     ava"lb in the Projec ht.
I/ A pglw of abot 30 mudolpffin van evalud duig Apymb4 about 22 bav bn cdmmed hr both
tecnlals asitamse   asbs  rnwatmAst evalion wa donop-tor d_mof PhztltApgre .,
i order o haves prog   of   mi-m evprepaurd fr te  a ya  lo rmaider ofuwMhgo o
_al   -
2V Seewp90 fbra *omple dp       oh         .fteSOMMAPogmOpmtlouaMaual
31 A 1 of SOWM4A lgl do_ea    I ohms en pop 90.



8S -                          AN-    4C
*     lb. third step, on th basis of tis diagnosis, do munialt ares wit  DMO on a pgam  of
pioty institutional nvestme  (oompdsed of toecnicas      and trining) for a medium-term
paleod.
*      Fourth, the munipait must demonstr  complance with Fuderul lislaton repgrdin pament of
ntergov enmetal xes and other obigations.
4.     On the basis of this analysis, a set of standard perfmance Wgets ae agreed with the municipality
for Improvd financial and       nt      agement and formaie In a Strategic Acdon Plan (Piano de
45o urudybo, or PAB). Completion of thes s     eps enables munpa   to begn taning investents.
5.    Tho Exectve Secrtara (Seei Execudvo, or SE) of the Program's Board of Ditectors
(CoinseUo Dbwor), within the Secretary of Planing i designWed tD asid  municp  authoities prpang
documentat. Ibis will include a    c I filling out the  1ioal and Financial D  ois Forms, nd
advice and tchnica assia    to ensure that al applicats are complete and data is presented corecty and
in a timely way. lb. a  _  of the SE will be ctical in this bphas of nalyis, as many other pogms
have suffered significant set-badcs in Implemenaion as a result of poorly completd applcaos (Annex 1B).
6.    To be eligible for Ifiructue investments, municipalites will have to demonst  crdtworiesw ,
povide a fesnslbty study (as a minimum) of the proposed Investmn, and demonstr  that the investment
Is: (a) the least  s teccal solution (dets of the analysis ar shown beow); (b) a high-prirty investment
(compared wih other Infistrctr Investments) by oevaluon of its economic beneft; and (e)  a i is
demostrtes cost recovery. Furthermore, in addition to the stndad perfomance arges to be agmed in the
PAE, specific cot-eoey trgets will be agreed for nfstructure isme   with finacing under the
Progam. As mentoned, the nstutional diagnosis, project fesibiity stus (for scsly evauated
projects) and detailed desin will be eligile as municipal counterparL
2. BDMG's AniaMd Prooess
7.     lb. Ura   fauctu  Deparnt (D) within EDMO wil prpare al sub-project ap sas,
with the udsste of technical agents as needed, and accordn to agreod cdteia set out in operIonal
manual (seo Anex 3E for evaluation of the DIU). DIU staff will undertk thre main areas of analysis:
(a)           nf ac  eWaluation of sub-boowers; (b) Insituonal evaluation of sub-borrowers; and
(c) tecical, econmic and finid evaluaton of sub-project. All evuions w   be done by a team of
analysts (one egine, on   om       f      analyst and one institutionl speciasonded from FJP)
asigned to each sub-borrwer for the fil sub-roject cycle, from evluadon   ougb implemeion,
speviin and monitorig.
(a) CredIWOrth       and Franda Evaldaon of Sub-eBorrowrs
S.    Upon complon oftheitial  rticipadon Agreement, IEDMO prpes a cetrhs evaluation
and finda   anlsysis of the municipality or water authority. Fhci  evauation will be done by BDMO
fia_a anysts, who ar experienced in this type of analysis (see Annex 31).
9.       e             is deterined on the baos of thoe  tleida set oct in Brazilian Fedeal Senat
Roloion #36 of 1992 on debt lmis for the public sector, which ar strnent. Ie legal lmit is ddetined
to be h higher of te flwing:



*  -186 -                       M    4C
d, global amount ofprfomed operations In a anal exercise soold nt Xexd th value of th
lua   payant due or ovede dring the yea, or 20% of real netr    s, whicevo  is hioer;
*      the maximum anal            , includigrefpaymnt of prnp  Of al opons, will not exed
valuation of financial fo    a and mag IsW b based on review ot  prvious        years' financial
datm,  ldb reakdowns of revenue and expedir, trend and ratio analysis, and rview of finanoia
smau~anad acewanting pmeaicu.
10.   Deaus. oau of the projects primay objdives wil be It imprve locea financial managemnt, the
am wil be to: (a)  wmov dh reliohip betwn own and tnfer resor      the Star; (b) provide
a_qua  cos reovey fw all services; (a) imov crt exendtue poces and              ent pracics;
mi  (4 simulate efficient, oost-_fiv. nvstmn aon te basib of appropite techical, economic and
finnl euatio   71ms, eauation             the indicators to be monio rd  in t  proga: propotio
of own to tansfer em es, ad per capita curn and capial.
11.   Th financileau           under th projt wi pvide t  Ini  boo-lne dda ruired to begin to
adhev the objei. t wM also provide complementay recommendation for iwmro             In financa
_magmmt. SCunring and adItg   which wil tie into the Itiona evaon in to PAN (se below).
-u6cu o, dtis data wl prvB the bass fora munidpa ficial lInoaton sysem (FMIS) in the Stat,
an impo        ddit in th sector country-wid as identfied in seco wo
12    The smummderyMa   evalAuato for th  ppoIml 22 muniIalitie which have been
s_c      yealuatedforthoP g sifirtyearb dsw AninexSC. Specified  crioartin
and fin   evalai  for th sam&  case of Patos de Ma b  own in Secton U of this anMex.
(b)      d      valua     of Sub.Uonrwers
13.   Polowing completion of theItuonalmici                                            il
wgfls and            Is don by UDMO, with techniald       rom fiP throu  a teh     assish
conrat.  P  ua guwp oo6.10 pecis I h ara of municipanme                 and tag who wM be
d_dictd flti  to SOM      . Guidlies fo ths anayss m se out In the Prom's Operational Mana,
Voume S. Mm The        WOS         aro ad 1 b r *b            pdaq adaod:
*              ddw and fisca, to be don In cnunton wit th financial ealton done by BDMG
(cadastre,  ,  tax olceon pe_fonnn);
*      municipalplanng (zong lgsaton, maste plm); and
*      anitatio n andenviro  t (eron       legislation and          service covere level and
inbeWioa arageet).
Ih              actions    proriied (hgh, medium and low prIort) aacing to th following criteria:
gW     Tes acton         have ovea  highest imac on Impvd mnicipal finci  managemen
paiiclayI on own resoue m          conrbut dircty to die economic and financial feasbit
of te prpo    mwb0jects; and/or d    _st h   muicipa    ciD_      _       apaiy.
. 7boo WMk h m _ouidpol r_souoo m _negmet hIn amas oter thdat the foc  of the proect.
LOW.  Ths actios whih m desrbl but ot senia to th projects objectves.



-87-                          AM=4C 
14.   Esdmates for               tme and cot   f- te demined (see Annex 3C). Comunity
aicipationwi be an lmlmporantfcWto n  h      p ioritIeds, and both mmumity mutdng and aprva
of loa  p      ive assembl  wm be equid pro to th mncipa governmens appval of ay PAIL
DdaUd evlution of the tedhcal as       needs fori the sample cm  of Patos do  as I shon on pge
748 of this annex. Trges of ths mnmum agreed goals wvld be: (a) own  ses as a pnt of total;
(b) IPTU per cqpha; (c) crn e _pases as a peoont of total.
15.    Once a munpality bas aged to the PA, and te                suffiien crdtoeein, a
feasibility study for _wiestmer, dts may be submitted for te ical, e_onmic and finani evalaton.
(c) Todbnlcml Eonomic, Ilnada and EEvalun of Sub-Ntaecls
16.     he teal, eoomio and financil evauon of sub-projecs wfll be peamed acoord    to
guidelines set out in th Prtogms Opertona Manual, Volume 2. A iustri  of thi nysis Is preeted
for the sample case of Pslos de Mm (papg.s 9.14 of this Annx). AUl evaBlaon produe Wi emplby
sensitvity analysis, pailcuary in ases wher ddrs are peived to be high, or when alterivs preset
dm    cost and beeft.
17.    Ih   ial tedmal evWalt    wM genaly be done on teo basis of feasibility stAi. Th
eaation wil be mado by EDMO engees, wh theof                           o
technical      a r angement  ith COPASA, FNS, universities and to prvate sector, as  csoary,
depending on theo reid expeolise. Engnee  wi ensue, th_o  cmpa         adnalysis, tha the leoa-cost
tech       soltion has be osen and wil vaeiy demand for services, d _ _ofpoposed        _
dep tndrs an md oo  ml,   _   chmg and wsio a s  sw.   Und  opon
priity will be givn to         o over new s m, and to lw-co  alentve tehologies - wher
suffiety wellteted and dk-fie, suci  anaerobic stabil_ztion ponds for swa  teatmt. Dtails of
the first year prom and subsequet bv     _m  shk in Annexes 3B and 3C.
18.    For tho  subprojcts with q tfia   eonomic beefis, emomule e         do  wM be don by
BDMG economists, on tho basis of a model prepae wih th   ance of a oonsuta  erienced in eo-
beneit aalis and fmia with elaion of    Mtpes of sboj . A simple                      has been
slected, in order to be widely accebe to a wido rap of mnicipae expected to patcpat in SOMA,
snc traing in cost efit anaysi for mnicia autoie i mong on of th poject beneft. Pe
revno.         srnssvic, user cdrgos wil be consderd a proxy for w(althou (        ghu  this does
not cpure feI befts). for non-ve    eaning services,        wi be ddeterined on the bao  te
edonic Modl, whdch   plys Inroaso  pwpety values as a result of Investmt as a prmay benef
determinant  Econmc cost ae net of taxes, debt sere paymen, depratio  etc and repres
inrmet cos  associdae with the projet. Using a disoou  sat Which appmatew die socid cost of
capiata, etmaed to 12%, Indvidual nme  are evalad and rned. A disot pedod of 15 yea
is used. f sublprojects do not achiev t  minimum hurtlo of 12%   onomc  rat of retur, ho prjod i
not acceptd and is st back to the municipal authifforit is w    a
Impro  the subpjects viabiy, suc as eviewing prjedct o  (luin rviewng th tocical solu
propoed, If  t shown to be   s cost), Icumusing user chars and tax  (c_onent taiff study to be
recommended as part of technicarwatorla                  a _         _     forlaf
mnicpa companies, a margina cos  study wi be rommaede as pat of to tech         adssa    pakage
and results s d be expliciy incoporad It the andyis. Annex GA shows o  onomic evaton for
th fA  yer and th project



-88- UM= 4C
19.   Th rudal evaltdon of subpo*jects   deoSgned to eansure  tbat ates of rtrn et th cost of
borowing (about 12%), to dtrmin the paybwck piedod of the investn, and deermine co  reovery
instruments, one the invsmebnhas been show  to be tcohlly vibo and ecomially jusifiable. 1i
eauation wi be done by EDMO fn          analdysb, and wil be Lnked to the financial vuation of to
muniipaty  (whi  provides the bas daft for the analysis of cost-reovery potental) .nd the financa
recommendationsIn the PAB wh which It must be consis. A summary of the finail evaluation of sub-
projectsrcmmne for the firs year s preented In Annex 6A.
20.   lb partdcate In SOMA, sub-pojecs must not hav envIromey-negatve I           (most in fbt
are emated to    e posove impacs).    us, all poposed sub-proj     must undergo a ioous
vI            evA on, on tho basi of guidene edsblis ed for munlcipa sub-projects of this natu  by
the State envtonmen potcon agey (PEAM). The PEAM guidline present a clear indiaton fto
munipalities of ihe typ  of enin        eenig requird for municipal and project   , sep and
expeotd Impact, wher fall env ironmen           (EWRUIA), limited assssment (RCA) or simpl
lionsing. When ELAIRIMA or RCA am  quired, privat consWults will be contaced by tho sub-borwr,
and FEAM wM rview and grat eal lic g for aooeptable projt (seo Annex 6B).
3. R,mmenaon and Sub-Lon Aeemen
21.   The cumiton of thes riuations will be a recommdation which leads to  i _exact
poies and agm o terms of sub-loa  gemet. Te summay fom makes specific  m e
on th acions to be  ken, loa  amounts and conditions of lending, including tagets for the thre-fout
stadard ndicor, and ages. Speclly, it would incde actions and agren  to chieve the cost-
recoveytab fets for proposed inve s and tgets for the instuioilInventions. Thei reom    o
is dicussed wi   n al  aod      s, and oa t  basis of the dission a finig coact woud db
sned. This          _    fom Is also used to monitor progres.
4. iddi  and lmnlementatlon of lIveshnents
22.   MunIcip es wil bid all infi structur works, with techncal e and overih frm BDMG,
acording to the Progrms Operaional Manu  (Volume 4), which i based on Brazilian lw and th Baks
udeli{r powsor         (see SAR capte 4). The co of technical agent for ab-project vauation and
spviso would be inded in the  htrs atbe sprud, and muicipoaties would be able to choose amog
qufed agencs (for which umbrea     tdc a ageat armet will be signed with COPASA, PNS,
CM1, }iP pior o Ef            , and otes as nthro ughout the proam). Annex 4H provides
a project plemeno schodule.
S. Mo  and Evop
23.   BDMO wi monior and evaluate pmgress accrdig to agrmed criteria in the Ptogram's Opeatio
Maumd, Volume S. n add       to the deed physidcal, finani and opeato   ndicators  t out in Amex
40, th  arn fiv  key mpat icators for the puxos of oveall evaluaton and stdeeing of the prgm,
bot durig          i   ad at midd-coure Th evauaiD, remmendon and moniorig of the project
wM be computred, and automated in a itSated Informain System (SI!). BDMO computer tchnicians
hve deveoped a draft proposal for doing this work, in modulr fonat, so th  a prototpe   in workig
conditio by July 1993.



-89-                           ANNEX4C
-s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
s ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... _ -        .   ,,,,, . , ..... 
- - a  r-  -, ---metg wih mu-i .-,_ mayors to discs SOMMA                                    _.   .
ISIgatu  of Padicpatlon
4=co of qestino
Pedea dek o adtons cutI
Sub-Dorrow  Evaluation                       2(c). Sub-P.o,c EvaluaIdon
-,  ,r -wWo/--- -tbaddo of Sub-Psoea
2(b).                                F        E      o              aroed wihdnc of
D       _vdopmeot of Agred PAE  Doriwing lmit eabshed    IDMO evauation (wAth Tehnia
l_ enadto  discssed             (Bd  finianl  dala   Age, as moe)of sub-pro30cl
w/local bodoesed   BDMG oMS                            a.Rfomd)   R    wie te
Agm_a  an           _  e           for hum  yoa                  b, Rond  f revso
4. 8itu, of        m        (a ges CadSblafotcs 
~~~_                           I~~~~
I~                                                           _
Sub-loan -            spud
Bdigby Muniiality
Conac signed,        o     ordw   gven
Eecin of sb-oje
wity spu sn by mnipaliy,
BMD  (alt vist), ad
Tenal Agent, as necsY
5. MontoIong          u by BDMO



COPIl Of th  petonal Man a ad aml  of aI lea  mw we availabl In he Pojoet Pile. Shown
in Tdo  1. blow an SOMMA OpeaDona Maua, tir pwupose and tara _auIc.
E~~~ < 
v~~~ r          .
_O_        Th                                PurOs.                           TarpSAudI.
I   amSc            Pfuvids gmd   gidubn of do prpm - objeudve            M, ub-
DOCU.M           .fty        *, aP for .  .                          borrwe
SU81-mOE         Expan dehlad opusodn proe.duz, sedhuln ereisr    DBDMGIP1
2   GUIDE             a       s,  1bhal amdaw  nuihlfor f unla,           C       _tt al
-   touhid .qhbdm                                _      __y
GUIDE FOR        Sels out guldeb  for aaledio of mlmWlp    fanol     BDMGAIW
DWANOSAL S      ________i_dt_______________. _              ___a   P_tC__ _
3   VW    UTONAL .............o..s..........-i _     beodd _ VI             Iyu
SAMPLB           Stadad biddn dman t hetunatlnmld heal bidn    MunIoi_,
BIDING           for pods and wm*, ad fh oth loo proeu .uDmtU
4   DOCUMENI          pm          seelablo under do pijeeL To Id. stadad
ktor of hhb0n ad gmelum for bhia,g of e-oflant      tu        y
WRCT             Proide guideles for dos uyaod          _SNW uni    Munalkles,
MONMtORING       and supuvislon of p.J..uw ot pnZ  b d t   p  BDbU
5   GumsWm=   To .....                sw...d.m...wi.g  lb i X _ h _   jb  IJP/Ca w_d
SON fom and smandad quaamu,y repeat                 Imes Abal   nlst
=_ ,..            _
bE Tab  2. an! IJdbd ill _m    lddeme bob             id_ km nd qua    d qpmmmbfin at _
aml Of _,1apocOw g  tD"  PK  to_ amo *alo  d m*N
_L Aa                                                     _____
SOMA hw~  oftbMigg SOMMA Fund and Pro_m gudu_
P Toohe Alibrm  Arome wt h                   lo  UudIoma   FJP and UDMO
Modd_Around fo _ _ ___o_SO_MA               _                MUnaly ort Wae Co ad IBDMO
Mode Sab.     Agrn.-                                         MuniciPaly or War Co. ad DMO
Model Law auWdtburg a Municplty to borro  trm iDU             ___________
TeaUilo Apuit Apmmoeset hr wamuatn sad sauguiuon of s"b.*mse    COPASA, FNS (an d ah.) and IDMO
LoanAgreomm                                                  DID and dos So"
Geaanis Avgreemen                                            The Owamnmet of Bradt #ad 3RD
RI Am-                                                         3D an (d d}I BDMO



-91-                          AIR=A4
ac  l   m*l          flor. UNi GU, of ht. d& MM
Ov or  we -   avail pags an  -w    I  saml flumola and bddn   bmw               ot
and sampl %tuhAle   uooaw i and fihnohimb.proJsc anaysi for Mo  de Mini, om oft! do d.
noudg ia to SONMA jue as fis year. Mm sab bblet , swn on d8 0 og ps Mm (a)
FInnidand                  Evalosd   C  O g (b)StasiAdonPlan (PAl); (o) ;(chneoul, iconona
FiPIAl Evalution ot a dahia  s bprJscl nd (d) IEDMO   ---       on Fo.
am                             74   ___________~~m  3
oaava. ~.                      _  __    _        __    _         _.._.._._
.m  ov~,~S                 _X__ _____                                _
nda G)                                        __   _
1~1 Jnoau3 Per Capita                      53.70          7                 0
C euriG E emu Pr Cpit                    49.40          6L0             62A90
caia                                                                  .. _ .rc,a  1.0  LO  9
U d!    neTt U77 1e94
I .ME
o ez PaCp                                   350           34.0             2480i
Tba_ bom Fo  oh                            M07.4                           00
cwna smad  Pe  1^h                    A                            O
_owv          ftok                         UA 77            177
Ln  Deb Limit                                



-92-                          AM= 4C
fortd Cite of Patos do Mhna
mm                             God          bmicalmo     a        6.
Nui   Tot Cofto AItvo pd k 4             hle fomn AbuTx Code nd                     44efi     .
-   had uo, an d voinhpin       dr.   ptragno drd i.d
Ralye   Podp:  R( 3-4 yu)   Udtb                               ?man*&               193
md awmonl S& t^ of suba armgeu  ol tO%.
TazPmou         Km  br 8amiSad b4no   Compo                  7           H22A0
amoewtda ad *pudl o_ond.                 copwbdo
Talx Ceooetbo: _podyT bimted poDomTlsKonto                    2 Hmub    S             .7
Adboai           _u                tw Pb  ook MGH                                    3.6
,dw   O  of                                                                           42.2
.~ ~~~a nV                           [_ puW  _dd  *d  enadVdDut 4snwN
|" m egalb ut oo bd_ eupao&M1I            Updft nd plod        - WAU&s      L        16.
rU-w elmCdefWdw                        - In-ol Ppedf o d 6 nm                        65.7-
hoam   lmdwekwtOi  wion m ubt8           usf.
me"~



-93-                           h4INL4
Riit1ad an.sdped aw In.fu   ud        atisanEsAl.
To       fti        co
-Z ohsdoft i nd J)
M* taiff P&pesr                           ___
sa.w  lhuIa.hetsad uso, nt b i byatalg  sOUpa                        h                 1.
poUull.nofastsvmaWwa  9.            N            . 
I_ __         _      _      _      _       d1buahedma at afw _oSi ^
Ineniv hdrssnffIs d.aevknw o.mez  mea    epe; mod"lnaw.
(a"QfwtWbobsw        _^_mSpm . No
envolIa ad dumpC  srey Ins eteg  wpan.    usllm
_pXdX_                     ~~ ~~- . te               _   _.
So:d. 11g b so sy      a       da            E      _           4 o           H        13.1
Sa  Aflhtm  DOW"p  I oedde,                 om C*_t _                         M    5 .0
Owna S o To nen,._. .. d_
Cbren     No _qft o,Sone                   Crf  _d                 1          H        7.7
Souvwera1ml (SV ofe bwa  otariff)IA        otbdo
41 1bb.a msd*,eash       upondgmtmsofmsais    oft;c oe
.dw MO__of
rUU * pw                                                                                 10.A
TA_  E ':' CA      e                                                I994      199S      1996
Ow as e tTod Ral e___  38S                                                   401 6  43%6 
. M;   U                                                            40    1      410    430
.--w -W- M. -.f -d  - -.-- 30%   ,  40x o
4t  ~ .o*pdw*=WfWd .              tdmom



-94-                            NBA
&SAPheO  Desrn:
Me Cade River rus thog th city of Pate de Mna.  n may loaUties,  ei   caumses ious
floodin durn do heavy raiy saon, bcas dh exist  cao  bed b bady erode  nd doeo not pei*
dteee flow ofwae. "M n   Manft      dp            .Pooer polation whih ome settl In atk
aSI due to thei oompbaivly low  markt valu and lack of us.  hem sub-pojec ptoposals Ito cont
doe  unicials on-gIn efx to cha             with c _eme the wals of th rve, and urbaning te
heu. ToW leng  proposd for he sb-project b 2,012 metes wi a co  of US$7.2  m         [Becawse
doe 'aiipW debt capcty . babou one-thid of that, it has been. proposed tha tdo project be divided. Into
-l      O      '      di t         l       i Denefibi 
The pdrmary ipexped benft a  associated wih rduoed flooding and  eter peditabiity In laduse.
To cosl bmeft anslysis at_mpts to capture tes benefits hough  i      K              Inceem
in pwpty vaue in to affeted area folwug such project investmen. Inae In poperty val  ae
graded acon to p=oiiy, wh ths affectd most drt by flooi  (and *fth on by fod conto
ti e most. Ts furter fom the dver but stil wid  th w     i         b           damo
to      ,   ludingImpovedaccs andcleaner, healthistreets. Eptdproperty
n_eas ar th dve am somewhat higr ta ths fbte away. The estm ted economi ate of retrn
, p 1     XI -4the ihu. in and values is 113%. Expcted        nb ner about 21,000, agely of
lower hommlevels.
'CAs Recovery:
Uder a municipa law of Dmoober 1989, Patos do Mns has establisd a beterme  ax to allow oot
sharin for ihdd          esta  which directy Imprv the quality and valu of affbcted prpaopee.
Tib Iocwn locy as the Prgram de AsWeaca aus Babirs, or Neb                       e Phom.
Under the progrm, which, has been, succeafolAy applied to help pay for stepaving, lghtin and sewerage
omake counerpa payments for a potdon of invemen coss,
fro  20-50% of toot dcost      ong ond  weat  of the negboro and its capaiy to pay. Vaious
mwh1bm for payment of this counterpr have been arranex, eite up-fiwnt, or paeded thoout th
yew (ad ajustd fo ifaion). hRdd     ave ohe pdd ufrot, sc duing Its 2-3 yas of opeatio
to prg       has S.gid a sod rpation. for ddivaey of sevie. Th 1ncialnra  of rtum  cacued on
the beakl of the cun bchar  b ge Is           to be 16%.
fnabasub-pmjodbosnonoSdkoeai         I          hpact Us pdisma      benefitwil behinedced
flooding of _oomhufd water, which i epecwd to yi  a reduction in _wabr  diseases, par ary
among cdildM, and there to dood halt cots. Aesdtic iin te e                         am wM
aso be brou  about by th ubain  of        * cal



Patos deM s
Ev_uati Shamm..
Date -wid Idda 9iLUMMml
Ppaed by:   ffDMG aalyati
Applcant       gi of Pates de Ma
population:    102.698 (1991-
PartcIpton ASramen: _ Yen _ No  Date Si : [Not       d
L  S9umay Uhanda Evauatin:
Credit uni      Ussi.996.m0o aIan. 1993
Own RevlTOW        22%    30%   36%
MU ($000)          76     114   397
i-lertadff         Dn      n     na
awamg.turlff       as    us    AR
buh-us cag         30    45    47
det S seMcrelrven    on    on    ma
Couterpat hmda avaae:   _SS .                                   u    e availab     im
2. Soummay nsatltutonal Evaluation:
PAECbod:e .L Yea_No   Dse:,1/28193.   11g-Paort iy
P-uiiedeAn:  V2 UfM peRdM sndE MRW                                                mru
11_g"   Do m mM =Of No Bame TawMEd   fStidy sod _i fiK 
Sefvice. Cmalonf  of          Aut.   1aWn  and C_muniy }atipat
3. Sumary Sub-Pobect EvalDon:
Sub-Pojet:      Channelin of a watewa                          Told Coat: 1J17.2343S 0
Technlog.       Standard "Iya giftigaw
Lowestcad oton.: -Yes -  No                (If no, what I           ___________
:e.            21.aOs  on                         at        a  3a
13RR           Ila%                Based on:  Re-aoi    of#sdtgaM  B



- 96-"                        ANNSC 4C
FRR       ~15.9%
hm um   :  . mnra
_ -pal-dr-prdod:   6 _inomOin         paybackpood:   68n
A. InsttutInal             Inomm   vestmnts
hIenvt ts: Tolda  S109.100 as aU=d il the PAL
Mu pallity    USt 26,400
SOMMA oa          _9200
TOTAL            SlM.
memo item:  uncpal  ount  wil be pavided _hmough                oa ppUon of dbaosis and
PAL.
and conditio:  x monthsgeoo wthyei  a  repym    at about 11%. Subject to gee t o
monito perfomae on basis of  ts  sd out In PAE.
bve_Memb: Fitst modde of moddW invesbustoaing $2,452 (about 30% of tal hneaten), wih
pUminary             for her finncg for Mond and ti modue.
MuncIpalt     US$ 613,000
SOMMA oa     S1.839
TOTAL           ,     .000
Trms ad condtions: 6 monts gsace d  6 yam repymen at thdo stnd  SOMMA hdnest rd           .
Munca   undtert woud be prided as pant of invoice. Fa ins subject to agreemn to
achievin the ollAwig cost-r   y targebt:'
mU                   Mainti Com reda valu
Sewa  Char           Etbls sewea  ti e a miImum 40% of w,a tarff.
BeterMent Ts,       Inres beterm t tadff    p by 10% of cunt red receipts ann y.
1/ To be bmd os reuid Weed twit to po "r - oogoway dmuamhd is do flaead mod     S Is,* ad
#resd fu each muahlp  an slpnte of nb4ow cogafct



S~~~o on *                    Zw-PPU
eve  orni  u-p      Hi       otui                           t       ostet
i.e.       WLS      usn       uli       WSl       mt1           LI96 tu        eto       0111                           WOI - -
OI         56*      iU         WI't    3611        (1         9      SF9       Ci         LiII                          WO p  113 -
lOl        0P6        iL'  3"61         3615      u-S       9    L 6    UALI            011                            IUS- 61-JA
SV1L       US       StiL      ir        tEll      3(1       61      *106      DilL      03*0                           USOPS3
int        irw      wL9       u-u       erIl      uw        OL'      gis       ui        ie                             we"l - @lSA
1936       S9619   SF1        011       I           l      Wt    U *5*9       irIsi  WIG                   "31
SF1        Well    we    93             u-I        36       t        tlt       WOI       09                ouSI  w-L-
9iIt1       Wl       Wu        Wu       9n1       91t         Lp        "       a,"      or"                            WPI - lISA
Wml        *1631    Wu6       a"1       66ll      335*      *96         I      or"*      036t                            mnp13-
1136       Will    Wit        1119     IIWO  a"01           6 Ul "   061      6Lt       toLo                           WrnSt - *1 4
WiZl   .ft           Wit   81            131      0inL      19sr6  ill         9*3       liii                            WO -9 @-J
or          an         "       Wu|  IIO    t lw                    9"                    oS16                            maOR pag
O911*   f t I         1wt      9r       sr;   Ltri          a"        a"t      Wit       W91                            WOL PI - LtlA
6313*      911       WWI IVt   *13      ant       ori1      6,6 s'06           0*1*      wl                             waspu-
Wel        *1*3      OmU      Om1       ami        lill     orW                06 Om "wigS                              WOPUI -1 ItA
u-9 S tZ   9311 *15      *0        Wi         il       063      u-         rs       iisl                           we pup $-g
or            m      a         Om        UV       UIL  Itt            *INL  AMl            OL               I       t         pig _
Arm l' am$           W         Gwe                gm         r 1 -Ls            wILW 9L                                 Wm " PI - U*
Wm           "rI               W"        In w199            Wm        Wu                  r                              woo pu W -
ret        i,tiI    ir         iW       99e1      wit        90                          3O59                           W PI -11
se11       3(1   ZILlS         0691     u-S       059       0615      31      _ 1        uC                               O  U
WMlS        wt66     Oit       wig      s01       $SLt      11ov a szs                   Om                             ""PtO -   IA
se51g91s101    atm               MSLI   A         WtS    o01             3         t      Wit                            ws put -
WI.l       u-IS      Sill      lt       on       1O         9033    "9O                  oWn                             w  pIO-
~~mm                  irsw  ecu           mi       631       soit      sl        .113     ecu  armIe-
n          $Ms       WSO       ant      S"        it'"      ir"       W        i09`1    WaO,t                            Wm WtI - 04
am            'st    wi        or         AS       Gm         W        gm  UXrs           SOV                             Uw _i
11W        SF3g         t gv . n        an        01   UZiiI          Wu       311        911                            W9 OPt - 3-A
ACtiS      009       161       WS$      on                  59*1      9611     gmSI       111t                           WS' SI -
SF.,   O9Z9t'        *01W ."3m          W         tltW       11       1391      MS       *1a"      31        3P -
"W       6        On1g      66        W9       WS        ant       arm       6o  W11              9           PI - 3-A
*10   69       330       03'       09        SUB      0315      313       030      33        651       6:11        WOO596
1ST        am        Am       ent       StIt      am        wtw  grit          gm        a                               wPm--
Wil        u-SI      96   LSi          313          1      Wb*       31        Lt        ml       611       931         WOO _
Wtr        usF6      WI        1       311       u-Li      tru       6*9      L90       III       511       Sill        WOO1-4
tit        *own      wa        91       1W0       3tla      31         6t      wet0       WI                             WNW 931  W -
ISF mhn wit          wet  Wr             15        w1o                WI        01   " w           OV        MISWS       wSpui-
wi1        Wu1       met       111      on1       3311      So*       SF0      SF0,    S1          0Ll      S06         WOt WI -
Wmau   Ii Omg   wugun  W51               19       waui.~. is an                 wiO"uewtSI   ant   O ssws u 
_ Wu       610       WS        A"       gill   W     A _      _                 AwlN   U            M S  N3SW" pug i
in.~~ ~ ~     ~ IJP   .UlOl  OiO
JDmfou zualnuavuam wniowJ_w
JAol    Dva  WA  WsKNn   A" SWW
qI        Wr



-98-
R_aymsat f DIRD hM
Srl                       SPECLA                  IBR
j AREASURY                ACCOUlNr
Dbbrmmt of               A.u Awomt
on uhmdpgo of
1*                        sib-Ices - h-m
.                            a~~~~~~U CPArM AN
.      WAL AND MEWACv
.         .Y       ~~~CO JeANM



-99-
MINA8 GERAIS MUNCIPAL MGEMD
AND EV_OANfAL DwRAsfCn=c  R  JEM
Estimaed
Vale Of         Esidmd          AP        of
Rap of          Conac_ WVagi        Nlmber of       Total Above
Coact Vahle.         Esc Ra P       Cons ct Wldi.    Pdof6Revl.w
(US$ MD)          (US$ nmon)        bob Rap           Thraehl
Civil Wo__
5,000 ad abv              38.S               7
2000 to 4,999             94.3              50
250 to 1,999              32.5              130
SD to 249                 30.0              400
0 to 4                     11.3             450
Stotal Civil Wods          20 .6            1,037             64.3
Nqukmet and Matidab
25Da ud &ve               67.5              SD
50 - 250                  30.0              1SO
0-50                       8.8              250
106.3            4S0              63.5
TOTAL                      312.9            1,487             64.0
I b--



-100-
RAZL
MINAS GERAS MUKPAL MANAGEMD
ADEN_RNUAL VOASItC; PW)JC
Disbuimin
IBD PIcl Year              in Quate             Cumulative
and Quat  EMIu             (USS mion)   (US$ mIM....1)       (X of tal
FYm%4
Septer 30, 1993
Deoember 31, 1993                     8.0'              8.0               5.3
Match 31, 1994                        3.0              11.0              7.3
Jm 30, 1994                           4.0              15.0              10.0
wms
Septaber 30,1994                      4.0              19.0              12.7
Deembe 31, 1994                       5.0              24.0              16.0
Masd  i 31,99S                        7.0              31.0              20.7
31D 30, 1995                          9.0              40.0              26.7
wi'"6
September 30, 1995                    10.0             50.0              33.3
Dcembe 31, 1995                       12.0             62.0              41.3
Match 31, 1996                        13.0             75.0              50.0
.Jm 30, 1996                          12.0             87.0              58.0
Septembe 30, 1996                     10.0             97.0              64.7
Decembor 31, 1996                     10.0            107.0              71.3
Mwch 31, 1997                         10.0            117.0              78.0
J3ne 30, 1997                         9.0             126.0              84.0
Setemb  30, 1997                      6.0             132.0              88.0
Decembe 31, 1997                      5.0             137.0              91.3
Match 31, 1998                        5.0             142.0              94.7
3um 30, 1998                          4.0             146.0              97.3
FYV999
Sepebe 30, 1996                       3.0             149.0              99.3
Dembe 31, 1998                        1.0             1S0.0              100.0
1/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Jaue                                       1,  ...u eoititl.SehiAowto U$.  ii



- 101 -                                 ANNEX
BRAZ
MINAS GERRS MJMCIPAL MANACGMNNT
AND ENVIRONNETAL InPASMUCrURE PROJECr
 I  K~~          A Mg
1.     A deted set of monitoring indicato, and methodology for calculation, soce of data, standds
for    _a      an d  vels (whe   picabl) a  set out in Volm   of t  pjects Opein  Manual.
These Idicaos Iclude stanrd physica measureme_ts of wotrs compled, unit costs per sub-project,
number of abgt  and 1ecb a         _s   hdIerenions, etc., as wel as fiaclaeoonomlo measures such
as d      _nem rae, IlDt C08t8 pr 8ptject, do.
2.     In ore to mea   th Impact of the project, as well as physical and finani progre, a group of
key pefomance Idicators hwve been slected fiom    lage   oup of umoiorg hndcar. e  are set
out bdow, and divided into five categodes: (a) a gSup of selectd 'key impact Inicators' (which have
estblsed agets tht atempt to demost hfe expected impact of tho proj"); (b) In _astuctr
Invstmt; (c) ns_u1ol dv lopment; (d)                    al (e) project              D   of
ifflt ilk in establshing relble ban data fr the whbol St, prlminay etmae  of stu  for te
ni_a8o   bdow woud be paut of R     8MD     first quaerly eport, and would be  _m d (and adjusted)
reafter as a normal prt of project reporing, aong with the physical and financial _    of project
-                      1"11WVemet  40          0r  -701   30
PAB  d Cates          ni     1930      19         s99        199         199
Plojecs CMo  al)        USS       .7       55.0       1021       6.2         41.7
-lP_TUu 1s1$                      3.3       3.3        3.5        3.3        4.2
________  X___                   23%       23%        25%        27%        30%
Ad Ho oTnfsTotl                           adt faO=Wc       lm
No comdmoa)             By monicipaR, compny ad Stag _uba  d Ipe s-tof 1O
Now _canoodm (s_wwW)   By municpt, oon y md Mob, numberpnoftoexe c t lep  of s tdL
Pethbb wr  uNq          Pu  obw   m&; coon  W,  bi 9y, PRMMOnb).
Reoprw wae quaiy        DBO, dhisvd oxygen.
Oceursooffloooding      Num*er of foods per yer.



*       * 1XQ-                                ~~~~~~~~ANN Ei
Mms WBy                             , by coadany ad SmpSoft
ACap ewseivnp ThIN      By           byPet  n cWmpantad aorqStefo  la.
_ nfflw!h               N_m da,WA t of  _
k b a u   -_____
ALip dw6WBYm~                       - byauw adopp  hne swoD,.
HMPbd hoe ERR            qOMV hU an pmd cmk=a tfaMdooSi
Dbbrnem.itproeemuhs     Number da  .m1ro .fioImam of 1     mmi Unit..
U-%tim - DDM            _e____________j___*m___________to _____ol           ___i
Dhburn.tmuiln        Numbe od deja wreus of effinoy of Panjeot UIL
_m - mD3_
0 IW I                                                                     .peot Nddor   m aefdc   hd   n
OveadmpaynmiuNew f AmohM   value and nsaw" of Urn ovenido
17= m      .    Bms Amfibmy ovwlmudt by o          o em ms        Slato



a~~~~ ~   ~ ~                  ~~ -  -   -   - b
VWWSWH                           S
PO                  '"Ae  W UOIUId    P
-     g                                       "      |    -       wPo     gat e
PO               -4 -1smu  nt :t
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S .                                                         2Dd-UNS3 1*l 
.                        ~~~~~~~* St3VPSVB 
.                     ~~~~~~~~~~* St-UVS4bM  lS                                                 0
*       St            SY o  z W'S   so    La
m   mm   ~~~~~g:3P                gwmlv OPj .1.  %Go a*V0 3.!
Po             a" P.  ,Me         S
._         _                          S_ t PUeOs                 P     $
PM            -     PNEIPtP  a S
U.                            np.PP _ o                        it
P.-mpS .0e0 .                    3Q
at'1         bpsMn.Wug1 VS00  a*
St
.~~~~~ _t   _                                                                  S w         __
W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                     ^M Wm "V w 
*               .                      PW ._ -. _t
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P                                                      Aw45  * . -D 
Po                  'We 1_I .a-_____  1
.: L . , . . - . .. _ _~~~3                                  t             wSupmg......... , I3b 
*  Po           WmyO"   w.OAO*am    et
.~~~~~~~~~ _.                                            fr..   PC  -     _. _.            .
St
.________ ________   ti
Pre                              Sthu    I 3
P"3        aWmsf isS PoftPpl.L  :t
#~~~P ,   11        ._    .              tt
Pat                sSuvAm. 
*    _eSt _uamIsesm Psw*St0 .t
.    *                      1S01              hh-  S1 ooP     9
*                St             epWW4d piq a A_-     _
1xmmvmm                   o.              P1 VUNI Khb
WI                                          pSpiS-



- 104-                                 AM      41
BRAZIL
MINAS GERAIS MUICIPAL MANAGEMENT
AN ENDWRONNTAL INFRASTRUCIPURI PROJECT
1.      he supervisi  stafte o for this nw projet wM emphasIze: (I) a thotoug  ad detailed j rject
ieption mission, th aim of whc wil be to estash th basic project planning, mle     e   and
monitorgtool (rli  on projec  magmen softwa   nd computeid evauation prcedue); (if)
electroic com    ons betwee Bank headquarte  in Washigon and dth project office ln Belo Horizonte
(and eventuy betwn l           sub-borw    and tho project office); and (I) frquW  s aer visits, in
addition to one fIl supervsion mission per yar, to eonsur project Implm on Is on tack.
2.    SpecIfay, to launh t project, an ieption mission is ped forthe first quater of FY94 (Aug.-
Sept. 1993).  he mission woud be scheduld for about one and a half weeb, and would compis an
econoist,engine, Ifuona develpmen seaist nd opertons assstat in additon to teo task
manager (and bief visits fom roement and disbursement st). Whem possible, loc sed consultants
will be used. A local co nicaions oultn would Wlso partia. Following projet inception two
(ther than Ju  one) additona supevsion missions woub held during ho  scd year, in order to build
on the  ometm of pject Incpion and to iron-out arly any I   n     diffties, dahe a   letting
them wait. For FY95 and FY96, a minimum of one fol-scale supervision mion has been schedled per
yea consisting of a three-petson cor team (egineer, nstiona developn specl  aod task maager),
comlet wit sit  sits, alog wit one to two shorer, skletdonsaffed supervison visit durig the year.
3.    A mid-term rview would be schedued for  e four  quer of PY96, for about one and a half
weeks, and inchding an eonomis, engeer, Institutona development speiait and operaons assist a
addition to he task mangr. Mm objecdves of the mid-term mview woudd include howr al.a:
I)    review ofp    s  anadachievement onboth Infirsuctue and situiol deveopmnt componet,
cudig seciic sess crita for bot (I.e.,  -pot rate of tret   evaluation; Ieae in own-
soure rve    colection), as well as the vxmo_i  of the to compones;
(I)    rview of tho allocaton of resous among sb-com      and prpose re-aocation, ns _ecsy.
depending on project progmess and consistency wh poject objectives;
(i)   deciv s of stutionl and impleme o arangement, and degre to which thes could be
simplied /andor adjuste to Improve project Impl-mentation eceny and  d; and
(lv)   specific  view of thes        of theo init  stage of the pilot  _     in adievemenu  of tdir
objeives, and dsion on whether to end, continue, or epad them.
3.    Ihe requed supervision Inputs are summarzed bdow:
dsa_fwe                20                1S                20                 55
US$                  28,000             24,00             32,00             84,00
key woevts      inceo miission    nomal .        nm.d4em review
1st Quarter      _ _____4th Quare                     ______



- 105 -                                            ANE SA
LRZE
MW GERAIS MUMCIUAL                           M
AN   A LMUNA WRAECrE PoJECr
Financial Situanof die Stf Mof8s
(IUSSOCO)
TU   V                      3555        2    3      324.0        5,410       5594*       3,778.     35967*       4X5.1
VaIs 3,2"Taxa             S,7.7        26.9        3,14120                   ,4561       ,65*       35,814.1    4,62
Cda                          60.         1=3.0       1261        151.2       nu58         1457         55.7      161.8
Oiwia                        52           3300        251.2       261*        175*         239.9       3058        324.0
hedm1'heu                    954.7        W557        930.1       961.7      1,03m.0     1,W.A        1,107.0    1,171.0
1.P.J                       254          186.9       292         302         31.5         331.9       348.0      368.2
La my                       1685         163.2       1273        131A        137.2        144.4       151.4      160.1
bsudima"                     64.0        54*          59"a        61.1        632          67.1        70A4       743
_^pm  ad                    225.       173*3         163.1       16-.        175.7        i"          193.9      205.1
OdauTuudu                   1464        3550         287.        297.7       3109        327.0        343.2      363.1
Cgft* Oi  -,mm               445.2        744.5       716.0       268.2       294.0        j7.1        361.4       533.2
__ L                          383.7        6886       565.7        197I3       182         2871        297.5       4".1
h                          W.7         4543=    S41.9           1973        182.4       287.1       2973        499.1
ff -h_______               [95.9          234.5        25.          0.0          0.0         0.0         0.0         0.0
dm                           61.         as.9        150.         70.9       111.7        109*         63.9       34.1
coimia*d                     1.5        55s9        47.2         0.0          0.0         0.0         0.          0.0
TO Dei Craa                  0.                     10.1        70         111.7       1091         62.9        34.1
_                              -           -                        m           -                       -_    -



i~~  - mEE --            ST!m-  
d  a _ __ ___ 1 p1   AI!Lp
I:~~~~~~~
jI   I M Lit!



-107 -            ,                            .
BRAZIL
MNAS GERMS MUNCIP AL AN
AND ENMIRNMECNTAL INPASIMMCURE PROJECT
Sel.td ?dunlclalm in AMe Sat"OH GfAl anda,ml
-.-.USOO----          - -00%    o% (tot l              -annuadl nmasc--
1989     199       1991      1989      199       1991     1990      1991
Own Revenmues               J9L   fl                      2%        ZQi                 In_i
Taxes                       29.5      44.       48.        %        7%        9%       51%        9%
WmU                         3.4      10.6      18.4      1%      210         3%      212%       74%11
iss                        14.7      17.4      15.2      3%        3%        3%        1w%     -13%
Odhs                       11.4      16.4       15       3%        3%        3%       44%       -9%
Cialsm             0.8       0.9       1.1       0%       0%        0%       13%       22%
OdS                           75       73       67.3     17%       12%       12%       .3%       48%
Tranafom                     au           .  mu                                                    6% m   -6%
ICMkS OfmFed Got)          143.5    220.4    208.9       32%       37%       37%       54%       -5%
PFMP (fom State Got        165.9    223.8       189      31Y%      38%       34%       35%      -16%e
OtherFedsandStae            32.2      29.9      47.7      7%        5%        8%       -7%*      60%A
Expendiwies         ~Z1A 4S78                   MU       100%      1OOYe                35%        5/
CkLnxDtEBqp3ndbll0s         374.7    446.6    435.4       82%       72%       75%       19%       -3%
Capital Epenitues            83.1    1701       148.4     18%       28%       25%      105%      -13%
Apoopof2t7/x6lpNni. te astwabatdto powMes he weat ela756 Wa
--doipUm Bob N*6mft mi cormso~4 to we kWo      b av, b     e ibe   d asos. l  m  doat to ez eaad by Ask
PO" 1  do a"T_a



-108-                                        ANNM
BRAZ
MNAS GERAS MUICIPAL MANAGEMENT
AND ENVRONMEAL RUItASfUCrURE PROJECr
D*A Cemt of Muniiages in the First-Yew PMM
ARAXA292                                     40         ns15x          8,1S2         36%
I L O O                             1X I            4,5M           29%           8=            Is%
CONGONMU                            1,876          4,217           44%         10,530         1s%
|iNoPoLis                          2,746           SIM s7s         ns                         29%
GOVRNADORVALADA3BS                 2-              7,82            30%          6,11          38%
IPANTINGL                           9,720                  __7_ 55%            45,434         21%
MrADRA                             3,406           4;321           79%         10,139         34____
IrAUnN                             1508           3,475           43%          Sf97          25%
LOAlO                               I'LmJVI  1,262  1,354          g3%          5,616         22S
_UDU3                               8on            1862            48as        18967          47
MOMN38 CLAROS                      3,223           4,160           77%          9,131         35%
OUOUlRANOC                          1,525          5,376           28%          7,599         20%
OURO m ro                           1,719          3,045           56%          8,143         21%
PARA DEIM 4A                        1,115          4,89            23%          4,474         25X
PATOS DS  U9                        1,567          2,252           70%          3,675         43X
10008 DSBCAWUA                     3,760           16j396          23%         17,406         22%
POUSO ALiB_                         1,616          3,8             45%          5,94          27%
TD1MYO                              4,04          7,005           58%         18,159         22%
T| U PO1WAS                          746             488          153%          3             22%
UDERAA                             4,873           10,351          47%         18,832         26%
VARGIH                              2,663          6,702           40%         11,449         23%
|WSPASLAX                           I'M1,580       4,902          U32           7,798         20%
~~~~~~~~ ,_



11111 Jutlg
I       IF.            II
----   --  -  ---  -~ ~~~~~~
I ~~~~~~~ItII~~~~~
I  I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
- - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~;



-110-                                  AhNNEX 6.
UAZ
MINAS GERAIS MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT
AND ENVIRONMENTAL INRASRUCWHE PROJECM
Ecomiml and EOGn  iuatlon f Sub-Proed
1.    Methodology. Most sub-projecs to be fnnced under SOMMA, such as water and  wrag  etwork
extensios, water sysm  impovments, drnage, paving and ste  lgti  invetnts, hv  raiy
quntIfabl benfits. Thes sub-projects WIll underg technical, financia, and economic evaluaton accordin
to agraed selcon citeida and meodologes set out in the project's Opaionl Manals (Volume 2), and
4k   in Anex 4C. A simple methodolg has been selootd, In order to be widely acoessib  to a
wide range of _mulcipao -expec td to partiipat In SOM*A.
2.    Sice the poposed projct takes a promm        approach to finaning municipal investments, n
exa  fora of stBforte projct Implementatio pedod Is ot possble. Based on esm           ted project
cos, about 70% of Invstmnt wM bave readily quandifiable beefts under the selected meodologes.
Sewr  teatnt and sold wast disosal sub-project, estimated to tot on th. order of 20% Of total
project cost, hav been treated separately, sin  te have a blr   pWpotion ofbeneft stmming frm less
readl-quantable envi     e and he gains (see pa. 8). Economic evaluatin has not beeo done fo
the r ider of subojecb, includin th0 ntoml deveopmt component, pilot progums and sties,
rsentn about 10% of pojec cost, however, th finan le beft from btechncal          Iinvesmeats
In th are of fiscal and financw modna         been evalutd and wM be cosely monitored.
3.     Eeone EvaluaWo.  conomic evaution of sub-prJects with quadfiable beft wi employ
Om of two           es.                   swo   v , suc as wate supply and sewera, user chargos
bhe been used as a proxy for w_llngoessto-pay benefts (although this does not captu  fiU bft such
as consome surpu). For non-rvem   earning services, such as paving and draiage, beneft wM be
don th bas of the Hedonic Model," which employs increasd property vaues as a result of
_inesment as a prmay benefit dt Esdmates of blad value cge woer based on th experien
of th ipat of smilr types of improvemet on lnd valu  in Mbis COle  and oe saes, sucI as
Pna, &Sant Catmm  nd Rio Grnde do Sul, whee the              ongoing projcts of a sia natu
Economic costf theproject were t     to be all capital       net oftaxes and dudes, plu recrent
1 b r opoa aut               ~~~~~The seeto criteia ensur thalt least cost tcncal solutonls
ar selected. Becwas of the        on expaunon of exisdtg network to opdmia exising facilities by
employing excess cqpac, and ntwo  systm improvmeno , a lrp pordon of investment costs In may
sub-poj    can be condsded uk costs. ITh prposd poject would optime the use of th    existig
fcltes. Using a discourt rate which appimdas   cost of cal, esmatd to be 12%, the Interna rat
of atr of _ina inesme are evaload and rakd. A fifte  year discount pedod I used.
4.     Finauni Evaluaton. Fin    costenefit analysis i also undertakn, in arder to detemin  ost-
over requkirm     and ea         gddhs for mb-loan ts and conditions. Beneft a   he ame as
for th economb evauto   Coss include a taxes, debt servic and otht chares.
I/ Tinig and prauul epermieen ct-         analysis and vemdnt prdw o. andcton for ui l staff
is expecd to be am* ogte project key beneBts.



- 111 -                               ANNIi    6A
S.    CO       ut-lOfit Cacaton. Table 1. preab the eoomic M  of etun for 21 subpojcts which
meet dhe 12% mInimum criteri, and which wil be Inclded in So. fia-year progum. 11an mInestmentB
amoun to US$46.4 mian, or about 14% of th projet cosu, and yield a wested av P ERR of 20.6%.
Table. 1         RON a _ 
Muuldpaflty/          In_Vetmet    Popula          lenefted            am
Sub-protect            iUsS corn     aOW)ab.    1oeolds)                 %
Wate                                 7%                                        283%
Boa sp                                 152                        7U00         24
CouselhelroLafalet.                    484         10,000                      24.1%1
Covenador Valadates                    947         30,000        49,400        40.9%
Guauabaea                               75                         950         25.7%
aaoUevado                              403         58,800        12.340        34.8%
Machado                                342         21069          u,4s         3L28%
Nova urn                               681          5,638                      24.7%
Pas                                   1,735                      17.470        25.09
Sao LIvreaco                           169         45,000         8,000        34.9%
.  :;oJoso 4elR;y                     1,089        72.741                      27.0%
esPonIs                               1.183                                    24.1%
Sewea                                    3                                     10%
AI(aa                                 1,233        16,290                      11.696
Lambad                                 10           3,813                      1S8%
Drwas"                               .'11                                     19.5%
Di'opols                             13.673                      26000         20.8%
LuVaa                                 4,597                      18,800      '17.1%
Mudao                                 1,617        15,000                      17.1%
PousoAler                             2,213                       3,985        17.f%
Uberbab                                287          2400                       17.1%
Varna                                11,224        43,315                      19.6%
Sclid Wate                            2,50                                     1L.7%
IPaUB                                 200         179,696                      117%
Pavln                                  665                                     31.9%
Uberaba                               1,665                        700         31.9%
TOAUWel eAv                ,         46,414       503.762       15041          20.6%



-112-
6.     Tae 2. prese    a summay oft. ecoomoi and finaca rda  of retr for to munIoIpa
id=tctuae -p*rojes i dth fis-yow pX    rm plus other sub-projects Idetd and evduated by UDMO
whcih ar leswell advancd techically but are windve of fAtir e In        . As shown, the sb-
projets wa expected to yield  tes of rtun  which avea   26.3%.  he COPASA and publio lg1
Iestents were Idetfied and agped during Appraisal (e Annex 4C). Ub. weighted average ERR I
27.6% and FRR Is 17.0% for hes sub-projet (tg  US$216.2 min or 65% of project cost).
7.     S5nsIt    Analysb. SensIvty anlsis was do  on tie basis of h e    soek    judgd to be
most pobab  (a) ncs In coso due to cost-oven andfor days in projec   p               ion (10%
se use4; and (b) red on in benefit due the impact of  aion (which may redau  es vau of baff
and tax revn  If not adjuste, ad polcal or other inabliy to m a  stpulated tadff and taxe (10%
redtion). Tb. sub-prjcs for which th senstvity was done whow hat mo  sub-projeo an robus (ERR
and FRR over 12%) ae    under these assmpdoins. This risk fiacors will be closely moniored during
Tab). 2. Economic ad VAnol Rate of Retn
for a Souni of Sub-Projet
bond Economic _ral Fb         c_
Raes of Retr ER      Rae of Retun FE       lavat-
Campos"a             -M                             -         re Bn  nti   of  T*t
can       &.iy       can       SMi.w      (S I)      cost
Muicipal n&    om         263        22.2       14.6      11.8       136.2       63%
COPASA.                   27.1       23.0       33.0      26.9       60.0       28%
NctweExtmion             16.0       12.2       12.9      9.8        29.2       13%
Opebatoa Impmv.          39.1       32.3       S2.7      43.7       31.8       15%
Sued Lihti                 243       19.9       20.0      17.6       20.0        9%
TodlWdglted Aveaige       26.7       21.9       20.5      16.1       216.2      100_
S.     Swae  ratment and Sold Waste Disposal nvstme. Benefis of hese Ivestm     of ten
etend ovew a regiona  adiher tian municipal arma and can be difficl to quaty. For sub-projects under
US$1.0 millon, fr which the prary bonefit  ao wi    the nmnicipt, evuaidon of to least cost
technl solon ombid with an estmate of pe capt beneft would be sufflceuL   o sub-projects
larger than US$1.0 mion, ost benefit ccuons applyn existig or proposed cost reov    d mecanism
such as trff, betmm      and other charges would be usd  The result of this evaluaion, which does net
capur foil bendets as ad wit  h            and heath impwvemen, su be consdered a lower
bound. BDMG would fish its evalution to the BaL pror to apoval for sewag eatment and solid
wate disposal sub-projet exped to cost more han US$2.0 mMion  Where beneft are deemed to be
Igely outside to municpiy, a priminry feasbiliy of toh rgional         m equirnt  ed  would be
needed, evalti  tedical, financial and economic easbiy on the basis of dignos of apolltion souves
(us8n acs   dat or  _       ) widhi th whole reiw



laII   i ul            iIVSiI
0 AmJllbuII
I   jIiitI1I~~ I3A ~~1          ii   ii



-114-                                 ANIC6
on tho typ of scen    to be done,o sin ve   legitidon did to duh siz, scop  et. for indvia
sreni8 odg. As a rut, FBEAM prposed a clssfica onsysta, apoved by COPAM, whid
_tabs c   guidelins forI ea sreIg   by7 proct sin and mepclted Impac (genery on teX
basis  physd almeasur  suoh pipe si for watw and sew g sb-pojecb). 2boe  gudeine. arouy
compaable to simil gusidin  esablien Pa , andI hA mor resticve ha feda gides.
Thoea ae th   odegois: teo fis, for proje3ts of dsgnift dz ad impaot, would be a flla
hmpac        and eport   A MA); t  seooed catg, f  projes of sal  s   and   pasct
wd  bo a simfid         _         _    , RCA, a raoro de co,wkI. au*1et         ng, or 
cotol rpo            ed categoy of inestm     wld requre ooly len .  h   nwy-abied
gulMsw   discussed wh teo prqeao miss , and are s                 E _
underf   projct wd  be p _aed by  -v  cosu ltas and mrvwed by EAM, ich has dso spuated
tmepeiodsfbrdthapovaof each   eo  of                   sree ninsg varyinS fom ys for somple
lies appva to 30 das for evali  of an WaRI .
4.    It is etimd tiat 10% of fimt-year subproet wM requo EWRIA, a flhcer 15% will ned
a siplified RCA, and th m t ner licenin or o acion. le whi  require ELA/AUA an sewer
treatmen and lni   projcb and laqprr drain    projects, pdadplly to enue adoquae siag. Tlo
remaid  of sub-pojec    e  fInanood under SOMMA are expe     to reflect Oe  p l c. AUI
_purd  WARIMAs and RCAs wM be completed pdr  to              d    id at I l l a solro30 0  .
Licesin wi be pvidod pdor to woi*s costucon  EDMO wod  provide echd     a             "ssa    to
m ci   ad gerly overs  the enviomena screening proc, fiom seletio of cosulan  (fo
whicht wil minaid an open data bas of q aled fms),           o of i         aid 
_vbfa by PEAKMm Ste hs provkdod its sa_u    daft N Ieodt g  PEAM wold oomploto
dm  a p IF m OsRies in a  _        and timly way. BDO will aso as   an agee model set of trm
Oftdre _ o r  a_ ', -------*ppaWed in cnnciowA  FEAM and t  ak  For the fist
yar pWgr, EWAM  ma uderway (for four mb-prjet wic reque ta) and maexetd to be
complt  by Juy 1993.
E_d Ea.0_i Beneit
S.    Some               benf  assoited with th subpojcs to be excutd unde th SOMMA
program wich are not asiy qunifble due to lack of data and oher consits ar te dofollowing:
Seweae ad Solid Waste. Imved healt of affected populat , reu ling   low  medical coss,
becot labor prdwcviy and improv  quality of life; improvd watser qual di      of is      ,
wvich reduces co  of watr teatn  in or locatios and ho_tates thep      e  of flora and huna;
_Irased touthru d gh rationa use of water,
Water Cnnto  and Systemo1_.                        P                                erband
qgtgrl-pd prlspodos foa meox e d  _1  - Ao,zdh  eolps lo pdeno fbatdreowl _
inctowoual ntwork expanon teds to be In lower-incom  areas wAe it ha impxta  healt benits; ad
Draing. Flood cono baefts popuatio  at sk in mrinl area (ofen lowiome)who estle on bland
wit low madet va   due to its vuailty to flooding; tdo beneefts of dring asolude fii
hir sewag         m    , sfinc sepraio of sm dnae from t  swep            o  b a pro-equisi
for effixied swea   sstem re are doa d         w *ssoquliy-of-life benefits    with drana
bvMw _duet tbs   ofmouft bas.



-115-                                 hUl
NUMZ
MWAS GRS MUNCIPAL MLGMW
AM IM RONMDfTAL DIUASrRUCn= POJW_
L Do_uuantal oated to dhebjt
Optai Mmso  (Volus I-V, 143)
suuof Of P,ect Cos Teqhuuie- popum (14.)
'4nmy f Bowmc6 iWMW Sd EvkOMNWBValmUdm, PMulips Ddi [Lmb for Pliao-Yaw bog
MuicipMu
Irat-Yw PAls (1-9
Dam! Sh* of Sba roup of Munt pl   (1991)
Dimd study in 20) wa. sommieWis (1991)
Ethout of LAl Debt Liit of S38 M_lipum (92
Suazuzy Of Omaha sluOm o wbmpl group of 217 _niciple (193)
P*oua  SONMA-COPASA (1-3)
of l3hzb Pr*t (10-92 &1-9
hyiged Proposed Mc    g   Pilot (ANR, 1-93)
Proposed  _umuis. S.id W_. (1991)
Pdvatirt   TOO Cm R%waot Is   Pg_(1
Prelumiaaa  Tomu of RefMOr. for Sist.Secto Siraeg Stud (1-93
ROped..c Proposed Audit oum  for Prjoje (1042
Cod cosamt to COFIE  (7-91)
SPt Nitul006 S  uening S0      pukinw giu (3
Sinm. Rusaldima D36 (199).n pubeammI, secto bocmwig flail
Fedw_(l Lesdima (M3 1991) (Fbd NuL Onma DU)
Stat IAW #10,890 (19) adrizaog borowig for Aud. ad SMD
DAf P          _,dWmAmd &Sobto AVl_,d ad =*La
BDMO RopoitanSevm   -            y Det#ed to Munipltie
3. Deesutat Rdeati  do xetn Agm   (MG) ad to SOWA bod
BiDMG ml impot. (1981991)
Audifo    M -it (1991-u  1992: Pc Wa10o0s)
DDMO Detaild Orgualm  Cha mt (-90)
Re9port an BDMO Exurma wiAh 6Muicpait
Medw"W for CdalcuIstm dh LegalO Debt linkt ad Capacty fa Ripy Loaui Imclmb lega rqflums
Flod iwmldi 4__d-"_ (1
SOMMA Ploo Prjojetd Cub Plow, Disbnuwnmal Anipmna is  dBstl.sd Cost of lana
IDMO 8upl km approva mpo
DMSO Stus
4. Do_au an I           1      p



-116-
DaftRmoW  a1_ Maoi d IIN_m    PMO   llpd illtO ft1  _i        k)
Dbpo* JUdit (mni*i             mm        in 22 fil yw .     )
PiPe  fwerm 1.ft tonIu A=kuuams oMUiIp
FJP }gdmir_ Tlmid Aoob     18 Mui_Wd
FJP IM9 Rpod of AhdWib
JP           C_                       (6
S. Docanusit an lb WaItw ad Sewurq Csmpo.st (COPASA)
MM.   Audiled Pinsocid Sui8mn  (_9-M9)
COPASA acua and forma iwvuhud pmgi (1991-1997
COPASA Mauqmgmtd n    (19391)
Reportn  Taiff S _uctm of COPASA (3-)
COPASA Repogt Pan     Didn  Anvhnutu (1^-)
6. Domauast. an do Publi Lightig Compem.t (CIMIU)
Copoi  d Tadl  W   e admo P_ (S42
Re.laofo Amal da AdMWd_ (I1)
Y. Docmw* Idated to Mm Gun Sltat GQwumam
Sumuy of Slt. cmmou bids ne prqjac  (1-997)
_a ScialSam"ofSut" (SFAZ, I992)
Repostan borowing c iqp   of do Sft, of Minas (19  1993 PIM lI
mis Gami Bec.my D_goo_s _d P etive (1989)
Min io 21st Cotar GuIdm  for ow Owcmmt ofBdo GarCkmak (1991)
S-mmary po an sw intaosmic Cn Sts (S1C, 4-91)
DdoW nw an dmoSrMWwboomAnla., 6005o0 km&d in511. (5-9)
Repat. an impact Ir a  ISgIdilama cmAms of u.lcpuIl (591)
caOf.  a      -o pacAun                1o  (1493)
Smmary of COPASA  aMOWto      a u dbo Soots (1.9)
Summy of udng and Ativ CODBMS in do Sot (143
Techna Proposl fr Dsvlping and    S inMnicip hvimumtd PuIlsy (1992)
Proposed Alra*ia. of U  gC&ii for huB,   Sm      Wou (1-9
Minul.f Ur.MuftibimaFAM and PiP I.  iu s 1.lSgaioaef uwlau.u mt          mno  mlupaI
di     (109
Sumnury ofDesn ofPFlat    Slit Nayumaulil O.mos 0092



NOTES



*         O .



NOLLON  d



0  I*o4                                                                                                                B   R    A     Z    I  L    lORD24
q                           I50   100   150   200                                                                                                                      -STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
KILOtMETERS                                       l                         71                     S A  H  I A                                          MUNICIPAL MANAGEMENT AND
,,-16y M. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dd ~~~ENVIRONMENTAL INFRASTRUCTURE
>4armemsm1t5    ,d .Nd                                                                                                                                                  PROJECT - SOMMA
ECONOMIC REGIONS AND
15-                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SELECTED MUNICIPALITIES
0BuriIi.s                                                                                           '5
F. D.                i                                                       *                                        15
Arinios 
A ~~~~~L.8 %E.                                                                         /O<\_ .WCIA                                                         AREA OF MICRO-ASSOCIATiON PILOT PROGPAm
G   0    1    S                                                                                                                                             6 ~~RRAWAMUNICIPALITIES TO PARTICIPATE IN MICRO-
G  O   I    S  , OUnR0 Sdo Romdo%  4  VI                                                                                           ASSOCIATION PILOT PROGRAM
GOIANIA     >     bonbnop~~~~Soli         , o                                                            y   J                                 ECONOMIC REGION bOUNDARIES
GOIANIA                    gonfinpoli0    MUNICIPALITIES FORECASTED TO PARTICIPATE
j      ~ RW1If6p0iB  F' d                       ( Ml                                                                             IN    SOM M A'S   FIRST  YEAR
,S OPartrzootu  4                        >                                                                        '-~  STATE BOUNDARIES
*_ JolsQo PIOiveiEQ    Aq  *piroporo
G  o   ao rd .M6 r o   ,                                                                                                     INTERNATIONAL   UNDARIES
LVQOE,IOP    r                                                                                                          ECONOMIC REGIONS:              STAT GOP
1 METALORGICA E CAMPOS DAS VERTENTES 51%
Governodo, /                                        I;Ii MATA                           0%
GuonhOns  SC70dares                                            III SUL                             13%
o                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~IV TRIANGULO E ALTO PARANAIRA  11%
IV'                                                                  t*B I  Or ilencl   to  1{,_/>_., XX  
v                                                                                                V ALTO SAO FPANCISC-O   4r
IV . u                 ._,..S               _   r           Cx  Aa        plno                . ESPIRITO                             VI NOROESTE                          5%
SELO A R A NASANTO                                                          Vill RIO DOCE 6n
081                                                 Divin6po      Be~~~~~~~~~~~~otim lORIZONTE a Joao Mon  do                                                                       AL VI  EOIIHON0%
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TTL10
soliieiro La~oi*Be    ,.,Z.  ,TvIT6RIA                           'o                            AfncGeS
t+*      *  R                                              f e(    RGNTNt4Brbece ne0   
Mac/ do*        ea                _1inh     de o Pr                                                                                                     flARCBRA9
~~~  PAULO                                  *~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~Cenbu0oira  0                                                            PERZUI  
(           *~~~~~Lgmbcrl               .0 PR
Ai, megre                         RIO  DE JANEIRO                                                                           -
(RIO DE JANEIRO                        A                                          OLIVIA --
A t~~~~~
*SOPAULO                                                                                                                          1
PARANA                                                                                                                                  0/ c e o,n
~~~~~~                                                                    400                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'~~~~~~~~~~E ~~~~~~~~MARCH 1993



