Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 24212
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(CPL-36390)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 150 MILLION
TO THE STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
BRAZIL
FOR A
MUNICIPAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
05/23/2002
I This document has a restricted distribution and may he used by recinients onlv in the nerformance of their
| official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Cr' TTu fl Tf'1XT 7NCY TT1 A T rThITrCS
(Exchange Rate Effective June 4, 2002)
Currency Unit = Real (BRL$)
BRL1.00 = US$ 0.398
US$ 1.00 = BRL$2.51
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BDMG                        Banco de Desenvolviento de Minas Gerais
COPASA                      State Water Company
ICR                         Implementation Completion Report
IPTU                        Local property tax
NGO                         Non-governmental organization
PAE                         Strategic Action Plans
PSR                         Project Status Report
RAR                         Staff Anpraisal Report
SEPLAN                      Ministry of General Planning and Coordination
SA1%AA          ~i~Sameintn Am.rhipnt2l flrcyfi72r-a2n e MlidprnMi7a1o Aons Miicminino
Vice President:  David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:   vinod Tnomas
Sector Manager/Director:  Danny Leipziger
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Dean Cira



FOR OFFCIAL USE ONLY
DT) A '7TT
BR MINAS MNC.DEVELOPMT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Perfonnance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Obiective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implemen-tti.on and Out.coe                                   Q
6. Sustainability                                                                        9
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        iO
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      12
9. Partner Comments                                                                     14
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    24
Annex 2. Proiect Costs and Financing                                                    27
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    29
Annex 4. Bank Inp,ts                                                                    31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Perfioirmaice                                     34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
tIh    jRZI-Ii I11ioUL   f Ut LI r oL MiAiM A UULi;. ILt %AJIILVkUL     IURay  nActLYP, be lotA.L TV   d   c   s
|without World Bank authorization.






I D--- Ifl. DnnA-rA                                                       K P-n;,r' AJ'..r. MINATM A  r nPVPT fPMT
Team Leader: Dean A. Cira                               |TL Unit: LCSFU
iCR Type: Core ICR                                      ]Report Date: June 6, 2002
1. Project Data
hvame: B1R Ivl'1t%A LvI^C.DFVOUr, V rAAJI I.i          c   LvunIu.' .rum CL-36390
Country/Department: BRAZIL                                              Region: Latin America and
Sector/subsector: UM - Urban Management
KEY DATES
PCD:   02/27/1992                             Effective: 01/19/1994        01/19/1994
- - V -  nfl ,nn Itlflflfl         ~~~~Ar  flCJr 1 11 r~Alflfl'  flCIlIlfll7
Appraisal:  00;00/;0000                              lvi I  0. VJIIJ/L97       05/1/19
Approval:  07/20/1993                             Closing:  12/31/1998         12/31/2001
Borrower/implementing Agency: ST.OF MINAS GERAIS/BDMG
Other Partners: None
STAFF                Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                        S. Shahid Husain
Cotntry Manager:     Vinod Thomas                             R.B. Steckhan
Sector Manager:      Maria Emilia Freire                       A. Faiz
Team Leader at ICR:  Dean Cira                                M. Sheehan
ICR Primary Author:  Dean Cira
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HSS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely. HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
ItiSftutianal Develipmnfmllmnart: M
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry:                        HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes



3. Assessment of Development Obiective and Design, and of Oualitv at Entrv
3.1 Original Objective:
'T'he objective and the design of the SOiMA (Saneamento Ambiental, Organizacao e Moderniacao dos
Municipios) project must be viewed within the context of Bank experience in the sector and the evolving
responsibilities of municipalities at the time it was prepared. This is particularly important given the
long-life of the project, approximately 8.5 years of implementation and nearly 10 years from project
identification to completion. The project objectives were developed, and the project designed, taking into
account, inter alia, three important considerations: (i) Brazil's 1988 constitutional changes that gave
additional importance and autonomy to municipalities; (ii) lessons learned from a series of previous
projects of a similar nature; and (iii) the apparent policy priorities of the sate of Minas Gerais in supporting
sound financial management and fiscal responsibility at the municipal level and increasing coverage of
sewerage services.
Changes in the 1988 Constitution devolved greater responsibilities to municiDalities. giving them back
responsibility for most infrastructure and service provision. The constitution also expanded municipal
solurces of revenue- increasing intergovemmental transfers and creating new sources of locally generated
resources. Thus there was a clear need to improve the financial capacity of municipalities to both increase
anrl mannacp thpir finnnrial recmirrie Tn wirditinn in thp Ct:tP nfMinne rlprnaic mnnv milnirinnlitipe r thpr
than the state, had responsibility for providing water and sanitation services. With sanitation service
coverag  sahlightlt, mnra than 5n0% at the tim, it -,ac ^ncidAred annrnnr lto in f.focu a
investments in this area. To that end, lessons learned from the previous generation of municipal finance
and -uicpa deeope. -;--ect suggested that a r.arl- -ecor1 focus o ;maucl-e i        _vetrlr+t
aiu 1uuuL..'PalL&%uvvF-UVLALnw.WuA   O Urr O6   UICLj ua~ ALUL~IV 02%,L.LUIa 1U'V%. VJi UU1Ca0UU%,LLLL1.ULVV2ULALVIlL.
would enhance impact. This was also perceived at the time to be the best course of action for assisting the
eta,Le n meet'1LU iLS VUJV%cLIVVI of i1nL-ea18 s4am'LIII adiU reLaUte srviYce in Ule s1Le 'tIl. lUs ue Vriguia
project objectives to:
(a) strengthen municipal financial management in support of the recent decentralization reforms,
through technical assistance to increase own-resource mobilization, and training incentives for efficient
allocation of resources for both current expenditure and capital investment; and (b) improve
environmental management in the State, through investment in priority basic sanitation infrastructure,
and provision of technical assistance and training for municipal administrations in environmental
management.
These objectives were consistent with the Bank's urban sector strategy for Brazil, which at the time was
focused on increasing municipal financial capacity and pursuing decentralization objectives at the state
level using the promise of loans for infrastructure investment as an incentive to improve financial capacity.
The project also reflected a number of lessons learned from previous urban projects (Parana, Rio Grande
do Sul, Santa Catarina), the most important of which were to limit infrPstructure investments to sanitation
and related sectors (rather than finance both social and physical projects), and to not make conditionality of
institutional development objectives to financing for infrastructure sub-loans so burdensome that it would
impair the ability to make sub-loans. The obiectives were also consistent with the State's Policy Statement
of Decentralization and Municipal Strengthening of the State of Minas Gerais, which set out its
mommitment to Rtrengthening local aovemments; through sound fiscal and administrative management-
accountability and efficiency in investments and current expenditures and equity in service provision.
The objectives were appropriate viewed through the lens of the project team preparing the project in 1992.
Oly%AA., -n,   ir.  --o ,rnor 2002 +'A)0  -.o. - n -ob ,c. are rle,vnt.
-2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objectives were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The project was designed with five components:
A. Institutional Development (Original Cost of US$29.4 million): This component supported technical
assistance, training and the acquisition of small office technology equipment in pursuit of meeting the
obiective of strengthening municipal financial management capacity. It was intended to provide support to
about half of the 756 municipalities in Minas Gerais, first by undertaking a rapid diagnostic for each
participating municipality and developing customized Strategic Action Plans (PAE) for improving fiscal
and administrative capacity; physical planning and building codes; and environmental and basic sanitation
planning and management Following commitment to the PAF., municinalities hecame eligible for rants
for training and loans for technical assistance. Also following this PAE process, municipalities deemed
credit w.nrtlhx, wpre al-so 51nored to, bohrmou fir infi-rAtrni'chirp inlvpetmpntt hbut uvere no,t srirtly *ondiitionPd
to implement all recommendations of the PAEs.
B. Environmental Infrastructure (Original Cost of US$292.0 million): This component supported the
seconsd of Llie .vvo proJJ'ectL Objecti;ves (i.Ce. ir,-prO-Virlg erILLVILro}Ulle,u m1aLLrVgeLe1Lt ULLrougLl iVn-iestr.en Lir
priority sanitation infrastructure). It focused on providing sub-loans to municipalities, and/or water supply
and sanitation companies, for hign-priority sanitation investnents. Hugn priority investments included:
water (treatment and expansion of production, incremental network extension and household connections,
operational commercial improvements such as metering, leak detection and equipment rehabilitation);
sewerage (treatment, network expansion and household connections); solid waste (collection equipment,
landfills); paving and drainage and public lighting. Full cost recovery of the loans was envisaged through
user fees, or indirectly through increased tax collections from increased property values attributed to
infrastructure improvements.
C. Pilot Programs (Original Cost of US$10.7 million): This component was designed to test two
alternative strategies for improving urban service delivery. The first was to test possible privatization of
municipal services, beginning with slaughterhouses and considering transport services. It was to also study
other possible privatization models. The second part of this component was intended to test a new
consortium model for delivering municipal services in small, weak municipalities in the north of Minas
Gerais, through cooperative investments in sanitation.
D. Studies (Orisinal C6st of US$1.0 million): This component was designed in suDport of the two
primary project objectives. It was to finance two sets of studies. The first, to develop a State operational
strategv for the .water supply and sanitation spector for the loc-l leve!. The secornd was to examine ontions
for financing municipal infrastructure, with an emphasis on private, long-term options for resource
Mobilization. These in turn supportpd f lpn irwr4 nm.etal anrd fin.a.rial. magement objectives of the
project.
The components were appropriately designed to address the project objectives. They were built on years of
expernenCe in pIrvious IIwuHLIp4I uUvrwup1uierwur-iuwuipdi fUiun piUe UsirL ule cuuLuy, andU W-lre awpLeU 'Lo
take into account lessons learned and the unique situation of the State of Minas Gerais. For whatever
reason, the studies and pilot components never fully tooik-off, pereaps suggesting changing priorities of the
government over the life of the project. That notwithstanding, the intentions of these components were clear
and rounded-out the overall strategy for the sector. Privatization of urban services was an emerging
priority for the Bank and Government at the time of project preparation, and the component represented a
-3 -



good onportunity to pilot these ideas. Further. finding efficient ways to deliver and finance services in
small municipalities remains a challenge in the sector, as it did at the time of project preparation. What's
more, the small, generally poorer municipalities that were to be included in the consortium model. were
indicative of poorer, smaller municipalities of Brazil's Northeast (the northern part of Minas Gerais is a
transition 7zne tn  Nnrthpact) whit,h wauc meroino ac new regional focai  for the Rank and the
Govermnent of Brazil.
3.4 Revised Components:
The Proiect underwent several changes and partial loan cancelations. Beginning in 1997, following the
slow start of the Institutional Development Component, changes were made that: (i) reduced the amount of
minicipal cou nterpart funding reauired to qualifv for an Institutional Development Sub-loan from 25% to
10%; (ii) increased the amount of funds available for grant funding for technical assistance, that were then
used to focus atpention on a selert grnup nf "strtegic minicipalities"; and (Aii) funds were made available
to provide capacity building and technical assistance to the Institutional Development Unit within the
1   ecI T      .   -  T,T ;. -rde fo: it to be.tte:- i.14f;ll its  On,tip  Tn _AAdtin, loan
cancellations were made in 1997 (US$5.0 million), 1999 (US$4.7 million), 2001 (US$3.7 million) and
41 lzLUJ pro)-ect closrg` ir. 2002 tJ.PU.5 iior.). I .eseT c.ancellab-.fiors co. er.d to -aa - lla.fi o-f
the pilot projects due to a lack of interest on the part of the state and incompatibilities with existing law
governing loans to uiC privaL eULU[ 'io l aU s uorUIU1Ib. IL dibU LIL;IUUdeU pa,U41 todIl'..tVifUII VA U, bu
regarding the privatization of services and the development of a strategy for the delivery of services in the
Borrower's territory, as we;;  cancel;aiion of iunus unable TO ose disburs-ed wiun uLie prescribeu
implementation period due to an "excess" of funds following devaluation of the Real (most projects were
financed in local currency) and a final loan cancellation. A total of US$19.9 million of the loan was
cancelled.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Quality at Entry is rated higy satsfactory. Tne project documentatuon Irom the preparation phase
indicate a high level of analysis (particularly on municipal matters) and quality of preparation. The project
was well conceived, the objectives clear and the components, with minor exceptions, were designed to fit
the twin objectives of strengthening municipal finance and improving environmental management, the latter
by focusing on integrated investments in brown environmental infrastructure. The project fit within an
overall strategic framework for the urban sector that was relevant for its time, and in many ways remains
relevant ten years later. The Bank's guiding policy document at the time, Brazil, The Challenge of
Municipal Sector Development in the 1990's identified three areas critical for sector reform: (i) policy
coordination; (ii) design of transfers; and (iii) municipal expenditure and revenue management. The first of
these sector objectives was managed through policy dialogue with Federal policy makers. The latter two,
while also addressed through policy dialogue, were also explicitly addressed in the project by clearly
advancing the overarching sectoral goals of supporting decentralization reforms of the 1988 Constitution.
The project design most definitely intended to stimulate municipal efficiency, strengthen financial resources
management at the local level and increase municipal fiscal responsibility. The project was also clearly
designed to advance the State of Minas Gerais's ains of promoting integrated sanitation expansion,
althOiuh was leq clear on how to advance on the sanitation nolicv front. The nroiect desinn benefitted
from a series of previous, similar projects that provided important lessons that were employed in the design
of 'h;s pv-.t inmiflina for evnmnlpe limifinc, the inhysial invte_-tmPntQ to qanitation and related
infrastructure so as to focus impacts on a given sector.
The Decision to prepare a project with the State of Minas Gerais was strategic: it was considered a model
state Ior soundi' lis.e 111MuguleIVIL, eu_u UlC U111C111C1iluir agui11w'. A.311L,U Ur LID1U1LVU1VUI1VI1LU Uv iViuIaa
Gerais (BDMG), had a good reputation among state development banks. There was clear buy-in from the
- 4 -



State and broad agreement on the proiect obiectives. The pace of proiect preparation was efficient and the
short-time period between Board approval and project effectiveness and kick-off, suggests that the project
was well prepared and ready to move quickly from "pap,er" to execution. Minas Gerais also represented a
good "transition state" for the Bank and the Government, which was in a process of shifting its regional
fncii. to tthe Br.7i1ian So iitheast tn the Nnrtheasqt'pnnnrer.states. While Minas G(eraik is not a Northeastern
state, some of its own regions are similar to the poorer Northeast, and represented a good opportunity to
assess LUh mpIzactsw Wf U;.oIJV L  Urtu LheL  VI . JJLC oflBr, 00 Was UAL%4UU*J.eL Uir% Secio 3.3.
4. Achevement of Objectim and Outp-
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The outcome and achievement of the objectives were generally met and can therefore be considered
satisfactorv. This is no small achievement given the considerable obstacles put in the way to achieving
them. As with most projects of this type in Brazil, sustainability of institutional development objectives at
the municipal level were a major risk with mayoral elections held eyery four years requiring substantial
re-education of mayors and their staff, a re-introduction to the benefits of the project and of institutional
strengthening in particular. It also impacted the negotiations of sub-loans and contracts between the State
and municipalities, often resulting in delays. In addition, this project suffered from a suspension of
disbursements for reasons not associated with the Droiect. but rather due to a State moratorium on debt
payments. During this period, the Bank agreed to continue disbursements for the institutional development
wctivities because of the importance of this, the pnrimarv nf the nroiect's main ohiectives; but suspended all
other disbursements. Also, the passage of the Fiscal Responsibility law in 2000, while bringing about
im.portant fiscal discipleine to th.e dfif.f.nt levels of governme-nt, also nut severes rtrictions on lending
between states and municipal governments, resulting in a virtual stoppage of lending activity within the
project for an extended period of time. Yet solutions were found .o overcoming these obstacles and positive
results were yielded.
Though not as high an impact as anticipated a priori, nearly 50 municipalities benefitted directly from
institional de-velopmeni aioULIn sIIU LdhCse iiiUiUcipiiUes shweW, aUlUIL rInoucst, UiiprLUVO-ILer ill fircil
management. An ex post study indicated that for both large (> 40,000 population) and small (< 40,000
population) municipalities there was a greater capacity to manage municipal finances and to improve their
fiscal situation for municipalities that participated in the program than those that did not. As an example,
participating municipalities showed higher increases in own-source revenues as a percentage of the overall
budget, decreases in personnel expenditures as a part of overall municipal expenditures, and higher
percentages dedicated to capital projects. in addition, the Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais
(BDMG) provided quality technical assistance through intermediaries in the dissemination of financial
management manuals and, training and workshops on municipal management which also added to the
sustainability of the financial management objectives and outcomes of the project. Also, BDMG's own
ability to manage the institutional development component, was increased.
It is also important to note that towards the end of the project, a new approach was taken to meeting the
municipal institutional development goals of the project that focused on strategic municipalities. These 14
municipalities received direct assistance in a variety of areas to improve management capacity. They
represented municipalities that demonstrated a strong capacity to, and willingness for, public administration
reform. Although the impacts of these efforts will not be fully known for some time, it is worth mentioning
here since the changes may present a new approach to providing sustained municipal capacity buildingz and
because it demonstrates the flexibility in adapting the existing program to meet new challenges. The
apnnrnar.h demnnotrnt7ted annther way to en inrina a hiahpr lil-plihnnd of imnpart and hiiv-in nn the nart nf the
client by focusing on reform minded municipalities, potentially leading to a demonstration effect.
- 5-



The second of the project objectives, improving environmental management in the state, was also largely
met. In the StRtt- of Minas Gerais; a hiiher nercentaage of municipal water service is nrovided by the
municipalities themselves, rather than by state water companies, which is different from most other states.
Thus the emphasis on wat.er supply and sanitation and relanted ePnronmentnl infrastnutu.re at th.e state
level. Under the project, municipalities were given the tools to improve environmental infrastructure
+U--U u 1        b.-A  --. +--Io, a-     o     A + .+q1  Aof  .....-9         A A-e  d ,n for
ULvuU5AI VUIJ'LUV  I11r, O1-Ilfll  .tj.  . "MM..Sa.  01  -fO  AL LoJta  V..  - -el.US.pIb01 -.lV~ 1fff~Ll
water and sanitation related investments (including drainage and road paving, among others), for a total of
238 separuate pUvJects. SIome of1 uesVe iIVUnvIuL llaU a uemIVndUVLI Uhilpac:L on 11chaurM LULg he uIliLy 01
services available, especially to lower-income populations. It is less clear, however, if there was any
suDstantive impact on developing a "coherent state Strategy" for provision of water and sewerage serv-ices
in the State. In this regard, while there was close coordination between urban and water sector specialists
within the Bank during project preparation, there was less involvement of water sector specialists in project
supervision on the Bank side later in project supervision. Having such coordination would have been
necessary to monitoring the impacts on development of the state strategy in the water supply and sanitation
sector. Thus the physical objectives were mostly met, but the policy objectives in this sector were not
substantially met.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Institutional Development (SAR US$27.5 MM; Actual US$12.5 MM): This component was satisfactory
given the limitations on project execution that were discussed above.  Despite difficulties in
implementation, creative solutions were found to advance the institutional/financial management objectives
of the project, including previously mentioned restructuring and introducing a more wholesale approach of
training and information dissemination. While all the gains from this component cannot be fully evaluated
due to the longer time horizon expected for benefits to be yielded, it can be said that those municipalities
that received loans for fnancial management development under the original project design were better-off
than a control group that did not participate in the project, and that BDMG's own technical capacity to
provide assistance to municipalities in financial management was significantly strengthened. It is also
important to note that approximately 300 municipalities undertook diagnostic evaluation and were
presented with municipal strategic development plans (the PAEs). Though few of these municipalities
borrowed funds to implement the PAEs, there is evidence that many implemented recommendations of the
PAEs using their own sources of financing. The impacts of this wasn't not studied, but anecdotal evidence
of the sometimes significant impacts of the PAEs has been noted on several field visits to different
mninicinalities-
Enwironmental Infrastructur (SAR US$273 MM; Actual US$234 MM,: There wa- great demand on
the part of municipalities for environmental infrastructure financing. The SAR predicted a total of 150
-._..n;.-4no  br+.e fit frnni ths cr.pr.er.t ard a tota! of !49 mun,icipalitas rneiverd e,nvirornental
infrastructure loans for a total of 238 investnent loans, benefitting more than 2.0 million people. This
com,ponent -is corsidIeIe ihay 'vsatisfac.or.  Ilm.pac,t VI ofLr;LI1I invsu.%.'  -. 10 + Vis cor.po-.er.: wereV
substantial, with high economic rates of retum. Very likely, additional investments could have been made
had there not been a suspension of disbursements under ute coUmpOnenI d-uring uhe deb moratori-uL period
or during the period immediately following the passage of the Fiscal Responsibility Law, which required a
cessation of intergovemmental lending until BDMG could be restructured as a development agency. Tnese
were events beyond the control of the project.
Pilot Program (SAR US$10.0 MM; Actual US$4.1 MM): This component, which was to pilot
privatization of certain municipal services and the creation of a micro-regional association of smaller
municipalities in the state's northem region, was unsatisfacto v. Outputs were largely limited to studying
-6-



'"o. pos;.blityof  rnvt.,oAt.ion of nortomn ni,nt.,nicpa conr.ces ,,vitbn,,t actua!l *nc,t.in of n  ,o4,'t.i7n;n as
proposed in the SAR. The idea of lending to an association of municipalities was abandoned in 1995, with
lack- of state U'I intres cited, asl '"lereason for carncellatfiVon of U'^e mLic. -o-region porti;On offIffiis cor.por.ent.
Studies (SAR US$1.i0 lVI; ACtual U$1.8 IVM): Tins coMponent was executed OUt not under the direct
control of BDMG. Instead the Government of Minas Gerais, under the Secretariat of Planning executed
this component directly, as was proposed in the SAR  ine component is rated satisfactor-, but its
long-term impact and the application of the studies in developing a coherent water supply and sanitation
strategy for the state and the financing of infrastructure services in the state cannot be determined.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The SAR proposed a methodology for estimating economic and financial rates of return for different types
of infrastructure sub-projects to be financed under the project. For revenue generating services, such as
water supply and sanitation, user charges were proposed as a proxy for willingness to pay and in
detennining economic benefits, while non-revenue generating projects were to use a hedonic model, using
expected increases in property values to capture the benefits. A sample of project types suggested that
economic rates of return would range fiom 12% for sewerage to 32% for paving works, with a weighted
average economic rate of return of 20.6% for all infirastructure projects.
An ex-post economic analysis of a sample of sub-projects was conducted by the Borrower as part of the
project evaluation process. The study included a sample of 12 municipalities, representing an aggregate
investment of US$58 million, representing roughly 25% of the total investment in infiastructure projects.
The study indicated economic rates of return for a variety of infrastructure projects from a low of 12% to a
high of 71.5%, with an average economic rate of return of 34.09% for all sub-projects. The majority of
projects were road paving and drainage projects, which is representative of the total infrastructure
inveqtmnentq-
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were estimated in the SAR to range from 13% for network extension of water
supply and sanitation infrastructure to 52.7% for operational improvements in existing water supDlv and
sanitation infrastructure. A sample of such projects indicated rates of return from 16.7% to 29.21%
4.5 Institutional development impact:
Overall, the institutional development impact of the project is considered moderate. The project had a
specific component of institutional development of municipalities. At the time of project appraisal, it was
eqtimated that of the State's 756 municinalities, about half would narticinate directly in the institutional
development component, focusing primarily on fiscal and administrative strengthening, urban planning
mn    sAPMi7tinn and intpornht-.e landi u nmnnmPntq1 nlqnnincg anti regruIntinn  Tn tntql 47 mlnininalitiem
participated in the institutional development component, falling far short of the project's original goal
1.1+k-ollhn., 294  n,.maolit,es did .1nArgo nia tr.c evaluatmonA ar.d  drstnre   plarn;r., ar. as
indicated earlier may have resulted in undocumented benefits). In addition, while an assessment of the
pa dIUcIpair,- 11UiULcipal1i.ie LV.IIpleLtU as palL Vf UIt^ prIJectL evaiuauvio showed, for examIpl, ULbLtt
financial and fiscal management among participating municipalities compared with nonparticipants, the
difierences, in most of1 'lh areas revie-weu, were nOL sigiuiifcanIy beLLer. Il addition, in every case, ule
participating municipalities had baseline financial and fiscal indicators that were generally superior to the
comparison group, suggesting perhaps that participating municipaliies were "reform minded" to begin
with. It should also be noted, however, that towards the end of the project, the institutional development
component was reformulated to provide focused attention on a select group of "strategic municipalities"
which demonstrated a willingness to increase municipal management capacity. Given the lateness of this
- 7-



rpfnnrm11ntinin th h hpnef.tc nfthis rp:viinn i'knnnt hp diptprm..tine at thie timp Alen thp g,nmnnnpnt in!iAiip
a significant program of wholesale capacity building, including the dissemination of training manuals,
workshops on,  -     VTm ..,,agement ar.d the Federa! F;ca P  ne.hnsA4-, T  V--g n+1,a.. T.he A.- +
benefits to those municipalities that participated in these events, was not quantified, but the number of
participarnts was significan,t with r.more than half of rmuncipalit-ies participatng.
It should also be ,ot.ed that BDMG's capacity LU iiuauige tie project seened tio nmreased over iime,
especially following the early period of slow project implementation. A concerted effort was also made to
strengthen the unit within BDMG responsible for management of municipai institutionai development, and
there is a willingness on the part of the institution to continue with municipal strengthening under the
NO-VO SOMMA (New SOMMA) program, which does not foresee World Bank financial participation.
Thus overall, there was a moderate, positive impact on institutional development, and most indicators point
to a positive improvement of financial and municipal management for participating municipalities.
5. Major Factors Affecting implementation and Outcome
5 I Factors nutsidp the control of government nr imnlpmpntingt agenry
Project implementation and outcome was impacted by several factors outside the control of the government
(tntte nf Min.q Girai) and the implempntina ae-oncrv (RDI.MG) Firmt npgntintina rngint"rtQ hPtUwen the
state and the municipalities was impacted by the municipal election cycle of every four years, and the
state's own four year electinn cycle that does not parallel th.e muuncinial cycle. The cycles drovA e deadines
for negotiating contracts, making payments and initiating works or consultant services, often requiring a
cessatiJon ofL a ctivities d m SA4 r1,g -eelcoa -..pigr vycle. 4,,' Lh  lcinoUre-ulriua sdly
~~~U~J1 u  a..LIV 11~  rnULr Ul   AV ' ..R...'AJl %a11119aL 1 V'VV1.4o.  TV WI UI~  zI. 1 ,UL UL VW  a%nLUU0UadLV1JZL, uv~iaya
in execution of works and activities were inevitable and frequent. This is a common problem found in
shni:llWLy sUUciLeUjU jJUJV%Xbs. Seor.dUUU UILV, iLL UIV IJroecL Ui,PLIVL4Uii a Jin IeU UIe rUFederl FUVCH11ICIlt
passed the Fiscal Responsibility Law. This law included provisions that prohibited lending between
different levels of go-veirnmenL T-ne imnpact was a cessaiion of lending from the state io municipaiities, the
primary modus operandi of the project. A solution to this problem was eventually encountered by allowing
BDMG to become a development agency, under which lending could continue between the state and
municipality, but this change did not become operational prior to the loan closing. A third factor
contributing to delays was the central government review of municipal debtlloan transactions, which added
to the typical time period required to appraise sub-projects - a period that averaged 180 days per
sub-project. Finally, uncertainty in Bank project supervision had some impact on project implementation.
From January 1996 to May 1997, supervision shifted between three different task managers. In total the
project had four separate task managers over its nearly 10 year implementation period, the transitions of
which implied overcoming learning curves and adjusting to new management approaches on both sides.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
Early in the project implementation period, there was a lack of counterpart funding which slowed progress
and the ability to make loan commitments. While this problem was subsequently resolved, it was one of the
early problems that drove the first of several loan closing extensions. An additional problem was suffered
when the State of Minas Gerais declared a moratorium on debt paymnents to the Federal Government. This
triggered a suspension in disbursements. And despite that the Bank allowed disbursements to continue for
the institutional development component during this period, it did impact the infrastructure financing
component and left additional uncertainty around all components.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
There were several factors within the control of the implementing agency that affected Proiect outcome.
First, there was a lack of capacity early in the project implementation period, particularly within the unit
responsible for the Institutional Develonment comnonent. This deficiency was later overcome throuh
- 8-



ir.res:.gcaactyzn tcl=-A a stz4ff But it was zt le-s pz-tially reposile for + e slow --+- of that
n1~ia.,u~  ~.aj.a~. LJ   k%ILIU  L I%,4u'.a.  OLall.  LIUL IL. WaO aL. IVGOL pai UCaIIy I 1,aFVI0IWUI"  WII ilL.  ILJ  OCIOL  JI iiLO'
component The implementing agency also never fully succeeded in creating a useful system of monitoring
riUL evaiu LL1rg LIUe JLL poe u a Us-u-p[ujecLs, rlinKgi, Maccs LUC UUUMULU p[UJeULA LUUUIiLIdUdii UIficllU.
5.4 Costs and flnancting:
According to prelimunary information provided by the implementing agency, the total project cost is
TTC'~"~1  01  ~l1L-  ' _'~   _1.  L -  T TCO'd7f% '1  I 1  1__   I--  ----------  '.  L.L   VA fl   IAO
est.imat.ed at US$2J3.81n -lUjlljO. ILUS bo -uV   US$79.3 ILLIlI:LIo less uLut proJLc.eU Ul ule S   a 24tZO
reduction in estimated costs. This reflects a lower demand for institutional development loans than
projected in the SAR (approximately US$27.5 mitiion projected; US$12.5 miiiion estimated actual), as
well as lower than expected costs for infrastructure sub-projects (approximately US$273.5 million
projected; uS$233 miiiion estimated actual). i-ne iatter cost savings were compounded by exchange rate
fluctuations throughout the life of the project, where in latter years the Brazilian Real lost significant value
against the dollar (most projects were financed in local currency).
6. Sustainability
. Ra ,,tin.a,nl^ fnr ctvctninnhilih, rntina
Sustainability is rated likely. Of the infrastructure investments made, many have resulted in significant
..mpacts on the qality of life of the berneficiamies. One example is the reAelo-lnpm.et of the City Center of
Ipatinga, a medium-sized municipality, which demonstrates the importance of a sustained investment
rela.^;or131Dhfip     -A-"wl BDG +rUe r.^u.-icipali.;. Tsis r.unic-i-li y bencei..e ++-A ;r. ir.ve-,er.t in
ALaL.IVI01Iup  U   LW%.,V.11  "JJ.IVIS.J  aLI%& .LUIV  JIIu.LL.LUIaLIL.Y.  IL11I0  III1LI%'IjJCLIIL.  U AII &I'VU   L  iiiIIIVI.LI.LW r
infrastructure and institutional development, and represents the kind of positive impact that municipal
develpmen    and1 muicpa    -                 11_' ---     __               -1:_I--    -
UC uiupiuuiit dilHulilt E IUnIUUl. Wu1  pIUJVLW bUwII U UUb iLU IUIVV UUll IWUlL1pdUbIU, UUUI Ul LM1U11 UI
quality of municipal management and of physical infrastructure. Reflows from loans made are already
being re-lent for new projects, including, for exampie, a loan of RIV20 miLion to COPASA, the state water
company, as partial financing for a R$60 million waste water treatment plant. While institutional
development impacts were moderate, the trend in relevant institutional development indicators for
participant municipalities were positive, and BDMG, through the project NOVO SOMMA, has committed
to continuing institutional development initiatives, as well as revolving loan fund activities. Tbe creation of
the NOVO SOMMA program, which is being capitalized with revolving funds from the original Bank
financed project, reinforces the likelihood of sustainability.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
After passage of the Federal Fiscal Responsibility Law in 2000, BDMG, like all other development banks
of its kind, was forced to reformulate itself as a special purpose development agency, in order to continue
lending to municipalities and other public entities. BDMG was one of the first of the state development
banks to make the transition, following authorization from the State Legislature in 2001. By February
2002, balances in the NOVO SOMMA Fund were R$78 million, with projected balances by the end of
calendar year 2002 expected to be R$95 million, with further projections to 2015 estimated at US$195
million. As of the end of February 2002 (the last ICR mission), new lending had not begun, pending the
issuance of new regulations for municipal lending under Central Bank Resolution 43, which changed the
methodology for calculating municipal debt service capacity. Assuming these issues are resolved, the
NOVO SOMMA Fund can continue lending to municipalities for infrastructure projects. The fund also
calls for a continuation of institutional development proiects for municipalities as well, and the state has
expressed its commitment to continuing with municipal strengthening programs.
-9-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
I. L,w1uIng.
Bank performance was hihlv satisfactorv during the lending period.. The identification mission (May
1o-1, 19Y1) Wds effeuuve aYU  st-UaUegil. n ie IIIiyulg UUliS oJyIUJL, ULU DdBU Was inl u^Ie pruocess VI SI"ULiU
its development focus to the Northeast region of the country, the country's poorest region. As indicated
eariier, Minas Gerais represented a transition phase between the rich, generaaiy adiniustrauvely more
advanced states of the South, and the poorer states of the Northeast, and afforded the possibility to test the
municipal development funds concept in some poorer municipalities that would be similar to those found in
the Northeast. At the same time, BDMG and the state of Minas Gerais were considered among the more
competent development banks and reform mrided states, respectively, in Brazil, and represented a good
choice to make the Southeast-Northeast transition. The preparation mission was thorough, and laid out a
clear plan for project preparation, building on previous experiences in such places as Parana and Rio
Grande do Sul, but tailoring preparation activities to the unique situation of Minas Gerais and BDMG.
Preparation was also highlv satisfactorv. From March 1992 through October 1992, the Bank fielded four
preparation missions including the pre-appraisal mission in October 1992. The missions were highly
detailed and the spirit of preparation was highly cooperative between the Borrower and executing agency.
Mission teams were adequately staffed, including, inter alia, experts in water supply and sanitation,
municipal finance and economic analysis. By the time the pre-appraisal mission was fielded, the project
was nearly fully prepared, and the mission team identified key points necessary to move to project
appraisal.  The preparation process was efficient and thorough, with proiect design conducted in
partnership with the Borrower. The Borrower consistently indicated, and demonstrated, that the project
was among the State's highest nriorities:
Anppraisa was hioh1v sRtisfactowrv The mision iindertoolc extensive reviews of key nroiect areaq incliiding
municipal development policy, municipal credit terms, water supply and sanitation sector policy, the
econoricanl.i o%f mproPrtc aned moritn."ina ar.d eva!Z--tinn of the-. project andi euh-nmipr ntea   Ke-y
agreements were reached in a timely fashion, allowing the project to proceed quickly to negotiations and
BoUardU jJiLi3si tAl   -.1. app.ai vwas heltd in a.-u- 1  t1h0 .-  Loar.  h Agreer.er.t va sn  by Octoher
1993, with the project launch mission conducted in November, 1993. All of this suggests a rapid turn
aoiv-un m,,e ior,,1 p1UJsect iUde,-~~L1U11ato to Bouard presentaL1k ad L-;kff
Bank performance during supervision is rated satisfactorv, albeit inconsistent. Early supervision of the
project w  ver;y LIU. L11e Ltea1uL was p1uai.Uv; in LIiY% Lt coJrrectL LUe prUobLems UIaL ca.ause UI slow
start-up of the project, and fielded supervision missions that were appropriate to address the project's early
deficiencies. 'Whnen it was clear Ute instiutuional developlmen com,pon-lenit wab Wd a.ed, foU eAamirpie, utere
was some reformulation of the component that attempted to address this problem. Although the proposed
solution was only minimally effective, it showed a proactive approacn to allowing tne project to achieve its
objectives. Supervision faltered thereafter during a period of rapid, successive change in Bank supervision
team leadership at a point when the project was performing poorly. in addition, for a period of time
following the mid-term review, the project was consistently rated satisfactory, despite, for example, clear
unmet expectations in the project's institutional development component. In the latter years of project
implementation, however, supervision quality improved, at a time when the project entered one of its more
difficult periods in its long implementation cycle. This was the period where there was a declared debt
payment moratorium by the State of Minas Gerais, and to its credit, the Bank agreed to continue
- 10 -



dihirb]PmPntq for the inchtihtionnal devtelonment compnnent dnring this period- given the hivh nrioritv of this
component. All other disbursements were suspended. In addition, in 2000 when the Fiscal Responsibility
Law called into question th.e .fiopre of i-f ,prnnm.enrt banlcs such as BDMG, the Bankr worlked AnoseA.y with
the client to identify solutions to the sub-national lending impasse. One clear deficiency during this period,
LIV'VV%,L, waa  L, afLKU C,.n..n,.L.-.,,+ *anw1 e+nlUr, 4L-L VnMArFn VJn nrn VA.+ nn,n--t.  n.40
howevr was a lackr of. ap,proupr.a't.e i.t&.an staffir.g for cra..* as . prouect compor.en'sLd. tSpec.ifially, oL.peis.i 
quality would have benefitted at this time from participation of Bank staff from the water supply and
sanlitaiion -urit Lo esure 'Uhat inIvebs-UH-11t laU Uir UIU1L setoUI, adU Ule pUolcY WorL Udie uIIde UuL UI,LUiV
component, were of good quality and consistent with sectoral policy overall. This lack of coordination is
likely the result of both tme long implementaton penoa ana cnangmg management, as weli as structural
changes in the Bank that resulted in the creation of separate water and urban units, making coordination
less prominent.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Taking into account the highly satisfactory preparation of the project and the uneven, but satisfactory
supervisiori on the part of the Bank, overall Bank performance is rated satisfactorv. Of particuiar import is
the commitment that the Bank showed to this project. The slow start and early lack of counterpart funds,
the need to reformulate the institutional development component, the need to impose suspensions and the
delays resulting from the fiscal responsibility law, did not induce the Bank to cancel the project. This is
significant, for despite the long implementation period, the project results are generally satisfactory and the
likelihood of sustainability is high.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Borrower performance during preparation is rated highlv satisfactorv. The project showed buy-in at the
highest levels and in the commitment the Borrower demonstrated in meeting the twm objectives of the
project. Preparation was- cooperative and the Borrower demonstrated that the project was among its
highest priorities. There was no delay in moving the project from appraisal to effectiveness on the part of
the Borrower.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government performance during implementation, like that of the Bank, was uneven but overall satisfactory.
Early in project implementation there was a lack of adequate counterpart funding, that caused disbursement
delays. The problem of the debt moratorium, leading to a partial suspension of disbursements was another
set-back. However, in latter years of project implementation, the Government made adequate counterpart
funds available, and reacted quickly to allow the implementing agency to respond to institutional changes
required following the passage of the Fiscal Responsibility Law.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Implementing agency performance was satisfactory.  Despite early problems with staff capacity,
particularly with regard to the institutional development component, the implementing agency was
satisfactory in management of the project. It weathered the difficulties well, and was a leader among
development banks making the transition to development agency.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance, for the reason stated above, is satisfactory. In addition, the Borrower has
showed a strong commitment to ensuring the stability of the program with the creation and funding of the
NOVO SOMMA program.



8. Lessons Learned
*   Other ICRs have pointed out that above average Bank staff effort during preparation can pay off in the
long-run by increasing the chances for successful project implementation. while this may be true, it is
even more important to stress that there must be continuity between Bank and Borrower relationships.
The highly satisfactory project preparation did not result in a highly satisfactory implementation
period. In fact, there were periods of very poor project performance and a final result of some
unsatisfactory components and less than stellar results in one of the project's main objectives, namely
institutional development. Part of this problem can be attributed to changes in Bank/Borrower
relationships. Early changes in the implementing unit's leadership were at least partly responsible for
the project's poor early experience as were shifting government priorities. Likewise, rapid, successive
changes in Bank supervision leadership meant cementing new relationships, accommodating new
mana8ement styles and adjusting to new personalities. Such major changes in project leadership on
both sides, can adversely impact a project's outcome, no matter how well prepared a project may be.
*   A small set of clear, direct and easy to measure indicators focusing on project outcome and
perfornance can help to improve rojiect implementation by giving managers, both for the Bank and the
Borrower, the ability to make decisions regarding performance of implementation and outcome. The
Pmi.-et while including an array of relevant indicators, did not incornorate eaqv to meanmre Lcev
indicators that could have guided the decision maling process during project implementation.
Ind.;cators /vverP vast and fnaicedA mainlw nn tho nu,t npa. nf inAiinr1kial qaih_n.nPrftq rathar than nn thp
larger vision of the project's objectives. Having such indicators, that serve to measure overall
Pe .UttlL- -A a  --nd     nJ--nt. ; at, -re p   v p     h ino t clanh a- this o_ +-at hlave I
long implementation periods and numerous changes in Bank team management. The aforementioned
also underscores the need to haveir, nplace a good project mr,anagemr,e.nt information systemr, prior to
project effectiveness.
*   Bank supervision teams need to be appropriate throughout the life of the project. In the case of this
project, supervision missions from the mid-i990's on, did not include team members that had sectorial
experience in water supply and sanitation projects. Given the project's objectives relative to developing
a coherent strategy for the water supply and sanitation sector, it would have been appropriate to
include Bank staff knowledgeable of the sector in Brazil in the project team. Such coordination would
not only ensure the appropriateness and quality of the infrastructure investments made in the sector, but
would also serve to enhance supervision. In this case, sectoral expertise was necessary to help assess
the State's water and sanitation sector policy and strategy, an explicit objective of the project, but one
that was not fully pursued. In this regard, it is important to be continually cognizant of all project
objectives, and to staff teams accordingly. This is not only true of Bank teams, but for the Borrower as
well.
*   Long-term Bank presence in the sector enhances supervision effectiveness and deepens understanding
of the issues. The Bank has had a long-term presence in the urban sector in Brazil, in particular with
regard to the municinal development and sub-national finance. This long-term nresence has allowed
the Bank to work effectively with clients through changes affecting the sector. This includes, in this
cnnv  helping the client to find nrpntive solnitinnq to leoislative chanoes affectincg intPranvPrnrntst
lending. A sustained commitment increases credibility of Bank guidance and induces confidence on the
n-+ofrI. nV t  fr... or Tt olan co-rnc tn nhon~o aimoannc,nn Aiir;na AivfAni.,lt narin.Aa
p nt ofn,s Au2.e Bo,vver-. It a...sne,r .3-to eIh. afAn.e *3.
- 12 -



*   A strong financial position of the lending institution increases the prosnects for sustainability following
the end of Bank financial assistance, and increases credibility with the client municipalities. Due to the
strong cash position of BDMG; the instituti.n was able to makcp the trinqitinn tn dPvPlnn,m'rnt agen^y
with a healthy financial position to resume lending to municipalities using reflows from existing loans.
AirJativ iimaznd fnr firnds Pvi,pp, sii,wl,lu  gg,cy.rpti co rnfidAr.ea  rr.ani'i Mt^"  of t.h p ,roducts
and advice offered by BDMG.
*   Focusing on a few, strategic municipalities for institutional development, may present a new approach
LV ULIILUUUL UL1s VUJr1L1VVO Uli ILIUUAMldj  UUVrLUFIIIUIIL lUUUb pLUJCtW, MW illy UIV U U Vi IIUUIAWflII
grants as opposed to loans. The demand for loans to undertake municipal capacity building exercises
appeared to be well below what was Originally anticipated. ine reformuiation of the component to
include strategic municipalities, that is municipalities that show a commitment to reform, and a shift to
matching grants instead of ioans, may present an alternative to the lending for institutional development
model. Such municipalities have the potential to serve as demonstration municipalities. The results of
the efforts made in the project's strategic municipalities should be followed-up to assess the impacts of
this focused approach.
*   Decentralizing supervision to the field in the latter years of project implementation had a positive
impact on the relationship between the Bank and the client. Supervision was able to be more intensive
and allowed the client greater access to Bank staff in areas of procurement and financial management
as well as to the Task Team Leader. Decentralization may generally improve the level of supervision.
*   Past assessments of municipal funds and municipal development projects have indicated the advantages
of a long and sustained commitment on the part of the Bank and the benefit of looking
programmatically, rather than merely at projects. The results of this project would suggest that
continued Bank involvement in the NOVO SOMMA fund could have a significant impact on meeting
the long-term objectives of improving municipal financial and managerial capacity, and could represent
a good onnortunity to scale-un efforts at providing critil, integrated investnents at the loalr level in
Brazil, but through a wholesale, programmatic approach.
- 13 -



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
(unofficial translation)
INTRODUCTION
IrL.- -oullr    is-lrd-ed to pr-vd ;a-l ex pos evauaio ofr Le. SO/-I^v   A r)_:_ --Aec   *_l m0Seas'ure 4uhe
LI UO UVUL1IIIVIL i0 UIILVULUVU I) FLVU VIV a11 VA pJVL V4IaLUaULL V1 U1V QOiIiVLPVLiT 1UJV,%4 aLUu to iv~1 U1V
results achieved and the impact of the investments made on the local situation.
The evaluation covers the effect of the investments made by SOMMA in the areas of institutions,
infastructure, and sanitation, and evaluates the indicators used to monitor projects and site visits. Tnese
indicators were defined in the "Appraisal" reviewed during the "Mid-Term Mission" in May 1997, and
agreed upon during the Preparatory ICR Mission in November 2001. They can be divided into three
groups:
* Project performance
* Infrastructure component
* Institutional development component
To berter organize uins siudy, ana as estaouisnea m mie Aide iviemoire oi iNovemoer L2ui, me aocument
will be divided into three major sections:
* Evaluation of whether or not each objective set forth in the loan agreement and reviewed during the
May 1997 (Mid-term) and November 2001 missions have been achieved- comnaring the nronosed
actions with those actually taken.
*   Evaluation of the financinl, economni, and social impart of the basic sanitation and infrastruct-hre
projects, seeking to compare the financial perfornance of institutional actions, whether financed or
seff-AiAndrd rjaiilt;ni y finm Qr) ,TA A an;;ta r.nnA,,pA ;--;;nI#.
se!.=.^ded orresllh-g farnSOdviati.i;es cor.ducf.ed ;n-m-ncip-li.ies.
* Comparison of the performance of client municipalities against other municipalities in the State
WIUI= respect.. to trer.dstWil U.. ever.uiut an.d txe.ajJ.flLu.,.
The completion report on SOMMA is intended to analyze changes that occurred after implementation
of the projects and to evaluate them against the expected results of the investments allocated by the
project. The time period that elapsed between the actions and this evaluation was, for many projects,
insufficient for the actions to have been fully implemented or for their effects to take hold. Nonetheless,
this evaluation is a fundamental management tool to monitor these projects, and will also facilitate,
decisinn-making and serve as a fram-e of reference for its successor Progmam - NO)V SOMMA  and
for future programs.
Before undertaking this evaluation, we must first outline the context in which the SOMIvA Project was
exWW-Aed
%J VUV was prpa.lau in a poLt-feVUderU' .UILLOULULLvL pFrLLJu inl 1700. LIaL ConstitLLULton UVA.AMUdllLU
government services. This decentralization, which was not only administrative, but also economic and
political, broughtl wit it greater powers for the local goverunent. In me view oi muicipai governmenis,
the tax reform that accompanied it, despite increasing the share of municipalities in the distribution of
- 14 -



tax revenues, was insufficient to cover these new commitments. This environment, in addition to the
currency stabilization program, namely, the Real Plan, in 1994, exposed the financial vulnerability of
municipal governments, which had previously been masked by hyper-inflation. These effects had not
yet had their full impact on governments that took office in 1997. Thus, over the period 1993 to 1997,
few local governments were willin to invest funds in government modernization. At that time. the
political thinking was that such investments did not win votes. Therefore, through 1997, out of a total
of IUS.9 100I1 million financed7 less than 40% was aAlonated to 0ovtemment modemi7ation which was a
SOMMA priority.
Five seminars were held to disseminate ideas about government modernization. All municipalities in the
.ta were ....i-.d to attend7, ar. five N.'vuiipjal IvIaIiageme.n.t ...a were w.e  ar.du cCItair a. FLVJC.C
intended to promote and disseminate ideas for institutional development were initiated. These projects
__ II   1 _ _   -.- -----  3'   u _  n -A  D 
Wlil UV duwlUlbvu Uk Una ]XwVULL.
We must takce initO accoun-t thi'at during 'hie period under review, utere were changes in municipai (i99i
and 2001) and state (1995 and 1999) govenmuents. Such changes always cause a lack of administrative
continuity. Approval of Brazilian Senate Resolution 69r78, which made self-financing even more
difficult for the public sector, the suspension of payments by the Minas Gerais State Govemment, which
paralyzed SOMMA, and approval of the Fiscal Responsibility Law, which blocked operations
involving the Municipal Development Funds, were external factors that had a significant impact on the
execution of SOMMA. This situation caused a 3-year postponement of the closing date for the project.
We also note the task manager was changed several times, a factor that affected the progress of the
Program.
1. Evaluate the performance of the SOMMA project versus the Appraisal.
2. Evaluate the financial performance of the municipal governments that were beneficiaries of the
SOMMA project, comparing them to other municipal governments that did not participate in the
project.
3. Evaluate the imnact of the investments made by SOMMA; comnaring it to the real results obtained
for the target population .
4. Evaluate the extent to which external factors had a npoitive or negative. effect on the nronerts.
5. Evaluate the extent to which factors within the local authorities' control impacted the project.
6. Analyze the consistency of the results fo%r anct.inons planredversus ationsa ctueaily ta--enw-hose
objective, according to the loan agreement, was to:
*  strengthen municipal financial management to support the objectives of decentralization stated
in the Policy Letter;
*  initiate the transfer of capacities from the municipal government to less developed areas in the
borrower's region;
*  improve the urban infrastructure in the borrower's region;
*   'nmprovea pntr.rnn.e.trr .ar. mnooagr..rt ir.11 l,fl, nflorvr's, *rel)lflf
*  study the viability of and initiate the mobilization of private funds for the supply of municipal
sFvlutS;
*  test the supply of regional services in the most deficient rural municipalities under a pilot
program with municipal associations.
- 15 -



EVALUATION OF THE PROGRAM
A) Performance of the SOMMA project versus the Appraisal
Table Showing Distribution of Subprograms and Sources of Funds for the SOMMA Project
Period: - 1.994 - 2.001
In Million US$
SUBPROGRAM              Projected                   AmountDrawn        Balance
Amount           Amount         Down        Available for
|                  | ~~~~~~~~~Appraisal  I                          Drawdow     |
IKstitutional development  1          29.41          17.71           12.41  Dawdow
Urban Infrastructure                 292.0          306.1          234.21          72.2
D.+ Prcject^*                         in 7           A 1)            A I IA
I Studies                               1.            1.81 |          1     _8_|_      v_
C uonsulting Services      I                           Z.2J           2.2 I l          u X
TOTAL                     |          333.11        332.2 |         252.21          8 =0. 0_
SOURCES                             333.1          332.21..        252.21          80.0_
IBRD                                150.0         *245.9          *118.6       _
Private Sector                         2 2                            ------------------I  4
State Government          1           85.41              I         *71.31 _5q6. 1
Matcihing rfk                        95.7 Q6.3                      62.3 2I)An
Sub-Borrowers             |_l_           _  _            l              l
The . agreement arnount S *. ent,t  _n APLA A -1-  'r . A-.. A-..  t- 6- A-.- ht..A* TODr
and State Government, while the balance available for drawdown is held by the State Government.
The table shows that the Program's performance was better for urban infrastructure projects, for which
it exceeded the original goals. Financing for institutional development was less than planned, while
institutional development actions were carried out under the Strategic Client project (funds provided to
municipalities) and institutional projects were carried out for groups of municipalities, as was the case
with the "Tax Management Project", and the drafting of the "Management Manuals" and the training of
staff to use them, among others.
The State Government contributed US$ 65.9 million to the program, nearly 77 % of the amount
planned, while the IBRD contributed US$ 118.6 million, 79% of the amount planned. These differences
are justified in part by the devaluation of the real, which increased the volume of reais that had to be
invested. Meanwhile, the environment in which the program; was carried out had a negative impact on
the execution of some projects.
The table shows the distribution of investments by subprogram. The infrastructure subprogram
represent. 93 %ofthe total ,f0i,n  53 %1 ofu hf4  was oil r,oad toA h hoc,.  ,itot t.i tl.e ,.er 70% wa
allocated to institutional development, 5% of which was contracted by municipalities.
Of the US$ 332 million, US$ 324 million was contracted by 12/31/2001 and US$ 8 million was spent
2              _t         . ! _ _ _ _ : T_          ___ TE  _  _  _X_  ___ _.'  E .t .  . s  T TC' '%fl.
on actions ca-meUu Out 1-1 C0W1JwUUUC wiUi hlUSlIIuuUa L5eveiopme1n. INVarly 0/70 os Lue toiu, uob -O.
million, was contracted directly by municipal water Offices and Companies. The remainder, nearly
- 16 -



13%, corresponds to investments contracted by COPASA.
PRINCIPAL PKR    JiECT PEKFOKMANCEN IDICATAIOKR
Indicators Unit. 1993   1994    1995    1996     1997    1998   1999    2000   Total
A.     A.      A.       A.      A.      IA     IA.      A
Actual Actual  Actual   Actual  Actual  AcActuActual lActual
|Particip No. f40   160  |  7       170      130 20 t       lo    6  o     P270
Agreemenj      0     j30       50     J65      1 _      40    J        20     231
Action No.30       50      50      50       30 35          0    100        210
plaNo. 0         52      60       70              44              23     294
PrSnec  M   62.7  155       102.7   67.2   141.7     0      0       0
CostUS$ 0        o       8.7      58.5    100.1    37.8   16.4   117.8  1_     1
IPTU*/Ca US$    .3    3.3      133     3.8     4.2    |-      1 
soI     P                     4711.9!  172.3    12.47   1K4.02  .6
j -rTU*/Caj US$ j3.3  j3.3    j3.3     3.0     It4.     -     1-
I  7   >    u   0  ~     310   4.53    14.52   14.94    15.12  J3.65
Financiaij %  123   j23     j25      127      10      |         ~    | 
|Margin|                      34               _____19       |21      119    1      1
*IPTU = Urban Property Tax
In the execution of SOMMA. proiections and Strategic Action Plans preceded the signing of the
"Participation Agreement." For this reason, conftary to projections contained in the "Appraisal",
straterGic Action Plans were drafted for a greater number of municipalities. Despite the time difference,
nearly 40%  more Strategic Action Plans than planned were drafted, and 90%  of the estimated
Participation Agrements were concicde.d The median per capita Urban Propertv Tax was greater than
projected in the "Appraisal" for all municipalities. It is well above the expected median for SOMMA
clier.t  anic   it,ites inr thae S.--flng of -it..ni i 1tiwe wu,en r.lin.t  ,n1dna11tipQ  e cimnlred with
non-client municipalities. The "Financial Margin" was greater than expected in 1995 and 1996, -
approxirnuately 30J/30, while a margrm of, 25%s,/0 was expected. Th-e fin-.an.Cia-n morginr these uears was
calculated based on the "Appraisal" (budget) forecasts. It stabilized at around 20% after the change in
meLnOu0l0gY, w.,en                            arw bais of uion e ".e .ulualance Sheet vvhich r.ake fuhe
differences less, but still substantial.
- 17 -



B) SOCIOECONOMIC AND FINANCIAL EVALUATION OF THE PROJECTS
Urban Infrastructure Subprogram
If we analyze the effect of the investments made by SOMMA in light of the objectives proposed in the
Loan Agreement. we will see that. generallv. there were Dositive changes in the municipal governments
receiving these funds. In order to analyze these effects, research was done using a sampling of 29
SRO1QMJA client municipalities to assess the impact of the proiects. All the mmnicipalities carried ult
actions to improve urban conditions. In some cases these actions involved work that benefited almost the
entnre m.linipin2litU pithpr hpbiieie of itsc scop nr hpia'im tha ,zjnrlr was narp,,,oaAit in ,pmns ,rrnrrna
great number of municipalities. Many of these projects served the urban poor. The most frequent works
a.-v -A basic        V-.ntl.nn. tsven -whe L.a. pv. c.Jt rnv-.ve- l-;1An.   roads, IodA,+- a.-A i Uh to   -n-age anU
water and sewer lines.
In the group of municipalities surveyed with up to 40,000,000 thousand inhabitants, the actions most
frequently imnplemented in-voved resolving Ihe probleM of damage to urban roadways and to private
property during the rainy season, such as in Capetinga, Itamogi, CAssia and Alem Paraiba, paving
streets and roads in Carneirinho (where nearly 95% of the municipal roadways were paved); paving with
asphalt with rainwater drainage and gutters in Pratapolis, improvement of sanitary and environmental
conditions in itamogi and Machado; paving with concrete in Jequeri and Dores do indaia; drinking
water, sewer, and rainwater drainage system in Ibia, rainwater sewer and stream channeling in Bambui;
optimization of the electric energy system and an aerial photometric survey in Andradas; building of a
bridge, development, and lighting in the downtown area of Alem Paraiba.
Among municipalities with more than 40,000 inhabitants, the most frequent actions also involved basic
sanitation and paving, in general, in outlying neighborhoods and benefiting low-income populations, as
in Patroclnio and Itauina. In Itajuba, 15 neighborhoods and the downtown area benefited, and in Frutal
the paving effort extended to almost the entire urban area. There were also many investments in water
supply, as in Pouso Alegre, where the service provided by the municipality had been erratic It is now
provided by Copasa. SOMMA was responsible for 68% of the investments, which transformed it into a
high-quality service. There were also major channeling projects, such as those executed in Divin6polis
and Govemador Valadares.
The Novo Centro Project in Ipatinga merits special mention. It includes various actions to relocate a
ponulation in a dangerous area on the banks of the Tnanema River; clean it uin- develop a neivhborhood
close to downtown, build nearly 600 homes and transform the area which had been totally rundown
downtuwn to a soughtaftr area with lpeismre areas, whilp creatina nnfin.ic for acress to various
neighborhoods.
The evaluation of these actions was quite positive, particularly for the lowest-income population. They
ea A1,UtrL.o L1u JILmpJ VL ir.Il  .m ilauniy wZl:-u11rI. 0IJULUho   soAUcUiIeo1L Uisp4LiUe WreL
modified by the project, the anticipated increase in tax revenues, principally in the Urban Property Tax,
did not com-,e LU ILuiUin in uLe gi-at miiaJority VI ImuwLUlpaUules surv-eyed. Consequenuy, the urban
improvements were generally not absorbed by the municipal tax systems by increasing Urban Property
Tax revenues, at least up to the time tne assessments were carried out. Nonetheless, in tne majority of
cases, the outlook for the future is that the urban benefits will be transformed into an increase in this tax.
In the opinion of the field researchers, in the majority of cases this is because of an environment of
inefficient tax management. We found a high degree of accommodation of local governments in the face
of the challenges of collecting their own taxes (Capetinga and Itamogi). In some cases, tax revenues
- 18 -



reflect fluctuations in the degree of noncompliance for the year (Dores do Indaia and Cissia).
Frequently, the Urban Property Tax decreased, and this decrease was not accompanied by a growth in
mninipal tqy revenPes. This tvne of nerformance explain the rntionnle hehind mRqtaifnin0 finQnG ng
through current transfers, as observed by some researchers (Carneirinho and Jequeri).
Also with respect to the Urban Property Tax, we noted that in some cases, annual adjustments granted
ae relatedA to cre tio -A bae o -c  i-.dcsa.-. a-- e __Cue - *-A  *uh e : ...icpalt; -- T4 n_ *S' case
aeLIaECU LU V..I1~.L1~UVIL  Ua.ZL,U VRI VJJ.LA.4I  aL fA LII ,a LUu ai%, rLIOULVU LU U1LV ,IJLLUL% AL1LU"~FUIjU1I.. iii UULO V~
since the tax adjustment is not reflected in urban improvements, it is difficult to measure the financial
return on SOMMA actioris Puia, Aradas and Araxa).
Finally, it is not unusuai to encounter symbolic tax collections, or tax exemptions for a certain type of
construction (Bambui) or based on the small built-up area (generally up to 70m2), as in the case of
Frutal and Itajuba.
There is also a group of municipalities whose tax system is capable of incorporating the changes, but the
works were executed after the last Property Value Map assessment, as in Pedro Leopoldo, Sao
Sebastiao do Paraiso, Alfenas, Itauina, Govemador Valadares, Betim and Pocos de Caldas.
We note, however, that the government units analyzed show significant influence by SOMMA in terms
of changes in the principal determinants for operations and in some of the principal socioeconomic
determinants required to increase municipal revenues over the medium and long term.
Bearing in mind the foregoing conclusions and the fact that the anticipated returns for Urban Property
Taxes are expected 15 years after the proiects are completed, by mutual agreement with the World Bank
during its last Mission, we opted to add the calculation of the economic IRR and eliminate the
calculation of the financial IRR. since the economic and social benefits can be seen for most proiects bv
visiting the areas where the projects were carried out. This is what the Joao Pinheiro Foundation team
foulnd in the 29 municipalities it visited for its research-
The economic- TRR .was calcuIlated for a mpling o,f !2 selected mulniripalities. Toaether they used
funds totaling approximately US$ 58 Million, representirig 25% of the funds drawn down for
infrastructur3e projects. T~.o.ere as an asso-4.ent of -rojets = =,,ater sewZer, a-i-A- of pipes, n.-A"a -
and the average was 34.09%. The minimum required was 12%.
The sampling comprised: Itabira (25.59%), Varginha (23.12%), Sao Sebastiao do Paraiso (24.57%),
FruaI k39.W.02n), Paaoeb 42.2170/), Paro'uo(3.34-^/o), Ieapagipe k71.J/70-), Ipa;,ga (26V.108%),
Joao Monlevade (23.65%), Govemador Valadares (51.30%), Pouso Alegre (28.08%),, and Conselheiro
Lafaiete (20.48%).
rNS TIT U 1IONAL DE-VELOPMEe-N I SUi'KUPOGRAM
The institutional situation existing in Brazil in recent years, as discussed in this report, favored the
implementation of Institutional Development actions, primarily in the area of taxes, since municipal
governments urgently need to increase their own revenues. In this new public policy environment, and,
seeking to increase municipal management capacities, SOMMA played a fundamental role in fostering
and promoting institutional development in the areas of financing, administration, and organization as
well as urban development. Without a doubt, the sub-program Institutional Development was the
distinguishing feature of the SOMMA project, and Institutional Development actions carried out under
SOMMA.
-19 -



With respect to taxes, the actions focused on implementation of more efficient management of municipal
tax reven-ues, i1Cluuiudg reassessing propenIs adU IUpUdating tax laws aIndI eIluircelnt. Special m-ention
should be made of the joint tax management actions that directly included 16 municipalities - the Tax
Administration, Quality improvement Project.
Among the larger municipalities, there was a consensus regarding geoprocessing, particularly with
non-recoverable funds. With the advent of automation and the process of change in Brazil's economic
and political environment, requiring all to strive for advances in quality and cost cutting, these
instruments are in ever-increasing demand. This fact is quite evident in Institutional Development
actions, where there is a growing trend towards investments in automation and management.
Unlike the Urban Infrastructure Improvement Subprogram, whose objectives and actions can be
measured quantitatively, this subprogram involves improving the quality of services. Its evaluation
focuses on the result of the effort and, based on its features, it requires a specific, qualitative approach.
Based on research data carried out in 29 municipalities, we concluded that while they are small, all had
implemented some of the Institutional Development actions suggested by the Strategic Action Plan.
Some implemented major changes and now consider modernization to be an ongoing activity. Among
this group, the municipalities Ipatinga and Betim stand out.
In most of the municipalities surveyed, the program had good results. Among these results we note:
*  Growing implementation of tax collection;
*  rLuLutLQLa.u Ml4 ofUIAMW  co.trols &nd -evi, WI'.L u he attend&nt fLLL.UaLLLoV r116UAL :LL LjUIIL.Y, rLeiabULtY,
and speed of access to data;
vioderrizaiUon of the adminisLration uy prollloLuig adnIuuSm-dUVe resurucuing;
*  Better trained and more motivated human resources;
*  Spatial redefinition of the city and adjustment to urban management tools;
*  Greater emphasis on municipal planning;
*  Promotion of management capacity
The institutional development component presented difficulties. Among them we note:
*   Lack of continuity of activities due to the change in administration;
*   Reassignment of staff, taking them away from activities for which they had been trained;
*   Shortage of qualified staff to implement actions;
*   Failure to implement some projects;
*   Administrations that found it difficult to define their needs;
*   Big gaps between the reality of and the demands for services.
Despite the difficulties and the gap separating the majority of the municipalities from the ideal of a
modem government, we can say with confidence that while the objectives set forth were not fully
achieved, the seeds of development, modernity and social justice were planted, although the routes taken
were not always the planned routes. As already mentioned, the changes that took place in Brazil
contributed to this. They forced the governments to seek solutions to modernize and increase their own
revenues, the only revenues over which they have any influence, and to control expenses. The Fiscal
Responsibility Law was another significant factor. On the one hand, it adversely affected the continuity
-20-



of the municipal develoDment proerams by prohibiting lending between federation entities, yet on the
other hand it made the municipal governments more responsible and forced them to impose controls.
Another significant factor in the good performance of the project was the determination of the Urban
frsntructupre De-velnpme-nt tf'rmn  wshic-h was teina-iousc nnd nuite  ommPtent in mannginc this
subprogram. We believe that its training as municipal development analysts was one of the most
positive aspects of the implementation of SOMMA. Novw the depAAment hl  a tear.m qalified to
properly manage NOVO SOMMA, its successor program.
C) EVALUATE THE FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE OF THE MUNICIPAL GOVERNMENTS
THAT WERE BENEFICIARIES OF THE SOMMA PROJECT, VERSUS OTHER MUNICIPAL
GOVERNMENTS THAT DID NOT PARTICIPATE IN THE PROJECT.
In conducting this evaluation, it is important to bear in mind the situation described in the
"Introduction", where we note the significant changes that occurred in the country. These changes
prompted municipal governments to try to become organized and to increase their own revenues. 'T'he
comparison was based on data gathered by the Joao Pinheiro Foundation on two groups: a group of
State municipalities with more than 40,000 inhabitants and a group of 10% of the municipalities with
less than 40,000 inhabitants.
It is noteworthy that only about 5 % of SOMMA funds was used to finance institutional development
actions and 3% represented grants to strategic clients and for projects for groups of municipalities.
Analysis of the principal accounts selected - Total Revenues, Tax Revenues, Urban Property Tax,
Service Tax, Real Estate Transfer Tax, Total Expenses, Current Expenses, and Personnel and
Investment Expenses showed that during the period 1995-1999, there was a positive trend in most of the
municipalities, with a slight advantage for SOMMA participants. It should also be noted that SOMMA
narticinants nerformed better in all years in both groups.
The trendi of UTrhan Pronnetv Tax RAvemnies i;R niificant. These revenues crew the most for
governments that received financing, although they are difficult for municipal governments to apply
beca-use they are direct taxes on the assessment of property. They are fair from a tax, ecPnoir iand
social point of view, yet they are a political minefield. In the case of the Urban Property Tax, there is
-a,.Aannn Lint +*,.e i.,cer.ti- far mnstitut.,-;on - rr r.n-anonA far - +h.e fe-t ta nnnrave an. re.er.ues
associated with the SOMMA project had a positive correlation with a markedly superior perfornance.
DneidUeb Ul- 1U1llILlUUCU A4LI U14L UIl1 rUVV1ILLU11L IU1aLAV, i11UIUL%IWaU  WVI UiW rVUU USA;l FUtu9IFQLtU II
SOMMA were generally better in all the years assessed, which is also true in the case of the percentage
of net municipal revenues tuhat the Urbani Property- Talx represent, uhe trend over taime waS clearly
favorable to the group of municipalities participating in the program.
With respect to Service Tax revenues, the differences between the two groups were more favorable
performance for municipalities that participated in SOMMA, with the biggest differences in the smaller,
municipalities.
With respect to the Real Estate Transfer Tax, there was no significant difference between the two
groups, regardless of size.
Taxes on services are an important source of revenues in all the municipalities, and municipalities that
participated in SOMMA did slightly better.
- 21 -



Regarding expenses, there was greater current expense control among the group of municipalities that
p&'                                                                  shi-ndI JS1A. Tl.h flfl.Lpflhal.Ousa trz  ln.;.paf.ed in SO fvA.n, showed bet'. budget
expense execution, with stability during the period, versus rising expenses for the nonparticipating
"Lunurlcpalities. T.lvy also shoUwed, C,UI-leUL VxpVUZss grU-W-irl moreV slowly andU a bsUIVrL1fiaL PersoV-lne
expense reduction. It can be   concluded that the municipalities that participated in SOMMA,
particularly the larger ones, showed a generai pattern of expense budget execution compatubie with the
recommendations for institutional development made by SOMMA.
This evaluation was done by the Joao Pinheiro Foundation, and the complete report on this comparison
may be found in the annex.
SOMMA FUND FINANCIAL FLOW
The ..e F    ,,n,,rnhul,ty T ^-,V TaA. St i   for S'a'.e D.,A., ,,.,,'1,,A,ng  , 'ATA.oA
operate properly, by prohibiting the lending of funds among federation components, in this case Minas
JUIU .3La4L aJLIU L1ILUU%a1L.. L%s0 ill W% OLaLVu. lv FjLvv1ue %on.ULILL.u3y V.A ueI l .ogiam, the IV-..as GeraJIS
Legislature approved Law 13.848/2.001 that incorporated the SOMMA Fund into the capital of the
x  ..    ~  Ar  *_ L..                          -..    ---   L_ P.Tfr%7f'  Cd'%IX   A). f A  L-
IVJ.UkIb %.JVIFdib 1.0rVVIIUiIVIII D0U11h, WILULRI IIUW LLfL UIIZ IUIULL LU I Ull UIU I'4'.J V '.1 aWJLVIVItt pLJ7UJL.. I Liu
Fund balance as of 03/31/02 was 78.6 million reais and the returns expected through 2015 will fund
investments on uie order uf US$ I95 muniion.
EXTERNAL FACTORS THAT AFFECTED THE PROJECT
The principal external factors that affected the project had three primary sources.
Initially, in the first phase of the project, the IBRD kept its distance. There was virtually no one
responsi.ble f^or th Prniprt Th.c made it AifFin,clt t'o get it up ar. ,mnhgr Subsequer.ty, 1A.erA. ,vas a tot
of shuffling of responsibilities, which hampered continuity of the Project
A second source was the frequent elections. There were two elections for governor and two for Mayors
ars Alt-rl-ci-1 Com i:sM:ls oMben iner-ute 'ul prcese irL prges   fu,ew, uel,b'v
particularly Institutional Development projects.
A third source was the constant issuance of regulations regarding municipal debt. This also caused long
periods of stagnation of the project. In this regard, we recommend that during the new project
negotiation process, the Brazilian Senate, which issues the regulations governing municipal debt, leave
in place the rules prevailing when the loan was contracted.
FACTORS WITHIN THE LOCAL AUTHORITIES' CONTROL THAT AFFECTED THE
In this regard, the difficulties regarding matching contributions by State Government during the initial
years of the Project are significant. This did a lot of damage to the Project's image for a long time. It has
since been resolved by increasing the IBRD's contribution, which is later reimbursed by the State. There
were also difficulties involving the relationship between the State and the Federal Government, which
delayed implementation of significant proiects, primarily Institutional Development proiects. This
caused successive delays in closing the loan agreement
-22 -



CANCELLATION OF C(MPONENTA
The studies set forth in section "E' of the loan agreement were carried out directly by the State
Government, through the Ministry of General Plarning and Coordination - SEPLAN, and outside the
Project Management Unit's control, as stipulated in the Project contract. They were submitted at that
time to the IBRD.
The other studies set forth in section "D" will be redirected with a view to the privatization of municipal
water and sewer companies. Despite the progress made in terms of the drafting of these studies, they
have not been completed, because there has not been much progress in Brazilian legislation on this
matter,. For this reason. the preparation of the studies could not be iustified.
The subloans set forth in section "C"; were cancelled- hecaUe they eoulld not he executed and hecausie
of the, incompatibility of the legislation regarding the concession of services to the private sector, as well
at.e extension of loans for projects associated wi:th mulniripalities.
(b) Cofinanciers:
NA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
NA
10. Additional Information
-23 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
The project was prepared prior to consistent use of the Log Frame Matrix. T he following tables represent
a selection of indicators that were revised following the mid-term evaluation, and are intended to give a
summary evaluation of the project outcome.
Municipal Institutional Development Indicators (1993-1995)
PAEs        #     40    0     60    30     70    50   70    65     30    20
IAction Plans      30     0    50     52 | 50   1 60 J  50 | 70   1 30    35
Project Costs    62.7   0     55.0   0    102.7  8.7  67.2  58.5  41.7  100.1
(al  Sources)                _                              _
|IPTU/Cap  |    | 3.3  | -     3.3  | - |  3.3  |11.9  |3.8  | 12.1  |4.2  | 1. 
SOMMA                                                                    I
|  FUCpot | |  3.3  | - |  3.3  | -  |  3.3  |45  |38  |  4.5  |4.2 | 4.  |
I     I ~~~~~~~~~L      I
Municinn Inctnitutinnnl Dlevelnnment Indiestnrq (1 (QR-20fifiO
PAEs         #     NA     406                NA     20      270 
Action    |#     |NA      44    NA     10    NA     23      210   12941
Plans
Project   |        NA   |37.8   NA    16.4   NA     17.8    330      240
Costs(all   6
usources)
IDIl 1r.-U  I        -   j14.0j=       9.7                   M =  =   NA  NA
[lPTU/Cap   |     |-     |5.1 |-|3.7 |         -   |=|       NA    |NA 
not       I                  1N
ISOMMA ~                I     I     I     I       I     I _____I __24
-24 -



No. of municipalities benefited by institutional     378          |47
development
No. of municipalities benefited by infrastructure     150                    149
component
No. of institutional development projects approved     NA                     76
and executed
Ex Post Economic Rate of Retum                20.60%                 34.09%
rIinancia:i Re of VIetui [i             1.4 -/o-. I70         i06.7%-27/1.2170
Drainage Canals                                      85.3 M3                 676,467
Pavingy and Surface Drainaae                       R 91 s 739 M2)7               6S 7 AW
Sewerage Network                                    425,033 M               1,029,996
Macro Drainage                                        498.814               1.989.410
r SewerageCollection                                  20,660 M                326,736
Municivalities with Accounting Software      T All SOMMA Clients
Residential Cadastres                          11 Financed by SOMMA
Active CODEMAS                                Appraisal 41 Active; After Project 260 Active
- 25 -



1994          1995          1996          1997            1998        1999
Ow.So-{w-ceI
Revenues/Total         44.98%        18.83%        11.56%        13,63%          11.54%      15.62%
Revenues
(SOMMA)
OwnSource
Revenues/Total         20.53%        11.12%        5.69%         5.85%           4.7%        8.69%
Revenues
(Not SOMMA)                                           _
IPITU/Own Source 
Revenues               4.76%         24.5;%       23.28%         19.92%         29.63%       27.94%/1
(SOMMA)
Ir         S ouri                               j           I                I
Revenues               6.25%         16.16%       20.57%         19.34%          18.84%      16.27%
(Not SOMMA)I
______________                  _      ______            dy
Average sub-project appraisal time                 180 days
Tom1 US$ a.rnwnt n.tof sub-!oansn approved         US$237.7 millionn
Average Sub-loan value (US$)                       US$653,000
I Time reniiired to process disbursement request by v  45 days
BDMG                                 fro
I.    ___                                               ____
Time required to process disbursements from        15 day
Special Account
-26 -



Annex 2. rroj'ect Costs anu rinancing
Projecit Cost oy ComTponent (in US$ rmillion equivalent)
.t 41f4~I  -!shil'A    ia     twir Pohrbnttge ofb c
____ ____ ___ ____ ___ _____t_Co s_ ___B___ ___   U S$h liI onL    rn!J $ ifiii n   Y   ..-_. 
la8t\Q>maital;xumae, ,xinai4,j. >p.risarI
Institutional Development                        I    27.50           12.21           0.44
Environmental Infrastructure                         273.50         233.45            0.85
Pilot Programs                                        10.00           4.10            0.41
State Studies                                          1.00           4.05            4.05
Total Baseline Cost                                  312.00         253.81
Physical Contingencies                                0.00   |       0.00
Price Contingencies                                  21.10    I      0.00    |
Total Project Costs             333.10    |    253.81      |
Tntal Finnneinn R1nmiirne rt in                      eS21     I
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
p    .E.U -nd fi k   CI                                                  .  .           i  -:l  #
1. Works                      38.50        155.60         12.50         0.00        206.60
_______________________ W     (17.30)      (68.80)        (5.00)       (0.00)    I   (91.10)
2. Goods                 1    67.50    1    30.00         8.80          0.00         106.30  1
tln AM        ( 1 qA      t( m       I   (An nm       f rA7 AAn
3. Services                   0.00          0.'u          20.20         0.00         20.20
I  I  (0.00)  1    (O.U)        (i i.OU)      (u.u0)       (i i.SU)
4. Miscellaneous              0.00     |    0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
.    (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)        (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous              0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00         0.00
I                        I    (0.00)   1    (000)         (0.00) 1      (0.00) 1     (0.00) 1
16. Miscellaneous        I     0.00     I    0.00    I    0.00     I    0.00     1    0.00    1
I__ _ _   (0.00)  1  (0.00)  I   (0.00)       (0.00)    I   (0.00) 
Tnta!t                I    106.00   1       An         41.50    1    0.An       I 333.10 
(47.70)   j   (82.30)   j   (20.00)       (0.00)    j (150.00)
-27 -



mIdh^# f.p.@O kw. Drby   mmro rmnn A -mn.mnf lC.41-# %4 Ile I            1 (US -illn e vl-
;Jil~~~~~~~~~w
~n,dl.C Ii r                     i        4o2                          t1
1. Works                  1   000        1   213.14    1     7-30    1     o0o,     1  220-44
I |  (0.00)        (108.40)       (3.30)        (0.00)       (111.70)
1t _A - e         T     ~~~~1 AN      el            It A1 n        1% I An an 1    IN-7an
^. _vv"                 s .V~~~I""    7.Uv          Z..VV         V.VV          I J.VV
G   (0.63)        (4.32)        (0.00)        (0.00)        (4.95)
a. Services                     0.00          0.00          20.37         0.00          20.37
Services                    (0.00)         (0.00)       (13.40)        (0.00)       (13.40)
4. Miscellaneous                0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
________ 0.00)  ((0.00)_     (0.00)        (0.00)       (0.00)
15. Miscellaneous               0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00          0.00
I              I    (n nn     I   {~~~~~~~~n nnl  ( n Oil  I   m nni    I      nw 
6. Miscellaneous          |      00)          0.00          0.0      |     0.00         0.00
-.                     (fl~~~~~~t AA(A AnN         (Al AA         f A fAAX      (At fAA
(0.00)        (0.00)                  I    (0.00)        (0.00)   I
Total                        1.40         222.74         29.67    ~     0.00         253.81
(0.63)       (112.72)       (16.70)        (0.00)       (130.05)
These are the latest figures including the final loan cancellation of US$6.5 million. Figures are estimated
based on information provided from the Borrower, and is subject to final verification.
"Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
of the pronient management office, training- technical asisvtance services and inc.rem-rnental operating costs related to (i)
managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
-28-



Annex'2 3    --n-om.c Costs and Demrflts
The SAR laid-out a simple benefit/cost methodology for estimating the economic benefits of sub-projects
with easily quantifiable benefits, of which it estimated would include about 70% of total project
investments. The methodology was included in the project's Operation's Manual. Economic analysis was
to be done using one of two accepted possible methodologies: for income generating sub-projects, such as
water supply and sanitation. benefits were estimated using tariffs as a proxy of willingness-to-pay (noting
this does not fully capture benefits such as consumer surplus); and a hedonic model using increased
propertv values as the deterninant of economic benefits for sub-nroiects that are not income generating.
An estimate of a sample of possible "first year" projects was conducted as part of the project appraisal and
xnelAed t,.h-A fnlln .wu.n,g rpguiltS:
|   Municipality/Sub-Project            Investment         f Economic Rate of Return (%)
Water                       7,260,000                      28.3%
Boa Esperan9a                    152,000                       L'f.u o
Conselheiro Lafaiete               484,000                       24.1%
Governador Valadares               947,000                        40.9%
Guanhaes                       75,000                        25.7%
Joao Monlevade                   403,000                       34.8%
Machado                       342,000                       32.8%
Nova Lima                      681,000                       24.7%
Passos                      1,735,000                      25.0%
Sao Lourenco                    169,000                       34.9%
Sao Joao del Rey                 1,089,000                      27.0%
Tres Pontas                    1,183,000                      24.1%
Sewerage                      1,383,000                      12.0%
Alfenas                      1,233,000                      11.6%
Lambari                       150,000                       15.8%
Drainage                     33,611,000                      19.5%
4,597,000                       17.1%
auerasa           l8,000                        l             17.;%
Varginha                     11,224,000                      19.6%
Solid Waste         1          2,500,000         f            11.7%
Ipatinga          [          2,500,000          1           11.7%
Paving                      1,665,000                      31.9%
Uberaba                      1,665,000                      31.9%
Toftal/Weighted Average             46-419-001                      20.6%
-29 -



As part of the final project evaluation, and ex-post assessment of a sample of infrastructure projects was
carried-out in 11 municipalities, using the methodology articulated in the Project's Operation's Manual.
The municipalities included in the analysis were: Itabira; Varginha; Sap Sebastiao do Paraiso; Frutal;
Paraopeba; Patrocinio; Itagipe; Ipatinga; Joal Monlevade; Govemador Valadares; Pouso Alegre and
Conselheiro Lafaiete. The investments considered for this sample of infrastructure sub-proiects was on the
order of US$58.0 million, representing approximately 26% of the infrastructure investments made. The
following table nresents the economic rates of return for the samnle sub-proiects evaluated.
Type of Project        Municipality          Investment      1   Economic Rate of
,,,_______  , ,_,__ A.___a__  _____________ _ .(2001)                      %
IL>urAzA - water aupp1y  %..Jsme'lnfru La raute   5,8,000,u               20J.4to
|      Expansion      l                     l                     l                     l
i aving and Drainage        Frutal              5,727,000               39.02
|Pavingand Drainage  Governador Valadares       6,150,000               51.30
Integrated Upgrading of     Ipatinga             21,389,000              26.18
City Center                      __
Drainage and            Itabira       |      5,666,000      T        25.59
Urbanization    |                     l                     l                     l
Sewerage Canals           Itagipe              825,000                71.57
P~Annn               P2rnnPh2      |       1 RIQ Ann     I           9I
Paving and Drainage       Patrocinio            4,016,000      |        40.13
t . A _ _-- I                          T      _________A      _      _ A rr0 nanT  no n~o
water ;rupply cxpansiun I  rvubL uo6mc    I      fi,0Jo,uuu     I        Lo.voI
Pavingand Drainage  Sao Sebastiao do Paraiso    2,943,000               34.57
Paving       f       Varginha             5,488,000      1        22.12
- 30 -



Annef   A.. B   n-L npo
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project yCyle                   No. of Persons and Specialty,            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2, Economists, I FMS. etc.)   ImplementationI Development
Month/Year,    Count            Specialty       .               Progress      Obective
I                             IdentfcatoWPreparat:on
May, 1991                     I    Task Manager
I    Sanitaary Engineer
I    Economist
I    Environmental Specia-list
March 1992                    I    Task Manager
I    Economist
I    Environmental Specialist
|        ~~~June 1992       |1             ITask Managyer1
I    Environmental Specialist
June/July1992                 I    Task Manager
I    Municipal Finance Specialist
I  |EconomistII
I    Environmental Specialist
October 1992                  1    Task Manager
Appraisal/Negotiation
January 1993                  i    Task Manager
I    Financial Management
apeciainSt
Procurement Specialist
II.Aurnicipal Finance Specialist
Economist
I  Twver
Supervision
I         u30~~Nver.bc 191793                a Task i Miuwger
Kick-off                      I   Consultant
I                   |            I I~~~~~~~~~ Consultant
January 1994                  1    Task Manager
Secnd Kick-off     
October 1994 6                     TaskManager                         SS 
I        ~~~February !995   1I f            Tsk loMan.agerl               I      S              S
l                   l           ~~~~~~~~~~I |Anthropologist
I Consultant
January 16                    I   Consultant
October 1996                 U1 Economist                               S             S    
IConsultant
I Consultant                      I
|        ~~~January 1996   |                Task Manager                  |         S    |      S
I        ~~~March 1996     |            1   Task M-ana-ger (new)l         I         S    I      S    
|        ~~~July 1996      |                Task Manager                  |         U    |      U
I        I ~~I CountrvyOfficerII
l                   l           ~~~~~~~~~I |Urban Economist  
November 1996                 1    Task Manager (new)                  U              UT
l                   l           ~~~~~~~~~~I |Consultant
May 1997          !               Task Manager                         S              S
- 31 -



Mid-Term Revuew   I           I   Frnnnmiqt
I   Director
I   Urban Economist
February 1998                 1   Task Manager                        S             S
I   Sociologist
July 1998                     1   Task Manager                        S             S
l  l   ISSociologiste      ls
PrincipalI Operations Specialist
April 1999                    1   Task Manager                        S             S
I   Principal Urban Specialist
August 1998                   I   Task Manager (old)                  S             S
I   Task Manager (new)
December 1999                 1   Task Manager                        S             S
I   Consultant
I   Consultant
March 2000                    1   Task Manager
August 2000                   I   Task Manager                        s             S
I   Consultant
March 2001                    1   Task Manager                        S             S
Economist
Consultant
June 2001                         TaskManager                         S              S
|Urban Specialist
i   Lead urban Specialist
I   Sector Manager
ICR
November 2001                 1    Task Manager
I  I Urban Specialist
1    Consultant
February 2002     j     l       I Urban Specialist
I~~           Consultant 
This does not include "reverse" missions in which the client visited either Washington or Brasilia, which were frequent in the
latter years of project implementation.
(b) Staff.
Stage of Project Cycle                    Actual/Latest Estimate '
| ___________________        _ .   | No. Staff weeks     |         US$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                14.1                           35
| Appraisal/Negotiation       |              5.0                         14.5
| Supervision                 I           151.03                        489.3
| ICR                       |                6                         22.7
|_Total  _                               176.13          I             561.5
-32-



Ar.ILnex5 . iNraLULg3 JuorLU chieVeLUeLt UIo WUcVeOULp   UIt ofUCoUmlpor.Ls
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Sector Policies                    O H OSU*M O N O NA
F Physical                           O H * SU O M O N O NA
F Financial                          O H OSUOM O N O NA
Z Institutional Development          0 H 0 SU *M 0 N 0 NA
ZEnvironmental                       O H *SUOM ON O NA
Social
L Poverty Reduction            O H OSUOM O N * NA
OI Gender                      OH OSUOM ON * NA
O Other (Please specify)       OH O SU O M O N * NA
? Private sector development         O H O SU O M O N 0 NA
O Public sector management           O H O SU *M O N 0 NA
ElOther (Please specify)             OH OSUOM ON * NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
~~    ~          ~       I 1=1 I~~+ofI,T*,  M jt =U.;.h1-, T,f,-nA
6S I Rank nprfnrmnnnr'                          Ratino
D2 Lending                                      OHS Os      OU    OHU
z Supervision                                   OHS *OS     OU    O HU
X Overall                                       OHS OS      OU    O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                        Rating
0 Preparation                                   *HS OS      O U   O HU
1 Government impiementation performance         0 HS * S    O U   O HU
z Implementation agency performance             O HS OS     0 U   0 HU
1 Overall                                       OHS OS      O U   O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1. BDMG. Project Aide Memoires from May 1991-November 2002.
2. BDMG. Govemo do Estado de Minas Gerais. SOMMA. Acordo de Emprestimo No. 3639-BR.
Governo do Esitdo e Banco Mundial. Relat6rio de Conclusao da Execuaco do Programa SOMMA.
Periodo 1993-2001.
3. Fundagao Joao Pinheiro. Programa SOMMA. Relat6rio Final. FJP. Avaliagao de Desempenho
;-         , ,e..gA,o a P-.,-5- no WIWAIIAA Ab..! 2002.
t. -UIUyu% JU4a vruu. r1uglaula .owvS.vlLA. ReIala.or  ru.lm. Sub.ormaula ud Deser.volvi.U.VLIr.
Institucional. Abril, 2002.
5. Loan Agreement. Minas Gerais Municipal Management and Environmental Infrastructure Project.
6. Memorandum and Recommendation of the President of the Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and
DeveloymUJlIllL  LU Ue I'xecuu ve D.uaL.VL VIJL a F LUpVOU LACUI GA! iuxr. ULO &A i..t Luviv&er toJ US$128.5
Million to the Federative Republic of Brazil for a Rio de Janeiro Metropolitan Transport Decentralization
Project. Aiiiiex 1.
7. Project Agreement. Minas Gerais Municipal Management and Environmenial imrastructure Project.
8. Project Status Reports (PSR!s and Form 590's) and Back to Office Reports from i 994 to 200 1.
9. Staff Appraisal Report. Minas Gerais Municipal Management and Environmental Infrastructure Project.
-35-















1Anor No.:        24 
Type:    ICR



