Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3639 BR
Loan Agreement
(Minas Gerais Municipal Management and Environmental
Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
Dated October 19, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3639 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and STATE OF MINAS GERAIS (the Borrower).
WHEREAS: (A) the Federative Republic of Brazil (the Guarantor) and the Borrower, 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the Project described in 
Schedule 2 to this Agreement,
have requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
by an agreement (the Guarantee Agreement) of even date herewith between 
the Guarantor and the Bank, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the obligations of 
the Borrower in respect of the Loan and to undertake such other obligations as set 
forth in the Guarantee Agreement;
(C)
Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais S.A. (BDMG), in its capacity as 
financial agent of the Borrower, will carry out Parts A, B, C and D of the Project and 
will assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part E of the Project, and by an 
agreement (the Project Agreement) of even date herewith between the Bank and BDMG, 
BDMG has agreed to undertake obligations in respect of the execution of the Project;
(D)
the Bank has received a letter, dated April 1, 1993, from the Borrower 
containing a statement of its municipal development policies (the Policy Letter); and 
Page  2
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth below 
(the General Conditions) constitute an
integral part of this Agreement:
(a)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
 
(b)
In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as subparagraph (l) and a 
new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
"(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen under which any 
further withdrawals 
under the Loan would be inconsistent with the 
provisions of Article III, Section 3 of the Bank's 
Articles of Agreement."
 
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"Beneficiary" means a Municipality, a group of Municipalities, COPASA or 
any other entity receiving a Subloan or a Grant;
(b)
"CEMIG" means Companhia Energetica de Minas Gerais, the Borrower's power 
company;
(c)
"COPASA" means Companhia de Saneamento de Minas Gerais, the Borrower's 
water and sewerage company;
(d)
"COPASA Financial Plan" means the financial plan for COPASA  described in 
the letter dated February 1, 1993 sent by the Borrower to the Bank;
(e)
"COPASA Subprojects" means the Infrastructure Sub-projects to be carried 
out by COPASA for: (i) network expansion, consisting of investments in new water and 
sewerage connections; and (ii) operational improvements, consisting of micrometering, 
macrometering, revision of consumer cadastre and rehabilitation of equipment;
(f)
"DIU" means BDMG's Department Infrastructure;
 
(g)
"EIA/RIMA" means estudo de impacto ambiental (environmental impact 
assessment) and relatorio de impacto sobre o meio ambiente (environmental impact 
report), as defined in the Operational Manual;
(h)
"FEAM" means Fundac§o Estadual do Meio Ambiente, the Borrower's 
Environmental Foundation;
(i)
"FJP" means Fundac§o Jo§o Pinheiro, a foundation created by the Borrower;
 
(j)
"FNS" means the Guarantor's National Health Foundation; 
 
(k)
"Grant" means a grant to be provided pursuant to a Grant Agreement;
 
(l)
"Grant Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into between 
BDMG and a Beneficiary pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (ii) of the Project Agreement;
(m)
"IGP-M" means §ndice Geral de Precos de Mercado (the General Index of 
Market Prices), issued by the Getulio Vargas Foundation;
Page  3
(n)
"Infrastructure Subproject" means: (i) a COPASA Subproject; (ii) a 
Subproject for investments in water services, consisting, inter alia, of expansion of 
production, incremental network extension and domestic connections, and operational 
and commercial improvements to reduce physical and financial losses and optimize 
operations of existing units; (iii) a Subproject for investments in sewerage services, 
consisting, inter alia, of acquisition and utilization of equipment for treatment 
systems, extension of networks and domestic connections, and construction of 
interceptors; (iv) a Subproject for investments in solid waste services, consisting, 
inter alia, of acquisition and utilization of equipment for solid waste collection and 
final disposal, and construction of landfills; (v) a Subproject for investments in 
paving and drainage, consisting, inter alia, of street paving and
macro- and micro-drainage works; or (vi) a Subproject for investments in public 
lighting, consisting, inter alia, of expansion of public lighting service, and an 
energy conservation program to replace bulbs with more cost-effective ones;
(o)
"Micro-Regional Pilot Infrastructure Subproject" means a Subproject to be 
carried out by a group of Municipalities in the north region of the Borrower's 
territory for cooperative infrastructure investments, similar to those under the 
Infrastructure Subprojects, which are common to such group of Municipalities;
(p)
"Micro-Regional Pilot Technical Assistance Subproject" means a Subproject 
to be carried out by a group of Municipalities in the north region of the Borrower's 
territory consisting of provision
of technical assistance similar to that under the Technical Assistance Subprojects;
(q)
"Municipality" means any Municipality of the Borrower in whose territory 
a Subproject is carried out;
(r)
"Operational Manual" means the manual, approved by BDMG on June 9, 1993, 
containing a basic Project orientation  guide for the Beneficiaries, eligibility 
criteria for the  Subprojects, eligibility criteria for the Beneficiaries, a 
procurement guide and standard bidding documents and letters of invitation, and 
Subproject monitoring and evaluation criteria;
(s)
"PAE" means the strategic action plan of a Municipality to be considered 
acceptable to BDMG pursuant to Part I.1 (c) of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
(t)
"Private Sector Pilot Subproject" means a Subproject for investments in 
slaughterhouses and other areas that may be recommended by the study under Part D.1 of 
the Project to be: (i) made by
a Municipality and operated and maintained by a private sector firm under a concession 
granted by such Municipality; or (ii) made, operated and maintained by a private 
sector firm in a Municipality;
(u)
"SOMMA Fund" means the Borrower's  municipal development fund created by 
the Borrower's Law No. 11085, of April 30, 1993, to be administered by BDMG for 
purposes of making Subloans under the
Project;
(v)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement;
(w)
"Subloan" means a loan to be provided pursuant to a Subloan Agreement;
 
(x)
"Subloan Agreement" means any of the agreements to be entered into by 
BDMG and a Beneficiary pursuant to Section 2.02 (a) (i) of the Project Agreement;
(y)
"Subproject" means a Technical Assistance Subproject, a Training 
Subproject, an Infrastructure Subproject, a Private Sector Pilot Subproject, a 
Micro-Regional Pilot Infrastructure Subproject or a Micro-Regional Pilot Technical 
Assistance Subproject, which has been selected to be financed by a Subloan or a Grant, 
as the case may be;
(z)
"Table" means the table set forth in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
Page  4
(aa)
"Technical Agent Contracts" means the contracts referred to in Section 
2.03 of the Project Agreement;
(bb)
"Technical Assistance Subproject" means a Subproject consisting of 
provision of technical assistance to a Beneficiary in, inter alia, the following 
areas: (i) fiscal and administrative, including upgrading of residential and community 
property tax cadastre, upgrading of tax codes, improvement and computerization of 
billing procedures and collection of taxes, and improvement of procurement procedures; 
(ii) planning, including preparation and updating of urban master plans, real property 
mapping, revision of works and construction codes and technical standards, and 
utilization of other planning tools; and (iii) environment and basic sanitation, 
including marginal cost tariff studies for water and sewerage, establishment of 
land-use and zoning codes and regulations, establishment of local environmental 
protection agencies, organization of community participation, institution-building for 
local water and sewerage authorities, preparation of integrated micro-basin 
feasibility studies, and encouragement of regional cooperation for water pollution 
clean-up and prevention through formation of local water basin authorities; and
(cc)
"Training Subproject" means a Subproject to provide training to a 
Beneficiary's staff in, inter alia, the following areas: municipal accounting and 
budgeting, procurement methods, land-use planning and implementation of urban master 
plans, environmental protection and enforcement, financial and administrative 
management, project evaluation, and preparation of PAEs.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, various currencies that shall 
have an aggregate value equivalent to the amount of one hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($150,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the Loan, with 
each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the date of such withdrawal.
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts 
paid (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower, through BDMG, on 
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Subloan or a Grant to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Sub-project in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Loan Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of services 
required for Parts D and E of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Dollars a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment. 
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1998 or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower and the 
Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the preceding 
Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the dates specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the 
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest Period, calculated at the 
rate applicable during such Interest Period.
Page  5
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank shall 
notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined 
in respect of such Semester.
(c)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means a six-month period ending on the date 
immediately preceding 
each date specified in Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement, beginning with the Interest 
Period in which this Agreement is 
signed.
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank 
and expressed as a percentage per annum, of 
the outstanding borrowings of the Bank 
drawn down after June 30, 1982, 
excluding such borrowings or portions thereof as 
the Bank has 
allocated to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B) loans which may 
be made by the Bank after July 1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined otherwise 
than as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
(d)
On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than six months' notice 
to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) (iii) of this Section shall be amended to 
read as follows: 
"(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Quarter 
equal to the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of the 
preceding Quarter, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 
1%). On each of the dates 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall pay 
interest accrued on the principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest 
Period, 
calculated at the rates applicable during such Interest Period."
 
"(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of each Quarter, the Bank 
shall notify the 
Borrower and the Guarantor of the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings determined in respect of such 
Quarter."
 
"(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period commencing on January 1, 
April 1, July 1 
or October 1 in a calendar year."
 
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on March 
15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end: (i) shall, 
through its Secretariat of Planning, carry out Part E of the Project, with the 
assistance of BDMG as the Borrower's agent for purposes of employing the consultants 
required therefor, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, technical and financial practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
such Part of the Project; and (ii) shall cause BDMG to perform in accordance with the 
provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of BDMG therein set forth, 
shall take or cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, 
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable BDMG to 
perform such obligations and the Subprojects to be carried out efficiently (including 
any action to be taken by FEAM with respect to the Subprojects), and shall not take or 
permit to be  taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance 
or the efficient carrying out of the Subprojects.
Page  6
(b)
The Borrower shall make available to BDMG: (i) the proceeds of the Loan 
allocated to Category (1) of the Table and the Borrower's counterpart funds for Parts 
A.1, B, C.1 and C.2 of the Project, by means of deposits in the SOMMA Fund, whenever 
required for purposes of the carrying out of such Parts of the Project; and (ii) the 
proceeds of the Loan allocated to Categories (2) and (3) of the Table and the 
Borrower's counterpart funds for Parts A.2, C.3, D and E of the Project, by means of 
deposits in a separate account administered by BDMG, whenever required for purposes of 
the carrying out of such Parts of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall complete the study under Part E of the Project 
prior to the review referred to in Section 3.05 of this Agreement.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and the Subprojects to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that the obligations set 
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project 
shall be carried out by BDMG pursuant to Section 2.09 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.05. Without limitation or restriction to any of the provisions of this 
Agreement and of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
(a)
between the thirtieth and the fortieth months after the Effective Date, 
undertake a review with the Bank and BDMG of the progress in the execution of the 
Project and the attainment of its objectives, including, inter alia, a review of the 
results of the Private Sector Pilot Subprojects and Micro-Regional Pilot 
Infrastructure Subprojects and Micro-Regional Pilot Technical Assistance Subprojects 
and the advisability to continue the financing of such Subprojects; and
(b)
take, or cause BDMG to take, any remedial action which shall have been 
agreed upon by the Bank, the Borrower and BDMG, during the review referred to in 
paragraph (a) above, as necessary to be taken for the efficient execution of the 
Project or for the attainment of its objectives, such action to be taken in the manner 
and within the timetable agreed upon during such review.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall, not later than March 31 of each year during 
the execution of the Project, jointly with BDMG, review with the Bank the adequacy of 
the interest rate referred to in paragraph 2 of Part I of Schedule 1 to the Project 
Agreement in view of the prevailing interest rates for similar loans in Brazil, the 
rate of inflation (as measured by the IGP-M) and the Borrower's cost of funds.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records and separate accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operation of the 
Special Account.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) above 
for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year, the report of 
such audit by said auditors, of such 
scope and in such detail as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records 
Page  7
and accounts as 
well as the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time 
to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause BDMG to maintain, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting 
such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for 
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Loan Account or payment out 
of the Special Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to 
in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report 
of such audit contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified, provided, however, that, if the event 
specified in paragraph (d) hereof shall have occurred, the suspension by the Bank of 
the Borrower's right to make withdrawals from the Loan Account in respect of Project 
expenditures may be limited by the Bank to withdrawals related to the COPASA 
Subprojects:
(a)
BDMG shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement;
(b)
as a result of events which have occurred after the date of this 
Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable 
that BDMG will be able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(c)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of BDMG or for the suspension of 
its operations; and
(d)
the COPASA Financial Plan is not being carried out in accordance with its 
terms.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that any event specified in paragraph 
(a) or (c) or (d) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for 
a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the 
Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of BDMG 
have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate action;
Page  8
(b)
the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil; and
(c)
the Technical Agent Contracts with CEMIG, COPASA and FJP have been 
entered into by the parties thereto.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, BDMG and is legally binding upon BDMG in 
accordance with its terms;
(b)
that the Loan Agreement has been duly registered by the Central Bank of 
Brazil; and
(c)
that all acts, consents, and approvals, together with all necessary 
powers and rights in connection therewith, have been duly and validly performed or 
given and that no other such acts, consents or approvals are required in order to 
authorize the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Borrower, BDMG and the 
Guarantor to perform all of their respective covenants, agreements and obligations 
contained in this Agreement, the Project Agreement and the Guarantee Agreement,  
respectively.
Section 6.03. The date January 19, 1994 is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Secretary of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.
 82987 (FTCC)
 64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For the Borrower:
Secretaria de Estado da Fazenda
Praca da Liberdade s/n
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 30160-011
Brazil
Telex:
31-8242
With copies to:
Page  9
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento e
Coordenacao da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K"
Anexo - 5  andar
70040-906 Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1146
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s/ Helio Carvalho Garcia
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category             Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1)   Subloans:                                 60% of amounts
                                                disbursed and,
      (a)  under Parts         138,800,000      in the case of
           A.1 and B of                         a Subloan
           the Project                          financing foreign
                                                expenditures
      (b)  under Part C.1        3,200,000      only, 100% of
           of the Project                       amounts disbursed
      (c)  under Part C.2        2,000,000
           of the Project
(2)   Grants:                                   50% of amounts
                                                disbursed
      (a)  under Part A.2        3,630,000
           of the Project
Page  10
      (b)  under Part C.3          770,000
           of the Project
(3)   Consultants' ser-          1,600,000      100%
      vices under Parts D
      and E of the Project
                               ___________
      TOTAL                    150,000,000
                               ===========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expenditures" means 
expenditures in the currency of any country other than that of the Guarantor for goods 
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than that of the 
Guarantor.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not to exceed $15,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Category (1) of the Table on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after January 1, 1993;
(b)
expenditures made by a Beneficiary under a Subproject, unless the 
respective Subloan or Grant shall have been made not later than three months before 
the Closing Date; and
(c)
expenditures made by a Beneficiary under a Subproject which requires an 
EIA/RIMA and/or a resettlement plan, pursuant to the criteria set forth in the 
Operational Manual, unless the Bank shall have approved such EIA/RIMA and/or plan.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (a) to strengthen municipal financial 
management in support of the decentralization objectives expressed in the Policy 
Letter; (b) to improve environmental management in the Borrower's territory; (c) to 
study the feasibility of, and begin, the mobilization of private resources for 
municipal service provision; (d) to test provision of regional services in weaker, 
rural municipalities, through a pilot program with municipal associations; (e) to 
initiate transfer of municipal management skills to the less developed areas of the 
Borrower's territory; and (f) to improve urban municipal infrastructure in the 
Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Bank and the Borrower may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A
1.
Making of Subloans to finance Technical Assistance Sub-projects.
 
2.
Making of Grants to finance Training Subprojects.
 
Part B
Making of Subloans to finance Infrastructure Subprojects.
Part C
1.
Making of Subloans to finance Private Sector Pilot Subprojects.
 
2.
Making of Subloans to finance Micro-Regional Pilot Infrastructure Subprojects.
 
Page  11
3.
Making of Grants to finance Micro-Regional Pilot Technical Assistance 
Subprojects.
Part D
1.
A study to identify likely areas of greatest efficiency in privatization of 
municipal services, involving, inter alia, a review of: (a) the economic 
characteristics of such services, including the need for appropriate economic and 
financial regulation or health and safety regulations therefor; (b) the legal and 
other constraints to such privatization; and (c) the financial viability of such 
services
and attractiveness of possible conditions to private sector interests.
2.
A study to determine appropriate options for the financing of municipal 
investments.
Part E
A study to formulate a strategy for delivery of sanitation services in the 
Borrower's territory.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1998.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
 
On each March 15 and September 15
      beginning March 15, 1999
through   September 15, 2008
7,500,000
