Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3639 BR
Project Agreement
(Minas Gerais Municipal Management and
Environmental Infrastructure Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS S.A.
Dated October 19, 1993
LOAN NUMBER 3639 BR
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 19, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS S.A. (BDMG).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
State of Minas Gerais (the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to make available to the 
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to one hundred and fifty million 
Dollars ($150,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, 
but only on condition that BDMG agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as 
are set forth in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS BDMG, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and the General Conditions (as 
Page  2
so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. BDMG declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall: (a) carry out 
Parts A, B, C and D of the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial and technical practices and the provisions of the 
Operational Manual, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for such Parts of the 
Project; and (b) assist the Borrower in the carrying out of Part E of the Project for 
purposes of employing the consultants required therefor.
Section 2.02. (a) BDMG shall for the purposes of carrying out: (i) Parts A.1, B, 
C.1 and C.2 of the Project, enter into loan agreements with the Beneficiaries (the 
Subloan Agreements), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which shall 
include those set forth or referred to in Part I of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(ii) Parts A.2 and C.3 of the Project, enter into agreements with the Beneficiaries 
(the Grant Agreements), under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, which 
shall include those set forth or referred to in Part II of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.
(b)
BDMG shall exercise its rights under the Subloan Agreements and the Grant 
Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of BDMG, the Borrower and the 
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, BDMG shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive any of such 
agreements or any provision thereof.
(c)
BDMG shall select the Beneficiaries and the Subprojects in accordance 
with the criteria set forth or referred to in Parts I and II of Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, respectively.
Section 2.03. (a) For the purposes of assisting BDMG in the evaluation and 
supervision of Subprojects, BDMG shall enter into contracts, satisfactory to the Bank 
(the Technical Agent Contracts),
with: (i) CEMIG, with respect to Infrastructure Subprojects for public lighting; (ii) 
COPASA, FNS and other consultants acceptable to the Bank, with respect to 
Infrastructure Subprojects for water supply and sewerage, provided, however, that 
COPASA shall not be employed as a consultant with respect to the COPASA Subprojects; 
(iii) FJP and other consultants acceptable to the Bank, with respect to Technical 
Assistance Subprojects and Training Subprojects; (iv) FJP, with respect to 
Micro-Regional Pilot Technical Assistance Subprojects and Micro-Regional Pilot 
Infrastructure Subprojects; and (v) consultants, acceptable to the Bank, with respect 
to the other Subprojects, provided that the contract with FJP referred to in 
subparagraph (iii) above shall include specific indicators, satisfactory to the Bank, 
to measure the performance of FJP (or any other entity replacing FJP) in the provision 
of such assistance.
(b)
BDMG shall exercise its rights under the Technical Agent Contracts in 
such manner as to protect the interests of BDMG, the Borrower and the Bank and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Loan,
and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BDMG shall not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive any of such contracts or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. BDMG shall, during the execution of the Project:
(a)
maintain the DIU with the responsibility of coordinating all aspects of 
management and operation of Parts A, B and C of the Project, including the preparation 
of the appraisals of all 
Beneficiaries and Subprojects;
(b)
maintain the DIU with staff in number and with qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank; and 
Page  3
(c)
provide promptly as needed all the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required by DIU to carry out its functions and responsibilities in a timely 
and efficient manner.
Section 2.05. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, BDMG shall not make, in 
any given year after the second year of execution of the Project, Subloans to:
(a)
COPASA, which, in the aggregate, shall exceed 20% of the total amount of 
Subloans made by BDMG under the Project; and 
(b)
any Beneficiary other than COPASA, which, in the aggregate, shall exceed 
10% of the total amount of Subloans made by BDMG under the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) BDMG shall submit to the prior approval of the Bank any 
Infrastructure Subproject which: (i) in the case of a Subproject for sewage treatment 
and/or solid waste disposal, shall cost the equivalent of $2,000,000 or more; and (ii) 
in the case of all other Subprojects, shall cost the equivalent of $5,000,000 or more.
(b)
When submitting a Subproject to the Bank for approval, pursuant to the 
provisions of paragraph (a) above, BDMG shall furnish to the Bank an application, in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Bank, together with: (i) an appraisal of the 
Subproject, and a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan; (ii) a detailed description of how such Subproject meets the 
requirements and criteria set forth in the Operational Manual; and (iii) such other
information as the Bank shall reasonably request in respect of such Subproject.
Section 2.07. BDMG shall cause the Beneficiaries to carry out a Technical 
Assistance Subproject jointly with a Training Subproject whenever recommended by the 
applicable PAE.
Section 2.08. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and the Subprojects 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement.
(b)
BDMG shall, not later than January 31 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, publish a general notice in two newspapers of wide national 
circulation in Brazil, acceptable to the
Bank, and in the Development Business or other international publication acceptable to 
the Bank, containing information, satisfactory to the Bank, about the Project and the 
types and amounts of contracts expected to be awarded under the Project during the 
relevant calendar year.
Section 2.09. (a) BDMG shall carry out or cause to be carried out the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Agreement and the Project.
(b)
Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.07 of the General 
Conditions, BDMG shall furnish to the Bank a report of such scope and in such detail 
(including, inter alia, the monitoring
indicators set forth in the Operational Manual) as the Bank shall reasonably request: 
(i) not later than April 30, July 31 and October 30 of each year during the execution 
of the Project, on the execution of the Project in the calendar quarter next preceding 
such dates; and (ii) not later than February 28 of each year during the execution of 
the Project, on the execution of the Project in the calendar year next preceding such 
date.
Section 2.10. (a) BDMG shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of Parts A, B, C and D of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
BDMG shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the
Page  4
performance by BDMG of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.11. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of Section 2.10 (a) of 
this Agreement, BDMG shall participate in the review referred to in Section 3.05 (a) 
of the Loan Agreement.
(b)
BDMG shall take, as and when needed, any action on its part necessary for 
the compliance with the provisions of Section 3.05 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.12. BDMG shall complete the study under Part D.2 of the Project prior 
to the review referred to in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.13. BDMG shall participate, jointly with the Borrower, in the reviews 
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of BDMG
Section 3.01. BDMG shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and banking practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. BDMG shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) BDMG shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, 
including records and separate accounts in respect of the Project.
(b)
BDMG shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related statements), 
including the records and separate 
accounts in respect of the 
Project, for each fiscal year audited, in accordance 
with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of BDMG 
hereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify BDMG thereof.
Page  5
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For BDMG:
Banco de Desenvolvimento de
Minas Gerais S.A.
Rua da Bahia, 1600
30160-907 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais
Brazil
Telex:
31-1343
With copies to:
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais
Secretaria de Planejamento, Orcamento e
Coordenacao da Presidencia da Republica
Esplanada dos Ministerios, Bloco "K" - 5  andar
70040-906 Brasòlia, D.F.
Brazil
Telex:
61-1446
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of BDMG may be 
taken or executed by its
President or such other person or persons as such President shall designate in 
writing, and BDMG shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and 
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
Page  6
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DE MINAS GERAIS S.A.
By /s/ Paulo de Tarso Almeida Paiva
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1
Subloan Agreements and Grant Agreements
Part I.
Subloan Agreements
 
The Subloan Agreements shall include the following terms and conditions:
1.
The Subloans shall have the following repayment and grace periods:
 
                                       Maximum          Maximum
       Type of                      Repayment Period  Grace Period
      Subproject                        (Years)          (Years)
Technical Assistance Subprojects,
Infrastructure Subprojects for
purchase of solid waste equip-
ment and for water and sewerage
system improvements, and Private
Sector Pilot Subprojects                  5                 1
Infrastructure Subprojects for
water distribution, for sewerage
collection connections, for
pavement, for public lighting
and for micro-drainage                   10                 2
Infrastructure Subprojects for
sewerage treatment, for solid
waste disposal and for macro-
drainage, and Micro-Regional
Pilot Subprojects                        15                 3
2.
An annual interest rate equal to the interest rate referred to in Section 2.05 
of the Loan Agreement, which is in force on the date when the Subloan is approved by 
BDMG, plus not more than 3 percentage points shall be applicable to the adjusted 
outstanding principal amount of the Subloan.
Page  7
3.
The Subloans shall be denominated and repayable in the currency of the Guarantor 
and the principal amount of each Subloan will be adjusted every month in accordance 
with the prevailing rate
of inflation in Brazil as measured by the IGP-M, or any other adjustment index 
satisfactory to the Bank and the Borrower.
4.
The Subloans shall finance up to 75% of the total cost of each Subproject.
 
5.
The Subloans shall be guaranteed: (a) with the proceeds of the sales tax 
(Imposto sobre Circulacao de Mercadorias e Servicos) due to the Municipalities and, 
when necessary, with the proceeds of the share of the Municipalities in the Municipal 
Participation Fund (Fundo de Participacao dos Municipios) referred to in Article 
159,I,b, of the Guarantor's Constitution, in the case of Subloans made to 
Municipalities; and (b) by a pledge of revenues and/or assets of the other 
Beneficiaries, in the case of Subloans made to such Beneficiaries.
6.
Each Beneficiary shall undertake the following obligations:
 
(a)
to carry out the Subproject with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity, as applicable, with appropriate administrative, financial, technical, 
engineering, public utility and environmental practices, and with the applicable 
provisions of the Operational Manual and the PAE;
(b)
to procure the goods, works and services to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Subloan as provided in Schedule 4 to the Loan Agreement;
(c)
(i) to insure, or make adequate provision for the insurance of, the 
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan against hazards 
incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use 
or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency 
freely usable by such Beneficiary to replace or repair such goods; and (ii) except as 
the Bank and BDMG shall otherwise agree, to cause all goods and services financed out 
of the proceeds
of the Subloan to be used exclusively for the Subproject being carried out by such 
Beneficiary;
(d)
with respect to each Subproject being carried out by each Beneficiary: 
(i) to furnish to BDMG, and, if so requested, to make available to the Bank, promptly 
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and 
construction and procurement schedules for each such Subproject, and any material 
modifications thereof or additions thereto; (ii) to maintain records and procedures 
adequate to record and monitor the progress of each such Subproject (including the 
cost and the benefits to be derived from each such Subproject), to identify the goods 
and services financed out of the proceeds of the Subloan, and to disclose their use in 
each Subproject; and (iii) to enable the authorized representatives of the Bank and 
BDMG to visit the facilities and construction sites included in each such Subproject 
and to examine the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and any relevant 
records and documents in respect of each such Subproject;
(e)
to furnish to BDMG reports, of such scope and in such detail as BDMG 
shall reasonably request and with a periodicity of not more than 3 months, on the 
progress in the execution of the
Subproject being carried out by such Beneficiary;
(f)
promptly after completion of the Subproject carried out by such 
Beneficiary, but in any event not later than three months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this
purpose between the Bank and the Borrower, to prepare a report satisfactory to the 
Bank and BDMG on the execution of such Subproject;
(g)
(i) in the case of a Beneficiary other than a Municipality, to take at 
all times the necessary steps to maintain its existence and its right to carry on 
operations, and to acquire and retain all rights, powers, privileges and franchises 
which are necessary or useful for the purpose of complying with its obligations under 
the Subloan Agreement, or for the efficient conduct of its business and undertaking; 
(ii) to operate and maintain at all times the plants, machinery, equipment and other
property owned or operated by it and promptly make all necessary repairs and renewals 
Page  8
thereof, all in accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility practices; 
and (iii) not sell, lease, transfer or otherwise dispose of any of the property or 
assets owned or operated by it, if such sale, lease, transfer or other disposition 
would materially and adversely affect the efficient carrying out of the Subproject;
(h)
to make provisions satisfactory to the Bank and BDMG for insurance 
against such risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate 
practices;
(i)
to take or cause to be taken all such action as shall be necessary to 
acquire, as and when needed, all such land and rights in respect of land as shall be 
required for the carrying out of the
Subproject;
(j)
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with 
sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition, including records 
and separate accounts in respect of the Subproject;
(k)
(i) to have its records, accounts, and, in the case of Beneficiaries 
other than Municipalities, its financial statements (balance sheets, statements of 
income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and 
BDMG; (ii) to furnish to BDMG as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) in the case of Beneficiaries other than 
Municipalities, certified copies of its financial statements for such year as so 
audited; and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of such scope and in such 
detail as BDMG shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to BDMG such other 
information concerning said records, accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as BDMG shall from time to time reasonably request;
(l)
in the case of COPASA, to carry out the COPASA Financial Plan in a timely 
manner;
(m)
to apply cost recovery policies in respect of the investments made under 
the Subproject as provided in the Operational Manual; and
(n)
whenever applicable, to carry out the resettlement plan referred to in 
paragraph 3 (c) of Schedule 1 to the Loan Agreement, and to take any mitigatory 
measures that may be recommended by the
environmental impact assessment referred to in such paragraph 3 (c), all in a manner 
and according to a timetable satisfactory to BDMG and the Bank.
Part II.
Grant Agreements
 
The Grant Agreements shall provide for the transfer, on a grant basis, of the 
funds necessary to finance the total cost of each Training Subproject and 
Micro-Regional Pilot Technical Assistance Subprojects and shall include, mutatis 
mutandis, the applicable provisions set forth in paragraph 6 of Part I hereof.
SCHEDULE 2
Eligibility Criteria
Part I.
Beneficiaries
 
1.
Beneficiaries shall be selected by BDMG in accordance with the criteria set 
forth in the Operational Manual, which include, inter alia:
(a)
signature of an agreement, under terms and conditions similar to those 
set forth in the model agreement included in the Operational Manual, between BDMG and 
the Municipality (in the case of a Beneficiary other than a Municipality, between BDMG 
and the Municipality which granted a service concession to such Beneficiary) 
formalizing the interest of the Municipality in the Project and the
Municipality's commitment to the general principles applicable to the Project;
Page  9
(b)
completion of an institutional and financial diagnosis of the 
Municipality;
(c)
acceptance of the Municipality's PAE;
 
(d)
evidence of compliance by the Municipality with the Guarantor's tax 
legislation, and of the Municipality's capacity to incur debt pursuant to the 
applicable legislation;
(e)
evidence of the Beneficiary's ability to provide the required counterpart 
funds;
(f)
evidence of the Beneficiary's ability to provide a guarantee for the 
Subloan;
(g)
in the case of the Beneficiaries other than Municipalities, in addition 
to the above requirements, presentation of the three most recent annual financial 
statements; and
(h)
in the case of COPASA, in addition to the above requirements, evidence of 
compliance with the COPASA Financial Plan.
2.
In the case of COPASA Subprojects for operational improvements, the eligibility 
of COPASA will not be subject to the fulfillment of the criteria set forth in 
subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) of paragraph 1 above.
Part II.
Subprojects
 
Subprojects shall be approved by BDMG in accordance with the criteria set forth 
in the Operational Manual, which require, inter alia, technical, economic, financial 
and environmental evaluation of the Subproject.
