Page  1
December 17, 1998
Mr. Walfrido Silvino dos Mares Guia Neto 
Vice-Governor and Secretary of Planning and General Coordination 
State of Minas Gerais 
Rua Bernardo Guimarães, 2731 - 4o. andar 
Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 
Brazil
Mr. Marcos Raimundo Pessoa Duarte 
President 
Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais S.A. 
Rua da Bahia, 1600 
30160-907 Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais 
Brazil
Re:
Loan 3639-BR (Minas Gerais Municipal Management
and Environmental Infrastructure Project) -  Amendment
Dear Sirs:
Please refer to the Loan Agreement, dated October 19, 1993, between the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) and the State of 
Minas Gerais, as amended, and to the Project Agreement, dated October 19, 1993, 
between the Bank and Banco de Desenvolvimento de Minas Gerais S.A., both for the above 
referenced Project.
We have reviewed your request dated November 11, 1998, in the light of an  
evaluation of the impact of the Senate Resolution 78/98 among other issues, and 
propose to amend the Loan and Project Agreements as follows: 
Loan Agreement 
(a) Section 2.03 – the Closing Date is postponed to December 31, 1999; 
(b) Schedule 1 - the table in paragraph 1 is revised as set forth in the 
Attachment to this letter; and
(c) Schedule 2 – a new Part D.3 is inserted to read as follows:
“Strengthening of the technical and administrative capabilities of DIU through 
the provision 
of technical assistance and training.” 
Project Agreement
Part II of Schedule 1 is amended to read as follows: 
“The Grant Agreements shall provide for the transfer, on a grant basis, of the 
funds 
necessary to finance up to ninety percent (90%) of the total cost of each 
Training 
Subproject, and shall include, mutatis mutandis, the applicable 
provisions set forth in 
paragraph 6 of Part I hereof.”
We would also like to confirm our agreement that: (a) starting on January 1, 
1999, the Borrower’s counterpart funds for Technical Assistance Subprojects, 
Infrastructure Subprojects and Private Sector Pilot Subprojects shall be provided from 
the repayments made to the SOMMA Fund under Sub-loans up to a limit of US$10 million; 
and (b) it will be required, as a condition for eligibility of any Municipality to 
become a Beneficiary that, starting on January 1, 1999, its tax code (Código 
Tributario) has been revised.  
If you agree with the foregoing amendment, please sign and date the three 
originals of this letter in the space provided below and return one to us. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of one copy of this letter countersigned by you, this amendment 
will become effective as of the date of approval by SEAIN of the extension of the 
Closing Date.
Page  2
Sincerely,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Gobind T. Nankani
Director
Country Management Unit - Brazil
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
AGREED:
STATE OF MINAS GERAIS
By /s Marcus Pestana
      Authorized Representative
Date: 12-17-98
BANCO DE DESENVOLVIMENTO DE
   MINAS GERAIS S.A.
By /s/ Marcus Raimundo Pessoa Duarte
       Authorized representative
Date: 12-17-98
