Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16583-CHA
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC' PROJECT
(LOAN 3387-CHA)
May 15. 1997
Infrastructure Operations Division
China and Mongolia Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit: Yuan (Y)
At Appraisal ( April 1, 1991) $1=Y5.24
Exchange Rates During Project Years
Year Ave.
1991         -      Y 5.36
1992         -      Y 5.49
1993         -      Y 5.75
1994         -      Y 8.60
1995         -      Y 8.30
1996         -      Y 8.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January I to December 31
ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS
CHIDI           Chengdu Hydroelectric Investigation & Design Institute
DRB             Dispute Review Board
EA              Environmental Assessment
EEC             Ertan Engineering Corporation
EHDC            Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation
EMP             Environmental Management Plan
ERP             Environmental and Resettlement Panel
PPA             Power Purchase Agreement
GOC             Government of China
SBC             Special Board of Consultants
SDB             State Development Bank
SDIC            State Development Investment Corporation
SEPC            Sichuan Electric Power C(ompany
SIC             Sichuan Investment Company
SPRO            Sichuan Provincial Resettlement Office
WHO             World Health Organization
Vice President  :  Jean-Michel Severino, EA1'
Director       : Nicholas C. Hope, EA2
Division Chief  :  Richard Scurfield, EA2IN
Staff Member  : Noureddine Berrah, Principle Energy Specialist, EA21N



J~ ~~ U 
-i~~- -   |                             -
Arch Dam completed to half final height
New Yaba         - Tow  for, - Resettlement
New  ~- i Yaba  Town  .o Ura  Reetlmn






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
CONTENTS
Preface ..........................................................
Evaluation Summary ........................................................v
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ASSESSMENT .......................................1
A. Project Objectives and Description ......................................................1l
B. Achievement of Project Objectives ......................................................3
C. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project ..................... 4
D. Project Sustainability                ................................................... 16
E. Bank Performance ......................................................                 17
F. Borrower Performance ......................................................             18
G.  Assessment of Outcome .......................................................          19
H. Future Operation .......................................................                19
I. Key Lessons Learned ......................................................              19
Part II: Statistical Tables .......................................................                22
Table 1:  Summary of Assessment .22
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .23
Table 3: Project Timetable .26
Table 4:       Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .26
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation .27
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation .27
Table 7:  Studies Included in the Project .28
Table 8A-1: Project Costs .................                                                29
Table 8A-2: Project Costs .................                                                30
Table 8B: Project Financing .30
Table 9:   Reestimated Economic Costs and Benefits .31
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants .32
Table 11:   Compliance with Operational Manual Statement .33
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .34
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions .34
Figure 1:  Actual Progress vs. Target Schedule .35
Annex 1: EHDC Financial Statements .37
Annex 2:  Executive Summary of EHDC's Own Evaluation .40
Annex 3:  Extract of Completion Mission Aide Memoire .43
Annex 4: Key Monitoring Indicators .49
Annex 5: Inflation and Exchange Rates                                    .51
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



- 11 -
Annex 6.1:  Reestimated Economic Costs and Benefits (Incorporating Environmental
Benefits of Avoided SO2 and Particulates Emissions) ................................. 52
Annex 6.2:  Reestimated Economic Costs and Benefits (Incorporating Environmental
Benefits of Avoided SO2, Particulates and CO2 Emissions) ......................... 53
Annex 6.3: Project Risk Analysis .............................................................  54
MAP: IBRD22093R1
MAP: IBRD 21308R



- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 3387-CHA)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the first phase of the
Ertan Hydroelectric Project in China, for which two consecutive loans have been
provided. The first loan (Loan 3387-CHA) in the amount of $380 million was approved
on July 2, 1991 and made effective on September 6, 1991. To complete the construction
of the project, a second loan (Loan 3933-CHA) in the amount of $400 million was
subsequently approved on August 22, 1995 and made effective on January 17, 1996.
The first loan was closed on December 31, 1996, as originally scheduled. It was
fully disbursed, and the last disbursement took place on December 17, 1996.
This ICR covers the implementation of the first phase of the project for the period
up to September 1996. It was prepared by Junhui Wu with the assistance of Barry
Trembath and Noureddine Berrah, Infrastructure Operations Division, China and
Mongolia Department of the East Asia and Pacific Region, and reviewed by Mr. Richard
Scurfield, Division Chief, and Mr. Yo Kimura, Project Advisor.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's supervision mission in
November 1996. It is based on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Loan and Project
Agreements, Supervision Reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower/
Beneficiary, and interviews with Bank and Borrower/Beneficiary staff involved in project
implementation. The Borrower/Beneficiary contributed to the preparation of the ICR by
preparing their own evaluation of the execution of the project, and by providing
comments on the draft Bank ICR that were incorporated in the final version.






v -
CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 3387-CHA)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction and Project Objectives
1.    The Ertan Hydroelectric Scheme is located on the lower reaches of the Yalong
River in the southwestern province of Sichuan. Shortages of electricity in the province
were, when the project was identified, and still are a major constraint to its economic
development and to the improvement of the population's living standards.
2.    The objectives of the Project were to: (a) provide additional generation capacity
in Sichuan Province to alleviate the acute shortage of electricity; (b) assist in the transfer
of modern power technology and efficient dam construction method; (c) contribute to
further improvements in the analyses of environmental and ecological impacts of
hydroelectric resource development; (d) enhance the institutional development of the
beneficiary, Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation (EHDC), by strengthening its
organization through a comprehensive management training program and introduction of
economic efficiency and sound pricing principles; and (e) provide technical assistance in
project design and implementation, and for the promotion of the optimal operation of the
power system, prudent financial management, and manpower development.
3.    The project consisted of: (a) preparatory works; (b) construction of a parabolic,
double-curvature arch dam (240 m high) across the Yalong River together with an
underground powerhouse complex, a log conveyance system, and appurtenant works and
structures; (c) provision and installation of six 550-MW generating units and associated
equipment; (d) resettlement of about 45,812 people affected by the project; (e) an
environmental science station and management program; (f) consultancy services for
engineering, procurement, construction management, and preparation of future power
projects; (g) studies of power pricing and power plant and reservoir operation; and
(h) strengthening EHDC's organization, technical assistance and staff training, together
with related equipment and accessories.
4.    The design of the project responded to the country's regional and sectoral
objectives at the time of appraisal. The project objectives were consistent with the
Government's strategy to accelerate the development of the large and economic
hydroelectric potential and the Bank's country assistance goals regarding transfer of
appropriate modern technology, staff training, and modern utility practice. Phasing of
Bank support for the project, with Loan 3387-CHA ($380 million) followed by Loan



- vi -
3933-CHA for $400 million, is considered appropriate given the project's long gestation
period. It allowed the Bank to assist EHDC in better addressing environmental and
resettlement issues and complying with environmental and resettlement guidelines issued
after appraisal.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    The progress made toward achieving the primary objective of the project, i.e., to
build a hydroelectric scheme of 3,300 MW, has been very satisfactory. All the key target
dates of physical construction were met. The Yalong River was successfully diverted in
November 1993. By the end of October 1996, excavation for the dam and the
underground powerhouse complex were virtually completed. Concrete placement is
generally on schedule despite delays at the earlier stage. The dam is approximately half
complete in terms of both height and volume. Reservoir filling will start in Spring 1998
as scheduled. This laid a solid ground for timely completion of the second phase of the
project.
6.    The latest estimates of the project cost to completion (excluding interest during
construction) are $941.87 million in foreign costs and Y 10,653.86 million in local costs,
equivalent to a total of $2,282.41 million. In comparison with appraisal estimates, there
is an overall cost overrun of about 21 percent when expressed in US dollars and 60
percent when expressed in local currency, in which the foreign cost overrun is about 5
percent. The cost overrun is largely due to (a) the higher-than-expected inflation in China
(an inflation rate of 5 percent per year for 1993-2000 at appraisal compared to actual rates
of 24 percent in 1993, 19.5 percent in 1994 and 14.9 percent in 1995), (b) the devaluation
of US dollar against major European currencies during 1992-96, and (c) the devaluation
of the local currency against the US dollar from an exchange rate of Y 5.24/$l at the time
of appraisal to Y 8.30/$l in 1996.
7.    If actual expenditures and latest estimates are de-escalated to the appraisal date,
then overall costs are about 22 percent above those originally anticipated. This can be
largely explained by the cost overrun in real terms of three components: (a) resettlement
by 138 percent ($130.4 million equivalent), (b) engineering/contract administration/
technical assistance by 223 percent ($162.2 million equivalent), and (c) civil works for
the dam by 7 percent ($42.1 million). Large resettlement cost overruns are partly
attributable to the lesser preparation status of the resettlement component at the outset of
the project,' and partly to the fact that increases of resettlement costs substantially exceed
general inflation rates in times of dynamic economic growth. Significant cost increases
had occurred in both local and foreign components of engineering/contract
administration. The large overrun in local costs is attributable to the fact that wages and
salaries in this area have risen much faster than the general inflation. In addition, in line
with the corporatization of the power sector, all costs (direct and indirect) are now
i The scope of resettlement changed over time from 30,000 persons to 45,812 persons.



- vii -
charged to the project, in contrast to the earlier situation where significant proportions
were off-budget. With regard to the foreign assistance in these areas, the budgeted level
of effort, though it far exceeded anything previously used in China, still proved to be
inadequate, and it is to EHDC's credit that they recognized this and increased
expenditures in response to the need. The cost overrun in the civil works can be
attributed to an inadequate contingency allowance to cover the claims resulting from
unforeseen geological conditions. However, a 7 percent cost overrun for a civil contract
of this magnitude is considered acceptable.
8.    The project internal economic rate of return (IERR) has been recalculated using
the most recent estimates of costs and benefits. The calculation is based on an economic
cost 14 percent higher than the estimated economic cost at appraisal. However, in present
value terms (both costs discounted to the same year at 12 percent), the revised cost is only
5 percent higher than the original estimates. The 5 percent cost increase would result in a
reduced IERR from 14.90 percent (appraisal estimate) to 14.49 percent, if the benefits
remain unchanged. However, given the profound changes in power pricing in China,
benefits should also be revised. They are estimated based on a proxy of SEPC's (the
buyer) willingness to pay for new generation at the plant gate (35.0 fen/kWh, 1996 price).
This approach yielded an IERR of 16.11 percent, which is higher than the appraisal
estimate (14.90 percent). This shows that the increased plant gate price (about 12 percent
higher than the covenanted tariff in real terms) outweighs the cost overrun of the project.
It should be noted that the above calculations have not taken into account the
environmental benefits of the project. The project will avoid mining, transporting, and
burning of some 10 million tons of raw coal a year in Sichuan Province, which has the
highest level of air pollution in China. If environmental benefits, i.e., the avoided sulfur
dioxide (SO2), particulates (PMIO) and carbon dioxide (C02) emissions are considered, an
IERR of 17.99 percent is obtained using the most conservative values of the externality
Cost of S02, particulates and the climate change. Finally, risk analyses have been
performed using a probability approach to assess the impact of the perceived risk factors
that affect the return of the project. Five broad categories of risk have been considered in
the analysis, namely, demand risk, price risk, cost risk, operational performance risk and
hydrological risk. The expected IERR, based on the weighted average of all simulated
combinations is 15.81 percent, only about 0.3 percent lower than the base case value
without consideration of project risks. This suggests that the uncertainty of the return of
the project investment is much reduced at the completion of the first-phase construction
and that the project's economic viability is robust.
9.    Modern technology for construction of large-scale dams and powerhouses was
successfully introduced through international consulting services and training. This is
demonstrated by EHDC's capability in managing the critical path of a project of such
magnitude and complexity and achieving timely implementation.
10.   In the course of project implementation, the successful incorporation of EHDC as
a limited liability company in accordance with China's new Company Law furthered
power sector and enterprise reforms in the country. Improved corporate governance has



- viii -
been achieved through the establishment of a Board of Directors. EHDC is now allowed
to make important management and investment decisions on its own instead of seeking
instructions from government agencies. The institutional capability of EHDC will be
further strengthened following completion of the ongoing study on organizational
restructuring and financial management. Implementation of the recommendations of the
study will prepare EHDC to assume its role as the most important independent
(nonutility) power producer in the province.
11.   The resettlement task has been carried out successfully according to the
resettlement implementation plan that was updated during preparation of the second
project to incorporate lessons learned at that time from the first project. In total, 45,812
people needed to be resettled, in which 28,482 people live in rural areas. By the end of
October 1996, 12,286 out of 28,482, or 43 percent of project-affected persons in rural
areas were physically relocated. Resettlement activities have been intensified for the last
two years and significant physical progress has been achieved in construction of the new
town (housing 15,000 people), rural resettlement sites, and key infrastructure facilities,
thus creating favorable conditions for completing all required resettlement work before
the end of 1997. While urban resettlement in 1997 is well planned and organized,
continuing resettlement efforts will concentrate on providing extensive assistance in
relocating rural people, in particular, less able resettlers like the elderly.
12.   The environment component has been proceeding satisfactorily following the
environmental management plan (EMP). The environmental assessment (EA) and EMP
were also revised for the second phase to comply with more stringent national EA
procedures and Bank policies.  Work under the first phase mainly comprised
implementation of identified mitigation measures and establishment of environmental
baselines for the reservoir and catchment area. The mitigation measures implemented
include: (a) public health, schistosomiasis treatment and prevention, (b) construction
worker health inspections, and (c) preservation of cultural relics.  Through the
comprehensive monitoring systems, a large amount of data has been collected covering
meteorology, hydrology, water quality, sedimentation, and health.  In addition,
biodiversity investigations were conducted through field walks, sample surveys and
interviews with the local peasants. These data will be used (a) to devise environmental
mitigation measures as required and (b) to study the effects of large dams in the province
to assist in the evaluation of future projects. The major tasks for the second phase will be
to establish a conservation management zone around the periphery of the reservoir,
building on the work completed during the first phase, and to promote and support
catchment rehabilitation.
13.   The achievements of the first phase can mainly be attributed to three factors:
(a) the overall implementation organization was structured according to modern
management practices; (b) the project executing agency, EHDC, was incorporated in the
course of project implementation as a limited liability company with sole responsibility
for construction and commercial operation of the Ertan scheme, and therefore had a
strong sense of ownership; and (c) the efficient integration of the Advisory Group (which



-ix -
comprises about 50 international experts specialized in different technical and managerial
areas) into the project management team throughout the construction.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
14.   The objectives of the project were consistent with those of the Chinese
Government and the Bank. The progress made toward achieving all project objectives
has been very satisfactory. The outcome is rated as highly satisfactory, and sustainability
likely.
15.   The project is now entering a new phase where construction priorities have
gradually shifted from civil works to installation of electrical and mechanical equipment.
Drawing lessons from other Bank-financed projects in China, the following measures
have been taken to ensure a smooth implementation in the second phase: (a) conclusion
of a single contract with one foreign firm assuming full responsibility for supply of both
hydraulic turbines and generators. This would reduce interfacing problems and thereby
reduce potential delays in equipment delivery, equipment defects and mismatching;
(b) extension of consulting services provided by the- Advisory Group into the second
phase, with more emphasis on electrical and mechanical aspects; and (c) development of
computerized project management systems that consist of a master schedule for civil
works and erection of electrical and mechanical equipment, equipment and design
drawing production and delivery control system and cost control system. The second-
phase implementation will continue to be supervised and monitored in terms of physical
construction, the environmental management program, resettlement action plan,
institutional development and financial performance.
16.   To prepare for future operation, EHDC has hired about 150 college graduates and
sent them for one year of training in operating an existing large hydropower station. In
addition, EHDC signed an agreement in 1996 with Gezhouba Hydropower Plant, which
will assist EHDC in preparation, operation, and maintenance of the Ertan Hydropower
Plant for the period 1996-2000.  Preparation of performance indicators for future
operation was discussed during the November 1996 supervision mission. Due to the need
to incorporate the outcome of the optimization study (ongoing study) in the operation
plan of the plant and reservoir, the operation plan including performance indicators will
be prepared in 1997 when the study results become available and will be included in the
ICR for the second project.
17.   Ertan is the first large-scale hydroelectric project in China implemented entirely
with international contracting and construction management procedures. Many of the
difficulties experienced in implementing the new system were due to the relative newness
of economic and enterprise reforms in China. In retrospect, it is doubtful whether matters
could have been handled differently. However, given the economic and enterprise
reforms that have now occurred and the prospects for even broader reform, it is possible
to formulate key lessons from project implementation that will benefit future projects in



- x -
the sector, including the second phase of the Ertan Project. The key lessons are
summarized as follows:
*  In implementing a project of the magnitude and complexity of Ertan,
implementation will be greatly assisted if an implementing organization is in
place at the outset of the project, which is commercially independent and has
full decision-making authority and responsibility for its performance. Initial
delays in project implementation, resulting in sizable contractors' claims for
acceleration of works, largely resulted from EHDC's inability to make timely
decisions. The incorporation of EHDC in 1995 as a limited liability company
following the promulgation of the new Company Law led to major
improvements in this regard, allowing EHDC to make quick decisions on its
own instead of seeking instructions from govermment agencies. This single
factor is largely responsible for the recovery from earlier difficulties to the
currently successful implementation and probability of timely completion of
the second project.
*  Prior to the start of construction, construction management personnel should
be trained in contract administration and modern project management
techniques.  This training should include fairly lengthy assignments on
ongoing projects where these techniques are in use.  China routinely
undertakes such training of operating personnel prior to the commissioning of
all large hydropower plants and this is very successful. Similar training of
construction management personnel will increase their competence and
improve response time through allowing increased delegation rather than
involving senior management in matters of detail.
*  Improved communication among various parties (owner, engineer, designer,
advisors and contractors, etc.) should be actively pursued from the outset, to
avoid misunderstandings that could cause delays and/or losses to the project.
Communication difficulties were perhaps the most difficult to resolve in
construction of the Ertan scheme. The issue is not simply translation between
different languages, but of communicating ideas and concepts across
international boundaries of training and culture.
*  Development of project management systems should also commence before
construction in order to manage the construction more efficiently. These
should include contractual documentation management systems, a project
master schedule, procurement and delivery schedule for employer-supplied
equipment, a design drawing control system and cost control system. EHDC
has now developed systems in most of these areas, which has resulted in less
exposure of EHDC to claims resulting from delayed supply of information or
equipment.



- xi -
* In the future, consideration should also be given to reducing interfacing by
procuring equipment in smaller numbers of larger packages. In retrospect, the
division of civil activities among the two major contractors was not ideal,
resulting in an increased number of interfaces that led to contractual
difficulties.
* With regard to resettlement, the lessons learned are the necessity to advance
the preparation of the resettlement implementation plan at the outset of the
project, which will allow a better coordination of various resettlement
activities and more detailed cost estimates to be carried out. In this project,
the problems encountered in implementing the resettlement component at the
early stage were largely due to a lack of a detailed resettlement
implementation plan, which was only completed in 1995. In addition, in
preparing the resettlement cost estimates, adequate contingency allowances
should be made to cover the costs of compensation and the measures
necessary to restore incomes.






- 1 -
CHINA
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
(LOAN 3387-CHA)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
1.    The Ertan Hydroelectric Scheme is located on the lower reaches of the Yalong
River in the southwestern province of Sichuan. When the project was identified, the
shortage of electricity in the province was a major constraint to its economic development
and improving the living standards of the population.
2.    The Government of China (GOC) has given high priority to electric power
development. Its strategy is to accelerate the pace of hydropower development, construct
large-scale and high-efficiency coal-fired thermal power plants, interconnect power
systems through high-voltage extension of transmission networks, and replace obsolete
generating plants.  These measures will lead to improved energy efficiency and
conservation, and therefore mitigate the adverse environmental impact of electric power
growth.
3.    On the institutional front, GOC's commitment to economic reform has called for
modernizing the power sector and making it more efficient. A number of actions were
taken to introduce modern energy technologies and modern construction management
methods, increase the autonomy of power supply entities, and rationalize power pricing.
4.    The design of the Ertan Project responded to the country's regional and sectoral
objectives by: (a) providing additional generation capacity in Sichuan Province to
alleviate acute shortages of electricity; (b) assisting in the transfer of modern power
technology and efficient dam construction methods; (c) contributing to further
improvements in the analyses of environmental and ecological impacts of hydroelectric
resource development; (d) enhancing the institutional development of the beneficiary, the
Ertan Hydroelectric Development Corporation (EHDC), by strengthening its organization
through a modern management training program and introduction of economic efficiency
and sound pricing principles; and (e) providing technical assistance in project design and
implementation, and for the promotion of the optimal operation of the power system,
prudent financial management, and manpower development. In particular, the project
was consistent with the GOC goal of accelerating development of the country's large and
economic hydroelectric potential and the Bank's country assistance goals regarding
transfer of appropriate modern technology, staff training, least-cost investment planning,
and modern utility practice. Phasing of Bank support for the project, with Loan 3387-



- 2 -
CHA ($380 million) followed by Loan 3933-CHA for $400 million, is considered
appropriate given the project's long gestation period. It allowed the Bank to assist EHDC
in better addressing environmental and resettlement issues and complying with
environmental and resettlement guidelines issued after appraisal.
5.    The Ertan Hydroelectric Project consisted of:
(a)   preparatory works;
(b)   construction of a parabolic, double-curvature arch dam (240 m high)
across the Yalong River, together with an underground powerhouse
complex, a log conveyance system, and appurtenant works and structures;
(c)   provision and installation of six 550-MW generating units and associated
equipment;
(d)   resettlement of about 45,812 people;
(e)   an environmental science station and management program;
(f)   consultant services for engineering, procurement, management of
construction, and preparation of future power projects;
(g)   studies of power pricing and power plant and reservoir operation; and
(h)   strengthening EHDC's organization, technical assistance and staff
training, together with related equipment and accessories.
6.   In the course of project implementation, in February 1995, EHDC was
incorporated as a limited liability company (known as Ertan Hydropower Development
Limited Liability Company) in accordance with China's new Company Law. It has three
shareholders: the State Development and Investment Corporation (SDIC), Sichuan
Investment Company (SIC) and Sichuan Electric Power Company (SEPC). The Board of
Directors consisting of 10 members was established at the same time, with its role being
to represent the interests of the shareholders, appoint and dismiss the general manager
and high-level staff, and supervise the management of the Company. Members of the
Board of Directors are appointed by the shareholders. In May 1995, the Board of
Directors appointed a new general manager and other high-level management staff of
EHDC. In response to the need to prepare EHDC to assume the role as the most
important independent power producer in the province for commercial operation of the
Ertan scheme and for development of future projects on the Yalong River, the second
project (Ertan II Hydroelectric Project) included a Reform Implementation Plan,
supported by technical assistance and training to facilitate EHDC's transformation.
7.    With regard to resettlement, there has been a change of scope in terms of the
number of people to be affected. The first appraisal estimate was about 30,000 people,



- 3 -
based on 1984 census data. The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) for the second project
established that about 35,000 people would be relocated according to the revised plan
based on a physical survey and demarcation of the reservoir boundary after the 1992
census. More recently, the scope of resettlement impacts was further revised by the
Sichuan Provincial Resettlement Office (SPRO) to include those who will lose land only
and do not require relocation, those who will be indirectly affected by sliding reservoir
banks, and natural population growth until 1998. As a result, the total number of affected
people increased to 45,812 persons, of which 28,412 live in rural areas. Meanwhile, the
total budget of the plan was raised from Y 0.61 billion to about Y 2.0 billion and was
approved by the central government in November 1996. The resettlement budget on a
per person basis was more than doubled.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    The progress toward achieving the primary objective of the project, i.e., to build a
hydroelectric scheme of 3,300 MW, has been very satisfactory thus far. All the key target
dates of physical construction were met. By the end of October 1996, the dam was
approximately half complete in terms of height and volume. About 97 percent of the
excavation work and 63 percent of the concrete work was complete for the underground
powerhouse complex.  The installation of electrical and mechanical equipment
commenced as planned. This laid a solid ground for timely completion of the second
phase of the project. The reestimated Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR) is 14.26
percent using the most recent estimates of costs and benefits.
9.    The modem technology for dam and power station construction was successfully
introduced through: (a) the participation of the Advisory Group, which comprises 17
international experts on a permanent basis and about 30 on an ad-hoc basis specializing in
different technical and managerial areas; (b) training courses conducted in management
systems for hydropower construction and monitoring techniques for arch dams and
underground works; and (c) project studies. This is demonstrated by EHDC's capability
in managing the critical path of a project of this magnitude and complexity and achieving
timely implementation.
10.   EHDC was the first commercially independent power enterprise to be the
beneficiary of a Bank-financed power project in China. The successful incorporation of
EHDC furthered power sector and enterprise reforms in the country. EHDC's corporate
governance has been improved by the establishment of a Board of Directors following its
incorporation. This allows EHDC to make important management and investment
decisions on its own instead of seeking instructions from government agencies. The
institutional capability of EHDC has been improved during project implementation and
will be further strengthened upon completion of the ongoing study on organizational
restructuring and financial management.
11.   The resettlement of the affected population is being carried out successfully
according to the resettlement implementation plan. By the end of October 1996, 12,286



- 4 -
out of 28,482, or 43 percent of project-affected persons in rural areas were physically
relocated. To date, Y 947 million has been spent on resettlement. Significant physical
progress was achieved in construction of the new town, rural resettlement sites and
associated facilities, thus creating favorable conditions for completing all required
resettlement work before the end of 1997.
12.   Progress toward improving analyses of environmental and ecological impacts of
hydropower development was satisfactory.  With assistance from  a variety of
international experts, EHDC has been monitoring meteorological, hydrological, water
quality, sedimentation, and sanitation aspects of the project since 1993. Nine new
meteorological stations have been built and functioning since April 1996 and will provide
2-3 years' data before the filling of the reservoir scheduled in spring 1998. Three major
biodiversity surveys have been fielded so far to collect samples and specimens, which
covered the whole catchment area. These data will be used (a) to devise environmental
mitigation measures as required, and (b) to study the effects of a large dam to assist in the
evaluation of future projects.
13.   Financial performance was not reassessed at this stage because the project is still
at the construction stage. It will be fully assessed in the ICR for the second-phase project
(Ln. 3933-CHA).
C. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE PROJECT
Implementation Organization
14.   EHDC is the executing agency for the project. It has assigned construction
supervision and management responsibility to Ertan Engineering Corporation (EEC),
which is a subsidiary of EHDC, specially set up for the project. Chengdu Hydroelectric
Investigation and Design Institute (CHIDI) was contracted as the designer of the project.
CHIDI is one of the most experienced design institutes in China and has been responsible
for the design of several large hydroelectric projects.  Since the start of project
preparation, CHIDI and EEC have been assisted by an Advisory Group consisting of
international consultants, as well as three expert panels: the Special Board of Consultants
(SBC), the Environmental and Resettlement Panel (ERP), and a Dispute Review Board
(DRB). The SBC and ERP are composed of prominent foreign and Chinese experts in
their respective areas and have convened regularly to review and advise on important
technical and management matters. With the progress of the project, a mechanical and
electrical branch of SBC also met to review bid documents for the main equipment. The
DRB was set up to facilitate prompt resolution of disputes relating to civil works
contracts. The contractors and EHDC each selected a member of the DRB and the third
member, the chairman of DRB, was selected by the two sides.
15.   Resettlement of people and reconstruction of structures being displaced by the
reservoir and the construction site areas are carried out by SPRO, which is a
governmental body responsible for resettlement associated with large-scale hydropower
projects. EHDC signed a contract for independent monitoring and evaluation of the



resettlement program in October 1994 with the Resettlement Engineering Development
Center of Sichuan Province (REDC), which has a staff of 25 professionals.
Implementation Schedule
16.   The implementation schedule established in the SAR of the first project required
commencement of the main civil works on September 15, 1991, river closure by
December 1993, commissioning of the first unit on July 1, 1998 and the last unit on
April 1, 2000, and project completion by the end of the year 2000. Critical intermediate
dates for commissioning of the first unit are completion of powerhouse draft tube liner of
the first unit on October 1, 1996 and reservoir filling in spring 1998. It is a very
demanding schedule to build this large and complex a hydroelectric scheme in only nine
years instead of the originally planned 12 years, even for an experienced international
contractor. The nine-year implementation schedule was slightly revised in the SAR of
the second project by advancing the commissioning operation of the first unit by one
month and the last unit by four months.
17.   Despite some delays at various stages, but particularly at the beginning, project
management with the support of all concerned parties has been able to recoup the delays
and keep the construction on schedule (see Figure 1). The two major contractors of civil
works (Lot I for the dam and plunge pools, and Lot II for the underground powerhouse
complex) started work on September 15, 1991 as planned. The Yalong River was
successfully diverted in November 1993, one month ahead of schedule. The dam
foundation excavation was completed by January 1995. There was a five-month delay in
starting dam concrete placement; however, the accumulated delays were substantially
recovered in 1996. The monthly concrete production exceeded 200,000 m3 in October
1996, of which 150,000 m3 were placed in the dam. At the beginning of November 1996,
the arch dam was about 150 meters above ground level (designed height 240 m).
18.   For underground works, excavation was substantially completed in the
powerhouse cavern, headrace tunnels, the main transformer chamber, tailrace surge
chambers and tailrace tunnel No. 2. Excavation is continuing on tailrace tunnel No. 1.
Power conduits and penstock tunnels were completed in advance of the date required.
The draft tube liner of the first unit (Unit 6) was completed three months ahead of
schedule. By the end of October 1996, embedding the steel lining of the draft tube for the
second unit (Unit 5) was nearly completed and embedding the lining for the third unit
(Unit 4) was ongoing. The erection bay was handed over for installation of electric and
mechanical equipment by the milestone date (August 1, 1996).  Regarding the
construction of log-passing facilities, there were delays due to modification of the design
and a landslide that occurred in June 1996. EHDC has recently negotiated an agreement
with the Lot I contractor for partial completion of the log-passing structure by August
1997 and overall completion by the end of 1997. No major problems are foreseen in this
work.



- 6 -
19.   The contract for erection of electrical and mechanical equipment (Lot III) was
awarded on February 29, 1996. Notice to proceed was issued on April 1, 1996.
Construction at the gas-insulated switchgear (GIS) yard started on June 1, 1996. Soil
conditions and requirements for additional excavation and rock support caused some
initial delay. However, structural concrete work is now underway and progressing
satisfactorily on an accelerated basis to overcome the time lost. By the end of October
1996, erection of discharge and stay rings for Unit 6 was completed and 75 percent of the
spiral case segments were set and welding had begun.
20.   Major factors causing the delays were:
(a)   Institutional Problems. At the early stage of project implementation,
EHDC's inability to make quick decisions to solve problems encountered
during the construction was the major cause for initial delays. This was
largely overcome after the incorporation of EHDC in 1995.
(b)   Unforeseen  Geological Conditions, such  as Rockbursts, Rock
Movements and Cracking, and Landslides. Two major rock bursts
occurred in the powerhouse complex.  There has been considerable
additional support work carried out in critical areas. This was done
without significantly affecting critical activities although a major claim is
expected.
(c)   Problems Experienced in the Aggregate Production Plants.  This
includes undersized and improperly selected equipment and lack of
maintenance. In addition, the primary crusher had a major breakdown for
two months in December 1995 and January 1996. This was overcome by
the addition of supplementary equipment and improvement of
maintenance, so that aggregate production is no longer a critical path item.
Concrete production reached 200,000 m3 per month in October 1996.
(d)   Late Delivery of Drawings by CHIDI. This caused a significant delay
and has become a major concern. Late delivery and defects of employer-
supplied equipment and materials also caused delays. However, EHDC
substantially increased communication in this area, and project delays and
claims due to drawing delays are expected to decline. Other measures also
being taken to ensure timely delivery of drawings and employer-supplied
equipment and materials include development of computerized project
management systems.
21.   During the last few years, EHDC developed a number of computer databases to
keep records of project activities. However, the databases were not interrelated and did
not have the capability of scheduling and coordination. EHDC has undertaken to develop
an integrated computerized project management system to identify the critical path items
at any moment of construction and to coordinate all related activities. By the end of
October 1996, the master schedule was developed in some detail and continued to be



- 7 -
elaborated in critical areas, particularly those that have numerous interfaces between
contractors, equipment suppliers and/or designers. Systems for tracking the status of
equipment production and delivery, including production and review of manufacturers'
drawings, have also been largely developed, and continue to be refined.
Project Costs
22.   The estimated cost of the project at appraisal (excluding interest during
construction) was $896.4 million in foreign costs and Y 5,679.2 million in local costs,
equivalent to a total of $1,885.5 million. The latest estimates of the project cost to
completion were $941.87 million in foreign costs and Y 10,653.86 million in local costs,
equivalent to a total of $2,282.41 million (see Table 8). In total, there is a cost overrun of
about 21 percent when expressed in US dollars and 60 percent when expressed in local
currency. The cost overrun is largely due to: (a) the higher-than-expected inflation in
China (an inflation rate of 5 percent per year for 1993-2000 was projected at appraisal
compared to actual rates of 24 percent in 1993, 19.5 percent in 1994 and 14.9 percent in
1995, see Annex 5); (b) devaluation of the US dollar against major European currencies
during 1992-96, which resulted in exchange losses of $63.34 million; and (c) the
devaluation of the local currency from an exchange rate of Y 5.24/$1 at the time of
appraisal to Y 8.30/$1 in 1996. The foreign cost overrun is about 5 percent (equivalent to
$ 45.5 million) when expressed in US dollars, which can be attributed to: (a) the
procurement of power transformers changed from local to foreign suppliers ($17.9
million); (b) increased person-months for engineering and contract management ($21.8
million); and (c) a combination of exchange losses and deduction of duties and taxation.
With regard to local costs, significant cost variations were found in the following
components:
SAR estimate       Actual/latest estimate
(including contingencies)  (including contingencies)  Increase
(Y million)          (Y million)         (%)
Resettlement & land acquisition        635.8                2,259.49          255.0
Arch dam (Lot 1), local portion       1,828.01              2,552.02           39.6
Engineering /contract admin./          366.9                1,800.28          390.7
technical assistance, local portion
23.   Analyses of base cost estimates indicated that costs for resettlement and
engineering/contract administration/technical assistance were largely underestimated.
The scope of resettlement changed from 30,000 persons to 45,812 persons over the time,
and the resettlement cost on a per person basis more than doubled. Regarding the cost of
engineering/contract administration/technical assistance, for the local portion, there is a
significant real increase of person-month rates (almost quadrupled in five years). For the
foreign portion, there is an increased scope for consulting services for construction
management, totaling about 600 person-months (see para. 26).



- 8 -
24.   To verify the adequacy of various contingencies, detailed analyses have been
carried out for the two major civil contracts, i.e., Lot I (dam) and Lot II (underground
powerhouse). In terms of physical contingencies including changes in bill of quantities,
variation orders and claims, it was found that the original estimate of 10 percent for Lot I
is inadequate in comparison with the actual increase of about 16 percent and that the
original estimate of 20 percent for Lot II is close to the actual increase of about 22
percent. The difference in contingency allowances arises from the difference in the type
of work. Allowance of 20 percent and 1O percent is generally considered appropriate for
underground and surface work respectively. However, in retrospect, quantities and costs
for Lot I were also subject to considerable variations due to geological conditions.
Unforeseen geological conditions are a large factor in claims for extension of time, which
were eventually resolved through approval of additional costs for acceleration.
25.   With respect to price contingencies, it was found that the price contingency for
foreign currency adequately covered actual inflation except for foreign exchange losses
resulting from the devaluation of US dollars against major European currencies. The
exchange losses were, however, largely offset by deduction of duties and taxes. The price
contingency for local currency was significantly lower than the actual inflation level.
26.   In order to exclude the effects of inflation and devaluation, a more accurate cost
analysis has been carried out by de-escalating both foreign and local costs to the appraisal
date, using respective foreign and local inflation rates, combining the two at the appraisal
exchange rate, and comparing the resultant value with the appraisal estimates (including
physical contingencies). This analysis indicates a total cost overrun of about 22 percent,
which can be largely explained by the cost overrun of three components: (a) resettlement
by 138 percent ($130.4 million equivalent), (b) engineering/contract administration!
technical assistance by 223 percent ($162.2 million equivalent), and (c) the Lot I contract
by 7 percent ($42.1 million). The large resettlement cost overrun has been the norn for
hydroelectric projects in China. They are partly attributable to the lesser preparation
status of the resettlement component at the outset of the project, and partly to the fact that
increases of resettlement costs substantially exceed general inflation rates in times of
dynamic economic growth. Significant increases occurred in both foreign and local
components of engineering/contract administration. With regard to the foreign assistance
in these areas, the budgeted level of effort far exceeded anything previously used in
China. In any event, it proved to be inadequate, and it is to EHDC's credit that they
recognized this and increased expenditures in response to the need. The large overruns in
local costs is attributable to the fact that wages and salaries in this area have risen much
faster than the general inflation. In addition, in line with the corporatization of the power
sector, all costs (direct and indirect) are charged to the project, in contrast to the earlier
situation where significant proportions were off budget. The cost overrun in the civil
works can be attributed to unforeseen factors not taken into account in the contingency
allowance as explained above.
27.   An arrangement has been made to enhance the cost control in executing the
second phase. A cost control system is being developed, which would provide periodic



- 9 -
updates of current committed costs and expected costs to completion in the two
currencies of US Dollars and Renminbi. This system will be fully in place by the end of
May 1997. The agreed budget for Phase II advisory services includes provisions for a
cost engineer to initiate the cost control system and support it for a period of 18 months
so that it will be fully established and can be continued by others.
Procurement and Disbursement
28.   The project included 38 major procurement contracts, of which 9 entailed
international competitive bidding (ICB). The total amount of the procurement contracts
including the second phase was $2,350.3 million equivalent, of which $1,655.8 million
equivalent was under ICB packages. All procurement activities for the project were
performed in accordance with the Bank's procurement guidelines and were generally
carried out satisfactorily.  Involvement of foreign engineering consultants in the
procurement process and the use of Model Bidding Documents contributed to efficient
procurement. Disbursements were made ahead of the original estimates. The last
disbursement was made on December 17, 1996.
29.   Procurement was largely carried out as scheduled. The two major civil works
contracts were signed six days before the loan effective date, using retroactive financing.
This allowed timely commencement of civil works. Delays occurred in two major
procurement items, i.e., a seven-month delay for main transformers and a one-year delay
for gates and hoists. However, delivery of these items was not on the critical path of
construction. By the end of 1996, all major contracts were awarded, requiring no major
procurement tasks for the rest of the project period.
30.   The major civil works contracts (Lots I and II) were awarded to two joint ventures
respectively, each consisting of a number of foreign and domestic contractors. Both
contracts were signed on August 31, 1991. Lot I consists mainly of the dam and plunge
pool. Lot II is for the underground powerhouse, two spillway tunnels, a log-passing
tunnel, and two diversion tunnels. In retrospect, the division of civil works among two
major contractors was not ideal, resulting in an increased number of interfaces that led to
contractual difficulties. The contract for Lot III, installation of electrical and mechanical
equipment was awarded on February 29, 1996 to a joint venture of three local contractors
and a local equipment supplier.
31.   For supply of electrical and mechanical equipment, a single contract was
concluded on March 28, 1994 with a foreign manufacturer for supply of both hydraulic
turbines (6 sets) and generators (6 sets). Although four out of the six turbines and
generators will be supplied by the local manufacturers through subcontracting, the foreign
manufacturer will assume the full responsibility for the supply of all the contracted
equipment. This would greatly reduce the interfacing problem and ensure timely delivery
and quality of equipment. As the project is entering the phase of installation of electrical
and mechanical equipment, EHDC is planning to meet with the foreign manufacturer to
insist that they step up their control and supervision in all supplier factories.



- 10-
32.   For procurement of the main civil works, the DRB was set up to facilitate prompt
resolution of disputes. Up to the end of 1996, 23 claims and disputes were handled. This
has so far greatly accelerated the construction pace. However, dissatisfaction exists with
recent DRB recommendations, which was not found adequately justified.
Consulting Services, Training and Studies
33.   Due to the magnitude and complexity of the project, international consulting firms
have been engaged throughout the project period to assist EHDC and CHIDI in
construction management and design including contract administration, cost control,
scheduling, construction inspection and quality assurance, design engineering services,
and construction site administration. About 1,000 person-months of consulting services
were contracted for the first phase of the project. These services were financed through
grants, the Bank Group-supported Technical Cooperation Credit (TCC) and Loan 3387-
CHA. The advisory services were performed satisfactorily and made a significant
contribution to efficient project management.
34.   The advisory service has been retained for the second phase of the project and the
agreement was signed in December 1995. In total, 544 person-months were budgeted for
the period from July 1995 to 1999. The budget covers the services of (a) the core
advisory group providing general support and consultation on contractual matters, (b) the
DRB, (c) specialists in civil, underground, mechanical and electrical engineering,
(d) establishment of a cost control system, and (e) startup coordination during the
commissioning stage. The projected level of input and the anticipated staffing mix is
considered appropriate.
35.   Project training concentrated on modern management of hydropower construction
and decision-making techniques, particularly in project economics and investment
planning, preparation of reconnaissance and feasibility studies, construction management,
hydrology forecasting and measurements, monitoring procedures, resolution of claims
and disputes, tariff and power pricing, financial management, environmental protection,
human resettlement matters, safety and inspection of hydroworks, log transport facilities,
and personnel management. Training was conducted both abroad and in China. Some
domestic training was carried out by the Sino-Norwegian Training Center, sponsored by
EHDC and a Norwegian group and supported by Norwegian grants. Other training was
provided by a number of reputable Chinese universities and research institutes. In total,
228 persons received domestic training for 607 person-months.  The international
training, including visits to Canada, France, Norway and the United States, covered the
subjects of monitoring techniques for arch dams and underground works, engineering
management, environment and resettlement.
36.   Three studies were envisaged in the SAR, namely, power pricing, optimization of
plant and reservoir operations, and preparation of future power projects. Despite some
delays in starting these studies, they were all carried out satisfactorily. The power pricing
study was completed in April 1996. The optimization study and preparation of future



- 11 -
power projects study are expected to be completed in 1997. The results of the pricing
study and optimization study have provided a sound basis for setting the price formula
and dispatching provisions of a power purchase agreement (PPA). The PPA will be
signed in June 1997, under which EHDC would sell electricity generated from the Ertan
scheme to the Sichuan provincial grid. Since EHDC was incorporated as a generation
company in 1994, the implementation of retail tariff reforms is no longer relevant and is
carried forward by another Bank-financed project, i.e., the Sichuan Power Transmission
Project. The results of the study for preparation of future power projects were approved
by the Chinese authorities, and an investment is planned for a hydroelectric project
(Guandi) to be built on Yalong River as part of the cascade development plan (see Table
7).
Resettlement
37.   Resettlement was carried out satisfactorily according to the resettlement
implementation plan, which was updated during preparation of the second project to
incorporate lessons learned from the first project. In the initial period, only a small
number of people who lived in the construction site were relocated. Most of them moved
their houses to the higher elevation locations not far from their original homes.
Resettlement activities have been intensified for the last two years with increased
resettlement spending (Y 316 million for 1995 and Y 600 million for 1996). By the end
of October 1996, 12,286 out of 28,482, or 43 percent of project-affected persons in rural
areas were physically relocated, 397,603 m2 of new houses were built and 14,501 out of
27421 mu, or 53 percent of farmland, was developed. Significant physical progress has
been achieved in various aspects of the resettlement implementation, ranging from
construction of Yanbian New Town (housing 15,000 people), the Hongge rural
resettlement site (housing 7,000 people), the reservoir boundary road, and key irrigation
facilities, thus creating favorable conditions for completing all required resettlement work
before the end of 1997. While urban resettlement in 1997 is well planned and organized,
continuing resettlement efforts will concentrate on providing extensive assistance in
relocating rural people including transporting construction materials to the site, technical
advice on house construction, and helping to build houses for less able resettlers, e.g., the
elderly.
38.   The major factor that affected the progress of resettlement was the delayed
approval of the resettlement budget, which was only granted in November 1996 by the
central government. Meanwhile, resettlement had to proceed without an approved
budget. This slowed down the overall resettlement pace in 1995 and 1996 and a number
of resettlement projects lagged behind their implementation schedule. The other factor
that affected resettlement implementation was the lack of coordination mechanisms at the
early stage to link the allocation of the budget to each county with the quality and pace of
their resettlement implementation. Several rural settlements were built without proper
design and planning, and lack of user participation. SPRO has recently revised its work
plan and prepared a detailed timetable for each affected village, with milestone dates for
each implementation phase, and its supervision and coordination activities will be



- 12-
intensified in future implementation. In order to strengthen the training center of SPRO
for population resettlement and environmental impact, a grant provided by the
Institutional Development Fund (IDF) has been approved in association with the second
loan. It was agreed that the first training activity will be focused on providing training for
county-level resettlement staff of the Ertan project. The training will be held in Ertan
during the first half of 1997.
39.   Monitoring and evaluation of resettlement has been carried out by REDC. Key
staff members of REDC participated in the workshop for resettlement monitoring and
evaluation sponsored by the Bank and ODA in October 1994. Since then, resettlement
monitoring and evaluation reports were produced regularly by REDC based on the results
of their field surveys. The fourth and latest report covers the period up to April 1996.
These reports provided a detailed review of the resettlement status, and more importantly,
a detailed description of the changes of livelihood among resettlers.
40.   The environment component has been proceeding satisfactorily following the
environment management plan (EMP). The environmental assessment (EA) was revised
for the second phase to comply with more stringent national EA procedures and Bank
policies. The work carried out covered (a) public health and schistosomiasis treatment,
(b) construction worker health inspections, (c) biodiversity surveys, and (d) preservation
of cultural relics. Monitoring activities have so far focused on establishing environmental
baselines of the reservoir and catchment area, which includes biodiversity studies in the
reservoir area and monitoring systems in particular meteorological observatories. EHDC
has maintained a team of more than 200 staff members engaged in environment-related
activities.
41.   Historically, four townships under the jurisdiction of Yanbian County in the
location of the Ertan reservoir area had been an epidemic schistosomiasis area. The
disease had generally disappeared but was recurrent on a small scale. A control and
surveillance program was carried out with the assistance of the World Health
Organization (WHO). An agreement for schistosomiasis prevention was signed with the
Public Health Bureau of Yanbian County in February 1996 and Y 750,000 were spent on
the program. The prevention program includes treatments for human and animal
diseases, eradication of italics snails that are the intermediate host of schistosomiasis, and
management of excrement. Public awareness has been greatly increased since then.
However, recent investigation indicated that the snail eradication program has not been
totally effective to date. There is a need to revise the scope of the current control
program, and work in this regard is proceeding. Major preventive measures are planned
to be implemented before impoundment begins and to be continued thereafter.
42.   With regard to preservation of cultural relics, the task is undertaken by Panzhihua
Resettlement Bureau, which concluded a contract with the Provincial Cultural Relics
Management Department. Preliminary investigation of cultural relics in the reservoir
area was completed in 1995. The work of unearthing the cultural relics will be completed
by the end of 1997.



- 13 -
43.   Preparation for the biodiversity investigation started in March 1995.  The
agreement on biodiversity studies in the Ertan Reservoir Area was signed with the Rare
Fauna and Flora Research Institute of Sichuan Teachers' College in September 1995.
Foreign experts were engaged for both the bird and fish surveys. Investigations were
carried out through field walks, sample surveys, monitoring and interviews with the local
peasants. Terrestrial biodiversity subjects investigated were comprehensive and included
vegetation, birds, mammals, reptiles and amphibians. The aquatic biodiversity survey
covered a large number of sites.
44.   The monitoring systems started to function at different dates according to the
object of monitoring.  Water quality monitoring has been carried out since 1993,
sedimentation and wastewater, noise and air quality, aquatic resources since 1994, land
use and earthquake since 1995, water level/precipitation since 1996.  Nine new
meteorological monitoring stations have been built and functioning since April 1996 and
staffed with professional meteorologists to provide 2-3 years' data before the reservoir
impoundment. These data will be used (a) to devise environmental mitigation measures
if required and (b) to study the effects of large dams in the province to assist in the
evaluation of future projects.
45.   Establishment of a conservation management zone around the periphery of the
reservoir has been proceeding as planned. Large-scale mapping was delegated to the
Forestry Department to allow them to carry out detailed planning of a 100 m wide buffer
zone, the management of which will be covered by the EHDC budget. Construction of a
perireservoir highway, which is a component of the resettlement plan, has caused some
destruction of vegetation. EHDC has entrusted the construction company to take
effective water and soil conservation measures to minimize the adverse impact of road
construction. In the wider catchment area, the major issue identified in executing the
EMP is human activity causing environmental degradation, due largely to inappropriate
land use and insidious forest clearance. EHDC is taking measures to promote and
support the catchment rehabilitation including a preliminary plan to develop part of the
catchment area into a National Park. The Bank has cautioned that this will need careful
planning to allow achievement of both tourism and conservation objectives. In addition,
a workshop focusing on watershed issues for the five counties affected by the reservoir
will be convened in Chengdu in 1997 by the SPRO Training Center.
Economic Rate of Return
46.   At appraisal, the internal economic rate of return (IERR) was estimated at about
15.0 percent, based on the shadow-priced investment and O&M costs and the covenanted
tariff level. The IERR was reestimated using the most recent estimates of costs
(including sunk costs) and benefits. The calculation is based on an economic cost 14
percent higher than the estimated economic cost at appraisal. However, in present value
terms (both costs discounted to the same year at 12 percent), the revised cost is only 5.2
percent higher than the original estimates. The 5.2 percent cost increase would result in a
reduced IERR from 14.90 percent (appraisal estimate) to 14.49 percent, if the benefits



- 14 -
remain unchanged (see Case 2). In spite of the cost increase, the return of the project is
still higher than the opportunity cost (12 percent) of capital investment in China.
47.   However, given the profound changes in power pricing in China, the benefits also
should be revised. They are estimated based on a proxy of SEPC's (the buyer)
willingness to pay for new generation at the plant gate. The highest price that SEPC is
current paying is 44.9 fen/kWh for purchase of power from a new coal-fired, fluidized-
bed combustion thermal power plant. However, this price is considered rather high
because of the new technology involved in the power plant. A better proxy of SEPC's
willingness to pay is the average value (35.0 fen/kWh, 1996 price) for purchase power
from new conventional coal-fired plants. This approach yielded an IERR of 16.11
percent. This shows that the increased plant-gate price (about 12 percent higher than the
covenanted tariff in real terms) outweighs the cost overrun of the project.
48.   A comparison of IERRs under different assumptions is shown below:
Case       Economic Costs                   Benefits              IERR (%)
1  Appraisal                 Appraisal (covenanted tariff at plant  14.90
Present value (1991)     gate, 16 fen/kWh, 1991 price)
Y 5,568 million, 1991 price
2   Reestimated              The same as appraisal                14.47
Present value (1991)
Y 5,860 million, 1991 price
3   Reestimated              Reestimated (proxy of SEPC' s        16.11
Present value (1991)     willingness to pay for new generation,
Y 5,860 million, 1991 price  18 fen/kWh, 1991 price)
49.   Finally, if the full cost of the transmission cost is added to the project cost, the
IERR would be reduced to 13.2 percent. This minimum IERR to be expected from the
project is still higher than the test discount rate of 12 percent. It should be noted that this
very conservative estimate does not take into account that a large part of the power will
be produced during peak hours and has therefore a higher value to the system. A more
accurate estimate will be carried out following completion of the reservoir optimization
study.
50.  It should also be noted that none of the above calculations has taken into account
the environmental benefits of the project. The project will avoid mining, transporting,
and burning of some 10 million tons of raw coal a year in Sichuan Province, which has
the highest level of air pollution in China. According to the detailed simulation of two



- 15-
systems (with and without) carried out during the preparation for the second phase, in the
without-Ertan project case, S02 emissions in the province would increase 10,200 tons per
year for the period 1998-99, 236,500 tons for 2000-04, 198,300 tons for 2005-09, and
252,500 tons for 2010 and beyond. It is estimated that annual emission of about 6,000
tons of fine particulates (PM1O) will be avoided as a result of Ertan hydropower
generation. The externality cost of SO2 and particulates emission is in the range of $400-
$5,000 and $20-$90 per ton, respectively.' If the lowest value of the control cost is used
as a proxy of the externality value to estimate the minimum environmental benefits of the
project, the IERR  will be increased to 17.39 percent.  Furthermore, hydropower
generation from the Ertan Scheme will avoid emission of about 5 million tons of CO2
each year. If this is credited to the project, an IERR of 17.99 percent will be obtained
using a lower-range value of climate change externality cost2 and an IERR of 18.71
percent using a higher-range value (see Annex 6).
Project Risks
51.   To complement the above deterministic analysis, risk analyses have been
performed using a probabilistic approach to assess the impact of the perceived risk factors
that affect the return of the project. Five broad categories of risk have been considered in
the analysis:
(a)    Demand Risk. Demand risk is related to lower load growth than expected
and/or breach of contract by the purchaser. Demand risk is not perceived
as a major risk factor in the short term with energy shortages prevailing in
the Sichuan Provincial Power Grid. However, a low-load growth and/or
an important reduction in electricity offtake could jeopardize the economic
viability of the project.
(b)    Price Risk. Price risk is related to the willingness and ability of the power
purchaser to pay and/or changes in pricing policy. This risk is normally
mitigated or managed through long-term contractual arrangements and/or
the financial covenants of the project. However, experience shows that the
seller could still be confronted with unexpected price changes.
(c)    Cost Risk. This risk is significantly reduced at this stage of the project
with all the major contracts signed and major excavation works completed.
However, delays of construction due to interfacing problems between
different equipment suppliers and unforeseen site conditions may still
cause cost overrun.
Source of information: Economic Analysis of Environmental Impacts by J.A. Dixon, L.F. Scura,
R.A. Carpenter and P.B. Sherman, published in association with the Asian Development Bank (ADB)
and the World Bank, 1994.
2 Source of information: Economic Evaluation of Environmental Impacts, A Workbook, published by
ADB in March 1996.



- 16 -
(d)    Operational Performance Risk. Poor operational performance could be
caused by: (i) low quality of generating equipment and facilities, and
(ii) inadequate maintenance and poor management.
(e)    Hydrological Risk. The uncertainty of hydrology was captured in the
basic simulation model analyses of the hydropower system energy yield.
The financial implications of the higher and/or lower-than-expected output
has been investigated in the risk analysis.
52.   Based on the foregoing considerations and extensive sensitivity analyses, four
variables have been selected as the crucial risk variables because of their significant
impact on the project economic viability. Annex 6.3 presents the selected variables, the
assumed value ranges and the probability distributions attached to them based on past
Bank experience in power projects in general and China in particular.
53.   The risk analysis was carried out with the Risk Master computer software, which
uses the Monte Carlo simulation3 technique (see Annex 6.3). The expected IERR, based
on the weighted average of all simulated combinations (1,000 simulations), is 15.81
percent (with a standard deviation of 1.4 percent), only about 0.3 percent lower than the
base case value without consideration of project risks. This suggests that the uncertainty
of the return of the project investment is much reduced at the completion of the first-
phase construction.   The minimum  and maximum  IERR, under the considered
uncertainties, are respectively 11.58 and 19.29 percent. The probability of a negative
outcome (negative net present value) is zero. And finally, the probability for the IERR to
be below the considered discount rate (12 percent) is negligible. All the above analyses
clearly show that the project is robust under future uncertainties.
Financial Performance
54.   Financial performance was not reassessed at this stage since the project will not
generate income until 1998. The actual FY91-95 financial statements attached at
Annex 1, Tables 2 and 3, were prepared following the new accounting regulations
effective July 1, 1993. The estimated financial statements given in the SAR are not
included in this ICR because they were prepared based on the old Chinese accounting
system and therefore do not correspond to the actual statements.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
55.   The project is sustainable because all necessary conditions were or are likely to be
achieved:  (a) the construction of the first phase was on time; (b) the project
implementation organization was structured following modem management practice and
3 Monte Carlo simulation works by generating a series of random numbers following the distribution of
probability of each risk variable. For each simulation that represents a combination of different state of
four variables, IERR is calculated and recorded. The results of 1,000 simulations are averaged.



- 17 -
has had a proven record of working efficiently in the last five years; (c) the institutional
capability of EHDC has been strengthened in the course of implementation; (d) efficient
procurement arrangements for the supply of electrical and mechanical equipment led to
reduced interfacing problems; and (e) transfer of modem management technology will
continue in the second phase through continued involvement of international consulting
services.
56.   As an essential external element, the demand for electricity remains high as power
shortages continue to be acute and economic growth has been sustained at a high level.
On the commercial side, in July 1995, EHDC signed an agreement with SEPC for sales/
purchases of power generated from the Ertan scheme to the provincial grid. Despite the
fact that the agreement is not a full PPA, it laid down the pricing principles that will
allow EHDC to cover all operating costs, full repayment of loan principal and interest,
and an agreed profit margin. By June 1997, EHDC and SEPC will sign a full PPA for
selling Ertan power to the grid. The results of the power pricing study and the
optimization study of the plant and reservoir operation will provide a rational basis for
negotiating a PPA that would ensure financial viability of EHDC as well as efficient use
of the resources in the province.
57.   The resettlement objective, i.e., to provide the affected people with a better
standard of living than before the project, can be achieved because of a very
comprehensive resettlement plan and matching budget in place, construction of the new
sites as scheduled, and an effective monitoring system with participation of an
independent agency. With respect to environmental sustainability, the Ertan project has
relatively benign environmental impacts when compared to thermal alternatives.
Through continued monitoring, additional mitigation measures can be devised and
implemented as necessary.
E. BANK PERFORMANCE
58.   Bank performance from  project preparation to implementation was highly
satisfactory. At the early stage, the Bank supported the establishment of EHDC as
commercially independent entity responsible for construction of the project, instead of as
a provincial power utility as was the practice at that time in China. Later on, the Bank
supported the reorganization of EHDC as a limited liability company in line with China's
enterprise reform policy.
59.   Drawing lessons from other projects regarding the interfacing problems caused by
an excessive number of contract packages and the benefits of having international experts
involved in the construction management, the Bank played an instrumental role in
structuring the procurement arrangements for goods and services.  This included
(a) conclusion of a single contract with one foreign firm assuming full responsibility for
supply of both hydraulic turbines and generators, and (b) extension of consulting services
provided by the Advisory Group into the second phase.  The first would reduce
interfacing problems and thereby reduce potential delays in equipment delivery,



- 18-
equipment defects and mismatching. The latter would enhance the project management
of the second phase by continued transfer of modem management practices.
60.  In order to meet the implementation schedule, the Bank arranged the second loan
in a timely manner to allow for the continuation of construction. Seeing that lack of
funds had postponed preparation of a 500 kV transmission line project (which was not
part of the project and was originally planned to be financed locally) to send electricity
generated from Ertan to the provincial grid, the Bank provided Loan 3848-CHA to
finance the Sichuan Transmission Project.
61.   The Bank regularly supervised the project and attached high priority to
implementation issues related to resettlement and environmental aspects. The Bank
advised high-level government officials on delayed approval of the resettlement
implementation plan (budget) when it had become a major cause of delayed resettlement.
This accelerated the approval process. During the recent supervision missions, the Bank
identified environmental problems owing to tree cutting by local farmers and advised
EHDC to take actions for catchment rehabilitation and development.
F. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
62.   EHDC has successfully implemented the first phase of the project. Its primary
achievement was to meet all the milestone dates of the physical construction. Its
institutional capability has been strengthened in the course of transforming itself to a
limited liability company, which contributed to further the power sector and enterprise
reforms in China. To become better prepared to undertake its future operational and
commercial functions, EHDC promptly arranged inception of the study of organizational
restructuring and financial management systems in the second phase at the suggestion of
the Bank. Throughout the implementation of the project, the performance of EHDC was
highly satisfactory.
63.   EHDC has been open to new technologies and construction management
techniques and willing to adopt the best practice in terms of organization and project
management systems.  The successful integration of the Advisory Group into the
management team was largely responsible for efficient management of construction.
When delays occurred at various stages of construction, EHDC was able to promptly
identify the problems on the critical path and take measures to solve them. Recently,
EHDC has reached a settlement (with a value of about $65 million) with the Lot 1
contractor for all claims for time extension up until May 31, 1996 in order to reestablish
the original contract completion dates.
64.   EHDC has a strong sense of project ownership and this was reflected in the fact
that for at least the past two years, EHDC, with the support of its Board of Directors,
covered investment expenditures of about $110 million for both resettlement and
environment, in the absence of an approved budget from the central government (the
budget was only granted in November 1996). This prevented serious delays in executing
resettlement and environment programs.



- 19 -
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
65.   Progress toward achievement of all project objectives was substantial and laid a
solid ground for timely completion of the second project. The project outcome is rated as
highly satisfactory.  Sustainability is likely.  Bank performance is rated highly
satisfactory during project identification, preparation assistance and supervision, and
satisfactory for appraisal. Borrower performance is rated highly satisfactory for project
implementation and covenant compliance and satisfactory for project preparation.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
66.   The Ertan project is still under construction. Its second-phase implementation in
terms of physical construction, environment management program, resettlement action
plan, institutional development and financial performance will continue to be monitored
according to key (implementation) monitoring indicators set out in the SAR for the
second project (see Annex 4).
67.   To prepare for future operation, 29 graduates from colleges and/or professional
schools were hired in 1995 and sent to Geheyan Hydropower Station for one year of
training. In 1996, 120 more graduates were employed as part of the future operation
staff. EHDC has also employed five experienced technical persons from other power
stations in China. They will serve as the operating backbone in the future. In addition,
EHDC signed an agreement in 1996 with Gezhouba Hydropower Plant, which will assist
EHDC in preparation, operation, and maintenance of the Ertan Hydropower Plant for the
period 1996-2000.
68.   Preparation of performance indicators for future operation was discussed during
the November 1996 supervision mission. Due to the need to incorporate the outcome of
the optimization study (ongoing study) in the operation plan of the plant and reservoir,
the operation plan including performance indicators will be prepared in 1997 when the
study results become available and will be included in the ICR for the second project.
1. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
69.   Ertan is the first large-scale hydroelectric project in China to use only
international contracting and construction management procedures.  Many of the
difficulties experienced in implementing the new system were caused by the relative
newness of economic and enterprise reform in China. In retrospect, it is doubtful that
matters could have been handled differently.  However, given the economic and
enterprise reforms that have now occurred and the prospects for even broader reform, it is
possible to formulate key lessons from project implementation that will benefit future
projects and the second phase of the Ertan Project. The key lessons are summarized as
follows:
(a)   In implementing a project of the magnitude and complexity of Ertan,
implementation will be greatly assisted if there is an implementing



- 20 -
organization in place at the outset of the project, which is commercially
independent and has full decision-making authority and responsibility for
its performance. Initial delays in project implementation, resulting in
sizable contractors' claims for acceleration, largely resulted from EHDC's
inability to make timely decisions. The incorporation of EHDC in 1995
(four years after the commencement of construction) as a limited liability
company led to major improvements in this regard, allowing EHDC to
make quick decisions on its own instead of seeking instructions from
government agencies. This single factor is largely responsible for the
recovery from earlier difficulties, to the currently successful
implementation and probability of timely completion of the second
project.
(b)   Prior to the start of construction, construction management personnel
should be trained in contract administration and modem project
management techniques. This training should include deputation for
substantial periods to ongoing projects where these techniques are in use.
China routinely undertakes similar training of operating personnel prior to
the commissioning of all large hydropower plants and this is very
successful. Similar training of construction management personnel will
increase their competence and improve response time through allowing
increased delegation rather than involving senior management in matters
of detail.
(c)   Improved communication among various parties (owner, engineer,
designer, advisors and contractors, etc.) should be actively pursued from
the outset, to avoid misunderstandings which could cause delays and/or
losses to the project. Communication difficulties were perhaps the most
difficult to resolve in construction of the Ertan scheme. This issue is not
simply of translation between different languages, but of communicating
ideas and concepts across international boundaries of training and culture.
(d)   Development of project management systems should also commence
before construction in order to manage construction more efficiently.
These should include contractual documentation management systems, a
project master schedule, a procurement and delivery schedule for
employer-supplied equipment, a design drawing control system and cost
control system. EHDC has now developed systems in most of these areas,
which has resulted in less exposure of EHDC to claims resulting from
delayed supply of information or equipment.
(e)   In the future, consideration should also be given to reducing interfacing by
procuring equipment in smaller numbers of larger packages. In retrospect,
the division of civil works activities among two major contractors was not



- 21 -
ideal, resulting in an increased number of interfaces that led to contractual
difficulties.
(f)    With regard to resettlement, the lessons learned are the necessity to
advance the preparation of the resettlement implementation plan at the
outset of the project, which will allow a better coordination of various
resettlement activities and more detailed cost estimates to be carried out.
In this project, the problems encountered in implementing the resettlement
component at the early stage were largely due to a lack of a detailed
resettlement implementation plan, which was only completed in 1995. In
addition, in preparing the resettlement cost estimates, adequate
contingency allowances should be made to cover the costs of
compensation and the measures necessary to restore incomes.



- 22 -
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENT
A. Achievement of Objectives       Substantial      Partial    Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic policies                                                              x
Sector policies                          x
Financial objectives                     x
Institutional development                x
Physical objectives                      x
Poverty reduction                                                                   x
Gender issues                                                                       x
Other social objectives                  x
Environmental objectives                 x
Public sector management                                                            x
Private sector development                                                          x
B Project Sustainability                  Likely             Unlikely           Uncertain
x
C. Bank Performance                   Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory        Deficient
identification                                x
Preparation assistance                        x
Appraisal                                                           x
Supervision                                   x
D. Borrower Performance                Highly Satisfactory      Satisfactory       Deficient
Preparation                                                         x
Implementation                              x
Covenant compliance                         x
Operation (if applicable)
E. Assessment of Outcome        Highly         Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory      Highly
Satisfactory                                      Unsatisfactory
x



- 23 -
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS
Year of
Loan Title                     Purpose                Approval         Status
Ln. 2382-CHA           To construct a rockfill damn, a spillway, an  02/21/84  Loan was closed on
Lubuge Hydroelectric    underground powerhouse, to install 4 gen-     06/30/92.
Project                erating units of 150 MW each, 3 single
circuits of 220 kV transmission lines; to
provide consultant services and a training
program.
Ln. 2493-CHA           To construct a 500 kV transmission line    02/19/85  Loan was closed on
Second Power Project    from Xuzhou to Shanghai and 5 associated      06/30/92.
substations totaling 3,500 MVA in capa-
city, to install telecontrol and telecommu-
nications equipment for load dispatching,
and to provide training for 400 kV trans-
mission lines and substations.
Ln. 2706-CHA &         To construct a coal-fired thermal power    05/29/86  First loan closed
Ln. 2955-CHA           project with two units of 600 MW and two  06/14/88   06/30/94. Second loan
Beilungang Thermal    single circuit of 500 kV transmission lines,    closed 06/30/95.
Power Projects I and 11   and to carry out a tariff study, a study on
ZPEPB reorganization and management
improvement and a study for improvement
of distribution networks for the cities of
Ningbo and Hangzhou.
Ln. 2707-CHA           To construct a 110 m high concrete  05/29/86  Loan was closed on
Yantan Hydroelectric   gravity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse,         06/30/94.
Project                and a shiplift; to install 4 generating units
of 275 MW each, 2 single circuits of
500 kV transmission lines and 3 associated
substations; and to carry out a training
program.
Ln. 2775-CHA &         To construct a 101 m high concrete grav-   01/06/87  Closed 6/30/93.
Ln. 3515-CHA           ity dam, a spillway, a powerhouse and a        ICR for first project
Shuikou Hydroelectric    navigation lock; to install 7 generating     issued 4/28/96.
Projects I & II        units of 200 MW each; to carry out a
resettlement program in the reservoir.
To complete the ongoing Shuikou dam  09/01/92   12/31/97.
and hydroelectric power plan, upgrade the
control and data acquisition system of the
Fujian grid, canry out an action plan for
tariff reform, and a training program for
planning and financial management.



- 24 -
Table 2: (Cont'd)
Year of
Loan Title                    Purpose                  Approval         Status
Ln. 3387-CHA &     To construct a 240 m high arch dam with an    07/02/91  Implementation under
Ln. 3933-CHA       underground powerhouse, to install six 550-  &    way. Closing dates
Ertan Hydroelectric   MW generating units and associated equip-    08/22/95  12/31/96 & 12/31/2001.
Projects I & II    ment; to carry out an environmental manage-
ment program, studies of power pricing and
reservoir operation, and a training program.
Cr. 2305-CHA &      To construct a 56 m high gravity dam and an   10/31/91  Implementation under
Ln. 3412-CHA        underground powerhouse with 4 x 60 MW            way. Closing date
Daguangba Multi-    generating units; to erect a 36 km long          12/31/97.
purpose Project     double-circuit 220 kV transmission line and
to build canals to irrigate 12,700 ha of land.
Ln. 3433-CHA        To install 2 300-MW generating units and  01/14/92  Implementation under
Yanshi Thermal     five 220-kV transmission lines and asso-          way. Closing date
Power Project      ciated substations; to carry out a tariff study,  12/31/97.
a tariff action plan, and a training program
for upgrading the technical, fnancial and
management skills for HPEPB staff.
Ln. 3462-CHA       To install 2 additional 600 MW generating  04/12/92  Implementation under
Zouxian Thermal    units; to construct 500 kV and 220 kV trans-      way. Closing date
Power Project      mission lines and substations; and to carry       06/30/99.
out an air quality control study, a power tariff
study, an action plan for tariff adjustment,
and a training program for the technical,
financial, and management staff of SPEPB.
Ln. 3606-CHA       To construct a pumped-storage hydroelectric   05/18/93  Implementation under
Tianhuangping      power plant with six 300 MW reversible            way. Closing date
Hydroelectric Project  pump-turbine units, together with upper and   12/31/2001.
lower reservoirs, a water conveyance system,
an underground powerhouse; to erect 250 km
long 500 kV transmission lines; to carry out
studies of optimal power plant operation and
its output pricing; and to strengthen the
beneficiary's organization through technical
assistance and training.



- 25 -
Table 2: (Cont'd)
Year of
Loan Title                       Purpose                   Approval       Status
Ln. 3718-CHA           To construct a coal-fired thermal power plant   03/22/94  Implementation
Yangzhou Thermal       with two 600 MW generating units; to erect          under way. Closing
Power Project          two 500 kV transmission lines (30 km long);         date 12/31/2000.
to extend technical assistance for the develop-
ment and implementation of improved
accounting and financial management infor-
mation systems; and undertake management
development and staff training.
Ln. 3848-CHA           To construct a new 500 kV transmission    02/28/95    Implementation
Sichuan Transmission   network consisting of 2,260 km of transmis-           commenced.
Project                sion lines and 5,250 MVA of substations;              Closing date
provide technical assistance for implementa-         12/31/2001.
tion of sector reform plan, organizational
improvements and financial management
systems.
Ln. 3846-CHA           To construct Beilungang Phase II power plant   02/28/95    Implementation
Zhejiang Power         consisting of three 600 MW coal-fired units;          commenced.
Development Project    to construct 400 circuit-km of 500 kV trans-          Closing date
mission lines, 2,250 MVA of 500 kV substa-           12/31/2002.
tions and reinforce distribution networks in
Hangzhou and Ningbo; to extend technical
assistance to assist the power company in
commercialization and corporatization, estab-
lish computerized financial management
information system, improve transmission and
distribution planning and upgrade environ-
mental monitoring.
Ln. 3980-CHA           To construct two 600 MW coal-fired thermal   02/27/96    Implementation
Henan (Qinbei) Thermal  power units; to erect two 165 km 500 kV              commenced..
Power Project          transmission lines; to assist HPEPB in engi-          Closing date
neering, procurement and construction super-         12/31/2002.
vision; and to extend technical assistance to
support the implementation of the power
sector reform action plan.



- 26 -
TABLE 3: PROJECT TIMETABLE
Steps in project cycle               Date planned                 Date Actual/latest estimate
Identification/Preparation                                                 07/03/87
Appraisal                               12/89                               11/26/89
Negotiations                                                               03/25/91
Board presentation                      07/91                              07/02/91
Signing                                 07/91                              07/11/91
Effectiveness                           09/91                              09/06/91
Project completion La                   12/31/2000                          12/31/2000
Loan closing                            12/31/96                            12/31/96
La Including Phases I and II.
TABLE 4: LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
FY92      FY93       FY94       FY95        FY96       FY97
Appraisal estimnate               110.0      213.0     286.0      380.0
Actual                            139.1      243.5     294.4      371.1      377.0     380.0
Actual as % of estimate           126.5      114.5     102.9       97.7
Date of final disbursement
December 17, 1996



- 27 -
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
(Refer to Figure 1)
Note: Key monitoring indicators for implementation of the second-phase project are
attached in Annex 4.
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION
(Not Applicable at this stage but will be included for Phase II)



- 28 -
TABLE 7: STUDIES INCLUDED IN THE PROJECT
Study              Purpose             Status                   Impact of Study
Power pricing study  To provide a basis   Contract signed in July 1994 Study results on the Ertan power sale price
for price determina-                        will be used to establish the price formula
tion in PPA and pro- Final report completed April in negotiating the PPA between EHDC and
mote tariff reforms   1996                  SEPC. PPA will be signed in June 1997
in the Sichuan grid
Since EHDC was incorporated as a gener-
ating company in 1995, retail tariff reform
in the provincial grid is no longer relevant
to EHDC. The study results of retail tariff
structure and level have been followed up
through another Bank financed project in
the province-Sichuan Transmission Proj-
ect (Ln.3848-CHA) for implementation of
sector reform plan.
Optimization of    To examine the tech- Contract signed in      The study results will be incorporated in the
reservoir operations  nical and economic  November 1995         price formula and dispatch arrangements in
aspects of operating                        PPA to achieve the objectives of (a) mini-
the Ertan Hydroelec- Expected completion date   mizing thermal generation in the Sichuan
tric Station and its   May 1997             grid and (b) maximizing the profit of
storage reservoir and                       EHDC under the terms and conditions of
to establish rules and                      PPA
procedures for their
optimum exploita-                           The study results will be used to formulate
tion                                        an operating plan (including rule curves)of
the plant and the reservoir
Techniques and software for power system
operation optimization has been transferred
to HDC staff members along with the
progress of the study.
Preparation of future To help prepare  Contract signed in October  The study effectively helped prepare future
power projects     EHDC's future       1993                     projects to be undertaken by EHDC on the
projects                                    Yalong river:
The study includes prepara- * One of the study results "Yalong River
tion of                    Cascade Development Plan" was
* Prefeasibility study for  approved by Chinese authorities in 1995,
Tongzhiling Hydroelectric  in which 5 projects were identified, with
Project (completed in    Guandi Hydroelectric Project to be the
1994)                    next to be built.
* Yalong River Cascade    * A prefeasibility study and site selection
Development Plan (com-   report for Guandi Hydroelectric Project
pleted in 1995)          was approved in March 1996.
* Prefeasibility study for
Guandi Hydroelectric
Project (completed in
December 1995)
* Feasibility study of
Guandi Hydroelectric
Project (ongoing)
Expected completion date
December 1997.



- 29 -
TABLE 8A-1: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate ($ M)              Actual/latest ($ M)*
Local   Foreign    Total           Local      Foreign    Total
Preparatory works                    102.4       0.0    102.4            79.27                  79.27
Resettlement                          82.3       0.0     82.3           227.95                 227.95
Land acquisition                       7.1       0.0      7.1            10.15                  10.15
Arch dam (lot no. 1)                 217.8     284.3    502.2           315.76      375.94     691.70
Powerhouse (lot no. 2)               159.8    212.4    372.3            216.03      308.32     524.35
E&M equipment/a                      108.7     148.7    257.4            141.77     200.32     342.09
Engineering/Contract admin. /b        52.3      19.4    71.7            221.16       40.12     261.28
Training & Studies                     1.2       1.8      3.0             4.18        1.54       5.72
Environmental protection               1.6       0.3       1.9            4.10                   4.10
Total Base Cost                    733.1     667.0  1,400.1         1,220.37     926.24    2,146.61
Contingencies:
Physical                             80.8      83.2    164.0            25.16       11.24      36.40
Price                               107.9     120.8    228.7            21.31        4.38      25.70
Taxes and duties                      67.3      25.5     92.8            73.70                  73.70
Total Project Cost                989.1      896.4  1,885.5         1,340.54     941.87    2,281.41
Interest during construction (IDC)   342.9     258.7    601.6           552.30      233.60     785.90
Total Financing Required         1,332.0   1,155.1  2,487.1         1,892.84    1,175.47    3,068.31
L/ Including transformers and gates/hoists, etc.
/b Including technical assistance



-30 -
TABLE 8A-2: PROJECT COSTS
Appraisal estimate (Y million)        Actual/latest (Y million)
Local   Foreign    Total          Local     Foreign     Total
Preparatory works                    439.1       0.0   439.1           468.40                468.40
Resettlement                         429.4       0.0   429.4          1,797.08              1,797.08
Land acquisition                      26-9       0.0    26.9            67.11                 67.11
Arch dam (lot no. 1)               1,140.3   1,488.8  2,629.0         2,461.42   2,725.04    5,186.46
Powerhouse (lot no. 2)               836.7   1,112.0  1,948.7         1,604.23   2,194.51    3,798.74
E&M equipmentLa                      568.9    778.9   1347.8          1,176.70   1,662.66    2,839.36
Engineering & Contract administration  256.9   98.3    355.3          1,643.77    310.87    1,954.64
Training&Studies                       6.1       9.5     15.6           30.8       12.78      43.58
Environmental protection               8.3       1.5     9.9            33.8                  33.8
Total Base Cost                  3,712.5   3,488.9  7,201.4        9,283.31   6,905.87   16,189.18
Contingencies:
Physical                            423.0    435.3    858.3           208.84      93.32     302.16
Price                             1,191.2   1,320.3  2,511.5          549.71      53.77     603.47
Taxes and duties                     352.5     133.2   485.7           612.00                612.00
Total Project Cost               5,679.2   5,377.7  11,056.9      10,653.86   7,052.95   17,706.81
Interest during construction (IDC)  1,794.9   1,354.5  3,149.4        4,540.90   1,881.20    6,422.10
Total Financing Required        7,474.1   6,732.2  14,206.3       15,194.76   8,934.15   24,128.91
Za Including transformers and gates/hoists, etc.
TABLE 8B: PROJECT FINANCING
($ million equivalent)
Appraisal estimate ($ M)              Actual/latest (X M)
Local   Foreign    Total          Local     Foreign     Total
IBRD                                  -       380.0    380.0            0.00    780.00      780.00
IDA (TCC)                             -        3.3      3.3             0.00      2.58        2.58
US Exim Bank Credit                   -        30.0    30.0             0.00      0.00        0.00
Guarantee financing                   0.00      0.00     0.00           0.00    150.00      150.00
Norwegian Grant                       -         5.0     5.0             0.00      5.00        5.00
GOC (through SEIC)                  666.0     129.4   795.4           803.34       0.00     803.34
Sichuan (through ETIC)              666.0     129.4   795.4           803.34      0.00      803.34
SDIC Equity                           0.00     0.00     0.00          238.92      0.00      238.92
SIC Equity                           0.00      0.00     0.00          238.92      0.00      238.92
SEPC                                  0.00      0.00    0.00            19.91     0.00       19.91
Other financing                       -      478.00   478.00            0.00     26.30       26.30
Total                      1,332.00   1,155.10 2,487.10      2,104.43    963.88    3,068.31



-31 -
TABLE 9: REESTIMATED ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS
(1996 Constant Million Yuan)
Year       Generation     Fuel        O&M          Total       Benefit                    Net
Capital Cost   Cost         Cost         Cost        GWh         M Yuan       Benefit
1991        1,128.33      0.00         0.00      1,128.33        0.00         0.00    -1,128.33
1992        3,193.95      0.00         0.00      3,193.95        0.00         0.00    -3,193.95
1993        1,472.89      0.00         0.00      1,472.89        0.00         0.00     -1,472.89
1994        1,510.31      0.00         0.00      1,510.31        0.00         0.00     -1,510.31
1995        1,786.43      0.00         0.00      1,786.43        0.00         0.00     -1,786.43
1996        3,791.49      0.00         0.00      3,791.49        0.00         0.00     -3,791.49
1997        4,486.28      0.00         0.00      4,486.28        0.00         0.00    -4,486.28
1998        1,472.59      0.00       188.42      1,661.01     1,198.00      419.30     -1,241.71
1999         523.79       0.00       193.66       717.45     10,032.00    3,511.20     2,793.75
2000          128.58      0.00       194.95        323.53    15,273.00     5,345.55     5,022.02
2001           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    15,878.00     5,557.30     5,362.35
2002           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    16,094.00     5,632.90    5,437.95
2003           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    15,897.00     5,563.95     5,369.00
2004           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    15,885.70     5,560.00     5,365.05
2005           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    16,071.00     5,624.85     5,429.90
2006           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    15,990.90     5,596.82    5,401.87
2007           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    16,531.00     5,785.85    5,590.90
2008           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    16,574.10     5,800.94    5,605.99
2009           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    16,124.60     5,643.61    5,448.66
2010           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2011           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86    5,950.91
2012           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86    5,950.91
2013           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2014           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2015           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2016           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2017           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86    5,950.91
2018           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2019           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2020           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86    5,950.91
2021           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86    5,950.91
2022           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2023           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2024           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2025           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
2026           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86    5,950.91
2027           0.00       0.00       194.95        194.95    17,559.60     6,145.86     5,950.91
Total      19,494.64      0.00      5,840.58     25,335.22    487,622.10    170,667.74    145,332.51
Present ValueLa   11,350.80   0.00        707.24     12,058.03    51,368.40    17,978.94     5,920.91
Intemal Economic Rate of Retum (IERR)                                                          16.11%
Assumptions:
Official exchange rate (Y/$)   8.3
Shadow exchange rate (Y/$)   8.3
Standard Conversion Factor   1.0
Willingness to pay (Y/kWh)   0.35
Discount rate            0.12
La Discountedtoyear 1991.



- 32 -
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Cove-           Original    Revised
Agree-            nant  Present fulfillment  fulfillment
ment   Section   type   status    date        date         Description of covenant            Comments
Loan   3.01(b)   3         C                            Relend the proceeds of the loan
through Sichuan to EHDC, under
temms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank
3.04     2        CP                  06/30/97  Take all steps necessary to enable Memorandum of Understanding
EHDC and SCEPA to enter into  covenanted identifying the prin-
the purchases agreement no later  ciples that will govem the process
than June 30, 1996.          agreement has been signed by
EHDC and SCEPA. New cove-
nanted date for signing of the
Power Purchase Agreement under
Ertan 11 by 6/97
3.05     5         CP                           (i) Fumish or cause to be fur-  Bank involved in the construction
nished to the Bank a plan for  of the 500 kV transmission line
completion of the 500 kV line    under the Sichuan Power Trans-
connecting Ertan Hydroelectric   mission Project (Loan 3848)
station with the power transmis-
sion system in Sichuan; (ii) im-
plement such plan not later than
June 1998.
3.6      7         C                            Carry out, or cause to be carried   Satisfactory progress
out, the resettlement of the people
affected by the project, in accord-
ance with the plan agreement with
the Bank
3.04(b)   10      NYD                           Propose to the Bank the compo-
nents for inspection, not less than
one year prior to expected com-
pletion
4.01     1        NYD    06/30/97               (a) Maintain records and accounts None
adequate to reflect its operating
and financial condition; (b) have
its records, accounts and financial
statements for each fiscal year
audited; fumish to the Bank not
later than six months after the end
of each year
4.02     2        NYD                           Produce net operating income    The self-financing ratio covenant
equivalent to not less than (a) 201 replaced with a rate of return on
in 1999, (b) 151 in 2000, and (c)  revalued assets under the Ertan II
351 percent of its average annual Project (Loan 3933)
investment program
4.03     2        NYD                 12/31/99  Ensure that interval cash genera-
tion for each fiscal year during the
term of the debt to be incurred
shall be at least (i) 1.3 times in
1999, and (ii) 1.5 times thereafter
4.04     2         C                            Not incur any debt, if after the    Debt/equity ratios slightly
incurrence of such debt the ratio  changed under Ertan 11: (i) 85/15
of debt to equity shall be greater  in 1995-97; (ii) 80/20 in 1998-
that (i) 82 to 18 for each year from 2000 and 70/30 thereafter.
1991 through 1997; (ii) 80 to 20
for each of 1998 and 1999, and
(iii) 70 to 30 thereafter.



- 33 -
Table 10 (Cont'd)
Cove-             Original     Revised
Agree-              nant  Present  fulfillment   fulfillment
ment   Section   type   status        date         date          Description of covenant                Comments
Schedule    10       C                               1. Maintain the Project Manage-
ment Unit with staffing and
responsibilities satisfactory to the
Bank
Schedule    10    NYD                     06/30/97   2. Carry out, no later than June Bank agreed to  delay  studies.
30, 1993, the studies related to the Tariff  study   completed   and
project in accordance with the contract for optimal operation of
terms of reference and a schedule the reservoir signed and initiated
agreed with the Bank            studies will continue under phase
11 Loan.
Schedule    10       C                               3. Carry out the training and the Implementation on schedule
project in accordance with a
program agreed with the Bank.
Schedule    10       C                               4.  Carry out an environmental Progress satisfactory
management program as agreed
with the Bank
Covenant Class:                                                                          Status:
I = Accounts/audits                    8 = Indigenous people                          C    = covenant complied with
2 = Financial performance/revenue      9 = Monitoring, review, and reporting          CD  = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries    10 = Project implementation not                 CP  = complied with partially
3 = Flow and utilization of project         covered by categories 1-9
funds                            II = Sectoral or cross-sectoral
4 = Counterpart funding                     budgetary or other resources
5 = Management aspects of the               allocation
project or executing agency      12 = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6 = Environmental covenants                 regulatory/institutional action
7 = Involuntary resettlement          13 = Other
TABLE 11: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENT
The project was carried out in full compliance with the following Operational Directives:
Describe and comment on lack of
Statement Number and Title                                                 compliance
1. OMS 3.80 - Dam Safety                                       Fully Complied.
2. OD 4.00B - Environmental Policy for    OD not in force at the time of first project,
Dam and Reservoir Projects                                     but fully reflected in second project.
3. OD 4.01 - Environmental Assessment    OD not in force at the time of first project,
but fully reflected in second project.
4. OD 4.02 - Environmental Action Plans   OD not in force at the time of first project,
but fully reflected in second project.
5. OD 4.30 - Involuntary Resettlement                          Fully Complied



-34 -
TABLE 12: BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Planned                   Revised                       Actual
Stage of project cycle         Weeks         $'000       Weeks         $'000          Weeks           $'000
Preparation to appraisal                                                               141.5          397.9
Appraisal                                                                              32.5            98.2
Negotiations through                                                                    39.5          125.4
Board approval
Supervision                                                                            46.1           121.0
Completion                                                                               4.3            11.1
Total                                                                               2632 953.6
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Performance rating
Specialized staff   Imple-      Devel-
Stage of project cycle           Month/    No. Of    Days   skills represented   mentation     opment           Type of
year     persons   in field        L            status     objectives        problems
Through appraisal                 02/91        5         5      E,FA,FA,R,EN
Appraisal through Board approval
Board approval through
effectiveness
Supervision        1              08/92        2         3           E,E
2             07/93        1         4            E.
3             04/94        2         4           Ec,Ec                                 Tariff Study delayed
4             07/94        1         13            E              I
5             10/95        4         11       E,En.R,En           I
6             06/96        3         4         E, En. R.          I                    Resettlement budget
approval delayed
7              11/96       4         5        E,E,R.Ec            I
Completion \k
/A E: Engineer, Ec: Economist, En: Environmental Consultant, FA: Financial Analyst, R: Resettlement Specialist
1k Combined with the 7th supervision mission.



-35-
Figure 1: Actual Progress vs. Target Schedule
aM    unwn  urrsnTarget1                                   1          9419 11                    1       1      1                                          2          2 I  [ I
ID    Start iM      Start FiTir"
AtIVER DAEMIC
2100 j;0.  3_0_019_ 1OF      09 3_                                                                          Arcodas  Foundaton ncfDoersan T  Treantment__
1300~~~~~ ~~~~ I2r9  7k9   xeeM   _                                              I I I I I I I | i                                                                 
||200t200 I                                                                   49500t|30+                                             5  111111
3200  3 95 3009m                                        ,                                                                       A|u | |ncaon   |a|ation a  Treat m |m
3      l2Ats0" ||.            9 X U  10 1                                                                                    r19 l nstallalon ol Sp,ay Gales and Ho,sts
PLE POOL IfAVLUGEROORAFTUEE  +                                       ER_ __DROELECRO
5 2M   00 [+    I.99101X9p0eeft+JnrfSnp9                                                                    .. ..  -n         l  X,[ Ill;Concrongif 
=ooOApr94 3OcrnO   pA oE,3r,"l                                      Curn S-edl  vs Tage  ScheduleniGtenE>        __ z
TUNNEL SPILLWAY ~     o Cr,~e.o.
ji                                                                             1  1         S,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e o,I.13
li tZO  |O6JnnOllt1M rSS|OlJ n95gtlMd   l   I I  eis b V    e n: D             o n      Slall   I I I I I I I I IG Is Ind    Is Ist I1.1
|| ar0 tA1J OOlu lun 31-9                                                                              Co       |||||t|||   i||'"|gcr .'"""   IgC1*mtiatos||||-
blol&el_9Pxn97120Jun3lmq   _  1, LLflL IlIIL                                                          1!IIs             lationl of Gaes Tajr& an m        
Pro90c                     01A 0AJan9   |       Tllxhd`1    
MANPOWERHOS E OlJunOO       AND PRArogs l TUBANESREETRCPR JC
o2oo~~~~~~ ool*-9j,.,q)sq Comalat In
SURGD,1E CHAMB    5|                       I. 






- 37 -                       ANNEX 1
ANNEX 1: EHDC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
TABLE 1: INCOME STATEMENT
The project is under construction and will not generate any income until late 1998.



-38 -                           ANNEX 1
ACTUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF EHDC (1991-95)
TABLE 2: BALANCE SHEET
(Y million)
Year Ended December 31                     1991      1992      1993      1994      1995
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash                                      45.45     51.26    104.25     95.52     91.41
Inventories                                0.00      0.00      1.41      3.32      7.11
Other Current Assets                      37.46    132.91    106.03    138.90      7.84
Receivable                                 0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Total Current Assets                   82.91    184.17    211.69    237.74    106.36
Fixed Assets
Plant in Service                           2.58     23.29     24.06     30.87     37.72
Less: Accumulated Depreciation             (0.25)    (0.58)    (2.50)    (4.64)    (6.76)
Net Plant in Service                  2.33     22.71     21.56     26.23     30.96
Construction WIP                        1,370.47  2,420.17  3,726.40  6,065.70  8,587.45
Total Fixed Assets                1,372.80  2,442.88  3,747.96  6,091.93  8,618.41
Special Funds                               0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
TOTAL ASSETS                      1,455.71  2,627.05  3,959.65  6,329.67  8,724.77
LIABILITIES & EQUITY
Current Liabilities                         0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Accounts Payable                          70.95    163.34    121.56    127.26    122.54
Tax Payable                                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Short-term Loan                            0.00      0.00     50.00     25.00    199.15
Total Current Liabilities           70.95    163.34    171.56    152.26    321.69
Working Capital                             0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Long term Liabilities                    1,086.94  1,903.23  2,893.23   5,606.05  6,935.90
Govemment Funds                             0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Special Funds                               0.28      0.82      0.00      0.00      0.00
Hydropower Development Funds                0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00      0.00
Fixed Capital                               2.33     22.71      0.00      0.00      0.00
Capital Surplus                           295.21    533.37    885.09    560.00   1,450.00
Retained Capital                            0.00      3.58      9.02     12.36     17.18
TOTAL LIABILITIES & EQUITY   1,455.71  2,627.05  3,959.65  6,329.67  8,724.77
Debt/ (Debt and Equity) Ratio (%)          78.49     77.25     84.98     90.73     82.54



- 39 -                          ANNEX 1
ACTUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT OF EHDC (1991-95)
TABLE 3: FUNDS FLOW STATEMENT
(Y million)
Year End December 31                 1991       1992      1993      1994       1995
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Profit for the Year
Depreciation                            0.25      0.33       1.92      2.14       2.12
Maintenance                             0.03      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Internally Generate                     0.00      0.0(       0.00      0.00       0.00
Subtotal                              0.28       0.33      1.92       2.14      2.12
Other Sources
Long-term Debt Increased              1,086.94    816.29    990.75   2,711.07   1,330.85
Withdraw of long-term Investment         0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Fixed/lntangible Assets Sales Proceed    0.00       0.00      0.00      0.00       0.00
Subtotal                           1,086.94    816.29    990.75   2,711.07   1,330.85
Net increase on Capital Raised        297.54    258.54    329.01   (325.09)   890.00
Net increase on Capital reserve         0.00       3.58      5.44      3.34       4.82
TOTAL SOURCE OF FUNDS              1,384.76   1,078.74   1,327.12   2,391.46   2,227.79
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Distribution of Profit
Income Tax Payable                      0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Drawing for Profit Surplus              0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Dividend Payable                        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Others                                  0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Adjustment for Profit previous year     0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
OTHER APPLICATIONS
Increase on Fixed Assets                2.58     20.71       0.77      6.81       6.85
Increase on Work in Progress         1,370.22   1,049.16   1,307.05   2,339.30   2,521.75
Repayment of Long-term Debt             0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Increase in Long-term Investment        0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Others                                  0.00      0.00       0.00      0.00       0.00
Subtotal                           1,327.80   1,069.87   1,307.82   2,346.11   2,528.60
TOTAL VALUE OF APPLICATION   1,372.80   1,069.87   1,307.82   2,346.11   2,528.60
Net Increase on Cash                   11.96       8.87     19.30     45.35   (300.81)



-40 -                     ANNEX2
ANNEX 2: EXECUTIVE SUMMARY OF EHDC'S OWN
EVALUATION
1.    The principal objective of the Ertan Hydroelectric Project is to provide
inexpensive, clean, and dependable electrical power to Sichuan Province, the most
populous province in China.
2.    Ertan is located in the southern part of Sichuan on the Yalong River, about 50
kilometers north of Panzhihua City. The Project comprises the construction of a double-
curvature, 240-meter high concrete arch dam; an underground powerhouse with six
generating units and a total installed capacity of 3,300 MW; the associated power intake,
spillway, tailrace tunnels, accesses, and other appurtenant works; and a log-passing
facility. The overall scope of the project also includes land acquisition and resettlement
of the population that will be displaced by the reservoir, environmental studies and
procedures to minimize any adverse effects of the dam, and the design and construction
management services necessary to initiate and oversee the work.
3.    Construction began in 1991, and, at present (Fall 1996), the Ertan Project appears
well on the way toward completion according to the originally forecast schedule.
Excavation is essentially complete. The first dam concrete was placed in February 1995,
and the dam is now about half complete in terms of height and volume. Placing concrete
in the Plunge Pool and Plunge Pool Dam began in late 1995, and is approximately 40
percent complete. Progress on the Power Intake structure, the log-passing facility, and
the Tunnel Spillway is also at commensurate levels.
4.    The underground works are also progressing well. Nearly all the required
excavation is complete, and about 65 percent of the concrete has been placed. Most of
the work associated with the erection bay, power conduits, penstock tunnels, and spillway
tunnels is complete. Installation of the steel draft tube liners, excavation and lining of the
Tailrace Tunnels, and other work in the Powerhouse is ongoing. Erection of the turbines
and generators began in August 1996.
5.    Most of the major electrical and mechanical equipment, and other equipment, has
been purchased. Equipment delivery has begun.
6.    All necessary land has been acquired, and construction of the resettlement areas is
progressing well. The environmental mitigation program has also been timely and
successful.



-41-                        ANNEX2
7.    All elements are present, therefore, to suggest the project will be completed as
foreseen. The quality of the work performed has generally met or exceeded the
requirements, indicating that the finished product will operate as planned.
8.    This Implementation Completion Report provides a series of Financial Tables that
summarize the status of the cost aspects, actual and forecast through completion, of the
Ertan Hydroelectric Project at the end of the period encompassed by the Phase One Loan.
9.    As of mid-1996, well past the halfway point of the project, the key lessons learned
to date may be summarized as follows:
*  A  basic requirement for implementing such a large project is early
establishment of the organizational structure that will manage the work, and
definition of the relationships and dependencies of all parties involved.
*  Timely action is essential.  To the contractors, "Time Is Money."  This
attitude demands decisions be made quickly, at the working front if possible.
Therefore, responsible persons with clearly defined tasks and limits of
authority must be available. Decisions must be taken at appropriate levels,
and responsibility must be delegated.
* Large international contractors are expert at building dams, and also at
preparing claims and identifying alleged problems to justify these claims.
Management must, therefore, avoid any action that may be construed as an
obstruction to the progress of the work.
*  A trained core staff of personnel, at various levels, conversant in the ways of
modern contract administration and project management techniques, is
essential.
*  Initially, true communication proved to be very difficult. This was not just a
matter of translation, but of really communicating ideas and thoughts across
international boundaries of training and culture. Suspicion and mistrust
among the parties amplified these difficulties at that time.  Once an
atmosphere of confidence was established, this situation was generally
alleviated.
*  The hardware and software systems that will be used to manage the project
must be in place before construction actually begins. Moreover, these systems
must be practical, flexible, and address the actual needs of the project as it
develops.
*  The manner in which individual portions of the work are contracted has an
effect on how the work will be performed, and the level of effort required to
manage it. When the work is divided into many discrete portions and awarded



-42 -                       ANNEX2
to different parties, scheduling and coordination become more confused and
complicated.
It is very difficult to both maximize progress and minimize costs. Increasing
production seems to inevitably lead to increased costs.
10.   The process of learning is ongoing. From the foregoing, Ertan must be considered
as a building block for the future. The persons involved with Ertan will be able to use the
experience they have gained to instruct others. The "ripple effect" of the experiences
gained at Ertan should be far-reaching. It is this gained, and shared, experience, more
than any specific lessons that may have been learned, which will greatly influence and
facilitate the management of future projects.
11.   There are three general parameters for judging the success of a project such as
Ertan: quality of the completed work, cost of the work (compared with the original
estimates), and progress of the work (compared with the original completion schedule).
According to these general parameters, the progress at Ertan to date must be considered a
success.



- 43 -                     ANNEX3
ANNEX 3: EXTRACT OF COMPLETION MISSION AIDE
MEMOIRE
(November 5, 1996)
1.    This is an extract from the aide memoire of the completion mission for the Ertan
Hydroelectric Project. Since the same mission also supervised the ongoing Ertan II
Hydroelectric Project, those parts not relevant to the first project have been deleted.
2.    A World Bank mission comprising Messrs./Mmes. Scurfield, Berrah, Trembath,
Sun, Wu, Zhu and Zhao visited Ertan over the period November 5 to 9 to prepare for the
ICR for the first project and to supervise the Phase II project. The mission would like to
thank all parties participating in the mission for their excellent cooperation and cordial
hospitality. The main findings of the mission and agreements reached are summarized in
this aide memoire.
Construction Progress and Status
3.    A good summary of progress is provided in EHDC's draft Project Completion
Report for the first project. It is gratifying to note that the project is generally on
schedule, and on-time impoundment and commissioning of the first unit is becoming a
strong probability. EHDC is even hopeful that commissioning of the second generating
unit (Unit No. 5) will be ahead of schedule.
Contractual Issues
4.    The most significant event since the last mission was that EHDC reached a
settlement with the Lot I contractor on his claim for acceleration. The settlement is
comprehensive, settling all claims for extension of time up until May 31, 1996, and
reestablishing the original contract completion dates.  The package is valued at
approximately $65 million. Although the amount involved is large, the mission supports
and congratulates EHDC in resolving this major set of disputes. There are a few
remaining disputes with the Lot II contractor, where the contractor has indicated his
intent to proceed to arbitration in dissatisfaction of DRB recommendations.
Project Management Systems
5.    Good progress has been made in development of project management systems in
all areas. The master schedule has now been developed in some detail and continues to
be elaborated in critical areas, particularly those that have numerous interfaces between
contractors, equipment suppliers and/or designers. Systems for tracking production and
delivery status of equipment, including production and review of manufacturers'



-44 -                      ANNEX3
drawings have also been largely developed, and continue to be refined, particularly in
relation to tracking progress of equipment manufacture in addition to actual delivery date.
Design drawings from CHIDI have posed a problem until recently, but EHDC has
substantially increased communication in this area, and EHDC are cautiously optimistic
that the scope for project delays or claims due to drawing delays has been greatly
reduced.
6.    EHDC have also begun to develop a cost control system that would provide
periodic updates (at least have yearly) of current committed costs and expected costs to
completion (versus time) in the two currencies of account US dollars and Renminbi. This
system will be fully in place by the end of May 1997.
Resettlement
7.    With increasing intensity of using resettlement funding (Y 600 million for 1996),
considerable physical progress has been achieved in Yanbian County, Hongge
Resettlement Site, Reservoir Highway, and key irrigation facilities. Conditions are now
favorable for completing all required resettlement works before the end of 1997.
8.    The long-awaited resettlement budget was finally approved by the central
government in November 1996. Based on this approved budget, SPRO is planning to
issue final compensation policies and standards for Ertan reservoir resettlement, which
will provide the basis for the final stage of resettlement implementation in 1997.
Environmental Component
9.    The mission was able to follow up on the recommendations of the June mission
and have brief discussions concerning the report of the Environmental panel of Experts
dated October 25, 1996. However, since this report was only received by EHDC on
November 6, and had not been translated, a full discussion was not possible.
10.   However, the Panel report and the aide memoire of the last mission identify a
number of issues of continuing concern, including:
11.   Schistosomiasis. The Panel's considers that schistosomiasis risks are increasing
rather than decreasing, concluding that snail eradication program has not been effective to
date. The mission requested that EHDC consult with their schistosomiasis advisors and
seriously address the detailed recommendations of the Panel, particularly the need for
revising the scope of the current control program.
Biodiversity. This continues to be a major concern of both the Panel and the
Bank's environmental specialist. It is noted that considered that an additional
survey in the fall would be valuable. The mission strongly supports their
recommendations for an additional survey.



-45 -                     ANNEX3
Boundary Road and Buffer Zone. The Environmental Assessment approval
considered that the proposed buffer zone was beyond what could reasonably
be required of a project entity. This is in contrast to the statements in the
Panel report that the 100 m elevation buffer zone is required by national
legislation. EHDC clarified that the 100 m requirement applies to rivers but
not reservoirs. While the reservoir boundary road is acknowledged to be
necessary to replace the previous road link following the river, the mission
endorsed the Panel recommendation that EHDC give increasing attention to
environmental mitigation measures in road construction, particularly in
relation to slope protection and spoil disposal.
Tariff, Optimal Operation Studies and Power Sales Agreement
11.   Based on the aide memoire of the last mission and correspondence since then, the
mission was expecting to have comprehensive discussions on this aspect. Unfortunately,
however, relevant parties such as SEPC, BERI and SMEC consultants dealing with the
optimal operation study were not present and only abbreviated discussions were possible.
The mission strongly recommended that EHDC commission a further study aimed at
producing draft provisions relating to pricing and dispatch arrangements for Ertan. This
should be aimed at bringing together all of the other work on optimal operations and
pricing that has already been carried out. EHDC agreed to carry out the study and
proposed that it be carried out as an extension of existing studies, possible through joint
venture of existing consultants, rather than involved one more set of consultants. The
mission indicated no objection to this arrangement. The scope of the optimal operations
study would be extended to include the commercial issues related to power sales and the
preparation of power sales agreements meeting the principles agreed with the Bank
during negotiations of the Phase II loan. It would also take into account the results of all
studies carried out to date including those carried out by EDF and BERI under the first
loan.
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for Ertan I
12.  In connection with preparation of ICR for the first loan (Ln. 3387-CHA), EHDC
submitted to the mission a draft version of their own evaluation report of project
implementation. The report was well prepared and provided a detailed account of the
project implementation to date. The mission held two special sessions with EHDC to
review and discuss the evaluation report. One session was focused on the key lessons
learned and the other on modifications and complementary analyses required in order to
finalize the evaluation report and to assist the Bank in preparation of its own ICR.
Key Lessons
13.   Ertan is the first large-scale hydroelectric project in China to adopt entirely
international contracting and construction management procedures.  Many of the
difficulties experienced in implementing the new system are founded in the immature



- 46 -                      ANNEX3
status of economic and enterprise reform, and even in retrospect it is difficult to see how
things could have been done differently. However, given the economic and enterprise
reforms that have now occurred and the prospects for even broader reform, it is possible
to formulate key lessons from project implementation that will not only benefit future
projects but also the implementation of the second phase of Ertan Project. The mission's
version of these lessons, which are based on those set out by EHDC in its completion
report, as elaborated during discussion and which also incorporate the mission's opinion
in some areas are summarized as follows:
*  In implementing a project of the magnitude and complexity such as Ertan
implementation will be greatly assisted if there is an implementing
organization in place at the outset of the project that is commercially
independent and has full decision-making authority and responsibility for its
performance. Initial delays in project implementation, resulting in sizable
claims for acceleration largely resulted from EHDC's inability to respond to
the need for decisions. The incorporation of EHDC in 1995 (four years after
the commencement of construction) as a limited liability company resulted in
major improvements in this regard, allowing EHDC to make quick decisions
on its own instead of seeking instructions from the government agencies. This
single factor is largely responsible for the recovery from earlier difficulties to
the stage where the project is being successfully implemented and on-time
completion is increasingly probable.
3  Prior to the start of construction, construction management personnel should
be trained in contract administration and modem project management
techniques. This training should include deputation for substantial periods to
ongoing projects where these techniques are in use.  China routinely
undertakes similar training of operating personnel prior to the commissioning
of all large hydropower plants and this is very successful. Similar training of
construction management personnel will increase their competence and
improve response time through allowing increased delegation rather than
involving senior management in matters of detail.
*  Improved communication among various parties (owner, engineer, designer,
advisors and contractors, etc.) should be actively pursued from the outset, to
avoid misunderstandings that could cause delays and/or losses to the project.
Communication difficulties were perhaps the most difficult to resolve in
construction of the Ertan scheme. It is not just a matter of translation between
different languages, but of communicating ideas and thoughts across
international boundaries of training and culture.
*  Development of project management systems should also commence before
construction in order to manage the construction more efficiently. These
should include contractual documentation management systems, project
master schedule, procurement and delivery schedule for Employer-supplied



- 47 -                     ANNEX3
equipment, design drawing control system and cost control system. EHDC
has now developed systems in most of these areas, which seems is resulting in
less exposure of EHDC to claims resulting from delayed supply of
information or equipment.
* In the future, consideration should also be given to reducing interfacing by
procuring equipment in smaller numbers of larger packages. In retrospect, the
division of civil activities among the two major contractors was not ideal,
resulting in an increased number of interfaces, which led to contractual
difficulties.
14.   With regard to resettlement, lessons learned are as follows: the need to strengthen
the resettlement organization at the provincial level to provide necessary leadership,
technical assistance and monitoring of resettlement activities at the local levels, as shared
by other power projects in China.
Further Work Scope and Schedule
15.  It was agreed that EHDC would carry out some revisions and complementary
tasks to finalize its own evaluation report and to assist the Bank in preparation of its ICR.
These are detailed hereafter. EHDC agreed to submit the additional information by the
end of December 1996.
16.   The project cost estimate (Table 8a-1 and 8a-2) should be revised based on
standard Bank methodology. For costs incurred to date, the base cost should include
expenses relating to both physical and price contingency. Only for future estimates,
should these contingencies be presented separately. The latest Bank published MUV
index and local currency inflation index (provided by the mission) should be used for
price escalation projections. Foreign and local currency components should be presented
separately and when combined, converting from Renminbi to US dollars, or vice versa,
the applicable exchange rate in the year of disbursement should be used. For consistency
with previous Bank estimates, the exchange rate for the future should include devaluation
of the Renminbi to maintain current purchasing power parity.
17.   A full analysis of cost variations should be conducted for Lot I and II, covering
bill of quantity adjustments, variation orders, price variations, exchange rate variations
(between US dollars and contract currencies), claims, and variation of taxes and duties.
The foreign currency portion and local currency portion should be treated separately. For
items where there are significant changes to the BOQ, physical quantities and brief
explanation of the reasons for the changes should be shown in the notes.
18.   To exclude the effects of inflation and devaluation, a complementary analysis of
project cost variations should be carried out by de-escalating both foreign and local costs
to the appraisal date using respective foreign and local inflation rates and combining the
two at the appraisal exchange rate.



-48 -                      ANNEX3
19.   Yearly streams of costs (1991-2000) should also be presented, for local and
foreign expenditure including expenditures for physical contingencies, but excluding
expenditures from price contingency and tax and duties. These streams will be used to
recalculate the EIRR of the project.
20.   A table should be prepared to show the total contract amounts of electrical and
mechanical equipment (both foreign and local contracts) and the equipment erection
contract (Lot III). Major contracts should be itemized. Financing table (Table 8b) should
be revised using the applicable exchange rates.



-49 -                            ANNEX4
ANNEX 4: KEY MONITORING INDICATORS
Indicators                                                                 Target Dates
A. Physical Construction
Construction Progress
Diversion Tunnel Closure                                                   December 1, 1993
Completion of Powerhouse Draft Tube Liners
Unit 6                                                                     October 1, 1996
Unit 1                                                                     June, 1, 1998
Commercial Operation
Unit 6                                                                     October 1, 1998
Unit I                                                                     June 1, 2000
Procurement Progress                                                       1995-1996
500 kV Dry Cable
Generator Circuit Breakers
500 kV GIS
Main Transformers
Gates, Hoists, Cranes
Overall Cost Control                                                       1995-2000
B. Environmental Management Program
Mitigation Program                                                          1991-1997
Environmental Monitoring System                                             1994-1996
Environmental Monitoring during Construction                                1993-2000
Staff Training and Study Tour                                              1991-1998
Scientific Research                                                        1995-1998
Environmental Evaluation Panel                                             1994-1998
C. Resettlement Action Plan
Liangshan County (resettlement of 1,705 inhabitants)                       1995
Yanbian County (resettlement of 19,574 inhabitants)                        1995-1997
Miyi County (resettlement of 3,406 inhabitants)                            1995-1997
Relocation of 12 Small Plants                                              1995-1997
Road Construction                                                          1995-1997
Telecommunication, Power Transmission Line                                  1995-1997
Fish Farm



- 50 -                           ANNEX4
Indicators                                                               Target Dates
D. Institutional Development
Corporatization
Incorporate EHDC as a Limited Liability Company                          1995
Establish a Board of Director                                             1995
Commercialization
Study of Organizational Restructuring and Financial
Management System                                                         1995-1996
Implementation of the New Organization Structure and Financial
Management System                                                         1997
Power Sales
Bulk Sales Study                                                          1995
Memorandum of Understanding with SEPC                                     1995
Reservoir Optimization Study                                             June 30, 1995
Signing of the Power Sales Agreement with SEPC                           June 30, 1997
Training Program
Senior Management                                                         1995-1997
Technical and Business Staff                                              1995-1997
Financial Staff                                                          1995-1997
Environmental and Resettlement                                           1996-1997
Power Station                                                             1996-1997
E. Financial Indicators (in %)
1998  1999 2000  2001  2002  2003  2000
Rate ofReturnonRevalued Assets      0.8  20.0  17.0  17.5  16.3  15.0  15.0
Long-term Debt (LT Debt and Equity)   79.0  77.0  71.0  63.0  56.0  52.0  47.0
Debt Service Coverage                1.5   1.5  1.6   1.5   1.5   1.5  1.5



- 51-                                ANNEX5
ANNEX 5: INFLATION AND EXCHANGE RATES
1991   1992   1993   1994   1995   1996   1997   1998   1999   2000
INFLATION RATES
Annual Rates
At Appraisal
Local                       10.0    8.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0    5.0
Foreign                      3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4    3.4
Actual/Latest Estimates
Local /a                     6.2    6.8   24.0   19.5   14.9    6.5    6.2    5.8    5.5    5.5
Foreign                      2.1    4.3   -0.3    3.6    8.3   -2.5    1.7    2.2    2.6    2.8
Inflation Allowance L
At Appraisal
Local                        5.0   14.4   21.8   27.9   34.3   41.0   48.0   55.4   63.2   71.3
Foreign                      1.7    5.2    8.7   12.4   16.3   20.2   24.3   28.5   32.9   37.4
Actual/Latest Estimates
Local                        3.1    9.8   27.0   54.4   80.6   99.4  112.0  124.7  137.4  150.5
Foreign                      1.1    4.3    6.3    8.1   14.6   17.6   17.1   19.4   22.3   25.6
Exchange Rates (Yuan/$)
Rates used at Appraisal       5.24   5.24   5.24    5.24   5.24   5.24   5.24   5.24    5.24   5.24
Actual/Latest Estimates LZ    5.36   5.49   5.75   8.60   8.30   8.30   8.30   8.30   8.30   8.30
Sources of information:
la Percentage change from previous year. 1991-94, Industry Producer's Price Index, China Statistics; 1995-2000,
China Price Contingencies Updates, EA2CO, the World Bank, December 20, 1996.
Lb Percentage change from previous year. 1991-2000, Index of Unit Value of Manufactured Exports (MUV), the
World Bank, November 1996.
L Compounded inflation rates.
Ld Nominal official exchange rate (annual average). 1991-94, The Chinese Economy-Fighting Inflation, Deepening
Reforms, A World Bank Country Study, 1995-2000, project staff appraisal reports.



- 52 -                                         ANNEX 6.1
ANNEX 6.1: REESTIMATED ECONOMIC COSTS AND
BENEFITS (INCORPORATING ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
OF AVOIDED S02 AND PARTICULATES EMISSIONS)
(1996 Constant Million Yuan)
Total             Benefit         |  Avoided SO, Emission   I Avoided PM,0 Emission       Total        Net
Year         Cost /a       GWh        M Yuan         ton        M Yuan        ton         M Yuan       Benefit      Benefit
1991         1,128.33        0.00         0.00                                                             0.00    -1,128.33
1992         3,193.95        0.00         0.00                                                             0.00    -3,193.95
1993         1,472.89        0.00         0.00                                                             0.00    -1,472.89
1994         1,510.31        0.00         0.00                                                             0.00    -1,510.31
1995         1,786.43        0.00         0.00                                                             0.00    -1,786.43
1996         3,791.49        0.00         0.00                                                             0.00    -3,791.49
1997         4,486.28        0.00         0.00                                                            0.00    -4,486.28
1998         1,661.01     1,198.00      419.30      1,020.00        3.39       438.69         0.07      422.76    -1,238.25
1999          717.45    10,032.00     3,511.20    10,200.00        33.86     3,673.59         0.61     3,545.67     2,828.22
2000          323.52    15,273.00      5,345.55   236,500.00      785.18     5,592.78         0.93     6,131.66     5,808.13
2001           194.94    15,878.00     5,557.30   236,500.00      785.18     5,814.33         0.97     6,343.45     6,148.50
2002           194.94    16,094.00     5,632.90   236,500.00      785.18     5,893.42         0.98     6,419.06     6,224.11
2003           194.94    15,897.00     5,563.95   236,500.00      785.18     5,821.28         0.97     6,350.10     6,155.15
2004           194.94    15,885.70     5,560.00   236,500.00      785.18     5,817.14         0.97     6,346.14     6,151.19
2005           194.94    16,071.00     5,624.85   198,300.00      658.36     5,885.00         0.98     6,284.18     6,089.24
2006           194.94    15,990.90     5,596.82   198,300.00      658.36     5,855.67         0.97     6,256.14     6,061.20
2007           194.94    16,531.00     5,785.85   198,300.00      658.36     6,053.45         1.00     6,445.21     6,250.26
2008           194.94    16,574.10     5,800.94   198,300.00      658.36     6,069.23         1.01     6,460.30     6,265.35
2009           194.94    16,124.60     5,643.61   198,300.00      658.36     5,904.63         0.98     6,302.95     6,108.00
2010           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2011           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2012           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2013           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2014           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2015           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2016           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2017           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2018           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2019           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2020           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2021           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2022           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2023           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2024           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2025           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2026           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
2027           194.94    17,559.60     6,145.86   252,500.00      838.30     6,430.11         1.07     6,985.23     6,790.28
Total       25,335.22   487,622.10   170,667.74  6,730,220.00   22,344.33   178,561.12       29.64   193,041.71   167,706.48
PresentValuel    12,058.03    51,368.40    17,978.94  1,481,879.39    4,919.84    41,583.95        6.90    20,207.55     8,149.51
Internal Economic Rate of Return (IERR)                                                                                     17.39%
Assumptions:
Official exchange rate (Y/S)       8.3        Y/ton SO2:         3,320                 Y/ton PMis:           166
Shadow exchange rate (Y/$)         8.3        Sources of information: "Economic Analysis of Environmental Impacts"
Shadow conversion factor           1.0        by ].A. Dixon, and L.F. Scura, published in association with the Asian Development
Willingness to pay (Y/kWh)        0.35       Bank and the World Bank, 1994.
Discount rate                      0.12
/a Including Capital Investment & O&M costs.
/b Discounted to year 1991.



w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I  ll                                   ll  n     Ic    n    '~  .   .   -   _ Ili    .  e  c n   ll  rl    >   r  E  -a   > , E_.
t~~~~~~~~~~0                                    ....>_  o  ...   o  ...               $ $$    $$ $ $  o..D. 
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -  - -  -  - -  -  -  -  -                              -.E  
el                               I     I     A                                              -        ==- =-    ==- ====- ====- >
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1    -.  1~   o~  s          -tcv            RRt                            .   < i
^            a<2    <                                                                                      > v    ^gC)
m W r ^ ^ E = > t f f f f t t e t @ R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R R ^ t as X > >~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4
, E-f - ;> d 0 >e oo x > X b s~ I I I Io I I I I I IIIIIIII
Z  @   Q  E >                                                >   w         i>__~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~R
2  i-l ~~ t)  o s:   o- rs 8     8 8    g     8      8 O o  g O   8    ~~~~ g o o o o
F   E     o  e s   _ O - - - t - = X X o a > > > e - - > > > > > N N N 6 N N N  r  w  > > g o o o o~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
W ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ^     888                 X>wgc@U@4X<@@           
W 5 o   >   v< eos>o>=8<Mwvvtetvtv7vmmv r X                                              . s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
: t G~~~~~~~~~~~~~Co         'v 'v ,v'v 'v 'cO  4v''   ' v'   '     O _O 



- 54 -                            ANNEX 6.3
ANNEX 6.3: PROJECT RISK ANALYSIS
Selected Risk Variables and Assumed Probability Distributions.
No.  Variable                    Probability                                      Probability
Distribution
I    Output                      discrete            decrease by 20%                10%
decrease by 10%                20%
assumed value /a               50%
increase by 10%                20%
2     Investment cost            discrete            decrease by 5%                  5%
Assumed value /a               80%
increase by 5%                 15%
3     Construction Lead Time     discrete            assumed value La               80%
delay by I year                20%
4     Contractual Price          discrete            decrease by 10%                 10%
assumed value /a               50%
increase by 10%                30%
L___  m_____________________    =______________     mincrease  by  20%          10%
/a Assumed values refer to those adopted in the deterministic economic analysis.
The risk analysis was carried out with the Risk Master computer software which
uses Monte Carlo simulation' technique. The spreadsheet employed for the risk analysis
is based on the base case cost/benefit analysis (see Table 9). The correlation between risk
variables is explicitly considered prior to the simulation to avoid generation of unrealistic
project scenarios. For instance, variations of output and cost are correlated with the
construction lead time.
The results, based on 1,000 simulations, are summarized in the table below and
the figures.
Monte Carlo simulation works by generating a series of random numbers following the distribution of
probability of each risk variable. For each simulation that represents a combination of different state of
five variables, IERR is calculated and recorded. The results of 1,000 simulations are averaged.



- 55 -                              ANNEX 6.3
Expected IERR and Variance
Expected IERR                                   15.81%
Standard deviation                               1.40%
Minimum                                         11.58%
Maximum                                         19.29%
Coefficient of variation                         0.088
Probability of negative outcome                  0.00%
Probability Distribution of IERR
0.3
0.25
~0.2
0.15
01
0 -
Cumulative Probability of oERR
100%
80%
60%
L 40%
20%
0%
0.00%    2.00%    4.00%    6.00%    8.00%   10.000/   12.00%   14.00%   16 00%   18.00%   20.00%






IBRD 22093R1
C    H    I N    A                                                                             \        T.o Che-gdu,
SICHUAN PROVINCE                                                                                     , '   |
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT                                                                                               !                XICHANG
RESETTLEMENT PLAN                                                         DXioo                                            changCl
POPULATION MOVING TO HIGHER ELEVATION                          )                 ,
IN SAME VILLAGE                                         .
RESETTLEMENT AREAS FOR                                                                              \
DISPLACED FARMERS                                                   Lionh
      URBAN RESETTLEMENT AREA                                                                                                          /
'*-<. ~Jinhe J~
RIVERS
ROADS                                        Pingchuan              Bojiooi                       X   I  C   H   A   N     G
It-- IRAILROADS
XIAN (COMMUNITY) BOUNDARIES
-.__- PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
I          10          20         30         40          50                                         /      Tielu
KILOMETERS
\                           '*'  t   r N~~i' h;     A    >                       t1,
Deshi               Doqi                 I
Yanyuan                                                    ''             Dechang
/    Rehe
i Shuhe               '
)      Dal,
m)lu
/\, <engqiao              w   Nojnb*
's    Y  A  N  B  iGongheX                                                                                   /- 
Qinhe                           G
Xinping 
X   1   th   i    Linshe   -   '                                         nsh1\
\        ts1               i                         XVZ   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Shengli/ 
> Xo ~~~~~gxing  V , () lso
I    ResettleedInt Areo
~~ \   t -' ~~~ y U     ; ' ~Tuvn ii
Miyi          /    H  U L I
ing / Yanbin
\N~u~s                          Lima                   PROPOSED
ss  /               Limo          ) g-,,sRTAN  DAM
i   !      . S :  (>l           A)f ew Y 3n~~bion Town Site  .                  ,
(J/'  I                    >~~~~~~, -   anni                       nPplto
*  (Th)  '-                       Mine t                     Hongge\
eseA ent-  '
YUNNAN                              K-                               Dukou                     A             QINGHAI C J
~jGANSU   I
<,   ,        t                    t-- -    r .~~~~~~~~ _            < ~~SHAANXIC-
Thsmeph3sbrenpordparedby  J                 \            . t                   J    st         5~~ I C  H IU  A  N9       : - 
Tls nap has b-e prePared byJ                                                                                                     S C           AN'-~
The World hanks staer suety                                                    \
tsr the conenec of the -  -                                                                                                              CHRNGDU
reader sods .uctusverey fo, the                                                                                XIZANG*                  I 
Inter-l use of The W-Hd Bank                                                                                   -30                                             S HUBEI 3o
and hetnternht,onat F-nan-e                          J                                            - n                  I                          CHOSNaQLG  4.   ,.
Cu,pur-thu  The desu-n-,hus                                                                                                                           t \.O
used and the b-undsnes shuwn                              _                                                                                              .5- t|
e this,pdonutsply, on the -P d                                                                                             .   ef          ,        # s -  .UNAN
part ut The Wurld Bank a(d  th                                                                   -J
httert,unr F-ano. Curpura.nu r.
nco judgment n the. taStetus                                                                                                  \IGZO
Ny WNy or any                                                                                                         NAN                           GUIZHOU   (
erdo,re-nt r aceptanu  .                                                                                          YUNNAN          LI
-rh bounda,-es                                                                     To Kunn3ing                                                      10e'1              10
MAY 1991






1BRD 21308R
93                        100                      ,?                          T040                       106'   IF                  aJ0                                                 112'
\S< -'                                                       g                      ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC PROJECT
-34-                                          (/       ,!                G         A          N         S        U          dSSICHUAN TRANSMISSION NETWORK                                                 34--
QIN                                                                 G H A                  
Q  N    ~ ~ ~ ~    ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~ ~ I                                                           Hyd, P- M--
He   '-                                                                          -       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~500 kV T-onr---o, L-
-          ~~~~220 kV T,--,o,o,n L,-o
A  A0X0       k V              A n-
,,/I,J''220 kV 'm:                                         ,or,o
0    0    ~~~Sh-n R ... I-
A/
,, AfAZA    GZU                                                                                                                                     rterre I Z  H  I A  s , A
XIZANGDi
300
/                                                                                Lor Oo  K    Quo.                                               H     U     N     A     N
YUNNAN ITAN  0H                                                                 12N0G200l
900  1000          Oo K~~~~~~~~OO0.og  0                        '                    o6                           loBGU'Z     0 
<            0 u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  9









IMAGING
Report No.:         16583
Type:      ICR



