                                  Document of
                               TheWorld Bank

                                                     Report No.: 32664




             PROJECTPERFORMANCEASSESSMENTREPORT

                        PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA

                   ERTANHYDROELECTRIC PROJECT I& I1
                              (LOANS3387 8z 3933)


                  SICHUAN POWER TRANSMISSION PROJECT
                                  (LOAN 3848)


                ZHEJIANG POWERDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                  (LOAN 3846)


                                  June 27,2005




Sector, Thematic, and GlobalEvaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

Currency Equivalents(annual averages)
Currency Unit = Yuan (y), 100fen = IYuan

1991                     US$l.OO                 Y5.36
1995                                             Y8.35

                         US$l.oo
                         US$1.oo
                         US$l.oo
2000                                             Y8.27
2003                                             Y8.28



Abbreviationsand Acronyms

PLPLA            Analytical and advisory services
CEPC             Chongqing Electric Power Company
EHDC             ErtanHydropower Development Company
Gencos           Generation Companies
GoC              Government o f China
HV               HighVoltage
IBRD             InternationalBank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR              ImplementationCompletionReport
MOEP             MinistryofElectric Power
MoF              MinistryofFinance
NDRC            National Development and Reform Commission
OED              Operations EvaluationDepartment
PPA              Power PurchaseAgreement
PPAR             Project Performance Assessment Report
RAP              Resettlement Action Plan
S A R            Staff Appraisal Report
SEPA             SichuanElectric Power Administration
SEPC             Sichuan Electric Power Corporation
SERC             State Electricity Regulatory Commission
SPC              State Power Corporation
SOE              State-Owned Enterprise
T & D            Transmission and distribution
TranscaIS        Transmission Companies
VAT             Value AddedTax
ZPEPC           ZhejiangProvincial Electric Power Company
GWh             ggawatt-hour (1 million kwh)
TWh             terawatt-hour     (1 billionkwh)
kV              kilo volt         (1000 volts)
MW              megawatt (1000 kilowatts)


FiscalYear

Government:              January 1-December 31



Acting Director-General, OperationsEvaluation          : Mr.Ajay Chhibber
ActingDirector, Operations EvaluationDepartment        : Mr.R.KylePeters
Manager, OEDSG                                         : Mr.AlainBarbu
TaskManager                                            : Mr.FernandoManibog

  OED Mission: Enhancing developmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independence inevaluation.


About this Report
      The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassessesthe programsand activitiesof the World Bankfor two
purposes:first, to ensurethe integrityof the Bank's self-evaluation processand to verify that the Bank'swork is
producingthe expected results,andsecond, to helpdevelopimproveddirections, policies, and proceduresthrough
the disseminationof lessonsdrawn fromexperience.As partof this work, OEDannuallyassessesabout 25 percentof
the Bank's lendingoperations.Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are
innovative, large, or complex;thosethat are relevantto upcomingstudiesor countryevaluations; thoseforwhich
ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank managementhaverequestedassessments;andthose that are likelyto generate
importantlessons.The projects,topics, and analyticalapproachesselectedfor assessmentsupport largerevaluation
studies.
      A ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report(PPPAR)is based on a review of the ImplementationCompletion
Report(a self-evaluationby the responsible Bank department)and fieldworkconducted by OED. To prepare
PPARs, OED staff examine projectfiles and other documents, interviewoperationalstaff, and in most cases visit
the borrowingcountry for onsitediscussions with projectstaff and beneficiaries.The PPPARtherebyseeks to
validate and augment the informationprovidedin the ICR,as well as examine issues of special interestto broader
OED studies.
      EachPPPAR is subjectto a peer review processand OED management approval. Once cleared internally,
the PPPAR is reviewed by the responsibleBank departmentand amended as necessary. The completed PPPAR
is then sent to the borrowerfor review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the documentthat is sent to the
Bank's Boardof Executive Directors.After an assessmentreporthas been sent to the Board, it is disclosedto the
public.


About the OED Rating System
      The time-testedevaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank'swork.
The methods offer bothrigorand a necessary levelof flexibilityto adaptto lending instrument,project design, or
sectoralapproach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their projectratings. Following is
the definitionand ratingscale usedfor each evaluation criterion(moreinformationis available on the OED website:
http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
      Relevance of Objecfives: The extent to which the project's objectivesare consistentwith the country's
current development prioritiesand with current Bank country and sectoralassistancestrategiesand corporate
goals (expressedin Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers,Country AssistanceStrategies, Sector StrategyPapers,
OperationalPolicies). Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficacy: The extent to which the project's objectiveswere achieved,or expected to be achieved, taking into
accounttheir relativeimportance.Possibleratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Efficiency: The extent to which the projectachieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higherthan the
opportunitycost of capitaland benefitsat leastcostcomparedto alternatives.Possibleratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generallyapplied to adjustment operations.
      SustainabiMy:The resilienceto risk of net benefitsflows over time. Possibleratings: Highly Likely, Likely,
Unlikely, Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      institutionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improvesthe ability of a countryor region
to make more efficient, equitableand sustainableuse of its human, financial, and natural resourcesthrough: (a)
betterdefinition,stability,transparency, enforceability,and predictabilityof institutionalarrangements and/or (b)
betteralignment of the missionand capacityof anorganizationwith its mandate, which derives from these
institutionalarrangements. Institutional Development Impactincludes bothintendedand unintendedeffects of a
project. Possibleratings: High,Substantial, Modest,Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectiveswere achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory, Satisfactory,ModeratelySatisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory,Unsatisfactory, HighlyUnsatisfactory.
     Bank Performance: The extentto which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and
supportedimplementationthroughappropriatesupervision (includingensuringadequate transition arrangements
for regularoperation of the project). Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,Unsatisfactory,Highly
Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower assumedownershipand responsibilityto ensure
quality of preparation and implementation,and compliedwith covenantsand agreements,towards the
achievement of developmentobjectives and sustainabitity. Possibleratings: HighlySatisfactory,Satisfactory,
Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.


Contents

Principal Ratings       ................................................................................................................        v

Key Staff Responsible           ......................................................................................................         vi
                                                                                                                                                ..
Preface..............................................................................................................................          v11

Summary   ...........................................................................................................................          ix

Backgroundto the Projects                 ...............................................................................................       1

Ertan Hydroelectric Project                ..............................................................................................       2
      Project Description..................................................................................................                     2

      Project Objectives            ....................................................................................................        2
      Appraisal. Quality at Entry. and Implementation....................................................                                       3
      Issues.........................................................................................................................           4
      Performance Ratings ................................................................................................ 8

Sichuan Power Transmission Project                          ............................................................................       11

      Project Objectives.................................................................................................. 11
      Project Description              ................................................................................................        11
      Appraisal and Quality at Entry..............................................................................                             11
      Institutional Development Issues...........................................................................                              13
      Performance Ratings .............................................................................................                        16

Zhejiang Power Development Project                           ...........................................................................       18

      Project Objectives             ..................................................................................................        18
      Project Description................................................................................................                      19
      Appraisal and Quality at Entry..............................................................................                             19
       Implementation ......................................................................................................                   20
       Institutional Restructuring Issues ..........................................................................                           21
       Finances .................................................................................................................              23
       Performance Ratings .............................................................................................                       24

Power Sector Overview: present problems and future directions                                                   .............................. 27

Lessons Learned        ...............................................................................................................         32

Annex A Basic Data Sheet
         .                               ..............................................................................................         33

Annex B Structure oftheChineseElectricPowerIndustry
           .                                                                             ......................................   42

Annex C World Bank StudiesofReformsinthe ChineseElectricPower Sector 43
           .                                                                                                                   .....
Annex D Borrower's Comments
           .                          ....................................................................................         45




Ths report was preparedby Sunil Mathrani who assessedthe projectinFebruary2005 The reportwas
editedbyWilliamHurlbut. andHelenPhllip providedadministrative support                     .              .

                                                     V



PrincipalRatings

                                       ICR*                 ICRReview*                     PPAR
Ertan IHvdroelectricProject (Loan 3387)
Outcome                         Highly Satisfactory               n.a.                   Satisfactory

Sustainability                         Likely                     n.a.                      Likely
Institutional                          n.a.                       n.a.                       High
Development Impact
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory                   n.a.                   Satisfactory
Borrower Performance               Satisfactory                   n.a.                   Satisfactory

Ertan IIHydroelectric Project (Loan 3933)
Outcome                            Satisfactory          Moderately Satisfactory         Satisfactory

Sustainability                        Likely                     Likely                     Likely

Institutional                      Substantial                Substantial                    High
Development Impact
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory
Borrowerperformance                Satisfactory              Unsatisfactory              Satisfactory

Sichuan Power Transmission Project (Loan 3848)
Outcome                            Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory

Sustainability                        Likely                     Likely                     Likely

Institutional                      Substantial                Substantial                    High
Development Impact
Bank Performance                   Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory

Borrower Performance               Satisfactory               Satisfactory               Satisfactory

Zhejiang Power Development Project (Loan 3846)
Outcome                         Highly Satisfactory           Satisfactory               Satisfactory

Sustainability                    Highly Likely              HighlyLikely                   Likely
Institutional                          High                      High                        High
Development Impact
Bank Performance                Highly Satisfactory        HighlySatisfactory            Satisfactory

Borrower Performance            Highly Satisfactory           satisfactory               Satisfactory


*The ImplementationCompletionReport (ICR) is a self-evaluationbythe responsibleoperationaldivisionof
the Bank.The ICR Review is an intermediateOperations EvaluationDepartment(OED) productthat seeks
to independently verify thefindings of the ICR.The ICR review had not been introducedat the time of the
Ertan I loanclosure.

                                                vi



Key StaffResponsible

Project                       Task ManagedLeader     Division Chief/   Country Director
                                                     Sector Director
Ertan Hydroelectric Project (Loans 3387 & 3933)
Appraisal                       Vukota Mastilovic     RichardStern      Shahid Burki
Completion                      NoureddineBerrah    MohammadFarhandi    Yukon Huang
Sichuan Power Transmission Project (LOAN 3848)
Appraisal                       Vukota Mastilovic   RichardNewfarmer   Nicholas Hope
Completion                       JianpingZhao          JunhuiWu         Yukon Huang
Zhejiang Power Development Project (LOAN3846)
Appraisal                        BarryTrembath      RichardNewfarmer   Nicholas Hope
Completion                       BarryTrembath         JunhuiWu         Yukon Huang

                                            vii


Preface

 This is the ProjectPerformance Assessment Report (PPAR) for three electric power
projects inChina (ErtanHydroelectric, Sichuan Transmission, andZhejiangPower
Development) that were implementedduringthe period 1991-2003. They were supported
by four IBRDloans andtwo commercial syndicated loans withpartialCredit Guarantees
 from IBRD.

 The purpose o f this assessment is to reviewprogress inthe Chinese power sector since
the OED evaluationo fBank assistanceto China's energy sector that was undertakenin
 1999. The report comprises three self-contained performance assessmentso f eacho fthe
projects followed by a briefoverview o fthe present situationandproblems inthe
Chinese power sector and a comparison with the position six years ago. Giventhe high
quality and comprehensive coverage o fphysicalimplementationof the projects inthe
ICRs, this performanceassessment i s selective inits coverage andpredominantly
concentrates on policyissues, especially institutionalreforms. Lessons from the projects
have beenconsolidated inthe report's final chapter.

The ErtanHydroelectricprojectwas undertakenintwo consecutivephases, eachone the
object o f a separate loan, one for US$380million (Ln.3387), approved inJuly 1991 and
closed on schedule inDecember 1996, andthe secondo fUS$400million equivalent (Ln.
3933), approved inAugust 1995 andclosed on schedule inDecember 2001.

A loanofUS$270millionequivalent (Ln.3848), approved inFebruary 1995andclosed
two years late inDecember2003, supported the Sichuan Power Transmission Project.
The Zhejiang Power Development Project was supportedby a loan(Ln. 3846) o fUS$400
million, approved inFebruary 1995 andclosed one year late inDecember 2003.

This report is based on the ImplementationCompletionReports (Report no. 16583 o f
May 15,1997; Report no. 24342 dated June 21,2002; Report no. 25612 dated June 16,
2004; andReport no.29194, o fApril 23,2004) preparedby the East Asia andPacific
Regionthe appraisal documents (Report no. 8470, June 11,1991; Report no. 14072, July
7,1995; Report no. 13468, January 20,1995; andReport no. 13498, January 31,1995),
loan documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff.

An Operations EvaluationDepartment (OED) missionvisited ChinainFebruarymarch
2005 to discuss the effectiveness o f the Bank's assistancewith the government andthe
project implementing agencies. The collaboration and assistanceo f all their officials are
gratefully acknowledged.

Following standardOED procedures, the draft o fthis PPARwas sent to the borrower and
implementingagencies for comments before finalization. Comments from theborrower
have been attached as Annex D.


                                                i x


Summary

The projects examined by this PAR-ErtanHydroelectric I& 11,Sichuan Transmission,
andZhejiangPower Development-cover a 12-year periodfrom 1991to 2003. They had
a number of common objectives, most particularly the alleviation o fpower shortages and
institutional development (including wide-ranging utility and sector-level reforms), as
canbe seen from the table below:


Project Objective                 Ertan                  Sichuan             Zhejiang Power
                              Hydroelectric           Transmission                Devt.
Increasepower                        Y                     Y                        Y
supply
Transfer technology                  Y                     Y                        --
Capacity building                    Y                     Y                        Y     .
Tariffreforms                        N                     Y                        Y
Sector reforms                       --                    Y                        Y
Of which:
--- Commercialization                                      Y                        Y
    Corporatization                  ----                  Y                        Y
    Introduce                       N                      --                       Y
competition
ReduceT &Dlosses                     --                    --                       Y



The overalloutcome o fthe ErtanHydroelectric Project(Phases IandI1combined) was
satisfactory. Highlyrelevant objectives were achieved andproject resources were
effectively utilized. The 3300 megawatt power plant will produce a large amount (15
terawatt-hours) o f clean electricity for several decades to come. It i s already yielding
major economic and financial benefits for Sichuanwhich are highlyrobust. Sustainability
i s assessed as likely. The project's institutional development impact was high. Bank and
borrower performance were both satisfactory.

The Sichuan Power Transmission Project was an indispensable complementto the Ertan
project since it connected the Ertanpower plant to the major cities o f Chengdu and
Chongqing bymeans o f a high-voltage transmission network. The project also addressed
important reforms o fthe provincial power utility's organization, management, and
financial practices. The overall outcome o fthe project was satisfactory. Its institutional
development impact was highand sustainability is likely.Bank andborrower
performance were both satisfactory.

The physicalcomponents o fthe ZhejiangPower Development Project were completed
satisfactorily andhave producedthe expected outcomes interms o fincreased output o f
electricity andreduced technical losses. Institutionalcapacity building, thoughimportant,
was not as crucial inthe Zhejiang PowerDevelopmentProject because it was a utility
which was already somewhat ahead of most o f its provincial peers andwas also a long-

                                              X



standingborrowerfi-om the Bank.Onthe other hand, the objective o fpromotingpower
sector reforms carried much more weight inthis project, as Zhejiang served as apilot for
numerous reforms that were later introducednationally. Manyuseful lessonswere
obtained fiom the three-year experience with a competitive generation marketthat was
set up inZhejiang province under the project. The experience increased awareness o fthe
benefits o f competition beyondZhejiang to the Chinese power industry at large. The
overall IDimpact of this project was highand sustainability i s likely. Bank andborrower
performance were both satisfactory. The overall outcome o fthe project was satisfactory.

The Chinese power sector hasbeenina state o f considerable flux since 2002, inthe wake
o fthe government's decisionto separate generation from transmission. Booming
economic growthcombined with insufficient investmentplanninghave ledto the
reemergence of significant power shortages nationwide, which has complicated the
process o f institutional reforms. This assessment found that the Chinese electricity sector
i s presently experiencingconsiderable transitional difficulties inimplementing the 2002
sector reforms. Thebenefits fi-om unbundlingand competitionhave yet to manifest
themselves andwill take several more years to do so. The biggestobstacle to greater
efficiency and lower costs has been the supply-demand imbalance, which prevents any
form o f competitionamong bulk suppliers, andthe absenceo f effectiveregulation. There
remains a large agendao funfinishedbusiness to tackle inthe areas o f sector regulation,
tariffsetting, powermarkets, andinvestment planning.

The experience gainedunderthe three projectsreviewedinthis report, as well as from
the pursuit o f concurrent power sector reforms at the nationallevel inChina, offers the
following lessons o f general applicability:

     0  Power shortages are a barrier to the pursuit o f marketreforms aimed at increasing
        competition. .

     0  Effective regulatoryarrangements should be inplace at the same time (ifnot
        sooner) as power supply entities are unbundled, inorder to reduce abuses o f
        market power.

     0  Indicative power system planningat the national leveli s essential inorder to
        avoid boom-bust investment cycles such as the one currentlybuildingup inthe
        Chinese power sector.




                                                                  Ajay Chhibber
                                                                  Acting Director-General
                                                                   Operations Evaluation

                                                    1




Backgroundto the Projects

 1.      Two o f the projects that are the subject o f this performance assessment (Ertan
Hydroelectric and Sichuan Transmission projects) are located inSichuan province of
southwest China, which has a populationof about 90 million. The third is inZhejiang,
one o fChina's most economically advancedprovinces, located on the east coast, south of
Shanghai   .

2.       Sichuan has a very large hydroelectric potential, only a fraction ofwhich hadbeen
developedprior to the ErtanHydroelectricProject. About 40 percent o f installed
generation capacity inSichuan at that time was hydroelectric, mostly small run-of-river
plants.In2004, totalpower generation capacity inSichuanprovincewas about 20,000
MW', ofwhich two-thuds was hydroelectric. Sichuan is a net exporter of electricity to
other provinces, while Zhejiang hasbeenan importer of electricity for about a decade.

3.       The Yalong river, one o fthe majortributaries ofthe Yangtze, flows through
Sichuan. The Yalong i s 1,500 kilometers long andhas its source inmountains west o f the
Sichuan plateau above 4000 meters, dropping to about 1000meters inaltitude, where it
joins the Yangtze. The river has the potential to provide about 25,000 MW o fpower
generating capacity when all the 20 sites along its lengthare fully developed.

4.       Acute power shortagesprevailedinSichuanprovince2inthe late 1980s andmid-
 1990s. Power demand was growing robustly at 7 to 8 percent annually. The power sector
ingeneralat that time suffered from ascarcity o fskilledmanpower, hadoutdated
methods o futilitymanagement and lacked modemtechnology, particularly for power
generation. The Sichuan Electric Power Administration (SEPA), the mainpower utility in
theprovince, hadbeenresponsible for preparatoryactivities for Ertan, prior to the
Government's (GoC) decisionto set up the ErtanHydroelectric Development Company
(EHDC) in 1988 with the specific purpose o f developing the hydropower resources o fthe
Yalong River. However, as the then sole client o fEHDC, SEPA was responsible for
constructing the high-voltage transmission system to bringthe electricity producedat
Ertanto the two major cities ofChengdu andChongqing. The latter project, which was
supported by a separate IBRD loan approved in 1995, is part o fthis performance
assessment.

5.       Bythe time the Ertanhydroprojectwas approved in1991, the Bankalready had
builtupaportfolio ofsevenpowerprojects inChina, includingthree other hydroelectric
plants,butthis was its first project inSichuan, which at that time was China's most
populous province. Interms o f design and content, the Ertanhydro project is part ofthe
cohort of `first generation' power projects inChina, with a strong emphasis on
technology transfer and capacitybuilding, but with minimal policy content. From 1994
onwards, (when the Bank and GoC undertook the first reviews o f sector reform options),


       ~




1.The sixthlargest inChina.
2. This was also true of Zhejiangprovinceat that time.

                                                       2


 the Bank's power projects nearly always addressedinstitutionalreform issues as part o f
 the design o fnew lendingoperations. The Sichuan Transmission andZhejiang Power
 Development projects thus belongto the subsequent `generation' o f Bank-fundedpower
 projects inChna.

 6.       The Bankhad already made two loans to the Zhejiang power utility to buildthe
 Phase Io fthe Beilungangcoal-fired power plant3,so it was a utilitythat was already well
 known to Bank staffbythe time power reforms came to prominence inthe Bank-GoC
 sector dialog inthe mid-1990s. Its role as a pioneer or `testing ground' for sector reforms
 duringthe secondhalfof the 1990swas therefore a logicalprogression. TheBankstill
 has an ongoing relationship4with the Zhejiang utility,However, there have beenno
 subsequent Bank-funded projects with the two power companies inSichuan, principally
 due to macro-economic and GoC borrowingpolicy decisions rather thansectoral factors.



 ErtanHydroelectricProject I& 115

 PROJECTDESCRIPTION

 7.       The ErtanHydroelectric project was the first step inthe long-term development o f
the hydroelectric potential o fthe Yalong River.The 240-meter-high curved arch Ertan
damis at 1,200 metersabove sealevel, with a long, narrowreservoir that extends 145
kilometers upstream. The underground powerhouse contains six 550 MW generating
units that canproduce an annual average total o f about 17terawatt hours (TWh) o f
electricity. Untilthe Three Gorges Project, Ertanwas the largest hydroelectric plant in
China. The plant i s connected to the cities o f Chengduand Chongqingby 500kV
transmission lines that were constructed ina parallel Bank-supportedproject.


8.        Giventhe large size and long gestation period o fthe project, it was clear from the
start that two IBRDloans would berequired. The first for $380 millionwas approved in
 1991,andthe second for $400 millionfollowed in 1995, accompanied by a Guarantee
operation for commercial financing o f $150 million. Transmittingthe power from Ertan
to the mainurbancenters o f Sichuan (Chengdu and Chongqing) requiredthe construction
o f a 500kV system, which was partly financedby anotherBank loan o f $270millionto
the Sichuan Electric Power Company, also approved in 1995 andreviewed inthis report.

PROJECT     OBJECTIVES

9.       The mainobjectives ofthe ErtanIhydroelectric project were to:

3. The subject ofPPAR # 19510 issued in 1999.
4. Tongbai PumpedStorage Project.
  There were two consecutive phases o fthe Ertanhydroelectric project, each one the subject o f a separate
loan. W i h the Bank,ErtanPhaseIand ErtanPhase I1were appraised at dfferent times and treated as
separate `projects' with their own identification code.

                                                3


        (a) provide additional generating capacity to the power system inSichuan
        Province inorder to alleviate acute electricity shortages; (b) assist inthe transfer
        o fmodem technology and inthe introductionof efficient construction methods in
        order to reduce the cost andprevailinglong gestation periods o f large
        hydroelectricprojects inChina; (c) contribute to further improvements inthe
        analysis o f environmentaland ecological impacts o fhydroelectricresource
        development and inthe design o f related mitigationmeasures; (d) enhance the
        institutionaldevelopment o fEHDC by strengtheningits organization through a
        modernmanagement training program and introducingo f economic efficiency
        andpricing principles; and(e) provide technical assistanceinproject design and
        implementation, and for the promotion of optimal operation o f the power system,
        prudent financial management, andmanpower development.

 10.    Objectives (c), (d), and (e) can be considered as one objective, since they are in
practice facets o fthe same overall goal o f institutional development o fthe project entity,
rather thandistinct objectives intheir own right.

 11.    Itwas entirely appropriate that the samethree overall objectives were carriedover
to the ErtanI1project when it was appraised five years later. However, at that stage two
new objectives were added, namely:



    0   thepromotiono fcompetitionthroughthe development ofmarket-oriented
        commercial arrangements for the sale of power generatedunder the Project; and
    0   the diversification o f financing strategies for power development.



APPRAISAL, QUALITY AT ENTRY,         AND IMPLEMENTATION

12.     The project was technically well prepared at appraisal. Good arrangements were
inplacefor engineering andconstruction management, includingtheuseofinternational
engineering consultants to assist with a very largeandtechnically difficult project. Ertan
was the first time that intemational contracting practices were usedina Chinese hydro
project. The ICR's coverage o f implementationis comprehensive andneednot be
repeated here.

13.     The environmental impact assessmentandresettlement programwere prepared to
the prevailing standards at that time. The latter provedto be inadequate and a full-blown
Resettlement Action Planwas prepared for the appraisal o fthe second loan, but this too
turned out to have important shortcomings (para 17). Environmental mitigationmeasures
also hadto be reinforced following the second loan, inorder to comply with more
stringent World Bank and GoC noms that had come into effect since the first loanwas
appraised.

14.     Institutional and capacity buildingaspects were also dealt with appropriately in
the project design.No safeguards or mitigatingmeasurescould have been incorporated at
appraisal to have prevented the project from sufferingthe financial difficulties it
encountered inits first five years o foperations (paras 25-26).

                                                   4


15.      Theproject was appraised inlate 1989but the Bank was unableto negotiate the
loanwith GoC due to the political climate following the events that year inTiananmen
Square, with the result that major civilworks contracts could not be signed, with loss o f a
construction season. Formalnegotiations were eventually concluded inMarch 1991.
Bridge financing hadto be arrangedby EHDC/GoC to avoid losing a secondconstruction
seasonbecauseBoardapproval took place only inJuly 1991.

16.      Site preparation began in 1987, the first generating unit went into service in 1998,
andtheproject was fully completedinearly2000, at a cost ofUS$2.2 billion6,about six
months ahead o f schedule. Despite initial difficulties anddelays andthe demanding
implementation schedule, all six units o fthe power plantwere inservice by end-1999.
From a technical standpoint they have been operatingnormally since then, although
productioninthe initial years hadto beheldback becauseo f financial anddemand-
relatedfactors exogenous to the project (paras 25-26). The plant has beenoperating at
close to full capacity in2003-04 and objectives (a) and (b) above canbe said to have
been fully achieved.

ISSUES

Resettlement

17.      As describedinthe ICR, at the time o fproject appraisal 29,000 people were
expected to needrelocationsince their homes would be submerged by the reservoir. This
estimate rose to 35,000 by the time the second loanwas appraised in 1995. However, the
latter figure didnot include families affected only bythe loss o f land', nor didit take
account of population growth duringthe 1990s amongthe affected families, which then
raised the total to 46,000 covered inthe Resettlement Action Plan (RAP). Thereafter
about 4,000 people hadto be shifted asecond time since the locations selected for their
new settlements were too prone to landslidedamage or because the initial per capita land
allocations made to them were insufficient to ensure incomerecovery to their former
levels. There are still about 900 people awaiting secondary resettlement, which has
provedto be much slower than anticipated, mainly due to the scarcity o f arable land. The
assessmentmissionwas informedthat adequate funds are available to complete the
program, but that it i s likely to take untilend-2006 to do so. This is aninordinately long
period, giventhat all other aspectso fthe project hadbeen hlly completedby late-2000.

18.      The financial costs o fresettlement were seriouslyunderestimated. These rose
from $104 million at the initial appraisal, to $176 millionwhen the second loanwas
appraised and finally to over $290 million at project "completion'",           or about $6,300 per
person. As indicated inthe ICR, the unit costs as well as the "headcount" for resettlement
were poorly estimated, even at the time o fthe second appraisal andRAP.


6. Excludingthe high-voltage transmissionlines, which cost a further US$1billion.
7. Some families homeswere above the waterline andwere therefore excluded, eventhoughtheir land
holdingswere submerged.
8. Includingthe unfinishedsecondaryresettlement o f about 900people.

                                                       5


 19.     The Honggeresettlement village visitedby the assessment mission appearedto be
ingoodphysicalcondition, about 7 to 8 years after itwas set up.Household
electrificationis 100percent, muchhigher thaninthe original villages. Higher-value
agricultural activities, such as h i t crops and livestock that were started since the villages
were established, seem to be contributing to raisinghousehold incomesbeyondpre-
project levels.' However, statistical data on household income levels i s no longer
collected, following the non-renewal o f an economic monitoring contract, so it is
impossible to quantify the degree o fprogress, or the extent o fthe income shortfall o f
those resettled elsewhere for a secondtime. The people still awaiting secondary
resettlement have beenleft even further behindinterms o f income restorationin
comparison with those now livinginHongge.

20.      A ten-year post-project rehabilitationlevy of about 0.3 fen/kWh on EHDC's
electricity sales provides funds for bothenvironmental protectionaroundthe reservoir as
well as for infrastructure maintenance andimprovements andincome-boosting activities
for the resettlement villages. This i s a useful instrument to help ensure project
sustainability since it eliminates uncertainty about funding from budgetary sources.

21.      Despite the unfinished secondaryresettlement, the Ertanresettlement program
appearsto have beensuccessful overall andhas given satisfactory results interms o f
restoration or improvemento f livingstandards andbetter access to infrastructure and
other services for the bulk o fthe affectedpopulation. Nevertheless, the precarity o f the
900 people still to benefitfrom secondaryresettlement i s unsatisfactoryand GoC cannot
be said to have fully met all its resettlement obligationsunder the project.

22.      The experience gained from the Ertanresettlement program is likely to be useful
inthe designandimplementationofthe subsequentEHDChydroprojects. Theuseofan
international environmental andresettlement panel for the first time inChinaproved its
worth. Anecdotal evidence suggeststhat the resettlement policies o f the Sichuan
government have beenpositivelyinfluenced through exposure to Bankpractices under
the Ertanproject, particularly as regardsmonitoring and evaluation.

Finances

23.      The SAR statesthat project sought to promote `prudent financialmanagement'
andto `introduce economic efficiency andpricingprinciples'. This section examines
what was achieved inthis regard.

Electricity production and sales

24.      Electricityproductionby EHDC in2004 was 15.6 terawatt-hours (TWh), two
thirds o fwhich was purchased by SEPC. Chongqing Electric Power Company (CEPC)
accounts for about a quarter o fpurchases and a few large state-owned industries in
Sichuan take the remaining6 to 7 percent.


9. Manyo f the farmers grew lower-value cerealsprior to resettlement, which are not onlymore land- and
water-intensive to cultivate, but also offer lower prospects for income enhancement.

                                                     6




                                      EHDC-Electricitv sales
                                     Year                   Sales inTWB
                                     1998                        0.75
                                     1999                         5.o




 25.      The low level o f sales inthe years 2000-01 after full commissioningo f all six
units was mainly due to the failure o f Chongqing Municipality to use its agreedquota'' o f
power from EHDC, inviolation o fthe contractual agreement. Itpreferred to buypower
 from new plantsunder itsjurisdiction, to which it hadprovided fiscal incentives, rather
thanbuyfrom Ertan.The slowdownindemand growthinSichuan following theAsian
 financial crisis also contributed to the problem. SEPC preferred to dispatch its own plants
inpreferenceto Ertan. This ledto theperverse outcomeofEHDCbeingforcedto spill
water while older, coal-burning power plants operated instead.

26.       EHDCwas unableto enforce the terms o fthe PPAsdue to themonopsonistic
power o f its two customers andthe absence o f a strong regulatory authority to arbitrate in
the matter. The company sufferedserious financial lossesinterms o fforgone revenues at
a time when its debt service burdenwas very high. Therewere also substantial economic
losses to both Sichuan and Chongqingfrom their suboptimal generation plant dispatching
policy. The adverse publicity (including the attention drawn to it bythe Bankinits
communications with the central government) about the inability o f EHDC to frndoutlets
for its power production, probably contributed to GoC's subsequent decision in2002 to
separate generation from transmission, inorder to avoid future misuse o fmarketpower".
Theproblemof suboptimal use anddispatch o f energy from Ertanprovedto beshort-
lived andwas resolved once the demand for electricity rose sharply from 2003 onwards.

Tariffs

27.      EHDC's sale prices differ according to the buyer. SEPCnow pays anaverageo f
Y0.26kWh while the tarifffor Chongqingis Y0.24kWh (including VAT). The industrial
clients o f EHDC" pay less thanhalf(only about YO.l to 0.lSkWh) the price charged to
the utilities. EHDCis incurring anannual financial loss ofat leastY0.lkWh onthe
1.2TWhthat it supplies to the state-owned enterprises, or more thanY120million


10.Following the separationof Chongqing, GoC decidedthat SEPC would take 68.5 percent ofthe power
fromErtanandthe remainderwould go to CEPC, but these s h e s were later modified to reduce CEPC's
share to 27 percentof an `optimal' output of 14.6 TWh.
11. The State Council Power SectorReformPlan(DocumentNo. 5,2002) explicitlyrefers to the problems
of "unfair dispatch" and"provincialism" as barriers to the optimalallocation of energy.
12. These are energy-intensiveSOEs that were encouraged to set upplants inthe late 1990sto absorb the
"glut" inhydropower from Ertanandwere offeredpromotional power tariffs as incentives. .

                                                    7


 (USS15 million). Duringthe recent power scarcity, such preferential contracts had a very
highopportunity cost becauseother consumerswouldhavereadilypaidmuchmorefor
the power, butthe Sichuanprovincial government is unlikelyto eliminate these subsidies
inthe foreseeable future.

28.      Different prices are charged to SEPC inthe flood anddry seasons and there i s
also a daily peak/off-peak price. However, only a single flat price i s usedfor sales to
CEPC at all times. There i s no clear logic for this preferential treatment. Nor has the
principle o f a separatecapacity andenergy charge inthe tariffbeenintroduced, even
though it was agreed with the Bank at the time o f loan negotiations and explicitly
covenanted inthe Project Agreement for the secondBankloan. A two-part tariffwith a
lower energy charge would probably also have helpedEHDC to find outlets for more of
its production inthe early surplus years, when its flat tariff was higher than the cost o f
electricity fiom SEPC's old coal-firedplants.

29.      Sales volumes above the contracted amount are apparently also to bepriced at the
same level as the contract price, which has to be approved bythe Pricing Bureauo f
NDRC. Clearly EHDC has little scope to orient its prices and sales to reflect scarcity or
glut inthe powermarkets. The present situationis very far from the declaredproject
objective o f "market oriented commercial arrangements for the sale o fpower."

30.      Inaddition, thecurrent tariffs to SEPC andCEPCarestillsubstantially belowthe
GoC approved bulk tariffo fY0.34kwh (including VAT) that was supposedto be
reachedprogressivelyby 2006. The agreedtarget price has now beenrevised downby
NDRC to YO.278/kWhy to reflect the improved debtprofile ofEHDC. However, average
revenue per unit o f sales in2004 was only Y0.207kWh'3, which about the same as the
average revenue inthe first three years o f operation.

31.      It seems unlikelythat the largegap (over 50percent) between actual andthe
"recommended/agreed" tariffwill be closed inunder two years. The looming generation
surplus in2007-08 (para 130) will also make it hardfor EHDC to obtain significantly
higherprices inthe coming years. Lack o fprogress inraisingtariffs hasbeena cause for
concem ever since production started in 1998. The Bankrepeatedly brought the matter to
the attention o fthe authorities at boththe provincial andnational level, butwithout
success. Inconclusion, it appearsthat the project failed to meet the objective o f
introducing economic pricingprinciples intariffsetting.

Debt management

32.      Inlate2003, theoutstanding$396millionequivalent ofIl3RDcurrencypool
loans were prepaidby EHDC usinganew single currency U.S. dollar loan that it
obtained from the Bank o f China at LIBORplus 0.6 percent. This has reduced EHDC's
outstanding debt to IBRDto about $208 million at end-2004. The operation reduced the
debt service outflows and also reduced the risks arisingfrom the currency pool. Currency
fluctuation between the U.S. dollar andYuan i s minimal and current internationalopinion

       ~



13. Including 17percent VAT, halfo fwhich EHDCi s allowed by GoC to retain as a temporary
arrangement and consider as an increase inequity capital.

                                                     8


suggests that future changes would lead to arevaluation ofthe parityinfavor o f the
Yuan, thereby reducingEHDC's debt service burdenevenfurther. Foreigncommercial
cofinancing inEuros accompanied the second IBRD loan to EHDC, inpursuit o f the
objective o f diversifying EHDC's financing sources and exposing it to intemational
capitalmarkets. However, the commercial cofinancing has also been fully repaid andthe
associated IBRD Partial Credit Guarantee canceled. Inaddition, EHDC was able to
refinance some o f its local debt at lower interest rates andextendmaturitiesto 25 years.
These adjustments to EHDC foreign debt illustrate its financial management capabilities
andare evidence of the project's contributionto financialcapacity buildinginEHDC.

Profzitability

33.     EHDC recorded its first profits in2003 andwas estimated to have earned Y486
million on sales o fY2,756 million in2004. This i s a major turnaround from a loss o f
about Y1billion in2000. Given the higher sales volumes and lower interest charges
following its debt restructuring, EHDC's finances appear to be slowly reachinga
sustainable footing, although its debt-equityratio (92/8)i s still unsatisfactory andwill
limit its future borrowing capacity. Agreement inprinciplehasbeenreached for an
increase inshareholders' equity14o f about Y300 to 400 million, which will help EHDC to
increase its borrowing capability for a new hydro project at Jinping.

34.     Lower than agreed tariffs meanthat EHDC i s still substantially below the Bank-
covenanted rate of return (RoR) on assets (6 percent versus 15 percent). There were some
concems that the RoRcovenant may have beentoo stringent and ifappliedwould have
ledto unreasonably hightariffs andthe accumulation oflarge surpluses byEHDC.
However, the outcome hasbeenthe opposite, with the non-applicationo f the tariff
recommended by GoC itself.

35.     There i s little reasonto expect abreakthrough on tariffs inthe near-term. Yet
EHDC's financingneeds for the Jinpinghydro project are very large and a reasonable
level o f internal cash generation i s importantto mobilize lenders to provide funds for this
major project. Futureearningsneedto be reinvested indevelopingthe hydropower
potential o fthe Yalong, inlinewith EHDC's mandate andmission statement, but current
GoC policy towards EHDC does not appear to be supportive o f this goal.

PERFORMANCERATINGS (PHASES 1AND 11COMBINED)


Outcome

36.     The Ertanhydro project will produce a large amount (averaging 15TWhannually)
of clean electricity for several decades to come, eliminatingthe needto burnover six
milliontons o f coal per year. As such it yields major economic and financial benefits for
Sichuan which are highlyrobust. EHDC, its suppliers and contractor acquired the
technology andproject management skills for the design and implementationo f very


14. The shareholders have yet to pay inthe full 20 percent ofthe initial project investment as equity in
EHDC.

                                               9


large, world-class hydroelectric schemes. The Bank's capacity buildingobjective for
EHDC under the project appears to have beenlargely accomplished (paras 42-44) and it
i s now well-placed to pursuenew hydroelectric development schemes on the Yalong. For
these reasons, the project outcome i s rated satisfactory. Hadthere beenbetter financial
results (para 34) and full completion o fthe secondary resettlement (para 17), the project
would have merited a highlysatisfactory rating.

Relevance

37.      The three main objectives (alleviation o fpower shortages, transfer o f technology,
andinstitutionaldevelopment) oftheprojectwere highlyrelevant to the circumstances
prevailing at the time (late 1980s) inthe Sichuanpower sector. The creation o f a new
entity, EHDC, to build and operatethe project meantthat the institutional development
objective had considerably greater relevance thanwould otherwise have beenthe case.

38.      Withhindsight, promotingcompetition as anobjective ofthe secondloanseems
to have been both unrealistic andpremature inthe prevailingcontext. Its inclusion
probably reflects internal World Bank pressuresrather thanan objective assessmento f
relevance and feasibility. Onthe other hand, seekingnew financing approaches was
certainly relevant and appropriate for anew entity with little exposure to international
capital markets.

39.      The overall relevance of the project objectives is assessed as high. The inclusion
o f one inappropriate objective inthe second loan does not detract from the highrelevance
o fthe others.




40.      The project's efficacy is rated as high.Three broadproject objectives (increasing
power supply, transferringtechnology and developingEHDC as an institution) were
largely achieved. The promotion o f competition was not particularlyrelevant to the
prevailing circumstances at that time andwas not achieved.

Efficiency

41.      According to the ICR, the project has an EIRR, o f at least 11percent at prevailing
tariffs and considerablyhigher - 16percent when an estimate for the willingness to pay i s
included". Efficiency ofresource use is assessedto be substantial.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

42.      EHDC was converted into a limited liability companywith a Boardo fDirectors
in1995, a step that the Bankattachedconsiderable importanceto as part ofthe approval
process for the second loan. Today EHDC's share capital is dividedbetween the State
DevelopmentInvestment Company andthe SichuanProvincial Investment Group with 48

15. Not recalculatedby the evaluator.

                                                  10


  percent each, while the remaining4 percent is heldbythe China HuadianCorporation'6.
  Following GoC's decision to separate generation from transmission, SEPC, the main off
  taker o fEHDC's productionno longer has a stake init. EHDC has a staff o f about 300,
  about halfo fwhom are directly involvedinErtanpower plant operations. A new
  department has beenset up to handlepreparatory work for the construction o fthe Jinping
  hydro project", upstreamof Ertan.

  43.     EHDCbenefited from awide rangeo ftraining, advisory services andtechnical
  assistance duringthe decade-long project implementationperiod. They covered technical,
  organizationalmanagerial, financial, tariff, resettlement, and environmental matters and
  havebeenwell described inthe two ICRs. This PPAR considers their impact to have
  been highlybeneficialinbuildingup the new institution.

  44.     The project has undoubtedly helpedEHDC become a mature entitythat is now
  organizationally well placed andhas the capabilities to undertake further major
  hydroelectric developments on the Yalong River such as the much larger Jinping hydro
  project. The project's ID impact is therefore rated as high.

  Sustainability

  45.     Technical sustainability i s highly likely, given EHDC's demonstrated engineering
  andoperational strengths over thepast five years since projectcompletion. The Ertan
  hydroelectricproject will produce largepositive cash flows for EHDC for the next
  several decades, but financial concernsrelating to the non-observance o fthe approved
  tariffcannot be overlooked. Nevertheless, overall sustainability is considered to be
  likely.

  Bank Performance

  46.     Preparation and appraisal bythe Bankwere rigorous. High-quality supervision
  was undertaken very regularlyandrepeated efforts were made to protect EHDC's
  interests on tariff and dispatching issues. Bank staff exhibitedgreat diligence in
  supervision, even after loan closing. Overallperformance i s rated satisfactory.

 Borrower Performance

 47.      This challengingprojectwas successfully implementedbyEHDC andis
producingmajor economic benefits for Sichuan. EHDC's performance was highly
 satisfactory.However, there were shortcomings inthe quality o fthe initial resettlement
plan, GoCpricingpolicies, poor govemment decisions oncompetinginvestments and
 sub-optimal dispatch policies inthe early years o f operation, as well as inordinate delays
incompletingthe secondaryresettlement program.Neverthelessasatisfactoryoverall
performance rating isjustified becauseofthe successful implementation o f this large and
difficult project.

~~




 16. One ofthe five major state-owned generationcompanies set upin2003.
 17.At about 1,900 meters altitude, JinpingI& I1would be plantsof 3600MW and4400MWrespectively.

                                              11




Sichuan Power TransmissionProject

PROJECT    OBJECTIVES

48.     The objectives o ftheprojectwere to: (a) alleviate an acute shortage o f electricity
inSichuanprovince; (b) assistindesigningandimplementingpowersubsector reforms in
Sichuan; (c) support the implementation o f further power tariffrationalization; (d)
promotethe transfer o f contemporary technologies for extra highvoltage power
transmission networks; (e) strengthen institutionalcapabilities for environmental
management andresettlement planning:and (f) upgrade management and operation
capabilities through stafftraining.

49.     The above six objectives canbedistilledinto three: increase electricity supply,
transfer technology, andpromote institutional development (including wide-ranging
utility andsector-level reforms). Capacity buildingandtechnologytransfer were common
objectives shared with the Ertanhydroelectric project. But unlike Ertan, which was solely
a generation company, SEPC was an integratedpower utility, thereby presentingthe
Bankwithanopportunity to engageit inbroader power sector reforms andstart the
provincial-level implementation o f reformprinciplesthat hadbeenbroadly agreed at the
nationalpolicy-making levels of GoC.

PROJECT    DESCRIPTION

50.     The physical aspectso fthe project consisted o fthe constructiono f over 2,000
kilometers o f 500kV transmission lines and associatedsubstations to connect the Ertan
hydroelectricproject to the Sichuanpower grid. Constructiono fthe first o fthese
transmission lines was technically challenging due to the highaltitudes (as much as 3,500
meters), severe cold, ruggedandremote terrain that hadto be crossed during       '
construction. The rest of the project consisted o fdiverse advisory services, training, and
technical assistance to improve SEPC's organization, accounting and financial
capabilities, andmanagement information systems.

APPRAISAL AND QUALITY AT ENTRY

51,     Bankassistancefor the transmission systemnecessary to bringthe electricity
produced at Ertanto the major load centers inSichuan was perfectly logical -neither
project could produce any returns without the other. Giventhe Bank's involvement inthe
Ertanproject since the late 1980s, itwas essentialto ensurethat these crucial
transmission lines were built inclose coordination with progress on Ertan.

52.     Sichuan Electric Power Companywas a new borrower for the Bankthat untilthis
project hadbeen largely untouchedby sector reforms that hadbeguninother provinces.
The Bank's strategy at that time'' explicitly entailed addressing the problems inthe

18. SARpara 1.26.

                                                    12


provincial utilities and also proposed doing so inthe inlandprovinces where there had
been no previous Bankinvolvement with the local utility.

53.      Thereform agendawas ambitious but appearedfeasible. According to the SAR",
it included: (a) commercializationofpowercompanies, includingprovisionofgreater
autonomy; (b) rationalization o fpower tariffs; (c) realignment o fthe regulatory and legal
framework for the sector, including the promulgationof a NationalElectricity Law; and
(d) strong encouragement for further diversificationinfinancing for power development,
includingprivate sector participation. The reform agendahadthe necessary political
support andbuy-infrom decision-makers, who were requiredto translate GoC's new
nationalpolicies2' for the economy -the transition to a socialist market economy-as
well as SOE reform, into actions to improve the performance o fthe electric power sector.

54.      Thepolicy content ofthe project was broadly inline withthe Bank's 1993 policy
paper for power lending, which gave considerable weight to corporatizationand
commercialization. However, transparent regulation, which was another major plankof
the 1993 policy, didnot feature inthe designo fthe Sichuan reforms, but was expected to
be addressedby a new national electricity law" that was under preparationat the time o f
project appraisal. Nor was the unbundlingandprivatizationo fintegrated power utilities
envisaged on the "menu" o freform options beingconsidered inChina at that juncture.

ReformAction Plan

55.      At the time ofproject appraisal in 1994, SEPC hadonlyjust begunto separate
itself from the Sichuan Electric Power Administration (SEPA), an oversight body o f the
provincial government. It hadnot yet become a limited liability company with a boardo f
directors. Its operations andmanagement were still intertwinedwith SEPA. As with most
provincial utilities inChina at that time, SEPC was involved ina wide array o f activities
andservices far removed from its core business. Electricityprices at that time were
among the lowest inChina andthe tariffs were extremely complex. Muchneeded to be
done to introduce modem management techniques and financial practices. The project
included a substantial package o f foreign technical assistance for capacity building across
a broadrangeo f disciplines.

56.      These reforms, which were a prominent Part o fthe project, were distilled into an
action planfor the commercialization and corporatizationo f SEPC. The actionplanwas
approved by GoC and annexed to the agreed minutes o fnegotiations. Implementationo f
the actionplanwas also included as a covenant intheproject agreement betweenSEPC
andthe Bank.


19. para 2.15.
20. The "Regulations on Transforming the Management Mechanismo f State-Owned Enterprises" (July
1992), the "Regulations on adoption o fNew Accounting System" (July 1993), andthe "Company Law"
(Decemberl993), launched the process o f enterprise reform.
21. Adopted bythe NPC inlate 1995 and effective fromApril 1996.I t is still inforce inits original form,
despite havingbeensupersededby subsequent changesinmanyimportant areas, butrevisions are being
discussed.

                                                  13


PhysicalImplementation

57.       The first circuit of the transmission line from Ertanto Chengduwas ready intime
for the commissioning o f the first unit o fthe Ertanhydro plant andthe PPA with EHDC
was also signedat about the same time. However, there were some delays incompleting
the other transmission lines in 1999-2000. These were bottlenecks that contributed to the
low productionfrom Ertan inits first two years. The final cost o fthe project was US$965
million andthe transmission lines have been operating satisfactorilyduringthe past five
years, They are now the vital centerpiece o fthe entire high-voltage network inSichuan.

58.       The 500kV system from Ertanhadto bereconfiguredto take account ofthe
reductioninpower flows to Chongqing, whichwas originally supposedto receive two-
thirds of the power from Ertan,butwhich chose to take only a third. Hence, the
transmission system needed to beupgraded to delivermore power to the Chengdu area.
This obliged SEPC to construct anadditional 500kV line and substation that hadnotbeen
parto fthe original design. SEPC also took steps to strengthenthe transmission links with
therest of the Central ChinaPower Gridto enable greater "exports" ofpower from
Sichuan to other provinces22,particularlyinthe wet season. SEPC undertook these
investments without recourse to additional World Bankfinancial assistance. In addition,
the initial designcapacity o fthe transmission lines23was insufficient to evacuate Ertan's
maximum power productionduringthe rainy season. Reinforcement is now underway to
eliminatethis power transfer bottleneck.

59.       About 3600 households were relocatedas a result o fthe project. As inthe case o f
the Ertanproject, the quality ofthe initial resettlement actionplanwas poor, although
prepared inaccordance with the Bank's requirements of the time. TheRAP'Sdeficiencies
were remedied duringthe early phase ofimplementation andindependent monitoring and
evaluation arrangements were put inplace to oversee the resettlement program, which
was completed satisfactorily at a cost o fUS$64 million, five times greater thanestimated
at appraisal.

INSTITUTIONAL        DEVELOPMENT      ISSUES

60.       The S A R statesthat project sought to "assist indesigning andimplementing
power sector reforms". This section discusses the results achieved inpursuit o fthe
project's refom goals.

Implementationof Reforms

61.       As statedinthe SAR, "the objective o fthe reforrmpackage isto develop SEPC
into a limitedliability company infull conformity with the Company Law, separated
fiom   the government, financially autonomous and self-sufficient, with clearly defined
ownership structures andrights, and operated according to modemcommercial


22. Net exports fromSichuan to other provinces in2004 were about 7,650 GWh, or about 12percent of
electricity sales within Sichuan.
23.2,900 Mw versus the 3,300MW maximumcapacity of Ertan.

                                                   14


management principles andprocedures. SEPC's Action Planincludes an integrated, step-
by-step program o fmeasures to achieve this objective by 1998." Although sector reforms
proceeded somewhat differently than envisaged at appraisal, the above goals have been
largely achieved, but took several years longer than expected. Onthe other hand, insome
fields reforms have proceeded much furtherthan anticipated a decade ago, largely as a
result o fthe landmark2002 State Council power sector reformplan(paras 123-124).

62.      Accounting separation24of 10 generationplants and 15 power supplybureaus was
achieved in 1999. The final transfer of governmental functions (policymaking and sector
regulation) from SEPC to the Sichuan Economic Commission25was not achieved until
mid-2000. This inturndelayed SEPC's own internalreorganization. SEPC was
eventually registered as a limitedliability shareholding company in2000.

63.      In1997, duringprojectimplementation, theboundaries o fSichuanprovincewere
changed and Chongqing and its surrounding areas were carved out o f Sichuan and
granted the administrative status o f a separatemunicipality (witha population of about 30
million) under direct control o fthe central government. Numerous complications arose
ffom the creation o fChongqingmunicipality, includingthe transfer of some SEPC assets
andstaff. Also major sections ofthe transmission lines from Ertanandtwo substations
fell within the boundaries o fthe new ChongqingMunicipality. However, it was agreed
that SEPC should retain sole responsibility for project implementation. The asset and
staff split also delayed movesto change SEPC's legal status.

64.      As a consequenceofthe2002 State Council decision to separategeneration fkom
transmission (para 123), SEPC's power plantswere fully transferred to the new
generation companies inmid-2004, with the exception o f one hydroelectricpeakingplant
that it hasbeenallowedto retain.

65.      Transferringnon-core activities such as staffmedical andeducational facilities to
the provincial government is proving muchharder. These hadbeen separatedfrom SEPC
inaccountingterms duringthe SEPC reorganizationin2000, butremainpartofits
overall responsibilities. The Sichuan government i s reluctant to take onthe financial and
staffburden, while the concerned staff are also unhappy as their service conditions would
be inferior to their current ones. Due to these difficulties, the transfer is unlikelyto take
place in2005. Spinningoff SEPC's 16 subsidiary companies that are involved inmore
commercialbusiness activities may be less difficult, but also remains to be done. There
are no ongoing plans for a furtherhivingoffo fthe 28 "branch" companies under SEPC
that essentially deal withpower distribution.

66.      Theproject didnot addressthe issue of sectorregulation, which was being
handled mainly at the state level(para 128) throughthe now-defunct Ministry ofElectric
Power26and its successor body. Provincial-level regulationwas entrusted to the Sichuan
Provincial Commission on Economic Relations andTrade once the SEA was wound up

24. The unbundling of SEPC hadnot been envisaged at thatpoint.
25. SEPA was wound up.
26. Abolished in 1998, when operational and commercial functions were transferred to a new State Power
Corporation, and governmental functionsto the State Economic and Trade Commission.        .

                                                   15


in2000. Inthe coming years, Sichuanprovince will applyregulatoryprinciplesand
pricingpolicies that have still to bedefinedby the concerned GoC bodies, SERC and
NDRC.

 67.      Transmissionpricingwas not tackled under the project, since it was assumedthat
 all the power from Ertanwould be consumedwithin Sichuan and therefore the PPA
between SEPC andErtanwould be adequate. Growingvolumes ofpower exchanges
 acrossprovincial andregionallines now meanthat it i s urgentto reach country-wide
 agreement on the pricingprinciplesto beusedfor power transmission.

 SEPC Finances

 68.      Rationalizationo f the power tariff structure was an explicit project objective. The
process began inthe early years ofproject implementation, with the elimination o f
differentiatedregionalprices for the same consumer categories, as well as a steady
increase inthe price o f electricity. Time o fday and seasonalpricingis used for
commercial and industrial consumers, inline with Bankrecommendations. SEPC's
financial performanceimproveduntil2000, but then declined thereafter. A bigincrease in
capital expenditure and short-term borrowing27coincidedwith slight falls inenergy
demand and average power prices. These were the main factors behind its declining
profitability during2001-03, that meantit was unable to comply with World Bankloan
covenants on financial performance. Accounts receivable also mushroomed, due to poor-
performing state-owned enterprises with payment difficulties. The problems were
exacerbatedbynew tariffdistortions arising from the provincialgovernment's decision to
offer incentives to certainconsumer categories(like energy-intensiveindustries andnew
enterprises) inthe form o f discounts to stimulate electricity consumption. These
incentives were short-sighted and stimulated the wasteful use o fpower at a time when
surpluses were fast disappearing. Suchpreferential pricingwas a major factor
contributingto SEPC's weak finances in2001-02. These measureswere finally abolished
in2004, dueto thepower shortagesthathitSichuanin2003-04. Overall, theprojectcan
be said to have met its goal o f improving tariff structures, although the recent experience
inZhejiangprovince(para 105) showsthat there isstillmuchto bedone inSichuanwith
regard to residentialelectricity pricing.

69.       SEPC's financial performance in2004, with pre-tax profits o fabout Y870
million, was probably its best ever despitethe loss o f income arisingfrom the transfer o f
generation plants. This was the result ofhigher energy sales, highersale prices, andthe
abolition inmid-2004 o fpreferential tariffs. SEPC was also able to reduce its outstanding
long-term debt to its lowest level since 1997. Its debtlequity andself-financing ratios as
well as debt-service coverage are now muchhealthier. However, fbture profitability will
depend inpart upon SERC/State Grid decisions on transmission pricing. At present, the
respective shares o f the retail tariff going to generation transmission anddistribution
appearsto be skewed infavor o f generation (para 133), which will need to be addressed


27. GoC's anti-recessionary measures following the 1998 Asian crisis includeda bigpushfor rural
electrificationandcapital investment for network upgrading that provincial power companies hadto fund
largely fiom their own or borrowedresources.

                                               16


by GoC ifthe other two brancheso fthe electricity supplyindustryare not to be deprived
o f adequatefunds for investment.

Creation of a Generation Market

70.     In1999, SEPCsetupaninternalgenerationmarketforits 10plantsthat
accounted for about halfo f all capacity inthe province. This was the first step toward the
creation o f abulk power market inthe province and had not been envisaged at the time of
project design. The initiative for it appears to have come from SEPC, not the Bank.Nor
was it part ofthe initial reform actionplan agreed at the time of loannegotiations. By
mid-2000 (when there was a capacity surplus inSichuan), the generation market hadbeen
expanded to include non-SEPC controlledplants(PPs andErtan) and generators
accounting for about 9,000MW o f capacity28were participating indaily biddingfor 96
quarter-hour "slabs" of generation. A Parallel"swap" marketwas also set up to permit
thermal plantsto sell their generation "quotas" to hydro plants,particularly inthe wet
season. This proved successful and ledto significant cost savings. However, inthe
current environment o felectricity shortages inSichuan, the bulk supplymarket has little
relevance. All generators receive the "cap" or ceilingprice o fY289MWh.

Therewere manydistortions inthis initial experiment due to SEPC's role as market
operator andthe attendant conflict o f interest arisingfrom its direct control over more
thanhalfofall generation capacitybeingdispatched. Internationalconsultants (Mercatos
Energeticos) were hiredunder the project to improve marketdesign andto draft operating
rules. The briefexperience with competitionat the bulk level came to an endwhen the
spare generation capacity was absorbed and shortages began in2003. But lessons from it
mayprove to be useful in2007 andbeyond, when spare generation capacity is widely
expected to be available. At that point, a bigger market -on a regionalrather than
provincialbasis -is likelyto prove a more efficient arrangement, particularly as inter-
provincial high-voltage transmission links are now muchmore developed thanthey were
five years ago.

PERFORMANCE        RATINGS

Outcome

71.     The overallproject outcome is assessedas satisfactory, giventhat as a result o f
the project, (i)  electricity from the Ertanhydro plantreaches its mainmarkets inChengdu
andChongqing, thereby contributingto alleviatingpower shortages; (ii) is a SEPC
stronger utility andhas acquired the skills to undertake highvoltage transmission projects
unassisted; and (iii)  sector reforms continueto progress. These were the three broad
objectives that the project sought to achieve.




28. About halfo f which was hydroelectric.

                                              17


Relevance

72.      Theproject objectives were highlyrelevantto the prevailing circumstances in
Sichuan inthe mid-1990s: a pressing shortage of electricity, the unreformedpower
supply sector andthe knowledgegap intechnology, utilitymanagement, andfinances.
They were also fully consistent with Bank's strategy to support GoC's efforts to bring
about a transition from communismto a socialist market economy through the reform o f
state-owned enterprises. Today, a decade later, sector reformsretain their topicality and
would feature prominently ifthere was to be a new Banklendingoperation. The
relevance o fthe project objectives i s therefore rated as high.


Efficacy

73.      Theproject's efficacy is ratedas high,since all the six project objectives listed in
parawere achieved without significant shortcomings. Thereis still a considerable amount
o f unfinishedsectoral reformbusinessto complete, but that was not envisaged under the
project. Nor was it expected that everything could be accomplished duringa single
project with a life of less than a decade, The underlyingproblemo fpower shortages
(which were easedas a result o fthe project) hasrecurred, but for reasonsunconnected
with SEPC or the project (para 125).

Efficiency

74.      The project's EIRR as estimated by the ICR i s inthe 12to14 percent range,
(dependingupontariffandwillingness to pay assumptions), whch is satisfactory. The
estimates do not take account o fthe additional economic benefits arising fi-om the fact
that the project facilitated power exports to other provinces. These exports to power-short
provinces had a muchhigher economic value to the buyersthanthe tariffpaid bythem to
SEPC duringthe power shortages o fthe last two years. Hence, the ElRR i s probably
highe129thanestimated inthe ICR. Efficiency is therefore assessed as substantial.

InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

75.      As describedinpara 61-65, the projectmade amajor contributionto the
institutionalrefoims inSEPC. The extensive3'Bank-fundedtraining program inkey areas
such as the design, construction, and operation ofhigh-voltage networks, utility finance,
corporate planning, and environmental management also hada positive impact on
SEPC's capabilities. Consulting services provided under the project endowed SEPC with
a modernfinancial management informationsystem. Overall it i s amuchstronger,
commercially-minded company with a better trained staffthan a decade ago. The
project's IDimpact was high.




29. Not recalculated by this PAR.
30. Over 800 staff-months.

                                                18


 Sustainability

 76.     Project sustainability is rated likely, despitethe uncertaintyarisingfrom the
incomplete sector reorganization. Following the unbundlingof generation and
transmission, the 500kV network i s one o f SEPC's prime assets. It i s well maintainedand
highly likelyto receive adequate operating andmaintenance funding, given its
importance to SEPC's role as a transmission company. For the moment, the "loss" o f its
generation assets to the new generation companies does not appear to have hurt SEPC's
financial performance unduly. Greater financial autonomy and "independence" from the
provincialgovernment depends uponthe quality o f sector regulation, which has yet to be
tested, giventhe newness o f the regulator SERC, andthe lack o f clarity about its real
authority to set tariffs.

Bank Performance

77.      The project was an astute blendo fhigh-priority physical investments that
complemented the Ertanhydro project, andutilityreforms ina less-developed inland
province. Project design and appraisal were good, while supervision was regular and
comprehensive, even ifstaff efforts to counteract the adverse effects o fpoor decisions on
tariffs and dispatching were ineffective. The Bank, lacking leverage (para 116), could
only exhort and attempt to persuade GoC o fthe need to take a particular course o f action.
Ideally, there should have been a follow-on project to continue supportingthe sectoral
reforms, inthe manner o fthe Bank'swork with the provincial utility inZhejiang,
ZPEPC. Overall Bankperformance i s considered satisfactory.

Borrower Performance

78.     Overallborrower performance i s rated satisfactory becauseo f successful
implementation o f the project andrealprogress achieved insector reforms and
institutionaldevelopment. These outweighthe shortcomings inthe pricing policies o fthe
Sichuan govemment, suboptimal investment by Chongqing Municipality innew thermal
plants, andthe underusageo fErtan's hydroelectricityinits earlyyears resultingftom
SEPC's favoritism o fits own plants.



Zhejiang Power Development Project

PROJECT    OBJECTIVES

79.     The SAR lists the objectives o fthis project as: (a) helpmeet rapidly expanding
electricity demand inZhejiangprovince ina least cost manner; (b) promote power sector
reform including commercializationand corporatization o fthe provincial power
enterprise; (c) upgrade management capabilities and systems to enable the enterprise to
operate efficiently ina commercialenvironment; (d) promote competition at the
generation levelthrough establishment o fmarket-oriented commercial arrangements
between power generation andmarketingentities; (e) encourage alternative financing

                                                    19


strategies for power development; (f) improve supply-side efficiency through reduction
of transmissionanddistribution losses; and(g) reduce environmental impacts ofnew
generation.

80.      The multiplicity o fobjectives listed above is striking for their number, diversity,
andbreadth. Only a strong andexperienced implementing agency usedto working with
theBank (which was the case) couldhavebeen expectedto tackle them all. They were
undoubtedly all relevant, but hadvarying degrees o f importance. UnlikeEHDC or SEPC,
capacity building, though important, was not as crucial ina utilitywhich was already
somewhat ahead o fmost o fits provincialpeers. On the other hand, the objective o f
promotingpower sector reforms carried muchmoreweight inthis project than ineither
o f the other two projects reviewed inthis PAR andthis topic is therefore the mainfocus
o fthe performanceassessmentthat follows.

PROJECT     DESCRIPTION

81.      Inordertoincreaseelectricity supplyintheprovince, theprojectcomprised (1)
the construction o f BeilungangPhase I1power plant (3 coal-firedunits o f 600 MW each)
(2) transmission network expansion andreinforcement; and (3) distributionnetwork
upgrading inHangzhouandNingbo Municipalities.

82.      The remainder o fthe project consisted o f a carrying out an agreedprogramof
power sector reforms andtechnical assistance andtraining for capacity buildingand
reform implementation.

APPRAISAL AND QUALITY AT ENTRY

83.      The Bank hadbeenclosely involved inthe debates anddesign o fthe Chinese
power sector reforms in 1993-94,prior to appraisal o fthis project. Followingthe mid-
1993 GoC-World Bankworkshop3`, it was agreed that Zhejiang would be one o ftwo
pilot provinces for the development of sector reforms nationwide. Hence, the policy
content o fthe project was given prominence right from the design stage.

84.      Prior to appraisal, the Vice-Minister o fthe then Ministry o f Electric Power wrote
to the Bank's CountryDirectoP2to spell out the broadprinciples o fpower sector reform
that GoC intendedto pursue, essentially (i)       the separation o f government from
enterprises, (ii)  the corporatization and commercializationo f the latter, (iii) improved
                                                                                       an
legal framework, (iv) expandingthe use o f foreign financing, and (v) tariffreform. These
areas became the mainplanks o fthe reformplanfor the power industryinZhejiang and
thereafter inmost other provinces as well.



31.The report "Chma Power Sector Reform: Towards Competition and ImprovedPerformance" Report
No. 12929(1994) hadbeenpreceded in1993by an IDF-fundedworkshop, study tour and report onreform
options prepared bya GoC task force ("Strategic options for power sector reforminChina," ESMAP
Report No. 156193).
32. Letter dated 15 December 1993.

                                                    20


85.      The content o fthe ReformPlanreflected thejudgment o fthe ZPEPC taskforce
andhada highdegree o f client ownership. Implementation ofthe ReformAction Plan
over four years to end-1997, with dated milestones was included as a loan covenant, even
thoughZPEPC recorded its ~ o n c e m ~      that ~its ability to do so inaccordance with the
timetable depended upon decisions to be takenby others outside its control. This was a
judicious caveat, giventhe likelihood o f delays at the national level infinalizing the
electricity law andthe fallout from the decision to wind up the Ministry o f Electric
Power. With hindsight, given the path-breaking nature ofthe reforms, it appears that the
timetable was rather unrealistic, even for those activities that were predominantlyunder
provincial or ZPEPC control.

IMPLEMENTATION

86.      As described inthe ICR, the physicalcomponents ofthe project were completed
satisfactorily andhave produced the expected outcomes intems of increased output and
reduced technical losses. The new units o fthe BeilungangI1power plant were
commissioned aheado f schedule andhave shown goodtechnical and environmental
performance since then.

87.      The project was largely completedby2002, but the closingdate was extendedby
a year to end-2003 inorder to continue financing furtherwork on the financial
management information system. The final cost o f the project amounted to US$1,494
million, two-thirds of w h c h was for the BeilungangI1plant.

88.      A total o f2156 people were relocated as a result oftheproject, substantially less
than estimated at appraisal. According to the ICR, better, largerhousingwas providedto
the affected households. An independent survey o fthe resettledfamilies34revealed that
per capita incomehad generally risensignificantly after relocation.

89.      The ICR states that emissions from BeilungangI1are 20 percent less than
comparable plants inChina, although no comparative datais provided. Since the wording
of the project objective relatingto environmentalissuesis POO?,            itis notpossibleto
draw any meaningfulconclusion from the rather imprecise statement inthe ICR. Inany
event, data on emissions36shows that the plant comfortably meets SEPA standardsfor
waste water quality, flue gases and dust emissions.

90.      ZPEPC's total transmission losses were reduced from 5.8% in 1995 to 4.3 percent
in2001, inpartdueto theproject-funded500kV systemreinforcement. These havebeen
reduced further to 3.3 percent in2003, although this cannot be attributed to the project.
The distribution investments inHangzhouandNingbo helpedto meet demand that
doubled infour years, while keeping energy losses inthose areas down to 3 percent.


33. Para 30, S A R Annex 3.4.

34bythe East ChinaInvestigation& DesignInstitute
35. The SAR statesthat the project's environmentalobjectiveis: "reducing the environmentalimpacts o f
new generation", without stating what the comparator or benchmarkis.

36ICRp. 26 and Annex 10.

                                                    21


91.      In order to better assessthe impact of ZPEPC's power plantson ambient air
quality, the project providedthe hardware, software, andtraining for an environmental
monitoring system. Datawas collected in 1997-98, prior to the commissioning o f
BeilungangI1to provide a baseline, and for two subsequent years. The assessment
missionwas told that analysis didnot reveal any significant difference inair quality
which could be attributed to Phase 11.

92.      Unfortunately, the monitoring system has fallen into disrepai?' and since the
transfer o f ZPEPC's power plantsto the new generation companies (Gencos), no steps
have been taken to revive it. There is no mandatory requirement for the Gencos to carry
out air quality monitoring outside the plantperimete?' andthey are unlikelyto do so in
future, believing that this i s for the State EnvironmentalProtectionAgency to deal with.

INSTITUTIONAL       RESTRUCTURING        ISSUES

93,      From 1998onwards, reform issues intermingled with those addressedunder the
follow-on Tongbai Pumped StorageProject, particularly as regardspower markets.The
two projects were supervised together and a single aide-memoire was issued, with a
consolidated section dealingwith all reform issues for the two projects. Inaddition, given
that it was the same set o fpeople on both sides dealingwith reforms under bothprojects,
itisvirtually impossibleto attribute certainresults to one orthe other.

94.      A revisedreformplan(without milestones) was agreedfor the Tongbai project in
1999. Although almost five years had elapsed since the reformplanagreed for the Power
Development Project, a considerable amount o f the content o fthe new planwas a
carryover o f unfinishedbusiness from the earlier project. However, the latter also
addressednew reform areas such as the creation o f a generation pool andsingle buyer
andthe conversionofpower supplybureaus into limited liability distribution companies.

95.      BeilungangIpower plant39was established as a limitedliability company in 1997,
butthe conversionofZPEPC into a limitedliability company, oneofthe keysteps ofthe
reformplanagreed with the Bankwas heavily delayed, inpart becauseo fthe creation o f
SPC at the national level andlack o f clarity about asset ownership between it andthe
provincialpower companies. After the 2002 separation o fgeneration, ZPEPC retains two
hydro plants with a capacity o f about 300MW that it managesonbehalfo f the East China
Gridco. Ithas 10prefecture-level power supply bureaus that deal with distributionand
still has a substantial numbero fnon-core subsidiary companies that are involved in
design, construction, research, andtesting. While these now have a distinct legal status,
they are inno way independent or commercially runbusinesses since they rely
overwhelmingly on their parent company for work assignments. Financial flows between
them andZPEPC are also far from transparent. Commercializationo f the ZPEPC group


              ~




37. The equipment was expectedto last 5-6 years, which it did. Major upgrading i s now needed.
38. The four Bank-fhdedmonitoringstations were located 3-5km away from the plants. On-site and stack
emissionscontinue to bemeasuredandrecorded.
39. Builtinthe late 1980s with financingfrom the first two IBRDloansto ZPEPC.

                                                      22


of companies still has some way to go before it canbe saidto be have been fully
achieved.

96.       The need for a study ofdistribution restructuring was identifiedin2001, butput
aside as premature. The arrangements for ruralpower supply are rather complex, with
assets owned inpartby ZPEPC4', the provincial government andthe county government.
The staffis employedbythe county, but since 2003 all the operations are managedby
ZPEPC. Future separation of distribution into subsidiarycompanies will also require
asset valuations and agreementson the respective ownership shares.

97.       Work on provincial-level regulationwas heldup by a lack o f state-level
guidelines anduncertainty as to where to fit it into the provincial administration. The
GoC announcement in2002 of its intentionto create a state-level regulator appears to
have ledto the issue beingshelved underthe project, thoughthe follow-on project
includedsome technical assistanceto help designaregulatory system for Zhejiang. With
hindsight, it seems that inadequate attention was given to the needfor progress in
regulation at the state level to at least accompany (ifnot precede) the other sector
reforms. Inpractice it has laggedbehind, with adverse consequencesnationwide, as
discussed inthe final section ofthis report (paras 127-9).

CompetitiveGeneration Market

98.       This was a notable feature o ftheproject andthe actual outcome went beyondthe
original reform plan, which envisaged an internal market for power purchases fkom
ZPEPC plants.In1998-99, when Chinawas experiencing surplus power generating
capacity, conditions were propitious for a pilot provincial generation market.

99.      With the encouragemento f SPC andSETC at the nationallevel andwith Bank-
funded technical assistanceunder the project, ZPEPC thoroughly designed andprepared a
bulk trading system after anextensive review ofinternationalexperience. Withhelp from
consultants funded under theproject, a state-of-the-art trading system andrelated
technical facilities beganoperating on January 1,2000. Bythe time the market was
suspendedinmid-2003 due to shortages andload shedding, 70 percent o fthe province's
installedthermal capacity'" was participating init.

100. Enabling generatorsto participate inthe market first necessitated the clarification
o f asset ownership andclear financial separation o fpower plants, thus layingthe
foundation for the subsequenttransfer o f assets to the new Gencos in2003. The market
resulted ingreater transparency o f generation costs andprices and ledto a reduction o f
1.5 percent inoverallpower purchase costs for ZPEPC. Gencos were given clear
incentives to reduce their own costs, increaseproductivity, andthus enhance their ability
to compete. It was also an extremely useful learningexperience for over 600 staff o f
ZPEPC as well as the generators, so there was a biginstitutional development impact.


40. Prior to 1998 all rural distribution assetsbelonged to the counties, but subsequent networkupgradingby
ZPEPChas led to itacquiring the newlimproved assets.
41.Nuclear andhydropower plants were excluded.

                                                      23


Finally, the experience increased awareness of the benefits o f competitionbeyond
 Zhejiang to the Chinesepower industryat large. The success o f the "experiment" was
 very likelyto have beena factor inthe State Council's decision to include the creationo f
regionalbulk power markets with biddingfor dispatch inthe 2002 sector reformpackage.

 101.     Unsurprisingly,the market suffered from some imperfections dueto its small size
 andthe excessive marketpower ofthree generators, who controllednearly70percent o f
the capacity. Transmission constraints prevented some plants from maximizing
production at particular times to take advantage o f opportunities. As the singlebuyer,
ZPEPC hadto support the risk of generation cost increases without the ability to alter its
 own sellingprices. Nevertheless, the project canbe saidto have achieved the objective o f
promoting competitionat the generation level. Manyuseful lessons were obtained from
the three-year experience, which will improve the workings o f any future generation
markets to be set up inChinawhenthere i s once again an adequate reserve margm.

 FINANCES

 102.     After severaluninterruptedyears o ffully satisfactory financialperformance until
2002, ZPEPC was unable to meet the covenanted42self-financing ratio o f 30 percent in
2003 and 2004, due to the size o fits large annual (Y9-10 billion) investment
the higher cost ofpower purchasesfrom other provinces, andthe reduced marginleft to it
as a T&D company after the separationo fthe Gencos. The position didnot improve in
2004, when it made netprofits o f only Y0.5 billion on sales o fY56 billion, despite a 22
percent increase inits sales volume. Higherprofitability inthe future will depend upon an
industry-wide tariff restructuring to redressthe unbalanced share o ftariffs granted to the
T&D companies inthe wake ofthe 2002 separation ofgeneration (para 133).

 103.     Inthe samemanner as for theBank's Ertanloan, the IBRDcurrency poolportion
o f the loan for this project was prepaid byZPEPC in2003. However, unlike EHDC it was
able to do so from its own resources anddidnot needto refinance the loaninthe local
capitalmarket. The Japanese Yenportion4 o fthe commercial cofinancingwas also
prepaid.

TariffReforms

104.      The initial focus o f the Bankwas on achieving unification o fretail tariffs inthe
province. Accordingto the action plan, this was due byJanuary 1,1996, but was finally
introducedfrom 2001,five years later than covenanted.




      ~~




42. Financialcovenants under the subsequent Tongbai pumped storage project have not yet beenrevisedto
take account o fthe loss of generation assets andthe reduced share ofretail tariffs that ZPEPC is allowed to
retain.
43. Largely funded by commercial borrowings.

44 5 billion Yen, or about US$SOm.The balance of the cofinancing (US$lOOm) was inU S dollars andhas
not beenprepaid, so the IBRDpartial credit guarantee remains inforce.

                                                    24


 105.      Tariff improvementswere given aboost bythe power shortages inorder to better
manage demand. In2003, for industrial users six time periods andthree rates were
brought into flatten the demand curve. Inmid-2004, ZPEPC introducedpeak and off-
peakpricing4'for residentialconsumers, as well aprogressively risingblock rateto
 dampenconsumption. They are the first provincial utility inChinato do so. The energy
savings from the residential sector canbe sold at a higher tariff to industrial and
commercialusers, who pay more.

 106.     Although there hasbeenrealprogress on tariff issues, other tariff anomalies
continue to persist. For example, the Provincial Pricing Bureauimposes46different
wholesale prices to different counties within Zhejiang province, to take account of
differingeconomic conditions at the locallevel.

 107.     At thebulksupply level, ZPEPC pays different prices to thebig Gencos (who
account for 60 percent o f its requirements), to prefecturalandmunicipal plantsandto
other suppliers outside the province, who represent about 30 percent o f the total. The
price o fpower from the latter i s negotiatedbilaterally, while NDRC sets the bulk price to
the Gencos. The latter varies accordingto the age o fthe coal-fired plant andthe number
o fhours o futilization. The Bankhas expressedits reservations about this kindo fpricing

determined (para loo), when it operated a competitive generation market, but that no
over many years to no avail. Between 2000-03, ZPEPC's bulk prices were partlymarket

longer operates.


PERFORMANCE RATINGS


Outcome

108.      As can be seen from the table below, the project didmeet its stated objectives and
achieved tangibleprogress inmany areas, but several o fthe accomplishments were
quickly undone -power shortages came back, competitionwas suspended, andZPEPC
finances are declining. These were partlydue to exogenous factors, partlyto GoC.




45. Y0.56ikWh from0800 to 2200h andhalfthat rate during night hours, versus a flat tariffofY0.53kwh
at all times. So far, over a millionconsumers have switched to the new system, out ofnearly 15 million
residentialconsumers intotal.
46. Ultimately the decisionis endorsedby the NDRCpricingbureauinBeijing.

                                                 25



I                   Project Objective                   I                Status               I
 Help meet electricity demand                             Met, butpower shortagesrecurred.

 Pursue sector reform including commercialization and     Largely met
 corporatization of ZPEPC

 Upgrade ZPEPC management capabilities and systems        Met

 Promote competition at the generation level              Achieved, but suspended

 Encourage alternative financing strategies for power     Achieved via commercial cofinancing
 development;                                             and WE3 guarantee

 Reduce transmission and distribution losses              Achieved

 Reduce environmental impacts o fnew generation          Unmeasurable




 109.     The overall outcome of theproject is assessedas satisfactory. Thetruncated
 nature o f the achievements o fthe project prevent it from meritinga higher rating.

 Relevance

 110.     As was the case inthe Sichuan Transmission project, expandingthe power supply
 andimplementingsector reforms were the two dominant goals o fthis project. The
 relevance o f these project objectives i s rated as high.




 111. The project objectives were achieved, althoughto varying degrees andfor varying
 lengths of time. Hence the project's efficacy is assessedas high.The subsequent
 reversals that have occurred have beenignored inarrivingat this rating.

 Efficiency

 112. Accordingto the ICR, the BeilungangI1plant, which accounts for over 60 percent
 o ftotal project expenditures, has anEIRRo f about 20 percent at prevailingbulk tariffs4',
 compared to the SAR estimate o f about 18 percent. The efficiency o fresourceuse i s
 therefore assessedto be substantial.




 47. Not recalculatedby the PAR.

                                                    26


InstitutionalDevelopmentImpact

 113.     The Bankhas had a long andunbroken working relationship with ZPEPC
 stretching back about 20 years, andwhich continues today. Determiningthe IDimpact o f
 a specific project ina continuum is necessarily arbitrary.Duringthis period, the entity
hasbeentransformed. Working with the BankhelpedZPEPC to upgrade the skill levels
o f its staff, and expose them to new ideas andworking methods. ZPEPC exhibited
openness andreceptivity to outside help and was able to extract the best o fwhat was on
offer. The Bankhad considerable positive influence on ZPEPC's corporate culture as
well as on sector policies. Overall IDimpact o fthis project is therefore assessedas high.

 114.     The process o f change is not yet complete andZPEPC's senior management
recognizes that it has to face new challenges and meet higher standards o f service quality
andreliability ifit is tojoin the ranks oftheworld's top power utilities, as it aspiresto do.
Nevertheless, ZPEPC no longer needs the Bank's financial assistance and its own skill
levels are now high enough for it to enter the internationalutility consulting
Although ZPEPC would like to prolongits working relationshp with the Bank, seeing it
as a "bridge" bothto GoC as well as to the outside world, the case for new lendingto
ZPEPC is weak, for both financial and capacity buildingreasons.

Sustainability

115.      Setbacks inthe sector, such as the reappearanceo f power shortages, the
suspensiono fthe competitive generation market and the declining financial performance
o fZPEPC althoughnot directly attributable to the project, prevent the project's
sustainability from beingrated as highlylikely.Nevertheless, there are goodreasonsto
believethat these problems will bereversedinthe next 2 to 3 years. Power shortages are
likelyto be eliminatedwithinthe next 12-18 months, which shouldpermitthe
reintroductiono f competitionfor generation dispatch. Tariff discrimination against the
T&D companies is also likely to beprogressively reduced. Longer-term sustainability is
considered to be likely.

Bank Performance

116.     The good preparation andboldreform features o fthe project, and subsequent high
quality supervision all deserve recognition. Possibly the Bank could have done more to
highlightto GoC therisks o fnot having a satisfactory regulatoryframework inplace at
the time o f sector unbundling, but as statedinthe 2004 CAE as well as inOED's
Evaluationo f Assistance to China's energy sector (2000), the Bank's leverage was
minimal andits influencehas always dependedupon"persuasion anddemonstration."

117.     Bankperformance istherefore assessedas satisfactory.




48. Itis going to provide assistance inplanning, marketing andmanagement to a utilityinVietnam.

                                                       27


Borrower Performance

 118.     As is well described inthe ICR, ZPEPC deserves ahighlysatisfactory ratingfor
its performance inimplementing the project. The performance of Zhejiang Provincewas
also satisfactory.

 119.     Onthe other hand, GoC's performance was unsatisfactory. As described inthe
subsequent section o f this report, the sector i s indifficulty today inlarge part due to GoC
decisions taken duringthe project period- sector planningwas neglected, the
moratorium on buildingnew plantswas too long, regulationwas delayed andineffective
andtariffs are distorted. While itis true that GoC didimplementthe 2002 "big bang"
reforms, and is belatedly hyingto get a grip onmatters inthe sector, thepositive effects
are still to come (para 139).

120.      Indistillingthe abovethreevaryingperformancesintoasinglerating, thisPAR
concludedthat overall borrower performance canbe considered as satisfactory.



Power Sector Overview: present problems and future
directions

121.     The Chinese electric power sector has been ina state o fflux duringthe past three
years, following the "big bang" reforms o fApril 2002, when the unbundlingo f
generation from transmission anddistributionbegan.

122.      The start ofunbundlingwas amajor milestone ina sectorreformprocess that had
been long inthe making, andinwhich the World Bankhadparticipated extensively
through project lendingactivities, dialog with the Chinese authorities, andthe provision
o f free-standing external advisory services stretchingback almost a decadeto 1993.
Annex D lists important studies commissioned or supported bythe Bankthat contributed
to the process o fdesigning the sector reforms.

123.     The State Council-approved reformplano f2002 sought to "break monopoly,
introduce competition, improve efficiency, reduce cost, develop more reasonablepricing
mechanism, optimize resource allocation, promote power development, acceleratethe
integration o f anational grid, andpromote the development o f a fair, orderly, healthy
power market system under appropriate government reg~lation"~~.The reforms were
expected to be essentially completedby end-2005. However, the above objectives are far
from being achieved andthe processwill take at least another five to ten years to
complete, with the likelihood o f encountering unforeseenproblems enroute.

124.     The first step was the dissolutionof the State Power Corporation (SPC) andthe
creation o f five new generation companies each with about 20 percent o fthe generation
assets o fthe former SPC. They are all entirely state-ownedsoandthere are many instances

49. State Council DocumentNo.5,2002.
50. Although their core subsidiaries are partially listed onthe stock exchange, some internationally.

                                                     28


o f crosdmixed ownership o fpower plants among them. Two transmission grid
companies (see Annex C for a description o fthe sector) were also set up at the same time.
A nationalregulatoryagency, StateElectricityRegulatory Commission(SERC), was
established in2003".

125.    Meanwhile, the country was hitby power shortagesYs2which ledto power cuts in
2003 and 2004, andwhich are expectedto continue well into 2006. This i s the
consequence o fvery rapid economic growth, which exceeded all forecasts, combined
with insufficient new capacity beingbrought on line. The latter was due inlarge part to a
two-year GoC moratoriumon issuingpermits for the construction o fnew generation
plantsout o f concern that the generation overcapacity in2000-01 wouldmake it difficult
to absorb the energy becoming available from the Three Gorges project.

126.    The current shortageshave ledto a massive increaseinthe purchase anduse of
oil-fired standby generators. Iti s estimatedthat about 20 percent o f China's incremental
oil demandin2003-04 was due to captive power generators. The power crisis has also
meant that plans for power trading and competitive dispatch, also part o f the sector
reformplan, have had to be deferred.

127.    The lack o f a high-level policymakingbody such as a ministry for energy at the
national level i s a handicap inthe current fluid andtransitional phase o f sector reforms.
Fragmentation inthe sector has led to a loss of controlby GoC and a considerable
diffusion o fresponsibility. Itplays into the hands o fthe electricity supply enterprises,
which to a large extent are able to pursuetheir own expansion plans withminimal
~versight.'~  The absence o f an effective sector regulator exacerbatesthis tendency.

128.    Two years after its creation, SERC i s still struggling to establish its authority54 in
the face of fuzzy "ground rules" set bythe State Council andthe countervailingauthority
of long-established andmorepowerfulbodies such as the National Development and
Reform Commission (NDRC), which still has the final word on electricity tariffs
nationwide. Lines o f responsibilitybetween SERC andNDRC are not yet clearly
demarcated, with the latter seemingly reluctant to surrender any of its regulatory powers
over the sector, eventhough it i s over-stretched. SERC has little autonomy and still
depends upon abudgetary allocation fromthe Ministryo fFinance (MoF) to cover its
operating costs.

129.    While the Chinese energy sector abandoned prescriptive centralplanninglong
ago, it didnot replace it with strategic or indicative planning. Today, sector planningis
virtually impossible given the decentralized andfiagmented context andno single body
has a complete picture o f ongoing trends and activities. This is illustratedby the near-


51. "Power Sector Regulationin a Socialist Market Economy," 1997 [WDiscussionPaperNo. 3611was
aninfluentialstudythat contributed to the settingupo fa stateregulatory agency.
52. Estimatedby SERC to have been 30,OOOMW in 2004 (Source: China Daily, 26 February 2005)
53. However, they too are suffering fromthe negative effects ontheir overall profitability o fthe lack of
GoC control over coal prices.
54. Described inthe localpress as a "toothless tiger" (China Daily, 26 February 2005).

                                                         29


spontaneous nationwide boom inpower plant construction triggered bythe power
shortages. Many o fthese plants are beingbuilt without the usual governmental clearances
anduntilrecentlythe central govemment was unaware ofthe massive scale o fnew
investment ingeneration capacity.

 130.      A recent NDRC investigation hasrevealedthat about 300,000MW ofnew
capacity is presentlyunder construction, which i s a massive amount", even by Chinese
standards, given that total installed generation capacity (excluding captive generators) in
China in2004 was about 400,000MW. About 50,000MW ofnew capacity was brought
online in2004 and at least as much i s likely this year. Eventhoughthe demand for
electricity is still rising at above 10percent annually, a significant portiono fthis new
capacity i s therefore likely to be                   to requirementsin2007-08, even ifrapid
economic growth continues.

 131. The expected glut will have a considerable impact on the power sector. Normally,
major new generation investments would be accompanied by commensurate expansiono f
transmission and distribution, but it i s far fkom clear ifthe provincial power companies
are undertakingthese complementary investments. Financial constraints on them, anda
less bullishperceptiono f demandis probablyrestrainingtransmission anddistribution
(T&D) investments. Hencethere is alikelihoodo fnewpower plantsbeingunable to get
their potentialoutput to consumers due to T&D bottlenecks. Inaddition, the surplus
capacity could also have serious implications for the Chinesebankingsystem. Ifpower
supplyoutstrips demandas expected?manyo ftheseprojects mayrun at low levels of
capacity utilization andtheir promoters may have difficulty ingenerating sufficient cash
flows to service their loans5'.

 132.      Conscious o fthe lack o f firm direction for energy policy, the government recently
decided to set up an energy policy task force under NDRC, but this will not have the
powers o f a ministry or be able to compensatefor ineffective sector regulation andthe
lack o finvestment planning. Nor will it be able to prevent a generation supply glut in
2006-07 andthe attendant financial costs. Giventhe substantial amount o fpreparatory
work done58on sector regulationinthe five years preceding the 2002 "big bang," it is
surprisingthat more was not done earlier by GoC to ensurethat regulationdidnot lagthe
institutionalchanges.

133.      At the time the generation companies (Gencos) were created in2003, the
somewhat ad hoc split o fretail tariffs appears to have given an overly generous share to


5 5 . About 50,OOOMW o fnew capacity was added to the system in2004.
5 6 . Older, less efficient plants could be mothballed, but the experience with Ertanhydro (paras 2 5 - 2 6 ) inits
early years suggests that this i s unlikely, unless tariffpolicies (that,Qscriminate against new plants) are
changed andgenuine competitiondevelops inthe generation market.
57. Since the major portion o f the loans are fiom state-owned banksto state-owned generation companies,
formal defaults are unlikely, but loanrescheduling on a large-scale would be needed to avoid adding to the
stock of the banks' non-performing assets.
58. With considerable Bank support, partlyunder the Zhejiang Power DevelopmentProject andpartlyas
self-standing AAA such as thejoint MOEP-WB study (discussionpaper 361, 1997)"Power sector
regulation ina socialist market economy."

                                                    30


 the Gencos, which today receive about 70percent ofthe total tariff, while the T&D
 companies have to cover all their costs with the remaining 30 percent. Furthermore,
 generation tariffs do not distinguish between capacity and energy charges, distortingplant
 dispatch andhandicapping new, more efficient plants.The principles to beusedto
 determine transmission pricing have not yet been finalized by SERCNDRC, over two
 years after the creation o f the Gencos. Meanwhile, the T&D companies have to bear the
 bruntofthese regulatory andtariffshortcomings. They feel that they have suffered
 financially as a result o f the unbundlingo f generation andthat they are underfunded,
while the Gencos are able to pursue an "oversized" investment program. While
 examining the profitability o fthe Gencos was beyondthe scope o f this PPAR, it i s true
 that transmission has historically been neglected inthe Chinese power sector, andthere
 are very substantial "catch-up" needs to bemet before the country has an integrated
national high-voltage grid. So there i s aprimafacie case that the share o fthe tariffs going
to the transmission companies (Transcos) i s inadequate. Since there is no sectoral-
mechanism to transfer surpluses from Gencos to Transcos, it i s clear that future tariff
 increaseswill have to be heavily skewed infavor o fthe Transcos. This process has
already begun, inthat the Gencos were only allowed to pass on 70 percent o fthe increase
incoalprices to the Transcos at the time ofthe lasttariffadjustment inmid-2004.

 134.     Although OED undertook a Country Assistance Evaluations9for China in2003-
04, the latter was largelybasedon the detailed OED review o fthe Bank's energy sector
assistance to China completed inlate 199g60.It i s instructiveto compare how the situation
has evolved inthe five years since then. That report (para 3.25) found that:
          "...a number o f serious issues remain to b e addressed for the sector to sustain its
     rapid growth, as highlighted in recent Bank reports and elaborated upon in various
     parts of this report: gaps in the legal and regulatory framework for private
     participation; suboptimal system planning, which led to a relative neglect of
     transmission and distribution investments and gas-fired generation, and the unbridled
     growth of small and inefficient locally-financed power plants; persisting distortions
     in wholesale and retail tariffs; apparent inefficiencies in local distribution systems;
     persisting lack of clarity in power assets ownership and insufficient reliability of
     utilities' financial data; and uneven monitoring and enforcement o f environmental
     regulations. The reforms promoted by the Bank under its recent projects aim at
     addressing most of these issues.''

135.      Taking eacho fthe above issues inturn, this PPARfinds that today, the legal
framework hasweaknesses for public enterprises involved inthe power sector. For
example, ErtanHydropower Development Company has had difficulties ingetting the
terms o f its PowerPurchase Agreements (PPA) observed. Inaddition, there havebeen
continuing shortcomings for private players.61The 1996 Electricity Law has been
overtakenby subsequent institutional changes andi s no longer an adequate basis for the
sector's future development. The regulatoryframework has hardlyprogressed, despite the
creation o f SERC.


59. ReportNo. 29734, (OED, July 2004).
60. "The Bank's Assistance to China'sEnergy Sector," Report No. 21891(OED, 2001)
61. This was probablyalso the case five years ago, eventhoughit was not highlighted by theOED report.

                                                       31


 136.     The near-absenceo f systemplanning i s still a serious shortcoming, contributing to
 a misallocationo f sectoral investments (such as the current over-building o fnew
 generation plants and insufficient investment inregionalhighvoltage interconnections)62.
Infactthepresent situationasregardsplanningmaybeworse thanthatidentifiedfive
years ago, becauseofthe largenumber entities that became involved inthe sector
 following the,2002 unbundling and because o f the further dispersal o f spending authority.
The recommendation by OED inits 1999 review that the Bank should help promote
comprehensive energy planningdoes not appear to have been followed up.

 137.     The performance o f distribution systems hasprobably improved as a result o f the
 substantial investments made innetwork upgrading inrecent years, althoughthere i s no
consolidated data to confirm this. Asset ownership i s certainly clearer, following the
corporatizationo fmanypower enterprises and the setting up of limitedliability
companies. However, the spinning-off o fnon-core businessesby the provincial power
companies i s far from complete and likely to take several more years.

 138.     Oldtariff distortions have been substantially reducedbutnot eliminated63,whle
new ones have been created (para 133) that are contributingto resource misallocations.
Most powercompanies now probably have better financial informationand accounting
systems than inthe late 1990s and follow better environmental practices, althoughthis
view i s largelyconjectural since it i s not based on a survey.

 139.     Inconclusion, this PPARfinds thatthe Chinese electricity sectorispresently
experiencing considerable transitional difficultiesMinimplementingthe 2002 sector
reforms. The benefits from unbundlingand competition have yet to manifestthemselves
andwilltake severalmore years to do so. The biggest obstacle to greater efficiency and
lower costs has been the supply-demand imbalance, which prevents any form o f
competition6' among bulk suppliers, andthe absence of effective regulation. There
remains a large agenda o funfinishedbusiness to tackle inthe areas o f sector regulation,
tariffsetting, power markets, andinvestmentplanning66.




   .The Bank'sE.Asia Regionproject staff argued that "as far as power system planning is concerned,
there has been a lot o fprogress in the planningo ftransmission networks and distribution grids, particularly
in the area o fregional andinter-regional transmissionnetworks".
63. For example, the persistence o fpreferential tariffs inSichuan andthe use o f a flat tarifffor the energy
from the Ertanhydro plant.
   The Bank's E. Asia Regionproject staff commented that "The sector is not experiencing more
difficulties thanthe rest o f the Chinese economy, andis actually performing better than other similar
industries."
65. Italso remains to be seen how muchreal competition will occur betweenthe five Gencos, so long as
they continue to havejoint shareholdings in plants and all remain fully state-owned.

66The Bank's E. Asia Region project staff commented that "this i s a normal stage inall reforms andthat
the Chinese authorities are working out the process slowly but efficiently". They added that "China has
made most impressive progress inreforming its power sector inless than three decades".

                                                      32


LessonsLearned

140.     The experience gained under the three projects reviewed inthis report, as well as
from the pursuit ofconcurrent power sector reforms at the national level, offers the
following lessons of general applicability:

     0   As amply illustrated inthe ICR for the Ertanhydroelectric project, good
         institutions for resettlement are kef. Chinahas three institutionalfeatures that
         facilitate successful resettlement and canbereplicated elsewhere: (i)             enlightened
         policies by central andprovincial governments that establish the principles and
         incentives for resettlement as a development opportunity; (ii)           planningand
         execution based on sound guidelines, managedby dedicated local authorities and
         open to a fair andParticipatoryprocess; and (iii) o fpost-resettlement
                                                                  funding
         activities by a levy from project-generated income.

         Power shortages are a barrier to the pursuit ofmarketreforms aimed at increasing
         competition. This emerges clearly from the short-lived experience with
         competition for generation dispatch inboth Sichuan andZhejian provinces68.

     0   Effective regulatory arrangements should be inplace at the same time (ifnot
         sooner) as power supply entities are unbundled,inorder to reduce abuses o f
         marketpower such as that which occurred inSichuan following the
         commissioning ofthe Ertanhydroelectric plant6'.

     0   Indicativepower system planningat the national level is essential inorder to
         avoid boom-bust investment cycles such as the one currently buildingup inthe
         Chinese power sector. The absence o fnational-level oversight andplanning,
         combined with imperfections inthe flow o f informationto investors was well as
         to the authorities andinadequate controls on lending(due diligence) by the
         Chinese financial system, have contributed to over-investment ingeneration and
         under-investment intransmis~ion~~.




67. This lesson is reproduced verbatim from the ICR o f ErtanI1since it is bothclear and succinct.
  The Bank's E. Asia Regionproject staff commented that "It is the interference o f government incase o f
tight supply that createdthe problems not the market. Reformcouldbe implementedintight supply
conditions and ifmarkets are well designed they will rationpower inthe most optimum way".

69The Bank's E. Asia Regionproject staff commented that "The real lesson i s that it would be a long
process to change from command-and-control type o f operation to market operation based on contracts and
rules, and from old style government control to modem light-handed regulation. The reformprocess should
be designedto recognize this".

70The Bank's E. Asia Region project staff commented that "No doubt China needs better energy planning
ingeneral andpower systemplanninginparticular. Butthis isnotthe root o fthe current over-investment.
This seems to be more o f the issue o f state owned company governance (bank governance as well) rather
thanthe issue of sector planning and regulation".

                                                   33                              Annex A


Annex A. BasicData Sheet

ERTANHYDROELECTRIC
             I                           PROJECT(LOAN      3387)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                                       Appraisal            Actual or
                                                       estimate          current estimate
Total projectcosts                                       2200                 2601


CumulativeEstimatedandActualDisbursements
                                 FY92        FY93     FY94       FY95    FY96         FY97
Appraisalestimate(US$M)          110.0       213.0    286.0      380.0
Actual (US$M)                    139.1       243.5    294.4      371.1   377.0        380.0
Actual as % of aDDraisal         126.5       114.5    102.9       97.7
Dateof final disbursement: December 17, 1996


ProjectDates
                                                     Original               Actual
Identification/Preparation                                                 07/03/87
Appraisal                                             12/89    I           11/26/89
Negotiations                                                               03/25/91
Board presentation                                    07191                07/02/91
Signing                                               07/91                07111/91
Effectiveness                                         09/91                09/06/91
Proiectcompletion                                    12/31196             12/31I2000
Loan closing                                         12/31196              12/31196


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                                       Weeks                9000
Preparationto appraisal                                 141.5               397.9
Appraisal                                               32.5                 98.2
Negotiationsthrough Boardapproval                       39.5                125.4
Supervision                                             46.1                121.0
Completion                                               4.3                 11.1
Total                                                   263.9               753.6

                                                    34                                       Annex A


MissionData
                    Date     No. of     Staff    Specializations     Performance rating       Types of
               (monwyear) persons days in         represented                                 problems'
                                        field                                      Devel.
                                                                      status      objectives
Through            02/91       5          5     Engineer, Financial
appraisal                                         Analyst (2),
                                                  Resettlement
                                                   Specialist,
                                                 Environmental
                                                   Consultant
Supervision 1      08/92       2          3       Engineer (2)
            2      07/93       1          4         Engineer
            3      04/94      2           4      Economist(2)                                Tariff study
                                                                                              delayed.
            4      07/94       1         13         Engineer            1
            5      10195      4          11         Engineer,           1
                                                 Environmental
                                                 Consultant(2),
                                                  Resettlement
                                                    Specialist
            6      06/96      3           4         Engineer,           1                    Resettlement
                                                 Environmental                                 budget
                                                  Consultant,                                 approval
                                                 Resettlement                                  delayed
                                                   Specialist
            7      11/96      4           5       Engineer(2),          1
                                                 Resettlement
                                                   Specialist,
                                                   Economist
Completion    Combinedwith 7th supervisionmission


Other ProjectData
FOLLOW-ONOPERATIONS
Operation                                             Loan no.         Amount             Board date
                                                                     (US$ million)
Ertan IIHydroelectricProject                             3933            400              08/22/1995

                                   35                                   Annex A


ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC
             I1              PROJECT (LOAN    3933)

Key ProjectData (amounts in US$million)
                                 Appraisal        Actual or       Actual as % of
                                 Estimate      currentestimate  appraisal estimate
Total project costs                2200             2601               118.0




ProjectDates
                                       Original                   Actual
Appraisal                                                       02/17/1995
Board approval                                                  08/22/1995
Effectiveness                         0111711996                1/I711996
Closingdate                           12/31/2001                12/31I2001


StaffInputs(staff weeks)
                                          Weeks                   $'OOO
IdentificationlPreparation                89.9                   356.00
Appraisal/Negotiation                     36.2                   187.50
Supervision                               97.1                   585.25
Completion                                12.4                   45.20
Total                                     234.7                 1173.95

                                                   36                                           Annex A


Mission Data
                              Date     No. of  Specializationsrenresenfed
                                                          -.-..- .. --- - ~ -
                                                                  ,-                Perf(wmance rating
                          (montMyear) persons                                  Implementation Development
                                                                                 progress      objectives
IdentificationlPreparation   10194       9     EnergySpecialist,Economist,
                          Environmental          EnvironmentalSpecialist,
                                                    FinancialSpecialist,
                                               Resettlement Specialists(21,
                                                      Engineers (3)
                             04/94      10    FinancialSpecialists(3), Energy
                          Preappraisal            Specialist,Resettlement
                                                Specialist,Economists (2),
                                                      Engineers (3)
Appraisal/Negotiation       0311995      8      Economist, Environmental
                                              Specialist, Financial Specialists
                                              (2), ResettlementSpecialist (I),
                                                      Engineers (3)
Supervision                  06/96       6      Manager, EnergySpecialist,          HS              HS
                                                Economist, Environmental
                                                  Specialist,Resettlement
                                                    Specialist,Engineer
                             11/96       4          FinancialSpecialist,            HS              HS
                                                  ResettlementSpecialist,
                                                   Engineer,Economist
                             06/97       3       EnvironmentalSpecialist,           HS              HS
                                                  ResettlementSpecialist,
                                                          Engineer
                             03/98       4       Environmental Specialist,          HS               S
                                                  ResettlementSpecialist,
                                                      Engineers(2)
                             07/98       3       Environmental Specialist,          HS               S
                                                  ResettlementSpecialist,
                                                          Engineer
                              12/98      4     Economist, Energy Specialist,        HS               S
                                                  ResettlementSpecialist,
                                                          Engineer
                             05/99       2          EnergySpecialist,               HS               S
                                                 EnvironmentalSpecialist
                              11/99      4     Energy Specialist,Economist,         HS               S
                                                 EnvironmentalSpecialist,
                                                   ResettlementSpecialist
                             05/00       7     EnergySpecialist,Economist,           S               S
                                                 EnvironmentalSpecialist,
                                                    FinancialSpecialist,
                                                 ResettlementSpecialists,
                                                  Engineers, ITSpecialist
                             11/00       7     EnergySpecialist,Economist,           S               S
                                                    FinancialSpecialist,
                                               ResettlementSpecialists (3),
                                                          Engineer
                             05/01      10     EnergySpecialist,Economist,           S               S
                                               EnvironmentalSpecialists (2),
                                                    FinancialSpecialist,
                                               ResettlementSpecialists (2),
                                                   Engineers, Agricultural
                                              DevelopmentSpecialist, Micro
                                                     Credit Specialist
                             11/01       5    Economist,FinancialSpecialist,         S               S
                                                 ResettlementSpecialists,
                                                      Engineers(2)
Completion                   04/02       5     Economists(2), Resettlement           S               S
                                                 Specialists(2), Engineer

                                    37                                     Annex A


SICHUAN POWER'I"SMISSI0N        PROJECT      (LOAN3848)

Key Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                 Appraisal          Actual or        Actual as % of
                                 Estimate        current estimate  appraisalestimate
Total project costs                  874              852                 97


Project Dates
                                         Original                    Actual
Appraisal                                                          0612511994
Board approval                                                     02/28/1995
Effectiveness                           11/20/1995                 11/20/1995
Closing date                            12/31/2002                 12/31/2003


Staff Inputs(staffweeks)
                                           Weeks                     $'OOO
Identification/Preparation                   2.2                      5.4
AppraisallNegotiation                       42.7                    294.8
Supervision                                 96.4                    401.2
Completion                                   7.1                     33.8
Total                                       148.4                   735.1

                                                   38                                          Annex A


  Mission Data
                               Date    No. of  Specializations represented         Performance rating
                            (monwyear) persons                                Implementation Development
                                                                                progress      objectives
                                          4    Economist,FinancialAnalyst,
~~IdentificationlPreparation   02/93
                                                       Engineers (2)
                               08/93      7     Engineers (3), Economist,
                                              FinancialAnalyst, Resettlement
                                                 Specialist, Environmental
                                                        Specialist
  Appraisal/Negotiation        06/94      8       Power Engineers(4),
                                                 Economists(2), Financial
                                              Analyst, Resettlement Specialist
  Supervision                  03/96      4    Power Engineer, Economist,          S               S
                                               FinancialAnalyst, Operations
                                                          Officer
                               04/97      4    Power Engineer, Economist,          U               U
                                              FinancialAnalyst, Resettlement
                                                        Specialist
                               12/97      2        Operations Officer,             S               S
                                                 ResettlementSpecialist
                               11/98      4   Operations Officer, Economist,       S               S
                                              FinancialAnalyst, Resettlement
                                                        Specialist
                               05/99      3     Operations Officer, Energy         S               S
                                                 Specialist,Resettlement
                                                        Specialist
                               11/99      3       EnergySpecialists(21,             S               S
                                                  ResettlementSpecialist
                               5/00       6     EnergySpecialist, Energy            S               S
                                               Economist, Power Engineer,
                                                FinancialAnalyst, Financial
                                                 ManagementSpecialist,
                                                  ResettlementSpecialist
                               12/00      4     EnergySpecialist,Energy             S               S
                                               Economist, FinancialAnalyst,
                                                 EnvironmentalSpecialist
                               06/01      5   EnergySpecialists(2),Financial        S               S
                                                  Analyst, Resettlement
                                                       Specialists(2)
                               11/01      4   Energy Specialists(2), Financial                      S
                                               Analyst, FinancialSpecialists
                               04/02      2        Operations Officer,              S               S
                                                  ResettlementSpecialist
                               09/02      4     Energy Specialist,Energy            S               S
                                              Economist, FinancialSpecialist,
                                                 ResettlementSpecialist
  Completion                   11/02      2    EnergyEngineer, Operations           S               S
                                                          Officer

                                      39                                    Annex A




ZHEJIANGPOWERDEVELOPMENT           PROJECT (LOAN3846)

K e y Project Data (amounts in US$million)
                                   Appraisal         Actual or       Actual as % of
                                   estimate       current estimate  apnraisal estimate
Total projectcosts
                ~~                    1574             1494                95


Project Dates
                                          Original                   Actual
Appraisal                                                           312411994
Boardapproval                                                       2/28/1995
Effectiveness                            0812311995
Closing date                             12/31/2003                 12/3112003


Staff Inputs(staff weeks)
                                            Weeks                    9000
IdentificationIPreparation                   80.8                    347.3
AppraisallNegotiation                        65.0                    285.6
Supervision                                  77.6                    400.0
Completion                                    7.6                    61.5
Total                                        231.O                   1094.4

                                                       40                                         Annex A


Mission Data
                              Date        No. of Specializations represented          Performance rating
                          (monthlyear) persons                                   Implementation Development
                                                                                   progress      objectives
IdentificationlPreparation Identification  7      Power Engineers(2), Energy
                              07/93              Economist FinancialAnalysts
                                                 (2), Thermal Plant Specialist,
                                                     EnvironmentalSpecialist
                          Preappraisal     7     Power Engineers(2), Energy
                              10193              Economist,FinancialAnalyst,
                                                    Thermal Plant Specialist,
                                                    EnvironmentalSpecialist,
                                                     ResettlementSpecialist
AppraisaVNegotiation        Appraisal      14    Power Engineers(4), Energy
                              Q4/94              Economist, FinancialAnalysts
                                                 (4), Thermal PlantSpecialist,
                                                  EnvironmentalSpecialist(2),
                                                 ResettlementSpecialist,Lawyer
                          Roadshowfor      3    Division Chief, FinancialAnalyst,
                            Guarantee                        Lawyer
                              11/94
Supervision               Resettlement     2     Power Engineer, Resettlement         HS              HS
                           Supervision                      Specialist
                             Mission
                              10195
                             04/96         3     Sr. Power Engineer, Financial        S               HS
                                                       Analyst, Consultant-
                                                           Resettlement
                              12/96        3      FinancialAnalyst, Sr. Power         S               HS
                                                     Engineer,Consultant-
                                                           Resettlement
                             06/97         3     Pr. FinancialAnalyst, Pr. Power      S               HS
                                                     Engineer, Consultant-
                                                          Resefflement
                             12/97         3         Pr. Power Engineer, Pr.          S               HS
                                                 FinancialAnalyst, Consultant-
                                                          Resettlement
                             05/98         4      Pr. Power Engineer,Power            S               HS
                                                 Engineer, Pr. FinancialAnalyst,
                                                    Consultant-Resettlement
                             11/98         3           Pr. Power Engineer,            S               HS
                                                     RestructuringSpecialist,
                                                    Consultant-Resettlement
                             09/99         5     Pr. Power Engineer, Sr. Energy       S               HS
                                                 Specialist, EnergySpecialist,
                                                     FinancialManagement
                                                     Specialist,Consultant-
                                                          Resettlement
                             05/00         9     Pr. Power Engineer, Pr. Energy       HS              HS
                                                Specialist, Sr. EnergySpecialist,
                                                  Sr. Power Engineer,Power
                                                 Engineer, EnergySpecialist,
                                                     FinancialManagement
                                                    Specialist,Consultant-IT,
                                                    Consultant-Resettlement
                             06/01         6     Lead PowerEngineer,Lead              HS              HS
                                                 EnergySpecialist, Sr. Energy
                                                   Specialist,Consultants(3)
                             11/01         3     LeadPowerEngineer, Lead              HS              HS
                                                 EnergySpecialist,Operations
                                                             Officer
                             04/02         1         LeadPower Engineer               HS              HS
                             09/02         2         Sr. Operations Officer,          HS              HS
                                                    Consultant-Resettlement

                                               41                                          Annex A


                           Date     No. of  Specializationsrepresented          Performancerating
                       (monthlyear) persons                             Implementation Development
                                                                             progress      objectives
Completion              Stakeholder    7     LeadPower Specialist, Sr.
                         Workshop          OperationsOfficer, LeadPower
                           11/02            Engineer, YP, Consultants-
                                           Power, Market,Resettlement(3)
                           09/03       2     Lead Power Engineer, Sr.           HS             HS
                                                 Operations Officer


Other Project Data
FOLLOW-ON OPERATIONS
Operation                                         Loan no.           Amount             Board date
                                                                   (US$ million)
Tongbai Pumped Storage project                      4529              320

                                                  42                                        Annex B


Annex B. Structure of the ChineseElectricPower Industry

There i s no longer a ministry for energy or electricity inChina at the state (national) level. The
MinistryofElectricPowerwas dissolvedin1998andits administrative andregulatoryfunctions
were transferred to the State Economic andTrade Commission (SETC), the State Development
and Planning Commission (SDPC), andthe Ministry ofFinance (MOF).

A State ElectricityRegulatoryCommission (empoweredbythe State Council) was set upin
2003. It i s inthe processo festablishing six regional andnumerousprovincialbureaux.
Regulatory responsibilities remain dividedbetween SERC andthe NationalDevelopment and
ReformCommission (NDRC), whose EnergyBureauis responsible for sector policy-making,
while its PricingBureauis still the ultimate authority onpower tariffs.

The State Power Corporation, createdin 1998, was wound up in2002 as Part o fthe State Council
mandated"big bang" inthe sector. Nearly 500 power plants under its control were divided up
among five generation companies.

Generation comDaniescreatedfrom the former SPC:

        China Huadian Corporation -controls 38 GW of capacity, o fwhich 75 percent is
        thermal.

        China Datang Corporation -controls 42 GW o fcapacity o fwhich 12percent i s
        hydroelectric

        China Guodian Corporation -controls 37 GW of capacity, o fwhich 80 percent i s
        thermal.

        China Power Investment Corporation-controls 28 GW o f capacity, o f which 67 percent
        i s thermal. It controls the former SPC- owned nuclear plants.

        China Huaneng Group -controls 32 GW of capacity (8 percent o ftotal national capacity)
        -Itpredatesthe2002breakupofgenerationasitwassetupin1985toattractforeign
        investment tojoint-venture projects inthe power sector.

There is also a large amount o fgeneration capacity runby other "independent"
companies, many o fwhich are small insize andrunon a "semi-commercial" basis.

Transmission comuanies createdfrom the former SPC:

        State GridCorporation of China -owns and controls five regional grid companies
        covering North, Northeast,Northwest, Eastand Central China. It also owns provincial
        power companieslike SEPC andZEPC.

China SouthernPower Grid Co. -covers the remaining 5 provinces inthe extreme south o f China
(Guangdong, Yunan, Guizhou, Hainan and Guangxi).

                                           43                                  Annex C



Annex C. World Bank Studies of Reforms in the Chinese
Electric Power Sector


"Strategic options for power sectorreform inChina", Ministryo fFinanceMinistryo f
Electric PowerNorldBank, ESMAPReportNo. 156/93, (1993).

"China Power Sector Reform: Towards Competition and Improved Performance", WB
Report No. 12929(1994).

"Power Sector Regulationina Socialist MarketEconomy" WB Discussion Paper No.
361, (1997).

"The private sector andpower generationinChina", WB Discussion PaperNo. 406,
(2000).

"Fostering competitioninChina's power markets", WB Discussion paperNo. 426,
(2001).

"New Wave OfPowerSectorReformInChina", StateDevelopment andPlanning
CommissionnilrorldB d n e r g yFoundation, Workshop Report andWorking Papers,
(2001).

"Private participation ininfrastructure inChina: Issues & recommendations for the roads,
water andpower sectors", WB Working paperNo. 2 (2003).

"Making competitionwork inelectricity", SallyHunt,Chineselanguageedition
published bythe World Bank (2004).


                                              45                                       Annex D


Annex D.Borrower's Comments

                                                     -
      .--   -
_c_




                            63. Secrion4, sorrthRen" Road,Chmgdu Sichufn, Chi- 610041
                            Tcl.: +86 28 68133462        Fax:4 6 28 82986604




                                    Fax TransmissionPage




                 ~       ~      ~




             DearMr.Alah Barbu,

             Wehavereceivedyour draftProject Perfonmnce AssessmentReport.

             Upond i n g the draft report,wehow, generally,theprincipalratings

             for SichuanPowerTransmissionProject arebasicallythe m e as those b

             the ICR except the ratingon institutional development impact, which is

             upgraded fiom "substantial"to '%igh". Iconcur with the consultant

             opinionoftheBankinupgmdingofthatrating.

             Sichum Power Transmission Project and Ertan Hydropower Station

             k c e d with World Bank are now playing a critical role iathe present

             tightsituationofelectricitysupply anddemandinSichuan.




       TOO@

                            46                                        Annex D




  The new management of SEPC has been making tremendous effom kt

  strengthening management of operations with strong suppart h m the

  State Grid Corporationof Chinaand the People's Governmentof Sichurm

  Province. The perfomce of SEPC hasbeen improving steadily, which

  filndnmentnllychangethethendeterioratingfinancialsituationinthe late

  years (2001 to 2002) oftheProject

  The 500kV"ISsionnetworlcsinSichuanisnow steppinginto a new

  era o fspeedy expansion. The 500 kVErtanpowertransmissionnetworks

  builtundertheProjectis cwentlybeingreinforced.

  Iwouldliketotakethisopportunivtoexpressmygratitudeagaintothe

  WorldBankandthe Bankprojectteam inpa&Aar for the longstanding

  support forthe Project.



- Best regards




 ZhuCkmgh, GeneralManager

  SichuanElectricPower Corporation

                                                          47                                      Annex D

                                      _.-
FROM :EHK FOREIGN RFFAIRS               FAX No. :66 28 82987711         J ~ 23.      m:ae    P I




                                                                                  June20,2005


       Mr.FernandoManibg
       The World Bank

        Fax: 001202 522 3123


       DearMr.Manibog,
       We ackuowIedgerecdptofthe dafto fPmjectPe$ormunce Assessment Report forE m
       HydroeIectricProjectI&liandanothertwoprojcco inchina.
       As far as EmnProjectiscdncemed, wethinkthe ~ p t i o n and comments&ed
                                                                      S                      in
       the Report aretrue and objective. The ratingsgiveninthe Reportis inline with rhe ICR,
        indicating that the latter has gentrally reflected the m e situation of the Project The
       commentsandlessons discusredinthe Reportare not only importantfor the Worid Bank
       to improve its futures lending opemtions, but also much valuable for us to e"a
       successfd developmentoffutureprojecfsontheYalong.
       &theReporthasnoted,EHDChasachievedalotoverthelastthreeyearsinareaslike
       power sales, SnanciaI performance and institutional development. We believe tbat the
       company has come to a trackofhealthy and steady development, and we areconfident in
       its futuregrowth.
       Of couxse, the Report bas also mrded the issucs still in existmoc, Le. delayed
       completion of the secondary resedement and slow progress ineffecThg the approved
       powerM.Onresettlement, EHDCis well awate ofthe WorldBank's ''ze!ro-dmnce
       policy", and thus has always.beenpositivelyworking with the govemmat authoritiesto
       b+-    tht resettlementworkto a full success.Tofinishthe o%andhg work ina fast and
       proper "ex,       we will continueto give ouc full ~pport rhc reredementdepanments.
                                                                w
       & Mr.Matbraniwas informedduringhisvisit, the resenlementoffices havealready
       worked out a plan, andwe willurge them to acceleratethe process so that these people
       inayget properlyresenledsooner, graduallyrestowandding theirincomelevel.
       As for the power&$ our goalisto acbicvc &e government-approvedtariff within2-j
       years, and we have been actively working toward this goal. Based on what we have
       achieved,we ace confident.

                                                       48                                       Annex D

-.
  FROM :EHK FOREIW RFFQIRS             FAX NO. :E6 tB 82967711       Sun. 23 2885 88:88    P 2




                                                       HydropowerD e v o l o pCompany, Ltd.
                                                                              ~



         Theinvolvemeat o fthe WorldBankinErtandidnotonlysolvethe financingproblem,but
         more importantly brought in advanced mauagement concept and mechanism, thereby
         making the success of E M not only reflected in good control of the project quality,
         schcdulc and costs, but also dcmonspated by the high-staadardimplementation of the
         resertlement and envimnment management, and by systematic eahancement of the
         capacityofEHDC as an IPP.This will         thecompany ona long-term basis.

         InconclusionIwouldIiketotakethisopportunitrtothankyouforthegreatassistancethe
         WorldBankhas given us overthe years, andthe pcrsktentendeavorsthe Bankhas made
         to helpimproveour business environment




         GeneralMamger       '

         cc: Mr.AlainBarbu
             ManagerSector,T h d c andGlobalEvaluationGroup
             OperationsEvaluationDeparunent
             Thc WorldBank

             Mr.WuJinkang
             Director
             I l l m o dDepartment
             MinistryofFinance
             Fa:010-68551125

