Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 3387 CHA
(Ertan Hydroelectric Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Dated July 11, 1991
LOAN NUMBER 3387 CHA
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 11, 1991, between INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (EHDC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between People's 
Republic of China (the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed to make available 
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to three hundred eighty 
million dollars ($380,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan 
Agreement, but only on condition that EHDC agree to undertake such obligations toward 
the Bank as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by subsidiary loan agreements to be entered into between the Borrower and 
Sichuan, and Sichuan and EHDC, the proceeds of the loan provided for under the Loan 
Agreement will be relent to EHDC on the terms and conditions set forth in said 
Subsidiary Loan Agreements; and
WHEREAS EHDC, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan Agreement 
with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Loan Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) EHDC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and power utility practices, and shall provide, 
or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other 
resources required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Bank and EHDC shall otherwise agree, EHDC shall carry out the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in the Schedule to 
this Agreement. 
Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 of the 
Loan Agreement.
Section 2.03. EHDC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 
9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use 
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land 
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. EHDC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EHDC shall not take or 
concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or 
waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) EHDC shall, at the request of the Bank, exchange views with 
the Bank with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its 
obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and other 
matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)
EHDC shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the 
purposes of the Loan, or the
performance by EHDC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreements.
Section 2.06. EHDC shall, not later than June 30, 1996, enter into an agreement 
with SCEPA, satisfactory to the Bank, for the sale of the power to be generated under 
the Project, and shall thereafter implement such agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of EHDC
Section 3.01. EHDC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and power utility 
practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by 
competent staff in adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. EHDC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
Page  3
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
financial and power utility practices.
Section 3.03. EHDC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or 
make other provision satisfactory to the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 9.08 of the 
General Conditions, EHDC shall: (a) with the assistance of independent engineering 
experts whose qualifications and experience shall be reviewed with the Bank, 
periodicially inspect or cause to be inspected the dam, waterways, earthworks and 
reservoir banks and their appurtenant structures constructed under Part B of
the Project after completion, under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank and in 
accordance with appropriate engineering practices, in order to determine whether there 
are any deficiencies in the
condition of such structure and earthworks, or in the quality and adequacy of 
earthworks which may endanger the safety of such structures and earthworks; (b) 
propose to the Bank the arrangements for inspection, not less than one year prior to 
expected completion; (c) furnish, or cause to be furnished to the Bank, promptly after 
each such inspection, the conclusions thereof including the conclusions of said 
engineering experts; (d) make, promptly after each such inspection, all necessary 
repairs of such structure and earthworks; and (e) make all necessary modifications in 
the quality and adequacy of maintenance or methods of operation of such structures and 
earthworks, all to be in accordance with appropriate engineering practices.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) EHDC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect 
in accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
EHDC shall:
 
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, income 
statements and statements of sources and 
applications of funds) for each fiscal 
year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles acceptable to the 
Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six months 
after the end of each such year: (A) certified 
copies of its financial statements 
for such year as so 
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said 
records, accounts and 
financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the Bank shall from time to 
time reasonably 
request.
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EHDC shall from time 
to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjustments of the levels of its tariffs) as shall be required to produce net 
operating income equivalent to not less than (a) 20% in 1999, (b) 25% in 2000, and (c) 
35% thereafter, of its average annual investment program.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "total operating revenue" means the sum of revenue from 
all sources 
related to operations and net non-operating income.
 
(ii)
The term "total operating expenses" means the sum of expenses 
related to 
operations, including maintenance and 
administration.
(iii)
The term "financial obligations" means interest and other charges 
on debt 
(excluding interest during construction), 
Page  4
repayment of loans (including sinking 
fund payments, if any), 
all taxes or payments in lieu of taxes, allocations to 
special funds and other cash distributions of surplus (including mandatory 
transfers to the Borrower), and any other cash outflows (other 
than capital
expenditures) related to operations.
(iv)
The term "net operating income" means total operating revenues 
minus (a) total 
operating expenses, and (b) financial 
obligations.
(v)
The term "average annual investment program" means the average of: 
(A) the previous 
year's actual capital expenditures; (B) the current 
year's expenditures; and (C) 
the next year's projected capital 
expenditure.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EHDC shall from time 
to time take, or cause to be taken, all such measures (including, without limitation, 
adjusting the level of its tariffs, refraining from incurring debt, or reducing debt) 
in order to ensure that the internal cash generation of EHDC for each fiscal year 
during the term of the debt to be incurred shall be at least (i) 1.3 times in 1999; 
and (ii) 1.5 times thereafter, of the estimated debt services requirements of EHDC in 
such year on all its debt including the debt to be incurred.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EHDC maturing by its 
terms more than one 
year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
The term "internal cash generation of EHDC" means the difference 
between:
(A)
the sum of revenues from all sources related to operations 
and net 
non-operating income, excluding receipts 
for consumer connection charges; 
and
 
(B)
the sum of all expenses related to operations, including 
administration, 
provisions for maintenance special fund, 
and sales and income taxes and 
payments in lieu of such 
taxes, but excluding provisions for depreciation, 
and 
interest and other charges on debt.
(iv)
The term "net non-operating income" means the difference between:
 
(A)
revenues from all sources other than those related to 
operations; and
(B)
expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu of taxes, 
incurred in the 
generation of (A) above.
 
(v)
The term "debt service requirements" means the aggregate amount of 
repayments 
(including sinking fund payments, if any) of, and 
interest and other charges on, 
debt.
 
(vi)
The term "reasonable forecast" means a forecast prepared by EHDC 
not earlier than 
twelve months prior to the incurrence of the 
debt in question, which both the Bank 
and EHDC accept as reasonable and 
as which the Bank has notified EHDC of its 
acceptability, 
provided that no event has occurred since such notification which 
Page  5
has, or may reasonably be expected to in the future to have, a material adverse 
effect on the financial condition or future operating results of 
EHDC.
(vii)
Whenever, for the purposes of this Section, it shall be necessary 
to value, in 
terms of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable 
in another currency, such 
valuation shall be made on the basis of 
the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at 
which such other 
currency is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the 
purposes of servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a 
rate of exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.04. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, EHDC shall not incur 
any debt, if after the incurrence of such debt the ratio of debt to equity shall be 
greater than (i) 82 to 18 in each year from 1991 through 1997; (ii) 80 to 20 in each 
of 1998 and 1999; and (iii) 70 to 30 thereafter.
(b)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
The term "debt" means any indebtedness of EHDC maturing by its 
terms more than one 
year after the date on which it is originally 
incurred.
(ii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment on the date of such 
contract, agreement or instrument; and (B) under a 
guarantee 
agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into.
(iii)
Debt shall be deemed to be incurred: (A) under a loan contract or 
agreement or 
other instrument providing for such debt or for the 
modification of its terms of 
payment, on the date, and to the 
extent, the amount of such debt has become 
outstanding pursuant 
to such contract, agreement or instrument; (B) under a 
guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such guarantee has 
been entered into but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt 
is outstanding.
(iv)
The term "equity" means the sum of the total unimpaired paid-up 
capital, retained 
earnings and reserves of EHDC not allocated to 
cover specific liabilities.
(v)
Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall be necessary to 
value, in terms 
of the currency of the Borrower, debt payable in 
another currency, such valuation 
shall be made on the basis of the 
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such 
other currency is, 
at the time of such valuation, obtainable for the purposes of 
servicing such debt, or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a rate of 
exchange acceptable to the Bank.
Section 4.05. By April 30 of each year, starting April 30, 1992, EHDC shall 
furnish to the Bank, for the Bank's review and comments, a rolling long-term financial 
plan, containing, inter alia, projected income statements, sources and applications of 
funds and balance sheets for the Project implementation period, and for at least five 
years thereafter.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of EHDC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
Page  6
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify EHDC thereof.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to 
which it is required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address 
hereinafter specified or at such other address as such party shall have designated by 
notice to the party giving such notice or making such request. The addresses so 
specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
197688 (TRT),
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA),
 64145 (WUI) or
 82987 (FTCC)
For EHDC:
New No. 20
Huapaifang Street
Chengdu City
Sichuan Province, China
Cable address:
Telex:
 
7194 Chengdu
600045 EHDCC CN
 
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of EHDC, or by 
EHDC on behalf of EHDC under the
Loan Agreement, may be taken or executed by General Manager or such other person or 
persons as General Manager shall designate in writing, and EHDC shall furnish to the 
Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of 
each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Page  7
By /s/ Marianne Haug
Acting Regional Vice President
Asia
ERTAN HYDROELECTRIC DEVELOPMENT
   CORPORATION
By /s/ Zhu Qizhen
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE
Implementation Program
1.
EHDC shall maintain the Project Management Unit with staffing and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
EHDC shall carry out, not later than June 30, 1993, the studies under Part G (i) 
and (ii) of the Project in accordance with terms of reference and a schedule agreed 
with the Bank.
3.
EHDC shall carry out the training under Part H of the Project in accordance with 
a program agreed with the Bank.
4.
EHDC shall carry out an environmental management program agreed with the Bank.
