Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 17546 ANG
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LEARNING INNOVATION LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5 MILLION EQUIVALENT
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
FORA
POST-CONFLICT SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
March 31, 1998
Institutional and Social Policy
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Readjusted Kwanza
(Exchange Rate Effective US$1=RKw 210,000)
FISCAL YEAR
October-September
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
FAS           Social Action Fund
IAPSO         Interagency Procurement Services Office
ICB          International Competitive Bidding
IDA           International Development Association
IDP           Intemally-Displaced People
10           Implementing Organization
IOM           International Organization of Migration
LIL           Learning and Innovation Loan
MINARS       Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration
MRP           Municipio Recovery Programn
NCB          National Competitive Bidding
NGO          Non-Governmental Organization
PCSRP        Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
PCSRPU        Post Conflict Social Recovery Project Unit
PPF           Project Preparation Facility
SOE          Statement of Expenditure
UCAH         Humanitarian Coordination Assistance Unit -- United Nations
UNDP          United Nations Development Programme
UTNITA       National Union for the Total Independence of Angola
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Barbara Kafkca
Sector Manager: Roger Sullivan
Cluster Leader/Task Team Leader: Laura Frigenti/Lucy Keough



Angola
Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective ..................................................3
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators ........................................3
B. Strategic Context ...................................................4
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project ...................................................                           4
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy ....... ............................................4
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices ....................................5
C. Project Description Summary ...................................................6
1. Project components ................................................6
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project ....................................... 10
3. Benefits and target population ...............................................                                                10
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements .........................                              ...................... 10
D. Project Rationale ..................................................                                                                11
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ............................................... 11
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies ........ .... 12
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design .............................................. 12
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership .....................................................  13
5. Value added of Bank support in this project ..................................                                                13
E. Summary Project Analyses ..................................                                                                        14
1. Economic ..................................                                                                                   14
2. Financial ..................................                                                                                  14
3. Technical ..................................                                                                                  14
4. Institutional ..................................                                                                              14
5. Social ........................                                                                                               14
6. Environmental assessment ........................                                                                             15
7. Participatory approach ........................                                                                               15
F. Sustainability and Risks ........................                                                                                   16
1. Sustainability .....................                                                                                          16
2. Critical risks ..................... 16
3. Possible controversial aspects .....................                                                     ,                    18



G. Main Loan Conditions .......................                                          18
1. Effectiveness conditions ....................                                     18
2. Other ....................                                                        18
H. Readiness for Implementation .......................                                  18
I. Compliance with Bank Policies .......................                                 19
Annexes
Annex 1. Project Design Summary
Annex 2. Detailed Project Description
Annex 3. Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4. Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A. Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table B. Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Table C. Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Annex 5. Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 6. Documents in Project File
Annex 7. Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 8. Country at a Glance
Map



Angola
Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
Project Appraisal Document
Africa Regional Office
AFCO3
Date: March 31, 1998                                 Cluster Leader/Task Team Leader: L. Frigenti/L. Keough
Country Director: Barbara Kafka                      Sector Manager: Roger Sullivan
Project ID: AO-PA-     Sector: Social                Program Objective Category: PV
45644
Lending Instrument: LIL                              Program of Targeted Intervention:   [X] Yes  [ ] No
Project Financing Data                [] Loan       [X] Credit       [] Guarantee      [I Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount (US$m/SDRm): US$5 million equivalent/SDR3.7 million
Proposed terms: (IDA)                   []   Multicurrency     [   Single currency, specify
Grace period (years): 10          [    Standard Variable  [   Fixed           [     LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 40
Commitment fee: NA
Service charge: 0.75%
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                              Local              Foreign           Total
Government                                                  0.5                                  0.5
Cofinanciers
IBRD
IDA                                                         1.5                3.5               5.0
Other (specify) Beneficiary Contributions                   0.4                                  0.4
Total        2.3                 3.5              5.9
Borrower: Republic of Angola
Guarantor:
Responsible agency: Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):   1998      1999        2000       2001
Annual 0.6         2.2        1.8        0.4
Cumulative 0.6        2.8         4.6        5.0
For Guarantees: NA                              []   Partial credit    [  Partial risk
Proposed coverage: NA
Project sponsor: NA
Nature of underlying financing: NA
Terms of
financing:
Principal amount (US$) NA



2
Final maturity NA
Amortization profile NA
Financing available without guarantee?: NA          [    Yes               [    No
If yes, estimated cost or maturity: NA
Estimated financing cost or maturity with guarantee: NA
Project implementation period: 3 years  Expected effectiveness date: 6/1/98  Expected closing date: 9/30/2001



3
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
Angola's decades-old civil war has left more than 2.0 million people displaced, mainly from the central,
agriculturally rich Plan Alto region of the country.' As conditions permit, these people can be expected
gradually to return to their former communities. The proposed Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
(PCSRP) LIL would test, in a limited number of target areas, a program to support war affected rural
communities in their efforts to reintegrate displaced people and revitalize community-level economic and social
activities. The lessons gained from the experience of implementing the LIL are intended to serve as a basis for
the design of a larger post-conflict social project aimed at enhancing the capacity of recipient communities in
war affected rural areas to reestablish normal economic and social activities.
The reasons which justify the LIL mechanism, as opposed to a larger project at this time, are the following:
*  need to develop and test an appropriate package of support measures and delivery mechanisms -- there
is a need to develop a reintegration support program for all of Angola's displaced people. Although the
current uncertain implementation environment makes it impossible to implement a larger scale program
immediately, present conditions are sufficiently settled in a limited area to permit pilot testing of a program
and associated delivery mechanisms;
*  need to strengthen capacity -- this has two aspects. The LIL would provide continuing support to a small
project unit has been established within the Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration (MINARS).
While this unit has shown good progress thus far in implementing a limited number of pilot subprojects, it
needs to build up its experience and capacity in order eventually to be able to implement a larger scale
program. There is, in addition, a need to strengthen the country's on-going efforts to formulate a
Reintegration Strategy to address the needs of all displaced segments of the population -- narnely,
intemally displaced people, demobilized soldiers and their dependents and retuming refugees -- within a
coherent framework which would coordinate the interventions of other extemal partners;
* incomplete information on conditions in potential project areas -- throughout the worst affected parts of
the country, information on the status of recently reestablished communities and their developmental
priorities is incomplete and may only gradually become available. Many of these areas have been
inaccessible for many years, as result of a combination of political, military and security factors. The LIL
will provide technical assistance to undertake social and economic analysis as an input into the design of a
larger project;
*   risky implementation environment -- among those parts of the country which experienced the worst war
damage, some have realized progress in resolving security concems and restoring minimum levels of
social and political stability, while others are likely to have to confront conditions of insecurity and
political instability for some time. However, even in those areas which have seen progress, the situation
remains fragile. Under these circumstances, it is prudent to begin with a modular approach which can
test a project concept in a limited number of areas with a limited commitment of IDA funding, before
moving on to a larger operation.
1.1 Key Performnance Indicators.
The PCSRP LIL will test an operational model and an implementation mechanism for providing assistance to
war affected rural areas in Angola. As a LIL, the success of this experience will be determined by the
' This figure includes the internally displaced who number some 1.5 million (about half of whom are in camps and
half in squatter settlement in urban and peri-urban settings), 315,000 refugees in neighboring countries and ex-UNITA
combatants and their dependents who number 300,000 or more.



4
quantity and quality of information which it generates on a number of levels, the sustainability of the systems
and procedures established during the pilot phase and what types of pilot operations have the most impact in
the initial target areas. Together, this body of information will provide a basis for determining the potential for
replicating and/or modifying this approach on a larger scale in other war affected parts of the country. Key
performance indicators will measure the technical and managerial capacity of the project unit. Likewise, the
efficiency and cost effectiveness of implementing organizations will be evaluated. Finally, the impact of
subprojects to be implemented in target communities would be assessed by a range of indicators, including: the
extent to which returning people remain settled in recipient communities in the target areas; the revitalization
of economic and social activities within target areas, including, inter alia, increase in access and use of social
infrastructure and services (health, education and safe water); increase in the area under (mainly subsistence)
crop production in the targeted communities rejuvenation of local markets trading in local materials. Finally,
there should be some -- albeit to varying degrees -- evidence of stronger community organization within the
assisted areas. (See Annex I.) If the package of measures and the delivery mechanisms prove successful in
helping communities to reintegrate returning displaced people -- and assuming that the peace process continues
to consolidate and political and security conditions throughout the war damaged areas of the country are
resolved sufficiently -- there would be justification for implementing a program on a larger scale in other war
affected areas of the country.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
GAS document number: NA    Date of latest CAS discussion: NA
Due to the on-going conflict in Angola in recent years, there is not a current CAS. However, an interim
transitional strategy, designed to guide Bank interventions in Angola for the next 12-18 months has been
prepared and will be discussed with Government in April 1998. The over-arching objective of this strategy is
to assist Angola in its post conflict transition by helping to consolidate the peace process, restore social
confidence, alleviate poverty and restore equitable growth in a market-based environment with transparent and
accountable mechanisms. This project directly addresses one of the main prongs of this strategy, namely
support for the reintegration needs of the most vulnerable groups, including the displaced population,
demobilized soldiers, returning refugees and communities most affected by the war, in a manner which will
revive social confidence and contribute to a durable peace.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
A key objective of social reconstruction for the Angolan Government will be to demonstrate to the population,
especially those in the most heavily war damaged areas, that peace means not only an end to the fighting, but
also the beginning of economic growth and better living standards. In this context, the Government has begun
to define an overall strategy to support the return and reintegration of all displaced people and to coordinate
the interventions of all concerned ministries and external partners. This strategy has several interrelated goals:
(i) Revitalization of agriculture: Restoration of Angola's once thriving agriculture sector, along with a
concomitant reduction in food aid, is a major goal of post conflict reconstruction. Security concerns and lack
of access in many areas have crippled many aspects of rural economic activities. Revival of the rural economy
will begin at very localized levels and develop incrementally, with heavy reliance on the rehabilitation of rural
economic infrastructure, including roads, water points and markets. In 1996, total cereal production was
about 200,000 tons, only about half of the annual level during the 1970's. The incidence of malnutrition varies
greatly but is thought to be serious in some areas. As a result and despite the country's important agricultural
potential, food imports have averaged some 400,000 tons in recent years, about half of which has been food
aid.
(ii) Restoration of basic social services: A second major goal for post conflict reconstruction is to restore and



5
repair social infrastructure damaged during the war. The combination of sabotage, plundering, abandonment
and lack of maintenance has left many areas with a virtual void in basic health and primary education services,
especially in many rural areas in the Plan Alto which have, until recently, not been under government control
and therefore not accessible. Both the quantity and quality of education and health services have declined
precipitously.
(iii) Relieve the pressure on urban and peri-urban infrastructure: A further objective for post conflict
transition strategy is to relieve the severe pressure on urban infrastructure, facilities and services caused by
large numbers of displaced people squatting in urban and peri-urban slums. Successfully providing these
people with adequate support and incentives to return to their former rural communities will both relieve
demand pressure on urban infrastructure, which is currently stretched well beyond its carrying capacity, while
at the same time promoting a revival of the rural economy.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
The PCSRP LIL would address the following issues:
1. Need to reinforce planning and implementation capacity: In light of the many difficulties surrounding
the demobilization process in Angola, until recently, the Government's attention has been focused mainly on
defining support measures for ex-combatants, who are thought to be the most volatile segment of the war
affected population. With this process now completed, there is a need for a more comprehensive framework
which would address the needs of all displaced and vulnerable groups in the country and coordinate the
interventions of all concerned ministries and external partners. MINARS has begun to formulate a strategy
addressing the needs of all war affected regions and populations, aimed at providing a consistent framework
for post conflict reintegration and rehabilitation investment planning and implementation. An important
element in this strategy would be to design an operational model for reintegration support which would be
relevant and replicable in all war affected regions of the country. Testing of the model proposed in the LIL
would provide this learning experience. In coordination with other donors (UNDP and the International
Organization for Migration), the project would provide technical assistance to MINARS to strengthen this
Reintegration Strategy.
2. Need to develop an appropriate operational model for reintegration support. Communities in
especially war devastated areas have suffered severe and widespread physical disruption during the war.
Cornpounding this factor, the return of significant numbers of displaced people to their former communities
will generate significant social and economic pressure on these communities. Recovery in these areas will
require timely assistance across a wide spectrum of needs. Interventions should be integrated and mutually
supportive in order to generate adequate impact. A project by project approach is unlikely to be sufficient.
Experience from other post-conflict countries suggests that if displaced people do not receive adequate support
once they return to their former communities, they are likely to continue internal migration patterns, thereby
prolonging the period of social instability and insecurity. The LIL will test an operational model of support for
war affected communities to facilitate the restoration of basic social and economic activities and support the
process of reintegrating returning populations.
Currently available information on the status of communities in war impacted areas and their rehabilitation
priorities is inadequate as a result of previous insecurity and lack of access. Security concerns, whether
stemming from political divisions, banditry or land mine pollution, predominate any consideration by displaced
people to return to their former communities. However, less is known about the priority of other factors wvhich
will attract displaced people to return to their former communities and provide them with sufficient support
such that, once returned to their former communities, they will remain. Within and across municipio and
provincial boundaries2, the extent of war damage to facilities, such as schools and health posts, varies
2 Angola consists of 18 provinces. Administrative subdivisions within provinces are municipios, communas and aldeias.



6
tremendously. Factors such as proximity to former battlegrounds, distance from the provincial capital, quality
of roads and the history of occupation by one or the other forces will contribute to the ease of access, the free
flow of goods and services, the state of economic infrastructure. Thus, in addition to operational interventions,
the LIL would provide technical assistance to gather additional information on the status of war affected
communities and their needs and priorities to serve as an input for the eventual design of a larger project.
3. Appropriate delivery mechanisms. Government's capacity to deliver basic social services is weak in most
war affected areas. Local provincial and community structures are in the very early stages of development.
In many of these areas, NGOs have been important partners in providing people with social services and
helping them to initiate community rehabilitation. The proposed project would test a delivery mechanism
which engages NGOs (or other third parties) already active in target areas as formal partners with central and
provincial governments in helping communities within a given municipio to articulate, plan and sequence a
program of small-scale community rehabilitation activities. At the same time, community organizations would
be strengthened to enable communities eventually to assume responsibility for their own development planning.
A number of NGOs, who are beginning to reorient their activities from emergency relief to more
developmentally oriented interventions have begun to implement support programs which incorporate a similar
integrated approach. However, these activities are small scale and are supported by direct grants from bi-
lateral donors and sometimes have minimal involvement of government at either central or provincial levels.
The LIL will test whether an adaptation from this model is suitable for wider-scale replication and whether
capacity in the non-government sector (NGOs and others) is sufficient to undertake this type of activity on a
wider scale.
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2for a detailed description and Annex 3for a detailed cost breakdown):
The Post Conflict Social Recovery Project (PCSRP) LIL would have two components. First, would be
technical assistance to help Government continue to strengthen a Reintegration Strategy which will provide a
comprehensive and consistent framework across sectors and provinces for planning and implementing the
rehabilitation and reintegration needs of all war affected segments of the population. The strategy will guide
the Government in setting priorities and designing assistance for the country's post conflict reintegration. It
will provide a framework for coordinating the contributions of various line Ministries (e.g., Agriculture,
Education and Health) and the interventions of external partners. While all of Angola has felt the impact of
many years of fighting, the worst war damaged areas are the central Plan Alto, the area with the greatest
agricultural potential, and the provinces along the northern and western borders. This includes the provinces
of Uige, Kwanza Norte, Malange, Bie, Moxico, Huambo and Huila, where the highest number of demobilized
soldiers, internally displaced persons (IDPs) and returning refugees are expected to return. With needs so great
and dispersed, aid agencies thus far have had relative freedom to choose areas of focus with minimal risk of
duplicating or wasting resources. In effect, informal coordination has occurred, with certain donors
predominating in a given province and/or sector. But with donors becoming more active there will need to be a
more formalized coordination within an overall government strategy. The PCSRP LIL would contribute to the
strengthening of such a policy framework. Specifically the technical assistance would undertake analysis such
as (i) needs assessments for the worst war affected provinces and populations; (ii) the social analysis of the
worst war affected populations; (iii) an evaluation of on-going reintegration activities for demobilized soldiers
(frequency and type of use of SECOR/QIP program); (iv) the intended reintegration activities of other external
partners with a view to identifying under/over-served areas. Within the context of formulating this strategy,
the approach to be tested in the second component of this project would be evaluated for its replicability, in
terms of timeliness of delivery mechanisms and cost effectiveness of support, on a larger scale in other war
affected areas of the country.
The second component of the PCSRP LIL would test the Municipio Recovery Program (MRP) for its



7
potential for wide-scale replication in war impacted regions of Angola. In particular, it would test (i) the
approach and (ii) the delivery mechanism of the MRP.
A. The approach: The approach to be tested is the Municipio Recovery Program. the objective of the MRP
would be to help war affected communities to reintegrate returning families -- internally displaced people,
demobilized soldiers and returning refugees -- and restore village level economic and social activities, thus
laying a foundation for the eventual restoration of the rural economy. A municipio is the administrative
subdivision below a province in Angola, with populations averaging 70-100,000 people. The MRP would
contain three elements: (i) a socio-economic diagnostic of conditions within the municipio; (ii) a notional two
year phased program of community-based sub-projects; and (iii) an actual six months rolling work program to
implement specific subprojects. Subprojects, to be funded on a grant basis, within an MRP would seek to
reestablish household livelihood and rehabilitate (to minimum standards) basic community level social and
economic infrastructure (e.g., roads, water, schools, health posts, rural markets, irrigation works) in
accordance with needs and priorities expressed by communities. The MRP would support community and
other local-level initiatives to foster reconciliation and to rebuild basic social structures damaged during the
years of conflict. The MRP would test the impact and effectiveness of providing communities with an
integrated package of support within a target area, namely the municipio, as opposed to a project by project
approach. The MRP is designed to provide a coherent framework for a "broad but shallow" program of
community rehabilitation which reflects communities' expressed needs and priorities. This programmatic
approach should help to plan for an economic and equitable distribution of facilities in across target areas.
Under this component, pilot MRPs would be implemented in a limited number of target municipios in the
provinces of Bie, Kwanza Norte and Moxico. The choice of these three provinces is discussed in Annex 2 to
this report. Since every rural community in these areas will absorb significant numbers of returning
demobilized soldiers and displaced families, the MRP will pitch its assistance at the communities rather than
individuals. All returnees, whether from refugee or internally displaced camps, hiding places in the bush, or
the armed forces would be treated equally. Specific efforts will be undertaken to ensure that women,
especially heads of households, will be given adequate voice in community decisions. Subprojects would be
identified, designed and sequenced in accordance with needs and priorities expressed by beneficiary
communities. It is expected that an average MRP would be implemented over a two year period. (See Annex
2 for a list of typical specific subprojects which would make up an MRP.)
B. The DeliveryMechanisms: The delivery mechanism to be tested in the proposed project would engage
Implementing Organizations (10) to work with communities in a given municipio to help them design,
sequence and implement a series of rehabilitation subprojects which together would make up the MRP. The
role proposed in this project for IOs is a more proactive one than would be appropriate in non-post conflict
situations reflecting two main factors. First is the typically weak structure of resurgent commnunities, which
may have little or no experience in working together toward a common objective and, indeed, which may
harbor the seeds of dormant social or political conflict. Second is the weak government institutional capacity
and service delivery. Implementing organizations are expected to be NGOs3 already active in the area,
although any other qualified agency or community would be eligible to participate.
Wherever possible, IOs would be identified through competitive procedures. The PCSRP Unit would
advertise locally for expressions of interest from potential IOs to undertake preparation of a Municipio
Recovery Program in the designated areas. The selection of the IO, to be decided by the PCSRP Unit in
consultation with IDA, would be based on an 1O's technical and administrative capacity and its track record in
relevant prior experience in implementing community based operations using participatory techniques (see
Annex 2).
3 NGOs play a vital role in the delivery of social services throughout Angola. In the aftermath of war, NGOs are major contributors
in the delivery of social service in many war affected areas of the country.



8
To guide the PCSRP Unit and the 10 in the preparation of an MRP, an Implementation Manual has been
prepared which spells out the policies and procedures for an MRP. The Implementation Manual would be
reviewed annually, based on actual implementation experience. IOs would be encouraged to form partnerships
with smaller, less experienced national NGOs, who wish to carry out specific portions of the MRP, which
would have the benefit of helping to strengthen the capacity of national NGOs.
Planning and lmplementing an MRP. Once selected, the IO would undertake a socio-economic diagnostic of
the municipio (providing information on demographic data, a description of war damage to infrastructure, a
description of the status of communities, security and accessibility, etc.). In parallel, it would initiate
consultations with beneficiary communities in the target municipio to define priorities and design a program of
actual rehabilitation subprojects that together would make up the MRP. The IO would coordinate the
preparation and budgeting of individual subprojects, incorporating, to the extent possible, community
contributions for labor and locally available materials. The MRP, which could be expected to be implemented
over a period of up to two years, would be divided into rolling six month work programs. The overall MRP
and the first six month work program would be submitted to local government authorities for endorsement and
the PCSRP Unit for approval. The Unit would approve the two-year indicative MRP in principle and would
give specific approval for a six month work program. Thereafter, every six months, the 10 would update the
MRP and indicate the work program and budget for the forthcoming six month period. Implementation of
subprojects would be undertaken with the collaboration and endorsement of provincial and local level
authorities. In order to ensure that the sub-projects which make up the MRP reflect communities' needs and
priorities, for each approved subproject, the community would sign with the Governnent (represented by the
PCSRP) and the 10 a simple agreement indicating its agreement to carry out the subproject as designed, and to
maintain and operate the facilities in a sustainable manner. Communities would also be empowered to suspend
any subproject as a result of unsatisfactory performance by the 10.
Monitoring/Evaluation and Reporting Requirements. Monitoring and evaluation will be critical features of
the pilot operation in order to ensure that useful lessons and experiences are documented and analyzed for their
potential replication. At the outset of formulating a sub-project within an MRP, the 10 will work with
communities to develop simple performance indicators that they themselves can monitor to judge the
effectiveness of the subproject. The 10 will provide rapid and systematic beneficiary assessment and feedback
to the PCSRP Unit in the course of preparing and implementing MRP subprojects. However, the PCSRP Unit
will be ultimately responsible for adequate and timely M&E. With this in mind, the PCSRP Unit will
coordinate a semi-annual implementation report to IDA, beginning six months from the date of project
effectiveness. The report will summarize progress in numbers of projects reviewed and approved, progress in
implementation, efficiency and cost effectiveness of delivery mechanisms (including an assessment of the
efficiency, effectiveness and capacity of 1Os), monitoring and supervision, procurement and disbursement
performance. It will also highlight any specific issues and leaming which have arisen during implementation
for which policy guidance from MINARS and/or other ministries has been required. Specific agreement to
such reporting was reached during negotiations. The reports should incorporate the findings of periodic site
visits and technical evaluations including periodic evaluations by extemal consultants of specific aspects of
implementing subprojects under any given MRP.
The PCSRP LIL would evaluate key aspects of the MRP, including the need for periodic adjustments in
content, funding requirements and implementation arrangements, in line with implementation experience and
the emergence of new information. A mid-term review will be held 18 months after the project becomes
effective or when 50% of funds have been committed, whichever comes sooner. This report will analyze the
effectiveness of overall project design and delivery mechanisms. Terms of reference for this review will be
prepared jointly by IDA and the PCSRP Unit. The findings and recommendations will be summarized in a
report submitted to IDA by the PCSRP Unit. In preparing this review, consultations will be held with selected
beneficiary groups, all relevant local government authorities in project areas and other agencies involved in
reintegration. Based on these recommendations, Government will prepare an action plan for discussion and
adoption at the mid-term review which will indicate operational and geographic priorities for the second half of



9
project implementation including any lessons for modification of design or delivery mechanisms.
Approximately six months prior to completion of the LIL a follow up report will be undertaken to assess the
complete project experience and recommend an operational model for replication on a larger scale. During
negotiations, Government agreement was obtainedfor the mid-term and end of project reviews, including
engaging an independent reviewer.
Component               Category      Cost Incl.    % of    Bank-       % of
Contingencies   Total  financing    Bank-
(US$M)               (US$M)   financing
1. Reintegration Strategy        Technical               0.3      5         0.3         6
Assistance
72
2. Pilot testing of Municipio    Services/               4.4     75         3.6
Recovery Program: **             small
*  Rehabilitation of social      scale works
infrastructure: schools, health
posts, water points;
* Rehabilitation of economic
infrastructure: feeder roads,
public markets, community
based small-scale irrigation
works;
* Support for re-establishment of
small scale agricultural
production (e.g., seeds and tools
distribution, other inputs,
extension, community resource
management);
* Support for re-establishment of
small-scale livestock
production;
* Income generating activities;
• Mine actions;
* Establishment of community
user groups facilitated by
implementing partners.
3. Project Coordination Unit: **     Capacity            1.2     20         1.1        22
Technical Assistance (salaries,    Building
plus TA for M&E)
Operating Costs
Total                                      5.9    100          5.0       100
** These amounts include financing under PPF.
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
* Strengthening of a Reintegration Strategy.
* Design and testing of a program of reintegration support and delivery mechanisms for war affected rural
communities.



10
3. Benefits and target population:
The direct beneficiaries of the proposed LIL would be (i) MINARS who would benefit from capacity building
and technical support and (ii) the population living in the municipios in Bie, Kwanza Norte and Moxico
provinces which will receive support under the pilot program. The indirect beneficiaries of the LIL would be
the much larger population of displaced and war-affected segments of the population who will eventually
benefit from both the development of an operational model for reintegration support within the context of a
Reintegration Strategy.
Within the provinces of Bie, Kwanza Norte and Moxico, the municipios to be selected as target areas for the
LIL will be finalized in collaboration with provincial authorities, according to the following criteria: overall
security /accessibility, presence of local government authority, extent of required community rehabilitation
resulting from war darnage, numbers of returning ex-combatants/internally displaced/refugees, presence of
other donors. The selection of these municipios will be finalized in the coming weeks, prior to effectiveness.
As mentioned previously, the activities under the pilot will not differentiate between returning groups and those
that remained in the comnmunity, on the presumption that community revitalization will require a high level of
commitment and ownership from all members of the community.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
Implementation Period: The pilot would be implemented over a period of 36 months, beginning in June
1998.
Implementation responsibility will rest with the Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration (MINARS).
Inputs from other ministries (e.g., Agriculture, Education, Health) will be provided for both the formulation of
the Reintegration Strategy and for the MRP. (The latter will be based mainly on local level coordination.)
Given the weak capacity of MINARS, a small project coordination unit, intended as a temporary entity, has
been established with support from a PPF. Although located within the MINARS, the Unit will operate with
independent and transparent management and financial systems and procurement and disbursement
procedures. It is headed by a Project Director and staffed with a financial manager, a project officer and
administrative support staff. During the LIL phase, an additional project officer and a logistician will be
recruited.
With respect to the Reintegration Strategy, the Unit will coordinate and supervise technical assistance to
contribute to the on-going efforts by MINARS and external partners (UN organizations, IOM and donors) to
formulate a policy. The Unit, on behalf of MINARS, will convene a small working group comprised of
representatives from the relevant line Ministries to draft terms of reference and a work program, to be
discussed and approved by IDA. The subsequent engagement of consultants will be submitted to IDA for
approval. The first draft of a strategy is expected to be presented to the Minister of MINARS by November
1998. With respect to piloting of the MRP, the Unit would be responsible for:
*  screening, monitoring and evaluating subprojects;
*  making disbursements from the Special Accounts for approved subproject activities to Implementing
Organizations and maintaining adequate financial records for each subproject;
*  preparing and submitting replenishment requests and withdrawal applications to IDA;
*  monitoring implementation performance and managing the financial operations and submitting quarterly
reports to the Minister of MINARS and to IDA; agreement on the submission of quarterlyfinancial
reports and their content was reached during negotiations;
* establishing and maintaining a management information system of subproject activities (technical and



11
financial);
monitoring and evaluation of the effectiveness of the MRP model, including (i) annual review of
Implementation Manual; (ii) terms of reference and supervision of periodic independent technical analysis
(e.g., social and economic analysis) of the impact and effectiveness of the MRP model and a final report at
project completion.
Responsibility of the 10: MINARS has consulted with a number of potential IOs on the project design, in
particular, the MRP approach, and several have indicated their interest and readiness to participate. The 10
would manage, design and coordinate MRP activities in accordance with the terms of its contract with
MINARS. In addition, it would oversee the procurement of goods and services to support the execution of
subprojects. Toward this end, the IO would receive an advance equivalent to three months' required materials
and supplies. At quarterly intervals thereafter until the MRP is completed, the 10 would submit to the PCSRP
Unit invoices for actual expenses incurred, documentation for expenditures undertaken, and bank statements
for funds on hand, and request additional funds sufficient to complete the subproject activities envisioned for
the subsequent quarter. Periodic site visits by the PCSRP Unit staff and independent consultants would
confirm that funds had been expended for approved purposes. Funds outstanding with any Implementing
Organization are not expected to exceed US$100,000 at any one time.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Alternative 1. Provide reintegration support through existing Social Action Project whose main component is
a Social Action Fund (FAS is the Portuguese acronym), which supports commnunity based rehabilitation
activities. Reasons for rejection of this alternative: FAS's activities have been concentrated in secure areas
with reasonably settled populations, recognized leadership and community organization, whereas reintegration
support is required in severely war-damage provinces where communities are comprised of disparate segments
of recently returned populations with much weaker organization or cohesion than more established
communities. The two different environments call for different delivery mechanisms. While the LIL needs to
ensure that activities are demand driven and that communities participate fully in defining needs and priorities,
a more proactive assistance will be tested under the LIL to help communities identify, design and carry out
subproject activities. The LIL will test an integrated rather than a project by project approach such as that
used by the FAS which will require flexible mechanisms for working with a diverse group of partner agencies,
including NGOs, church groups along with community groups and Government.
Alternative 2. Undertake a larger-scale social recovery project. Reasons for rejection of this alternative:
There are three reasons for deciding against a large scale operation at this time. First is the halting progress
which has marked Angola's peace process. Despite recent progress and some encouraging signs, the
implementation environment remains very uncertain, with many areas continuing to evidence security and
access concerns. This suggests a modular approach, beginning in areas which allow free movement of people
and goods. Second, there are capacity issues. Pilot projects under the PPF have taken somewhat longer to get
underway, partly due to capacity constraints in the PCSRP Unit. The experience of implementing the LIL will
provide experience and help to build capacity of this unit. Finally, there is the need to strengthen the policy
framework. In parallel with implementing the LIL, IDA will assist the formulation of a Reintegration
Strategy, which together with the experience of testing the package of support and delivery mechanisms under
the LIL, should provide the basis for designing a larger, more comprehensive social recovery program in
Angola.



12
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                   Project           Latest Supervision (Form 590)
Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)    Objective
(DO)
Bank-financed
Community based rehabilitation      Social Recovery Project       HS             U **
Other development agencies
A number of bi-lateral donors and   various                on-going
NGOs are assisting reintegration and
rehabilitation programs in Angola at
present. Collaboration with all partners
will be sought in the implementation of
the LIL and in the design of a
Reintegration Strategy.
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
** The DO of all operations in the Angola portfolio has been designated as U a result of the country's economic crisis.
Despite this, the FAS has been performing extremely well in terms of implementation progress.
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
As indicated above, the proposed LIL was preceded in December 1995 by a Social Action Project whose main
component, a Social Action Fund (FAS), is supporting community based small scale development activities.
The FAS offers some useful lessons for the proposed PCSRP LIL. The MRP concept has built on the
experience of other post conflict countries as well as the recent Post Conflict Reconstruction Framework
Paper. Together these have highlighted a number of factors which have been incorporated into the design of
the PCSRP LIL:
* simplified and flexible guidelines and procedures, articulated at an early stage and systematically
implemented by both Borrower and the Bank. In the case of the PCSRP, an Implementation
Manual has been prepared which will be tested and refined by Implementing Organizations
throughout implementation during the pilot LIL phase;
* importance of simplified but sound financial management and records management systems;
e need for standardized approval and supervision criteria to facilitate rapid decision mflaking and
problem solving; these have been incorporated in a draft implementation manual;
* vital importance of community participation in design, sequencing, and implementation. Under
the PCSRP subprojects will be initiated on a demand driven basis, with communities signing a
simple implementation contract; beneficiary assessments will be a key feature of implementation
monitoring.
s targeting assistance at priority geographic areas, rather than individuals, on the rationale that the



13
entire community is affected by resettlement and from an equity perspective, returning families
should not have higher economic or social status than pre-existing populations;
A number of pilot projects, funded by a PPF advance, will be monitored for any lessons which could
contribute to strengthening project design and implementation. However, since these pilot projects have taken
longer to get underway than anticipated, at the time of this writing, experience gained to date is limited. More
information should be available within the coming months.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
For much of 1996 and 1997, the progress of the peace process in Angola has been uneven. Military and
political concerns, especially the formation of a unified government and the demobilization of former UNITA
soldiers, surnounted the broader needs of reintegration and conmmunity rehabilitation. With the unified
government now in place for nearly a year and recent progress in the transferring areas formerly under UNITA
control to state administration, the Government is now fully committed to planning an orderly process to
support the return and reintegration of all displaced segments of the population. The rationale of undertaking
a LIL has been discussed with both the Ministry of Planning and MINARS both of which have fully endorsed
it. In support of the project, MINARS has provided facilities to house the PCSRP Unit. MINARS has also
demonstrated its commitment to the project in the course of implementing pilot projects through its willingness
and openness in working with NGOs as interim service deliverers to provide urgently needed social and
economic support.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The peace process, the restoration of social confidence and economic revitalization are inextricably linked.
For Angola to successfully meet the daunting challenges of post war rehabilitation, it will be necessary restore
durable economic growth, revive the non-oil economy and attack the social crisis that threatens economic
growth and solid peace. The Bank is well placed to assist Angola on these multiple levels. It is gamering an
increasing body of experience in assisting post conflict countries, in Africa and elsewhere, in physical
rehabilitation and policy formulation and this experience can be mined for useful examples suitable for
replication or adaptation in Angola. The Bank would play an important leading role in helping Angola to
formnulate an overall transitional strategy and to address the mounting need for coordination of donors'
reintegration activities in various provinces of the country, while testing a package of community based
assistance for war affected communities. Experience gained in implementing various conmmunity based
rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure should also generate a body of data and experience which
would serve as useful inputs to future social sector policy planning and investment. In parallel with the
proposed LIL, the Bank is engaged in a dialogue on economic reform efforts, a key aspect of which will be the
discussion of restructuring of public expenditures to assure adequate resources for social services, including
social safety net provisions for the most vulnerable, war-affected segments in the population.



14
E: Summary Project Analysis
1. Economic:
[-] Cost-Benefit Analysis:    Not Applicable
[x] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
In light of the pilot nature of this project, only notional and qualitative economic analysis will be undertaken a
priori. Economic analysis of MRP activities will be undertaken in the course of implementing the LIL.
Cost-effectiveness: Interventions under the pilot MRP will support rehabilitation of small scale community
based social and economic infrastructure, to minimum standards sufficient to permit households and
communities to reestablish themselves. All works will be small scale and will be largely rehabilitation rather
than new construction, using mainly local materials and labor intensive techniques. Because of the demand
driven nature of the pilot and variation in conditions in target areas, it is not possible to specify a priori with
precision what will be the exact subproject mix in any given MRP or the direct and indirect benefits in
quantitative terms.
2. Financial (see Annex 5): NPV=US$         million; FRR=     %
For the proposed LIL, given its demand driven nature, post-implementation recurrent cost implications are
difficult to specify with precision. These will be analyzed in the course of implementing the project as a
critical element in designing a larger scale operation.
3. Technical:
The proposed LIL would assess whether this approach is feasible on a broader scale, and would seek to
identify modifications and alternative mechanisms which would contribute to its suitability for wider-scale
adoption.
4. Institutional:
A major focus of this pilot is to develop sound institutional arrangements for a wide-scale reintegration
support program. The institutional arrangements to be tested under the pilot have been designed to reflect a
balance between the need for rapid delivery of basic social services and the presently very weak government
capacity and community organizational structures. Hence, third party implementing partners will be engaged
to work with beneficiary communities helping them to design and implement subproject activities.
Implementing partners will assume much of the procurement and disbursement responsibility as well. The
project coordinating unit with MINARS is designed as a temporary, streamlined unit with independent and
transparent personnel, management and financial systems. It will be responsible for coordination and
oversight of pilot activities, including monitoring and evaluation, especially the participation of communities.
The project Unit has benefited from technical assistance in establishing a sound financial management system.
5. Social
A full social analysis will be undertaken in the context of implementing the pilot operation. Issues of
particular importance will include.
Better social profile of the displaced population: An important input into the eventual planning and
programming of resources and logistics for a national program to assist displaced peoples and refugees
throughout the country will be a better basic social profile of these groups -- numbers, ages, gender
distribution, training and skill levels, their intentions for where they would relocate and the conditions and



15
expectations that would encourage and/or hinder these plans. While some primary data gathering and analysis
of these issues have already been undertaken, there is a need to expand this work incorporating the most recent
data and highlight issues and options for donors and government planners. Better data on these issues will
emerge from the experience of implementing subprojects under the MRP. In addition, independent studies will
also be contracted. The Project Unit will, with support from TA under the project, be responsible for this
work.
Gender issues -- In Angola, as in other post conflict environments, the number of female-headed households is
known to have increased during and since the war (although reliable comprehensive data are not available),
with a consequent rise in the incidence of poverty and some redefinition of traditionally defined roles men and
women play in productive activities. In seven IDP camps surveyed, more than one in three households were
female-headed and almost half of these women were farmers prior to their displacement. Pilot activities will
assess how best to design interventions such that they are sufficiently gender sensitive to meet the particular
needs of women. Assistance will be targeted to help women increase and strengthen their economic
participation in household and community rehabilitation programs. Reintegration assistance should focus on
particular needs of women in resurgent communities where weak support structures could inhibit women's
access to resources and constrain their productivity. Networks for distribution of goods and services should
include women and not be channeled exclusively through males. Outreach efforts might be necessary to ensure
women are adequately included in community groups and are consulted on project design and evaluation.
Other efforts might examine, inter alia, whether female-headed households have resources and labor to rebuild
housing and other required buildings and to clear land for restarting agricultural activities (either through loans
or community-supplied labor); are able to access community held resources (traction animals, cooperative
organizations); have access to income generating programs. All training and agricultural extension needs to be
gender sensitive.
6. Environmental assessment:  Environmental Category    [IA   [IB   [x] C
This pilot is rated a "C" with respect to its environmental impact. Project activities will not have any
detrimental environmental effects. Civil works under the project are not anticipated to have any significant
negative environmental impact, as these will be small scale, community-based operations, consisting of
rehabilitation, not new, construction. Overall, the project is expected to have a positive impact on the
environment as it supports water and sanitation in community rehabilitation subprojects. Moreover,
subprojects will address other environmental issues. Mine actions (surveys, removal and community level
mine awareness training) will contribute to the eradication of mine pollution in the countryside. Since many
segments of the displaced population will have been absent from agricultural pursuits during the period of their
displacement, the project will support training in environmentally sustainable agricultural practices and
community based resource management. The use of agro chemicals, if any, will be insignificant. The
environmental impact of individual subprojects will be regularly monitored in the course of project
supervision. In order to ensure that environmental aspects are adequately addressed in the course of the LIL,
the following measures will be adopted: (i) one staff member in the Project Unit will be delegated specific
responsibility for environmental oversight of project activities; (ii) evaluation of subprojects will include
environmental criteria; and (iii) the terms of reference for preparation of Municipio Recovery Programs will
include a simplified environmental management plan for the municipio. With respect to the latter, we will
explore the use of the MELISSA facility for technical and financial support.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups:
Communities' participation in defining needs and priorities will be the driving force behind all phases of
subproject design and implementation. Partner organizations will work closely with communities to strengthen
leadership, structures and organization throughout implementation. The need for community involvement in
design, sequencing, and implementation is paramount and the subprojects will be initiated only on a demand
driven basis, with communities signing a simple contract to implement each subproject. Beneficiary



16
assessments will be a key feature of implementation monitoring.
F: Sustainability and Risks
1. Sustainability:
The sustainability of activities under the proposed LIL will be assessed on two levels. First will be a
determination of the sustainability of the systems and procedures employed during the pilot phase and second
will be the sustainability of the subprojects themselves. With regard to the former, continuous monitoring and
evaluation will assess the capacity of the Project Unit, the capacity, efficiency and cost effectiveness of the
implementing organizations and the nature of the partnership between government (both central and provincial)
and the IOs, as a key factor in judging the need to modify the program and/or its delivery mechanisms. On this
basis, the potential for replicability of the approach on a wider scale will be evaluated. With regard to the
sustainability of the subprojects themselves, every effort will be made to ensure that the subprojects, while
addressing the immediate basic needs of vulnerable groups, are designed to ensure a sustainable impact. Since
many beneficiary groups, whether ex-combatants or in camps for displaced people and refugees, will have
been dependent on subsidies and other forms of assistance, project activities will seek to foster self reliance
among these groups. Community participation in both the design and implementation of subprojects will help
to foster a sense of ownership and assure subsequent commitmnent by the community to repair and maintain
facilities. Communities will be expected to provide labor and local materials to maintain and repair facilities as
part of their initial commitment to the subproject. An integral part of each subproject agreement will be
assurances from the beneficiary communities and from provincial governments that adequate resources would
be available for recurrent costs, once construction and the initial start up phase are over. At the outset, given
the fragile nature of resurgent communities, the project could fund recurrent costs for an initial, clearly defined
start up period, say of up to one year. Subsequently, as community leadership and structures were
strengthened, the community would be expected to gradually assume an increasing share of recurrent costs,
while the contribution from the project would decline commensurably. This would be an important aspect of
efforts to enhance community responsibility and self reliance. These efforts would be complemented by
parallel efforts in the context of the overall macroeconomic dialogue to strengthen public resource
management, with a particular focus on ensuring adequate resources for social sector investment and recurrent
cost requirements. (See Annex 2 for a more complete discussion of recurrent cost considerations.)
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
The.peace process will reverse.            M/S           *  The assumption here is that any
physical and visible
demonstration of the benefits of
peace will make it more difficult
to convince the population to
return to war. But realistically
speaking, this is a risk beyond
the project's control.
The capacity for implementation within the non- M/S       .  Rigorous selection criteria of
government sector is inadequate.                             IOs to ensure that selected 10 is
fully competent to undertake
pilot MRPs.
*  Training and capacity building



17
efforts to help build capacity of
national NGOs as partner
organizations. Some capacity
assessment for national NGOs
has been funded under the PPF.
The project Unit is working with
other bi-lateral donors and
NGOs to explore capacity
building options for national
NGOs.
Present viability of GovernmentlNGO       M/S           *  Transparent and accountable
relationship may deteriorate.                               monitoring and evaluation;
*  Dialogue with government on
best practice government/NGO
relations in other countries.
Project Unit will be unable to attract and retain   M   *  Rigorous selection criteria;
competent staff.                                        *  Competitive salary scale;
*  Training in technical and
financial issues throughout
l________________________________________ _____________    implementation.
!Annex 1, cell "from ComPOnentS to Outputs"
Conflicts within communities will be difficult to  M/S  *  Community development
resolve and will threaten the realization of                activities within the project will
project activities.                                        include conflict management and
joint problem solving
techniques.
*  Ensure community worker
groups, women's groups are
included in community decision
making structure.
*  On-going beneficiary
assessments to ensure ownership
and commitment to project
activities.
Implementing partners technical capacity and    M/S     *  Rigorous selection criteria of
experience in participatory techniques is                   IOs to ensure that selected 10 is
insufficient to generate the confidence of target           fully competent to undertake
communities.                                                pilot MRPs.
Present Government/NGO relationship is    M             *  Transparent and clear
inadequate as a basis for a strong partnership.             understanding of responsibilities
-  and accountabilities.
Overall Risk Rating
The project will fail to achieve its development  M     *  The most important aspect in
objective.                                                  evaluating the effectiveness of
the MRP model will be to assure
on-going beneficiary assessment
and sound monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms which
________________________________________  _____________    will ensure that emerging data



18
and other information is taken
into account in the refinement of
project design and delivery
mechanisms.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects: N/A
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions: During negotiations the following were agreed as conditions of Credit
effectiveness:
* Adoption of the Implementation Manual with form and content satisfactory to IDA;
* Establishment by the Government of the Project Account and completion of the initial deposit as
agreed during negotiations.
2. Other [classify according to covenant types used in the Legal Agreements.]:
The following agreements were reached during negotiations to ensure sound monitoring and evaluation
mechanisms during implementation:
*   agreement that quarterly reports on financial disbursements of the MRP will be submitted to the
Minister of MINARS and to IDA with a structure and content satisfactory to IDA;
*   agreement that the PCSRP Unit will prepare an implementation report to be sent to IDA every six
months, beginning from the date of project effectiveness whose structure and content will be
under terms of reference discussed and agreed between Government and IDA. The report will
review subproject evaluation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, procurement and
disbursement performance and highlight any specific issues which have arisen during
implementation;
*   agreement to undertake a mid-term and final review, with independent reviewers to be engaged
for each component with terms of reference to be agreed between Government and IDA which
will assess, inter alia, sustainability and timely delivery of project-supported rehabilitation
activities, patterns of internal migration, experience of IOs working with communities, status of
communities including degree of organization, capacity of non-government sector, partnership
with non-government sector.
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [ x] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation.
[x ] The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
[] The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G):
Several potential IO have been identified and have indicated their readiness to participate in the project.



19
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[x ] This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
[ ]    EThe following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval: The project complies with
all other applicable Bank policies.]
Cluster Leader/Task Teura Fnigenti/Lucy Keough  p
Sector Manager: Roger Sullivan
Country Director: Barbara Kafka



Annex 1
Project Design Summary
Angola: Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
Narrative Summary        Key Performance         Monitoring and        Critical Assumptions
Indicators            Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                               (Goal to Bank Mission)
1. Reduced dependence
Viable Reintegration     on food aid.            .  Reporting by UN    *  Peaceful restoration of
Program to enhance ability  2. Increase in internal  family               social and economic
of war-affected          trade.                     organizations;        stability will lead to
communities to reintegrate  3. Reduction in internal   *  News media       poverty alleviation in
returning displaced people   migration.             reports.              Angola.
is operational.
Project Development      Outcome and Impact                            (Objective to Goal)
Objective:               Indicators:             *  Reintegration      *  The peace process will
program document.     hold and will deepen
Operational model suitable  1. Government decision.                       over time;
for national                                                           *  Unanticipated
implementation is                                                         exogenous factors
developed for supporting                                                  (climatic, economic or
reintegration of displaced                                                 social) do not arise
people and revitalization of                                              which alter people's
war affected communities.                                                 preferences to return to
and remain in recipient
communities.
Outputs:                                                               (Outputs to Objective)
1. Reintegration Strategy   1. Government approval  1. Government
established.             of strategy document to   documents.          .  The peace process
reflect collaboration                            continues to consolidate;
among MINARS and                              *  There exists adequate
other concemed                                   capacity for
ministries, and other                            implementation within
donors and UN agencies                           the non-government
(e.g., UNDP, UCAH) by                            sector;
(date to be confirmed).                       *  Continued viable
relations between
2.1 Number of displaced                          Government and NGO
2. MRP successfully tested  population who have  2.1.1 Data on internal   community.
as model for wider       returned to recipient  migration collected by
replication.             communities in target    International Office of
areas and % who have    Migration (quarterly).
stayed;                2.1.2. Post
implementation
2.2 Provision of MRP    beneficiary surveys.
support in a timely    2.2.1 Beneficiary
manner and significant   surveys and NGO
increase in access to  M&E reports.
basic social services in    2.2.2. Supervision
accordance with        mission reports,
performance indicators   evaluation reports
to be defined by       (mid-term and final).



Annex I
Page 2 of 4
beneficiary communities   2.2.3 Periodic
in the formulation of  independent M&E
MRP. Possible          reports.
indicators could include:
*  area under
subsistence
agriculture at least
proportional to % of
returning population;
*  50% improvement in
enrollment in
primary education,
use of basic health
services and access
to safe water in
target areas;
*  presence of local
markets selling
locally grown food
crops and traded
goods in target areas.
2.3 Provincial and
community level
organizations more      2.3.1 same as above.
active in development
decisions in target areas.
2.4 Community
evaluation of MRP
support as evidenced by:  2.4.1 same as above
.  no. people in target
aldeias observed
having no daytime
economic activity;
* maintenance of MRP
rehabilitated
facilities, including
parks and other
common facilities;
*  no. of banditry
incidents within
munrcipio.
3.1 Good community
relations as determined
3. Performance of IO     by no. of subprojects   3.1.1 M&E by Project
halted for poor IO      Unit and independent
performance and no.     consultants.
complaints received from
communities in course of
M&E.
3.2 Cost efficient service



Annex 1
Page 3 of 4
delivery as compared to
government delivery of    3.2.1 same as above.
similar services;
3.3 10 capacity as
evidenced by adherence
to original              3.3.1 samne as above.
implementation
schedules.
4.1 Establishment of
sound financial and
4. Capacity established   technical management    4.1.1 Periodic reporting
within Project Unit       systems to permit        by Project Unit;
sufficient to undertake a  efficient project       4.1.2 Supervision
larger reintegration      monitoring;              missions;
program.                                           4.1.3 Periodic
evaluations by
4.2 No. of MRP           independent
subprojects reviewed and  consultants.
time needed for          4.2.1 same as above.
evaluation;
4.3 No. of training
courses successfully
completed in relevant    4.3.1 same as above.
financial and technical
issues;
4.4 Establishment of
information bank on
emerging reintegration  4.4.1 same as above.
issues
Project Components/Sub-  Inputs:                                           (Components to Outputs)
components: (see Annex 2                           *  Periodic progress    *  Conflicts within
for project description)    1. US$5.9 million          reports.               communities will be
*  Disbursements           adequately resolved and
1. TA to formulate a                                  reports.                therefore will not
Reintegration Strategy                                                        present a risk to the
addressing the reintegration                                                  realization of project
needs of all displaced                                                        activities;
segments of the population.                                                *  Implementing partners'
(NGOs) technical
2. Pilot testing of                                                           capacity and experience
Municipio Recovery                                                            in participatory
Program, providing grant                                                      techniques is sufficient
assistance in target areas                                                     such that they will be
for:                                                                           able to win the
confidence of the target
*  Rehabilitation of social                                                   communities;



Annex I
Page 4 of 4
infrastructure: schools,                                                   e  Government/NGO
health posts, water                                                            relationship presents a
points;                                                                        viable basis for a strong
*  Rehabilitation of                                                               partnership.
economic
infrastructure: feeder
roads, public markets,
community based
small-scale irrigation
works;
*  Support for re-
establishment of small
scale agricultural
production (e.g., seeds
and tools distribution,
other inputs, extension,
community resource
management);
*  Support for re-
establishment of small-
scale livestock
production;
*  Income generating
activities;
*  Mine clearing;
*  Establishment of
community user
groups facilitated by
implementing partners.



Annex 2
Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
Project Description
Project Component 1 - US$0.3 million
The project would provide technical assistance to assist the Government to strengthen the on-going
efforts to formulate a Reintegration Strategy. This would provide a comprehensive and
consistent framework for post conflict rehabilitation and reintegration needs across sectors,
addressing the needs of all war affected segments of the population. Given the enormity of the
country's social and economic reconstruction requirements in the face of scarce capacity and
resources, there is a need to assess and prioritize requirements for the Government's planning
purposes and to guide support from donors. The Reintegration Strategy would strengthen the
Government's ability to plan, support and monitor programs and projects to ensure equitable
coverage across provinces and municipios receiving large numbers of returnees, to ensure
subprojects are complementary and mutually supportive and guard against an over concentration
of resources in a few areas. The strategy would guide the government in setting sectoral priorities
and allocating public expenditures for the country's post conflict reintegration needs, building upon
other related work, such as the Community Rehabilitation Program prepared for the 1995 UNDP-
supported Round Table meeting and more recent work undertaken by external partners (e.g., IOM
and UNDP). The strategy would focus on identifying those activities which can have high impact
in the near term in assisting displaced and other vulnerable persons; providing essential services;
and spurring economic and income generating developments. Within the context of formulating
this strategy, the MRP approach, to be tested in the second component of this project, would be
evaluated for its replicability, in terms of timeliness of delivery mechanisms and cost effectiveness
of support, on a larger scale in other war affected areas of the country.
The Reintegration Strategy would recommend a framework to ensure the coordination of
reintegration activities of other multilateral and bilateral donors and UN agencies, with a view to
ensuring that they complement and support each other. With needs so great and dispersed, aid
agencies thus far have had relative freedom to choose areas of focus with minimal risk of
duplicating or wasting resources. In effect, informal coordination has occurred, with certain
donors predominating in a given province and/or sector. With donors becoming more active as
reintegration needs accelerate, there will need to be a more formalized coordination within an
overall government strategy.
Project Component 2 - US$4.7 million (total cost of component, including PPF repayment and
capacity building, technical assistance and operating costs of the PCSRP Unit)
Municipio Recovery Programs: The second component of the project would test an approach
and a delivery mechanism to provide reintegration support to communities affected by the war.
Technical assistance would be provided for structured learning and evaluation of both the
approach and the delivery mechanism throughout implementation.



Annex 2
Pagc 2 of 7
A. Approach - The Municipio Recovery Program.
The approach to be tested is the Municipio Recovery Program. The objective of the MRP
would be to help war affected communities to reintegrate returning families -- internally displaced
people, demobilized soldiers and returning refugees -- and restore village level economic and social
activities, thus laying a foundation for the eventual restoration of the rural economy. A municipio
is the administrative subdivision below a province in Angola, with populations averaging 70-
100,000 people. The MRP would contain three elements: (i) a socio-economic diagnostic of
conditions within the municipio; (ii) a notional two year phased program of community-based sub-
projects; and (iii) an actual six months rolling work program to implement specific subprojects.
Subprojects, to be funded on a grant basis, within an MRP would seek to reestablish household
livelihood and rehabilitate (to minimum standards) basic community level social and economic
infrastructure (e.g., roads, water, schools, health posts, rural markets, irrigation works) in
accordance with needs and priorities expressed by communities. The MRP would support rural
communities and returning populations, including female headed households, to reestablish
household livelihood and rehabilitate (to minimum standards) basic community level social and
economic infrastructure . It would provide support for community and other local-level initiatives
to foster reconciliation and to rebuild basic social structures damaged during the years of conflict.
The MRP would test the impact and effectiveness of providing communities within a target
municipio with an integrated package of support, as opposed to a project by project approach. The
MRP is designed to provide a coherent framework for a "broad but shallow" program of
community rehabilitation which reflects communities' expressed needs and priorities. This
programmatic approach will promote an economic and equitable distribution of facilities across
target areas. The underlying rationale for the MRP is that an integrated phased program of
mutually supportive activities will generate more impact than a project by project approach.
Communities in especially war devastated areas have suffered severe and widespread physical
disruption during the war, particularly in the 1992-1994 period. Compounding this factor, the
return of significant numbers of displaced people to their former communities will put additional
pressure on these communities. Recovery in these areas will thus require timely assistance across a
wide spectrum of needs. Under this component, pilot MRPs would be implemented in a limited
number of target municipios in the provinces of Bie, Kwanza Norte and Moxico. Since every rural
community in these areas will absorb significant numbers of returning demobilized soldiers and
displaced families, the MRP will pitch its assistance at the communities rather than individuals.
All returnees, whether from refugee or internally displaced camps, hiding places in the bush, or the
armed forces would be treated equally.
The Municipio Recovery Program is designed to promote a consistent, programmatic approach
across geographic areas, ensuring that community recovery activities take place within a coherent
framework with phasing and norms which reflect communities' needs and preferences and which
take account of spatial issues, such as reestablishing rural transport and communication links and
which promote an economic and equitable distribution of facilities across areas. Programs and
projects qualifying for support under an MRP will be guided by the following principles:
* have a quick impact and be flexible to meet evolving needs;
*  provide integrated assistance to meet basic needs, reflecting coordination between sectors and
agencies involved in reintegration support;



Annex 2
Page 3 of 7
* - include beneficiary participation throughout design and implementation, to ensure that
resources are channeled to priority needs and subprojects are sustainable;
*  promote awareness and sensitivity to gender issues, and the protection of vulnerable groups
such as children at risk, widows, the disabled and female headed households;
*  incorporate activities to foster reconciliation.
The MRP should be tailored to respond to variations in communities' status and needs. It would
serve as the basic planning document in the municipio, allowing for periodic adjustment in content,
funding requirements and implementation arrangements, in line with actual costs and the
emergence of new information. Initially, many resurgent communities and returning families
(many of whom will be completely destitute) would require an immediate provision of support.
This could include:
* distribution of food to ease the pressure on returning families, to bridge the gap between
planting and harvest and, to guard against seeds being eaten 1;
*  provision of materials and tools to construct household shelter.
In parallel, the MRP would outline a program of required rehabilitation and repair of basic
facilities. Typically such activities could include some or all of the following:
*   rehabilitation of basic social and economic infrastructure facilities: small scale works
such as emergency reconstruction and clearing key rural access roads and bridges; repair of
schools and health posts; restoration of water wells and establishing access to clean water
sources;
*   reestablishing subsistence agricultural production: through emergency grants of tools and
seeds, and programs of agricultural extension;
*   mine action interventions: community-based mine awareness campaigns along with selected
demining of project-related areas to remove impediments to land transport or to clear land for
agricultural planting and community. Mine interventions would be coordinated with
INAROE, the national demining agency.
* strengthening of community institutions, to enable communities to take increasing
responsibility and initiative in formulating community development plans, creating community
associations capable of managing communal assets, and engaging in economic activities.
B. The delivery mechanism -- Implementing Organizations
The delivery mechanism to be tested in the project is the use of Implementing Organizations (10)
who would work with communities in a given municipio to help them design, sequence and
'Such financing would be consistent with the Operational Memorandum Bank Financing of Food Expenditures, May 21,
1996, issued by Ms. M. Alexander, OPPDR.



Annex 2
Page 4 of 7
implement the MRP. The role proposed in this project for Implementing Organizations is a more
proactive one than would be appropriate in non-post conflict situations reflecting two main factors.
First, is the typically weak structure of resurgent communities, which, although they face a myriad
of needs, may have little or no experience in working together toward a common objective and,
indeed, which may harbor the seeds of dormant social or political conflict. An important element
of the terms of reference for any IO would be to work with communities to strengthen
organizational structures such that communities will gradually become able to undertake greater
responsibility for medium term develdpment planning. Second is the weak government institutional
capacity and service delivery especially in the worst war damaged areas of the country, most of
which have only recently been transferred to state administrative control. The 10 will play an
interim role in facilitating the delivery of basic social services as local government structures are
being developed. An-important aspect of the 10 role will be to coordinate the design and
implementation of the MRPs with local (i.e., provincial and municipio) government. In many cases,
these IOs would be NGOs2 already active in the area, although any other qualified agency or
community would also be eligible to participate.
Wherever possible, IOs would be identified through competitive procedures. The PCSRP Unit,
established within MINARS and supported under the Project, would advertise publicly for
expressions of interest from potential 1Os. The selection of the 10 to be decided by the PCSRP
Unit in consultation with IDA, would be based on:
a      compliance with all legal and registration requirements under Angolan law;
*     experience in comparable community development activities in Angola utilizing
participatory project design and implementation;
*     prior experience in the target area, including good relationships with provincial
and municipal authorities, and with other NGOs and implementing agencies;
*     proven technical expertise and financial and administrative capacity.
Planning and Implementing an MRP. Once selected, the 10 would undertake a socio-economic
diagnostic of the municipio (providing information on demographic data, a description of war
damage to infrastructure, a description of the status of communities, security and accessibility,
etc.). In parallel, it would initiate consultations with beneficiary communities in the target
municipio to define priorities and design a program of actual rehabilitation subprojects that
together would make up the MRP. The 10 would coordinate the preparation and budgeting of
individual subprojects, incorporating, to the extent possible, community contributions for labor and
locally available materials. The MRP, which could be expected to be implemented over a period of
up to two years, would be divided into rolling six month work programs. The overall MRP and
the first six month work program would be submitted to local government authorities for
endorsement and the PCSRP Unit for approval. The Unit would approve the two-year indicative
MRP in principle and would give specific approval for a six month work program. Thereafter,
every six months, the 10 would update the MRP and indicate the work program and budget for the
forthcoming six month period. Implementation of subprojects would be undertaken with the
2NGOs play a vital role in the delivery of social services throughout Angola. In the aftermath of war, NGOs represent the
only viable source of social service delivery for many war affected areas of the country.



Annex 2
Page 5 of 7
collaboration and endorsement of provincial and local level authorities. In order to ensure that the
sub-projects which make up the MRP reflect communities' needs and priorities, for each approved
subproject, the community would sign with the Government (represented by the PCSRP) and the
IO a simple agreement indicating its agreement to carry out the subproject as designed, and to
maintain and operate the facilities in a sustainable manner. Communities would also be
empowered to suspend any subproject as a result of unsatisfactory performance by the IO.
The 10 would be paid fees for its management, design and coordination functions in accordance
with the terms of its contract with Government. In addition, with a view to keeping the PCSRP
Unit as streamlined as possible, the IO would oversee the procurement of goods and services to
support the execution of subprojects. Toward this end, the 10 would receive an advance equivalent
to three months' required materials and supplies. At quarterly intervals thereafter until the MRP is
completed, the IO would submit to the PCSRP Unit invoices for actual expenses incurred,
documentation for expenditures undertaken, and bank statements for funds on hand, and request
additional funds sufficient to complete the subproject activities envisioned for the subsequent
quarter. Periodic site visits by the PCSRP Unit staff would confirm that funds had been expended
for approved purposes. Funds outstanding at any one time with any 10 are not expected to exceed
US$100,000.
Monitoring/Evaluation and Reporting Requirements.
Monitoring and evaluation will be a critical feature of the pilot operation in order to ensure that
useful lessons and experiences are documented and analyzed for their potential replication on a
larger scale. At the outset of formulating an MRP, the 10 will work with communities to develop
simple performance indicators that they themselves can monitor to judge the effectiveness of the
MRP. The 10 will provide rapid and systematic beneficiary assessment and feedback to the
PCSRP Unit in the course of preparing and implementing MRP subprojects. However, the PCSRP
Unit will be ultimately responsibility for adequate and timely M&E. With this in mind, the PCSRP
Unit will coordinate a bi-annual implementation report to IDA, beginning six months from the date
of project effectiveness. The report will sunmmarize progress in numbers of projects reviewed and
approved, progress in implementation, efficiency and cost effectiveness of delivery mechanisms,
monitoring and supervision, procurement and disbursement performance. It will also highlight any
specific issues and lessons which have arisen during implementation for which policy guidance
from MINARS and/or other Ministries has been required. Specific agreement to such reporting
was reached during negotiations. The reports should incorporate the findings of periodic site
visits and technical evaluations by PCSRP Unit Staff and periodic evaluations by external
consultants of specific aspects of implementing subprojects under any given MRP.
The PCSRP LIL would evaluate key aspects of the MRP, including the need for periodic
adjustments in content, funding requirements and implementation arrangements, in line with
implementation experience and the emergence of new information. A mid-term review will be held
18 months after the project becomes effective or when 50% of funds have been committed,
whichever comes sooner. This report will analyze the effectiveness of overall project design and
delivery mechanisms. Terms of reference for this review will be prepared jointly by IDA and the
PCSRP Unit. The findings and recommendations will be summarized in a report submitted to IDA
by the PCSRP Unit. In preparing this review, consultations will be held with selected beneficiary
groups, all relevant local government authorities in project areas and other agencies involved in
reintegration. Based on these recommendations, Governnent will prepare an action plan for
discussion and adoption at the mid-term review which will indicate operational and geographic



Annex 2
Page 6 of 7
priorities for the second half of project implementation including any lessons for modification of
design or delivery mechanisms. Approximately six months prior to completion of the LIL a report
will be undertaken to assess the complete project experience and recommend an operational model
for replication on a larger scale. During negotiations, Government agreement was obtainedfor
the mid-term and end of project reviews, including engaging an independent reviewer, Wit/l
terms of reference satisfactory to IDA.
Sustainability of MRP Interventions
The sustainability of activities under the proposed LIL will be assessed on two levels. First will be
a determination of the sustainability of the systems and procedures employed during the pilot phase
and second will be the sustainability of the subprojects themselves. With regard to the former,
continuous monitoring and evaluation will assess the capacity of the Project Unit, the capacity,
efficiency and cost effectiveness of the implementing organizations and the nature of the
partnership between government (both central and provincial) and the IOs, as a key factor in
judging the need to modify the program and/or its delivery mechanisms. On this basis, the
potential for replicability of the approach on a wider scale will be evaluated. With regard to the
sustainability of the subprojects themselves, every effort will be made to ensure that the
subprojects, while addressing the immediate basic needs of vulnerable groups, are designed to
ensure a sustainable impact. Since many beneficiary groups, whether ex-combatants or in camps
for displaced people and refugees, will have been dependent on subsidies and other forms of
assistance, project activities will seek to foster self reliance among these groups. This is
particularly important since many among these groups will have been receiving significant food
subsidies and support for day to day living requirements.
Community participation in both the design and implementation of subprojects will help to foster a
sense of ownership and assure subsequent commitment by the community to repair and maintain
facilities. Communities will be expected to provide labor and local materials to maintain and repair
facilities as part of their initial commitment to the subproject. An integral part of each subproject
agreement will be assurances from the beneficiary communities and from provincial governments
that adequate resources would be available for recurrent costs, once construction and the initial
start up phase are over. However, realistically speaking, in the post conflict environment which the
LIL will be implemented, typified by fragile nascent resurgent communities, some interim
flexibility may be required with regard to assurances of recurrent costs. For example, communities
may only gradually develop sufficient cohesion and structures to take full responsibility for
recurrent costs associated with repair and maintenance. Similarly, provincial government
structures in are only recently returned to government control may only be able to guarantee
sufficient funds for teachers and health workers as central government budgets are restructured.
In the meantime, where necessary, the project should coordinate with other donors and/or NGOs
active in the area, and if necessary, be prepared to finance recurrent costs, for an initial, clearly
defined start up period, say of up to one year, in parallel with efforts to strengthen communities to
develop their organization and structures and with the central government to restructure public
expenditures. Recurrent cost provision, whether from communities or local/provincial
governments, will be monitored closely in the context of evaluating project performance and
effectiveness. These efforts would be complemented by parallel efforts in the context of the overall
macroeconomic dialogue to strengthen public resource management, with a particular focus on
ensuring adequate resources for social sector investment and recurrent cost requirements.



Annex 2
Page 7 of 7
Thus, in principle, the provision of recurrent costs will derive from a combination of sources:
Repair and maintenance: As part of communities' initial commitment to each subproject, the
subproject agreement will include assurances from the beneficiary communities that labor and local
materials will be supplied to maintain and repair facilities once construction and the initial start up
phase were over;
Cost of inputs: For recurrent costs related to programmatic inputs, such as teaching materials, text
books, school supplies, medicines and other consumables, the project could fund such costs for an
initial, clearly defined start-up period, say of up to one year, with communities gradually assuming
responsibility for an increasing share thereafter. This provision of recurrent cost funding is
considered justified given the fragile nature of resettling communities. Subsequently, as part of
MRP efforts to strengthen community leadership and structures, the community would be expected
to gradually assume an increasing share of recurrent costs, while the contribution from the MRP
would decline commensurably. This would be an important aspect of MRP efforts to enhance
community responsibility and self reliance. However, this situation will be monitored closely in
determining the effectiveness of the MRP and its potential for implementation on a larger scale.
Salaries: In the case of FAS-supported activities in areas of the country which have been less
affected by the war, provincial governments provide assurances of sufficient budgetary allocations
to cover wages for teachers and health workers. This is in keeping with stated government policy
and it has thus far generally worked well with FAS-supported activities. Moreover, the additional
schools and health posts supported by the FAS have not generally resulted in significantly
increased incremental costs, since many teachers and health workers are already inscribed in the
employment rolls, although many may need to be redeployed. While this approach would be
adopted wherever possible for this operation, realistically, this may not always be possible. In
areas formerly under UNITA control, it may take some time before provincial governments are in a
position to undertake budgetary commitments and it may be difficult to locate former teachers and
health workers. Community contribution to providing salary costs would also be explored. The
experience of a number of NGOs is that communities who place a high priority on education are
generally prepared to contribute to compensation (mainly in kind) for teachers. In the interim while
provincial government procedures are being worked out, the project should be prepared to finance
salary costs.



Annex 3
Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
Estimated Project Costs
Proiect Component                                        Local           Foreign       Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Reintegration Strategy                              0.1               0.2            0.3
Municipio Recovery Program                          1.2               2.8            4.0
Support for Project Unit:
M1NARS Capacity Building                        0.5                0.1            0.6
Monitoring and Evaluation                       0.1                0.2            0.3
Operating Costs                                 0.08              0.08           0.16
Total Baseline Cost                                 2.1               3.5            5.5
Physical Contingencies (5%) (MRP only)              0.06              0.14           0.2
Price Contingencies  (6%)                           0.13              0.21           0.33
Total Project Cost                                  2.29              3.85           5.9



Annex 4
Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
1.    The exact mix of goods and services to be financed will depend on the results of
demand driven subprojects, which, in turn, will reflect varying conditions in the municipios
and provinces to be supported and can be expected to vary from one locality to another.
Procurement of goods and works for all IDA financed components would be carried out in
accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, and September
1997, in particular, Section 3.15 Community Participation in Procurement. Consultants,
implementing organizations and other organizations providing services to the project, would
be hired in accordance with the Bank's "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World
Bank Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997.
2.    Institutional Arrangements. Procurement under subprojects of goods, services, and civil
works will be handled by the Implementing Organizations (IO) with support from the PCSRP Unit
in accordance with procedures detailed in the Implementation Manual. IOs will be mainly NGOs
chosen primarily on a competitive basis. The 10 is responsible for (i) assisting the community to
identify and prioritize sub-projects; (ii) detailed design; (iii) procure the materials (labor will be
mainly provided by communities); (iv) supervise the works; (v) coordinate and obtain
clearances/approvals from the PCSRP Unit and Provincial governments. The PCSRP Unit is the
Project Manager and will be responsible for conducting ex-post audits of the adequacy of
procurement procedures by the 10 on a selective basis, for contracts $30,000 and above.
Monitoring and audit procedures for procurement by IOs are detailed in the Implementation
Manual. PCSRP Unit staff have already received some training in IDA procurement procedures
and will receive ongoing support from the Africa Region's Operational Support staff throughout
the life of the project. A local procurement specialist in the Resident Mission is under active
consideration, who would be available to assist staff in the PCSRP Unit.
3.    Sub-projects: Contracts for works under the MRP would be small, community
focused, and would be unlikely to attract the interest of international bidders. Given the social
objectives of the project and the intended use of NGO and labor-intensive methods, small
works costing less than the equivalent of $50,000 will be carried out by Community
Participation methods in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank and described in
the Implementation Manual. These procedures include: (i) lump sum, fixed price contracts
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic contractors in
response to a written specification; and (ii) direct contracting where no alternative competitive
methods are feasible. Should any woks contracts exceed the equivalent of $50,000 up to
$200,000, where sufficient competition could be expected to be available, National
Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures would be followed. No works contracts is expected
to exceed $200,000. Any vehicles procured would be done by an 10 under the terms of a
contract with the PCSRP Unit to implement an MRP and would be procured by National
Shopping methods.



Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
4.    Incremental Operating Costs. Items to be financed under this component would
include office equipment, office furniture, utilities and office supplies. Insofar as possible
items that are similar would be grouped into lots. Goods contracts are not expected to exceed
US$50,000. In this case, procurement would be done through national shopping procedures
acceptable to IDA; on the basis of quotations from at least three eligible and qualified
suppliers in response to written specifications, or through the use of the Interagency
Procurement Services Offices (LAPSO) of the UNDP. Should any contract exceed the
equivalent of $50,000, procurement would follow NCB using procedures acceptable to IDA.
5.    Consulting Services. The project would encourage, to the maximum possible,
extent the engagement of national consultants. Where such expertise is not available locally,
the project would finance international consultants. The services to be provided under the
project include assistance in formulating a Reintegration Strategy, coordinating the design and
implementation of the MRPs, training and workshops for MINARS and implementing
organizations and specialized fields such as community mobilization, information systems,
finance and computer training. Consultants' qualifications, experience, and conditions of
employment would be satisfactory to IDA and would be contracted in accordance with the
Bank's "Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers " dated
January 1997 and revised in September 1997. Contracts for assignments above the threshold
of $100,000 for firms and $50,000 for individuals, if any, will be awarded through the
Quality and Cost-Based method of selection.
The short list for contracts in which local capability is readily available and below the
threshold of $100,000 may be comprised entirely of national consultants or NGOs. However,
if foreign firms express interest, they will not be excluded. Contracts below $50,000, which
are expected to comprise the bulk of consultants contracts, will be advertised locally and
awarded on the basis of the Consultant Qualification selection method in accordance with
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the guidelines for "Selection and Employment of Consultants by
World Bank.Borrowers" dated January 1997 and revised in September 1997. Exceptionally,
single source contracts of less than $100,000 will be awarded with the approval of IDA.
Services for consultants and other contractual staff employed by project management would
be procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the
provisions of 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines indicated above.
Prior Review Procedures and Reporting.
6.    Requirements for IDA prior review of procurement are as follows:
a) Procureiment of Goods and Civil Works for Sub-projects and for Incremental
Operating Costs: No ICB or NCB contracts are anticipated. However, should any occur,
they would all be subject to prior review by ID. The first 3 contracts over $30,000 awarded
under Community Participation methods for each Municipal Recoveiy Program would be
reviewed by lD to ensure that procurement has been carried out in accordance with agreed
procedures. In addition, subsequent contracts over $50,000 would be prior reviewed by ID.
b) Consulting Services: (i) Contracts with Consulting Firms and Individual
Consultants: Terms of Reference for all consultant services would be subject to prior review
and approval by IDA. For Contracts, if any, exceeding the equivalent of US$100,000 for
firms and US$50,000 for individuals, which are awarded on the basis of competitive



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
procedures, short list(s), budgets, selection procedures and criteria, letters of invitation,
evaluation reports and contracts would all be subject to prior review and approval by IDA.
All single source consultant contracts would be prior reviewed by IDA. In addition, the first
contract with an 10 at the beginning of an MRP in each municipio would be subject to IDA
review regardless of the value of the contract; and (ii) Training Programs and Workshops:
Training and workshops for participants, government staff and NGOs would be carried out
using both national and international consultants. These programs would be planned and
budgeted annually. The content of the annual training program would be reviewed and
commented on by IDA.
Contracts Below the Prior Review Thresholds: All contracts and supporting information
with a value below the thresholds established for prior review would be subject to ex-post
review by IDA. Reimbursement for these expenses would be made against Statements of
Expenditures (SOEs). Receipts and other supporting documents associated with
reimbursement by SOEs would be maintained on file by Implementing Organizations and
would be made available to IDA for review during supervision missions. In view of the large
number of small contracts below the thresholds for prior review, a qualified firm/individual
will be employed on a periodic basis to assist the PCSRP Unit in the ex-post review of
procurement activities by 1Os.
DISBURSEMENTS
7.    It is estimated that the project will be disbursed over a 36 month period beginning
June 1, 1998. The Completion Date will be March 31, 2001. The closing date will be
September 30, 2001. All applications to withdraw proceeds from the Credit will be fully
documented, except for expenditures for recurrent costs and for contracts with a value of
US$50,000 or less for goods and works, and for consultant services under US$100,000 for
firms and US$50,000 for individuals for which reimbursements may be made against SOEs.
Supporting documentation will be retained by the PCSRP Unit and will be available for
inspection and review as requested by IDA supervision missions and project auditors.
8.    Streamlined disbursement procedures will be adopted for this PCSRP. Funds will be
advanced to implementing organizations on a rolling three month basis, based on a
reconciliation of actual expenditures in the previous three month period and on an updated
three month work program with estimation of funding requirements. The work program will
detail the location where the work will be done, the activities to be undertaken, and a progress
review based on agreed monitorable targets. Comprehensive monitoring and evaluation
arrangements will ensure that funds advanced are used exclusively for the intended purposed.
9.     A special account has already been established under the PPF Advance, acceptable
to IDA. The authorized allocation of this account will be US$0.5 million, approximately
equivalent to three months of average project expenditures. Requests for replenishment of the
Special Account could be submitted to IDA every month under normal circumstances, but not
less every three months. Withdrawal applications for direct payment from the Credit
accounted may be submitted with adequate documentation.
10.   Government has agreed to establish a national currency account in a national
commercial bank, acceptable to IDA to ensure the timely provision of counterpart funding.
The initial deposit of this account will be $40,000. This amount is equivalent to the



Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
estimation of the Government's contribution to operating costs of the PCSRP Unit for 12
months. Thereafter, the account will be replenished on a semi-annual basis. It will be the
responsibility of the PCSRP Unit to maintain quarterly forecasts of project expenditures in
order to advise Government on the amount necessary for replenishment of this account. The
PCSRP Unit will maintain and monitor this account as part of overall project accounts.
ACCOUNTS AND AUDITS
11.    As soon as possible, but no later than six months following the end of Angola's
fiscal year, Government has confirmed that it will present to IDA audit reports for the project
These audits iwill report on all project accounts with separate opinions on the use of the
Special Account and on Statements of Expenditures. In auditing project accounts, the
auditors will pay special attention to verifying the reliability of SOEs and to internal controls
and procedures involved in the preparation of SOEs. A management letter will also be part of
the audits. The audits will be carried out by an independent auditing firm, with adequate
qualifications and under terms of reference acceptable to IDA. The costs of the audits are
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit. Audits will include technical and
management issues. Contracts with IOs will include audit provisions. IOs would be
required to submit a statement of project funds every quarter and be audited annually.



Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
Annex 4, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements'
(in US$million equivalent)
Expenditure Category                     Procurement Method                  Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB        NCB         Other         N.B.F
1. Subproiects *
Community-based             -           -          4.40 (3.60)             4.40 (3.60)
rehabilitation contracts under
MRP (including goods and
works as required)
2. Incremental Operating
Costs*
(including equipment for                           0.16 (0.08)             0.16 (0.08)
Project Unit)
3. Services **
1.32                   1.32
(1.32)***              (1.32)***
Total                                           5.88 (5.00)             5.88 (5.00)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel
cofinancing procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved
procurement, and any other miscellaneous items). The procurement
arrangement for the items listed under "Other" and details of the items
listed as "N.B.F." need to be explained in footnotes to the table or in the
text.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank
loan/IDA credit.
* Includes amounts financed under the PPF.
** Includes TA for Reintegration Strategy, assistance for PCSRP Unit for
M&E of MRPs and                    Capacity building for MINARS.
***In addition, the first contract with an 10 at the beginning of an MRP
would be subject to IDA            review regardless of the value.
1 For details on presentation of Procurement Methods refer to OD 11.02, "Procurement Arrangements for
Investment Operations." Details on Consultant Services can be shown more easily in the Table Al
format (additional to Table A, where applicable).



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
Annex 4, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review2
Expenditure         Contract Value         Procurement        Contracts Subject to
Category            (Threshold)             Method             Prior Review /
Estimated Total Value
Subject to Prior Review
US $ thousands                               US $ millions
1. Sub-projects
above $50,000        NCB                    none expected
below $50,000         Community             0.4 *
Participation
2. Operating Costs for  above $50,000       NCB                   none expected
PCSRP Unit
below $50,000        National shopping
3. Services           above $50,000 for     QBCS                  none expected
individuals and
$100,000 for firms
below $50,000 for     CQ                    0.8
individuals and
-   $100,000 for firms
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:  1.2
* The first 3 contracts in each Municipio Recovery Plan above $30,000 will be
prior reviewed by IDA.
2 Thresholds generally differ by country and project. Consult OD 11.04 "Review of Procurement
Docume:ntation" and contact the Regional Procurement Adviser for guidance.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
Annex 4, Table C: Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Expenditure Category                Amount in       Financing Percentage
US$million
Suibprojects                               3.20                100% of amounts
disbursed.
Consultant Services                        1.04                 100%
Operating costs of Project Unit            0.10                50%
PPF refinancing                            0.60
Unallocated                                0.06
Total US$ 5.0 million



Annex 5
Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                         Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
B. Project Schedule                                Planned               Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)
First Bank mission (identification)               July/1997             July 1997
Appraisal mission departure                     Januarv 1998          January 1998
Negotiations                                    February 1998         February 1998
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     Mav 1998
Prepared by: Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration
Preparation assistance: PPF, PHRD, Italian Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                      Specialty
Laura Frigenti                          Social, Cluster Leader
Lucy Keough                           Social, Task Team Leader
James Coates                                Agriculture
Wim Alberts                                  Economist
Jacomina de Regt                              Participation
Subhash Dhingra                               Procurement
Kishor Uprety                                  Lawyer
Pedro de Bias                                 Lawyer
Marcos Sugar                               Disbursements
Steve Gaginis                              Disbursements



Annex 6
Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Implementation Manual discussed during negotiations
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Back to Office Reports from July 1997
C. Other
Reports from UN agencies in Angola, including United Nations Department of
Humanitarian Affairs (Annual Consolidated Appeals, plus numerous research documents);
UNDP; UNICEF, International Office of Migration (quantitative data on demobilization,
internally displaced people and resettling refugees); Statistical Data from the National
Institute of Statistics (INE)
*Including electronic files.



Annex 7
ANGOLA
Statement of Loans and Credits
Project      Project                     Amount in millions
LnlCr #   Financier   ID       Description    Currency  Principal Undisbursed Disbursed
20283   NORW       35   ANGOLA LOBIT        NOK            29       2.74      26.26
22235    SIDA      35   LOBITO-BENGU        SEK            30       0.03      29.97
22740    IDA       37   ECON FIN MGM        XDR          17.1        3.4       13.7
22890    IDA       34   INFRASTRUCTU        XDR          28.3       9.04      16.46
23260    IDA       35   LOBITO/BENG.        XDR          33.6        5.3       28.3
23750    IDA       42   EDUCATION I         XDR          19.9       5.91      13.99
23850    IDA       40   POWER SECTOR    XDR              24.5      19.89       4.61
24200    IDA       50   TRANSPORT RE    XDR                30      25.72       4.28
24210    IDA       44   FINANCIAL IN        XDR          14.8       7.41       7.39
24900    IDA       48    HEALTH             XDR          14.2       9.26       4.94
25162    JPN    900333 PHRD-SOCIAL          JPY          69.3       0.56      68.74
26647    NETH      61   SOCIAL ACTIO        USD             1       0.68       0.32
28020    IDA       61   SOCIAL ACTIO        XDR          16.1       8.39       7.71
P9450    IDA       31    LABOR FORCE        USD           0.6       0.02       0.58
Q0030    IDA      45644  POST CONFLIC       USD            0.6      0.24       0.36
Q0040    IDA        46   WATER SECTOR    USD               0.6      0.42       0.18
00100    IDA      40144  POST CONFLIC        USD           1.5      1.34       0.16



Annex 8
Angola at a glance                                                               8/28/97
Sub-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                         Saharan       Low-
Angola     Africa   Income       Development dLamond
Population mid-1996 (milliacs)                       11.1       600      3,229               Lie expectanry
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                            320        490       500
GNP 1996 (billikns US$)                               3.6       294      1,601
Average annual growth, 1950.96
Population (%)                                        3.1       27         1.7     GNP                             Gross
Labor force (%)                                       2.8       2.6        1.7     per                            prirnary
Most rocent estimate (latest year available since 1989)                            capita                      enrollment
Poverty: headcount index (% of popatbb)o
Urban population (%o tdaotIpcpbibon)                  32         31        29
Life expectancy at birth (years)                      47         52        63
Infant mortality (per 1,000 lie bivfS)               124         92        69               Access to safe water
Cpiild nmalnutrtion (16 of cthilln £ncl 5)            20
Access to safe water (% o(pdpuatiorll                 32         47        53
Illiteracy (% cf populaein age 15*)                   58         43        34          -       Atgda
Gross prirrary enrollment (1  ofsdcsdo opubrO)        88         72       105
Male.                                                         78        112
Fernale                                                        65        98
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1975    1985       1996       1996
Economic ratios
GOP pllbio,^s US$)                            ..      6.8       5.4        6.7
Groas domestic irwestmentjGDP                        18.0      20.2       1t1              Openness of econo.y
C-xports of goods and services/GDP                   35.7      71.7       774 
Gross domestic savingstGOP                           28.3      54.0       48.3
Gross national savings/GOP                           20.8       7.1        3.6
Current account balance/GOP                           2.9     -13.1       -7.6                  /nvi 7\
Interest payments/DP                                  0.6      12.4       11.7     Savings                     Investment
Total debWGDP                                        26.9     258.8      136.0
Total debt service/exports                           12.6      50.2       38.4
Present value of debt/GOP
Present value of debt/exports                                                                  Indebtedness
15975-8  1588-96    1995       1996   1997460
(averge annal gmvAt                                                                          AnVda
GOP                                          1.5    10.8        7.1        7.5
GNP per capita                              -1.3    -2.4        0.4        3.0
Exports of goods and services                8.3    11.1       12.8       10 0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOtW
1976    1588       1556       1556_                  _
(% oGdP)1                                                                          Growth rates of ouiputand hIvestmbnent(
Agriculture                                   .      13.5       7.8        7.4     d 
Industry                                      ..    43.3       67.5       69.1     to.-
Manufacturing                               ..      9.7        7.2       6.8       e- 
Services                                      ..    43.2       24.7       23.5     40-1  .      o      t 05 t 
Private consumption                           ..    39.3        9.5       19.0 °      
General govemment consumption                  ..    32.4      36.5       32.7               -G          -I    GDP
Imports of goods and services                 ..    25.3       37.9       40.2   1
157545  1986-96       1996      1996
(aveage anual grcvth)                                                              Growth rates of exports and mnpoirt (%)
Agriculture                                   ..    -3.6       37.6        9.0     40
Industry                                      ..      5.7      12.6       10.4     3 t
Manufacturing                               ..    -3.9        17.5       8.0      20
Services                                              2.3       3.6        1.9  o 0
Private consumption                                  -0.7      31.9        6.9       .
General government consumption                ..    -1.0       -7.0        0.5    -2
Gross domestic investment                      ..     0.5      13.5        8.0    -to
Imports of goods and services                 ..      5.4      14.8       12.1                   Expom        Impon.
Gross national product                        ..    -2.0        0.4        3.3
Note: 1996 data are preliminary estimates. Figures in itEaics are for years other than those specified.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its incomeff-roup average. If data are missin1, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Angola
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
1975    1986      1995       1996     hfbffon (%I
Domerstic prlces
(% change)                                                                      5.000
Consumer prices                             ..       ..   3,661.4   1,651.3    4000
Implicl GDP deflator                        ..       ..   1,862.0   5,373.6
Govivnemnt finance                                                               04
(X of GOP)                                                                               St ;  2 c 3    ,4  ,5 
Current revenue                              ..    38.6      30.9      44.0              o       02      04  55  56
Current budget balance                      ..    2.7       -22.9     -17.7                   GDP del.    I cPI
Overall surplus/deficit                      .     .-1.9    -28.7     -21.2
TRADE
1976    198ti     1996       1996     Export and Import levels Imil. USq
(millions Us$)
Total exports (fob)                         ..  2,301       3,724     5,077      6 ooo
Commodity 1 - Crude oil                    ..   2,150      3,522     4,771
Commodity 2 - Diamonds                     ..      74       168       267      4,ooo
Manufactures                               ..
Total imports (cif)                               1,401     1.468      1,983
Food                                       ..     387       205       275      2.0
Fuel and energy
Capital goods                                     355       376       327
go  61  62  63  04  65  96
Expon price index (1987=100)                ..    140          98       118
Impon price index (1987=100)                ..      94        126       106                 mExponts   gimportB
Tems oftrade (1987=1aJ                       ..    149         77       111 
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1976   188       199        1996
(millions US$)                                                                   Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                ..  2,431      3,836      5,201     0
Imports of goods and services                ..   1,724     2,027     2.702
Resource balance                            ..    707       1,809     2,499       . 
Net income                                         -532    -2,667    -3,171
Net current transfers                               21        156       164        *i 
Current account balance,
before oricial capital tmnders                    196       -702      -508       t            
Financing items (net)                              -175        78       686
Changes in net reserves                     ..    -21         624      .178    -20
Memo:
Reserves including gold (mill. US$)          ..
Conversion rate (kccak1JS$)               25.6    29.9  2,728,572  1.27E+08
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    198C      1099       1996
(millas US$)                                                                   Composition of total debt, 1996 imilL US$)
Total debt outstanding ard disbursed        ..   2,993    13,850       9,146
IBRD                                       .       0          0         0G                            
IDA                                                0         81       115                   427 115 42
Total debt service               ,         ,        306     1,927      1,997
IBRD                                               0          0 O                   F
IDA                                                0          0         1          2640
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                            5      36        197       197
Official creditors                        .-    157          40              j                 _
Private creditors                               1,042       123                                          554
Foreign direct investment                 ..    278         472       477
Portfolio equity                                   0          0         0
World Bank program
Commitments                                ,        0         0        24      A - IBRO                  E - -31 
Disbursements                                       0        30        38      8 . IDA    D - Otcr mutberal  F - Prnate
Principal repayments                      ..        0         0         0      C -MPF                    0 - Short-0rm
Net flows                                           0        30        38      _                 , , ,       ,,  ,  , 5
Interest payments                                   0         0         1
Net transfers                                       0        30        37
Development Economics                                                                                           8/28/97



MAP SECTION



IBRD 29480
.UGAP¢}JUODA.KENYA
G~ABON j      
,.BON j /' DEM.  RWANDADP *                                                               ANGOLA
OGO  REP. OF
CONGO       BURUND ;   L V,orie
cab;    ~         ~          TANZANIA                                            POST-CONFLICT
SOCIAL RECOVERY PROJECT
-01ez J  AN4GOLA         J.    "'         M
j   j ZAMBIA   t> ,                          .   PROJECT PROVINCES            ±     AIRPORTS
- -,                -          >   _ > ,0    1 a>' <3 PROVINCE CAPITALS  PROVINCE BOUNDARIES
\ZI MBABWE/
NAMIBIA   r                       - IMBBW  i                    NATIONAL CAPITAL                    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
BOTSWANA~ ]j~
-  \   fsCONGO_ _  5  15                          0                100              200               300 MILES
, i t r S Ov f , ,                                               O,
5 -  C -P/   ( < 5                       0          100        200        300        400        500 KILOMETERS
.-CAatINDtci 16           S                 d   _       _    t20
- M'B.ZA <t  
-  - \ \  CONGO(3  ,7                 3                DEM. REP.
ZAIRE      A.                                                                                                This map was produced
±                                '.JI\..A....'I~~~~~¼OFCONG                          by the Map Design Unit
UIGE                                                                            of The World Bank.
The boundaries, colors,
denominations and any
1~-'    \J   C>                             voother information shown
UIGE                                                     DundoO                    on this map do not
; -                                   E                  E -; - E r ~nt\ .A_ \ / 5 {-e _ ( imply, on the part of The
World Bank Group, any
CAXIT.                                                                               LUCAAjudgment on the legal
~~9CVANZA~~~~~~~~~I               LLINDA ~~~~~~~~~~~ ± ~~~status of any territory, or
LUAND  ±   ~~~~~~~~~~~N0RTE ~~~~~~NOR TE                                                         any endorsement or
:WAN                                                                                                            acceptance of such
..ANDA -             N        A        A       J  E   k       £  DALATA1                                              boundaries.
± - ;-  -                    MAPaE29G  }  t             >    }+ LANJE
'                      BEGO              CIJANZA                 MAiA,ME   0/    ,S LUNGDA SUL                                                   10
SUL
HLIAMBO
-BENGUEL4~ 
BENGUELA           ®~~~MEONMB
15                                                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~15
NAM~~B              LUBANGOBA
NAMIBE
e  CUJNENE                                          CUBAN-GO
NAMIBIA
15X                                                  2                                (
APRIL 1 998



