Report No. PID5948
Project Name                Angola-Post Conflict Social Recovery Project
Region                           Africa
Sector                           Social Protection
Project ID                       AOPA45644
Borrower                         Government of the Republic of Angola
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Social Assistance and
Reintegration
Luanda, Angola
PID Date                         January 1998
Appraisal Date                   February 1998
Approval Date                    March 1998
1.     Country and Sector Background.   Angola's legacy from some
twenty years of civil war is a ravaged economy, decimated
institutional capacity, and a war-weary, shaken society. Progress
in the peace process, launched by the signing of the Lusaka Protocol
in November 1994, has been slow and uneven. With the inauguration
of a unified government on April 11, 1997, there has been growing
optimism that durable peace will become a reality. A key objective
of social reconstruction will be to demonstrate to the population,
especially those in previously inaccessible areas, that peace means,
not only the end of fighting, but also the beginning of economic
growth, opportunity and better living standards for Angola's people.
2.      Project Objectives.   The proposed Post Conflict Social Recovery
Project (PCSRP), which is being prepared as a Learning and
Innovation Loan (LIL) (See 1/) would develop and test, in a limited number
of target areas, a program to support war affected rural communities
in their efforts to reintegrate displaced people and revitalize
community-level economic and social activities. The lessons gained
from the experience of implementing the PCSRP LIL would constitute
the basis for the eventual design of a larger post-conflict social
reintegration and rehabilitation project.
3.     Project Description.   The project has two components.    First,
would be technical assistance to help Government formulate a
Reintegration Support Strategy which would provide a comprehensive
and consistent framework across sectors and provinces for planning
and implementing rehabilitation and reintegration policies and
investments, addressing the needs of all war affected segments of
the population. It would provide a framework within which to
coordinate the interventions of line Ministries and external
partners. The second component would design and test the Municipio
Recovery Program (MRP) as an appropriate approach for supporting
reintegration efforts in rural war impacted regions of Angola. The
MRP is designed to provide a coherent framework for a "broad but
shallow" program of community rehabilitation which reflects
communities' expressed needs and priorities, while guarding against



any uneconomic or inequitable concentration of facilities in certain
areas, while other areas remain unserved. Grant funding would be
provided within a given municipio to help communities identify and
implement an integrated program of small scale, community-based
investments (e.g., roads, water, schools, health posts, rural
markets, irrigation works) to help communities receive and
reintegrate returning families -- internally displaced people,
demobilized soldiers and returning refugees -- and restore village
level economic and social activities. During the LIL phase, the
MRP would be tested in a limited number of target municipios in the
provinces of Bie and Huambo. MRPs would be planned, sequenced and
implemented by communities with the assistance of Implementing
Organizations (IO), who in most instances would be NGOs or church
groups already active in the area. Monitoring and evaluation will be
critical in order to ensure that useful lessons and experiences are
documented and analyzed.
4.   Project Financing.   Total costs of the project are estimated
at $6 million of which the proposed IDA credit of $5 million would
finance 82%-. Government would contribute 9%- and beneficiaries 9%-
in labor and in-kind contributions to community rehabilitation subprojects.
5.      Implementation Arrangements.   The Ministry of Social Assistance
and Reintegration (MINARS) will be responsible for implementing the
PCSRP. Day to day management and coordination of the PCSRP would be
delegated to an autonomous Project Unit. With respect to the
Reintegration Support Strategy, the Unit will convene a small
working group comprised of representatives from the relevant line
Ministries and external partners (donors and UN family
organizations) to draft terms of reference and a work program. The
Unit will coordinate and supervise technical assistance to assist in
the formulation of a strategy, the first draft of which will be
presented to the Minister of MINARS by October 1998.
6.      The design of an MRP and its subprojects would rely heavily
on non-governmental partners as IOs, working with beneficiary
communities. IOs will be selected through a competitive process and
based on an evaluation of    relevant experience in Angola and
technical competence.    Subsequently, implementation of subprojects
would be initiated by beneficiary communities working with IOs.
7.     Project Sustainability.   A key feature of the PCSRP LIL will
be to assess sustainability of project activities as a central
criterion in determining the potential for replicability on a wider
scale. Community participation in both the design and
implementation of subprojects would help to foster a sense of
ownership. Where appropriate, subprojects would include training and
organizational features to promote sustainability. Implementing
organizations would work with provincial government authorities and
beneficiaries to ensure recurrent cost contributions following
construction and startup.
8.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations.    The[Note:    Lessons
learned from completed and ongoing projects financed by the Bank and
other development agencies.] The proposed LIL was preceded by a
- 2-



Social Action Project in December 1995 whose main component, a
Social Action Fund (FAS), is supporting community based small scale
development activities.    The FAS offers some useful lessons for the
proposed PCSRP LIL. The MRP concept has also built on the
experience of other post conflict countries as well as the recent
Post Conflict Reconstruction Framework Paper. Together these have
highlighted a number of factors which have been incorporated into
the design of the PCSRP LIL:
-- importance of simplified and flexible guidelines and procedures;
-- importance of simplified but sound financial management and
records management systems;
-- importance of standardized approval and supervision criteria to
facilitate rapid decision making and problem solving;
-- vital importance of community participation in design,
sequencing, and implementation;
-- targeting assistance at priority geographic areas, rather than
individuals, on the rationale that the entire community is affected
by resettlement and from an equity perspective, returning families
should not have higher economic or social status than pre-existing
populations.
9.     Poverty Category The project is an integral part of the Bank's
core program of targeted poverty alleviation assistance for Angola.
The project will test a program of support designed to provide basic
needs and help to restart productive activities for a target
beneficiary population which includes the most vulnerable segments
of Angola's population.
10.    Environmental aspects:   This pilot is rated a C with respect
to its environmental impact as project activities are not expected
to have any detrimental environmental effects. Civil works will be
small scale, community- based operations, consisting of
rehabilitation, not new, construction. Support for water and
sanitation in community rehabilitation subprojects should have a
positive impact on the environment.     Moreover, subprojects will
address other environmental issues. Mine actions (surveys, removal
and community level mine awareness training) will contribute to the
eradication of mine pollution in the countryside. Since many
segments of the displaced population will have been absent from
agricultural pursuits during the period of their displacement, the
project will support training in environmentally sustainable
agricultural practices and community based resource management. The
use of agro chemicals, if any, will be insignificant.
11.    Participatory Approach.   Beneficiary communities will be the
driving force behind preparation, planning and implementation of MRP
subprojects through participatory rapid rural appraisal techniques.
Implementation of specific subprojects will be based on a documented
agreement with the beneficiary community indicating their desire for
the project and what their contribution will be towards supplying
labor and local inputs. Throughout implementation, on-going
beneficiary assessments will be undertaken.
12.    Program Objective Categories. Within the broad category of
-3 -



human resource development and poverty alleviation, the project
would address a number of equity and quality issues, including basic
needs and food security, basic education, training; basic health and
nutrition.
13.    Benefits and Risks.   The direct beneficiaries of the proposed
LIL would be (i) MINARS who would benefit from capacity building and
technical support and (ii) the population living in the limited
number of municipios in Bie and Huambo provinces which will receive
support underu hundeer the pilot program. The indirect
beneficiaries of the LIL are the much larger population of displaced
and war-affected segments of the population who will eventually
benefit from both the development of an operational model for
reintegration support within the context of a Reintegration Support
Strategy. The main project risks generally center on continuing
unsettled conditions in Angola as the peace process continues to
consolidate. While most observers now see the peace process as
irreversible and military issues largely settled, especially now
that a unified government has been established, it will be continue
to be important to monitor progress in the extension of government
administration throughout all provinces in the country. From the
social perspective, it will be important to monitor security in the
countryside and progress in assuring safe and free movement of goods
and people, not only in the municipios targeted for the LIL phase,
but throughout the country.    In addition, there are risks
associated with capacity limitations, both in government
institutions and within the NGO community. While the implementation
procedures to be tested have been designed to compensate for
currently constrained Government service delivery capacity, this
will remain an aspect to be monitored throughout implementation. In
addition as many NGOs shift from emergency and relief operations to
more developmentally oriented activities, it will be important to
followed closely the capacity of the NGO community throughout
implementation.
1/ The LIL is a new instrument recently adopted by the World Bank.
LILs are designed to test new approaches and new sectors.
LILs will often lead to upsized subsequent operations which
incorporate and build on the lessons during the LIL phase.
Contact Point:           The World Bank InfoShop
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C 20433
Telephone: (202) 458 5454
Fax: (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities
and/or components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the World Bank InfoShop week ending January 30, 1998.
- 4 -



