                 Document of
               The World Bank




                                            Report No: 26131

     IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-30590; PPFI-Q0030)

                    ON A

                    LOAN

       IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 5 MILLION

                   TO THE

            REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA

                   FOR A

POST CONFLICT SOCIAL RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT




                 June 12, 2003

                                  CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                            (Exchange Rate Effective January 31 2003)

                                   Currency Unit = Kwanza (Kz)
                                            Kz 1 = US$ 0.016
                                          US$ 1 = 62.92

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1     December 31

                             ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ADPP ­ Ajuda de Povo a Povo (Aid from People to People)
ADRA ­ Acção do Desenvolvimento Rural e Ambiente (Rural and Environmental Development
Action)
CAS ­ Country Assistance Strategy
FAS ­ Fundo de Apoio Social (Social Action Fund)
GOA ­ Government of Angola
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
ICR - Implementation Completion Report
IDA - International Development Agency
IDP ­ Internally Displaced Person
IO - Implementing Organization
LIL ­ Learning and Innovation Loan
M&E - Monitoring and Evaluation
MINARS - Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration
MRP - Municipio Recovery Program
PCSRP ­ Post-Conflict Social Recovery Project
PPF ­ Project Preparation Facility
UNITA ­ União Nacional da Independência Total
WB ­ World Bank
WV ­ World Vision

                                  Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo
                       Country Manager/Director:     Darius Mans
                        Sector Manager/Director:     Dzingai B. Mutumbuka
                Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Sabine Cornelius

                                           ANGOLA
                         POST CONFLICT SOCIAL RECOVERY


                                          CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  7
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   8
8. Lessons Learned                                                               10
9. Partner Comments                                                              10
10. Additional Information                                                       10
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             11
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             13
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             15
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             16
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             18
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                19
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            20
Annex 8. Borrower's ICR (original version)                                       21
Annex 9. Aide-Memoire of ICR Mission (April 2003)                                31

Project ID: P045644                                                      Project Name: POST CONFLICT SOC RE
Team Leader: Sabine Cornelius                                            TL Unit: AFTH1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: June 12, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: POST CONFLICT SOC RE                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-30590; PPFI-Q0030
   Country/Department: ANGOLA                                                              Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Other social services (40%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry
                            sector (25%); General education sector (15%); Sub-national
                            government administration (10%); General water, sanitation and
                            flood protection sector (10%)
                  Theme: Social risk reduction (P); Conflict prevention and post-conflict
                            reconstruction (S); Civic engagement, participation and community
                            driven development (S); Municipal governance and institution
                            building (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    03/03/1998                                        Effective: 09/25/1998              09/25/1998
   Appraisal:    01/08/1998                                            MTR: 11/01/2003
    Approval:    04/15/1998                                         Closing: 09/30/2001               01/30/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GVT. OF ANGOLA/MINARS
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                      Current                                             At Appraisal
Vice President:            Callisto E. Madavo                                  Callisto E. Madavo
Country Director:          Darius Mans                                         Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:            Dzingai B. Mutumbuka                                Roger C. Sullivan
Team Leader at ICR:        Sabine Cornelius                                    Lucy Keough
ICR Primary Author(s): Sabine Cornelius and
                           Sigrun Aasland


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:M

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                   U
                     Project at Risk at Any Time:

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
Project preparation was initiated in 1996, about two years after the signing of the Lusaka Protocol in 1994,
in an environment characterized by fragile peace and tremendous challenges. As a result of two decades of
armed conflict, many Angolans had difficulty sustaining their livelihoods. Basic social and economic
infrastructure was in shambles, and local food supply systems and trading networks were severely
disrupted by land mine infestation, lack of transport infrastructure and security factors. Poverty was
wide-spread, especially among the nearly two million internally displaced persons, refugees, and
demobilized combatants. In light of the fragile security situation and limited central and local government
capacity, a Learning and Innovation Loan (LIL) was deemed a more appropriate lending instrument that an
originally envisaged larger scale post-conflict assistance project.

The overall Project objective was to test, in a limited number of rural target areas, a program to support
war-affected rural communities in their efforts to reintegrate displaced persons and revitalize
community-level economic and social activities. The investments were expected to (i) provide support to
resettling families and recipient communities by investing in health, education, water and sanitation,
agriculture, and economic revitalization; (ii) strengthen the capacity of municipal authorities in managing
resettlement and community-based development activities; and (iii) provide lessons and inform the
formulation of a comprehensive national strategy for the resettlement and reintegration of families displaced
by the war. The lessons learned from the implementation of the LIL were intended to serve as a basis for
the design of a larger scale post-conflict social project aimed to enhance the capacity of recipient
war-affected communities to reintegrate returning families into (revitalized) economic and social activities.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objective was not revised.

3.3 Original Components:
Technical assistance to support the formulation of a Reintegration Strategy (US$ 0.3 million). The
purpose of the Reintegration Strategy was to provide a policy framework for planning and implementing
rehabilitation and reintegration activities in a comprehensive and consistent manner. More specifically, it
was envisaged to: (i) guide the Government in setting priorities and prepare a road map for the country's
post conflict reintegration; (ii) provide a framework for coordinating the interventions of various line
ministries; and (iii) establish a formal mechanism for the coordination of externally supported interventions.
The formulation of the Strategy was expected to be based on needs assessments in the provinces most
affected by the war, a social analysis of the most affected populations, an evaluation of ongoing
reintegration activities for demobilized combatants, and an inventory of external assistance to reintegration
activities.

Municipio Recovery Program (MRP) component (US$ 4.7 million). The main objective of the MRP
component was to develop and test: (i) a consistent programmatic sub-project approach to rehabilitating
basic community level social and economic infrastructure, based on effective community demand for
"broad but shallow" support packages; and (ii) a delivery mechanism that entailed the use of NGOs as
Implementing Organizations (IOs) to help communities design, sequence and implement MRP activities. In
light of the limited capacity both at the community and local government levels, IOs were expected to play
the role of an interim facilitator in the delivery of basic social and economic services as both community
and local government structures were being strengthened. In addition to the provision of grant funds under
a two-year phased sub-project window, the MRP component further envisaged to provide funding for: (i)
capacity building of municipal authorities; and (ii) technical assistance and operating cost for the Project



                                                       - 2 -

Unit in the Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration (MINARS). In light of the experimental nature
of the Project, monitoring and evaluation (M&E) was expected to form an integral part of the MRP
process, in line with the LIL's learning objective. The lessons learned from the implementation of the MRP
component were intended to inform the Reintegration Strategy under the first component in terms of
timeliness, cost effectiveness and thus replicability of both chosen approach and delivery mechanism.
According to the PAD, the pilot activities were initially envisaged to be tested in a limited number of
municipalities in the three target provinces of Bie, Kwanza Norte, and Moxico.

3.4 Revised Components:
While the Project components were not formally changed in terms of nature and scope of activities, the
selection of Project sites was revised several times. Shortly after Project effectiveness, the province of
Kwanza Sul was added to the three previously chosen target provinces. However, by mid-1998 the security
situation had deteriorated rapidly, and December 1998 marked the beginning of a return to full-scale war.
Given that project implementation was on hold during most of 1999, the selection of Project sites was
changed in favor of less insecure areas. Activities in Moxico and Kwanza Sul were cancelled and
substituted for the provinces of Huambo and Benguela; however, Bie was subsequently dropped due to
security concerns, and the remaining Project sites were three municipalities in the three provinces of
Benguela, Huambo, and Kwanza Norte. After the change in task management in January 2001, MRP
Project activities were terminated in June 2002 in Chongoroi, Benguela province, and Golungo Alto,
Kwanza Norte province.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
Consistency with CAS. Due to the prolonged armed conflict, an Interim Transitional Support Strategy
had been prepared for Angola, rather than a regular CAS. The Strategy's over-arching objectives were to
assist Angola in the post-conflict transition by helping to consolidate the peace process, restore social
confidence, alleviate poverty and restore economic growth.The Project objective was consistent with this
Strategy, and the envisaged strengthening of central and municipal government capacity as well as the
MRP pilot activities aimed to support the war-to-peace transition process. Furthermore, the Project was
consistent and well-coordinated with other Bank operations in Angola such as the existing Social Action
Fund (FAS).

Development Objective. The development objective accurately reflected the precarious situation of
displacement as a result of twenty years of civil war. According to the PAD, the objective of the MRPs was
to help war-affected communities to reintegrate returning families and restore village level economic and
social activities. However, the PAD did not clearly specify that the support was to be provided to the
communities' areas of origin, rather than areas of dislocation or temporary resettlement sites. As a result of
the ambiguity in the initial formulation of the Project objective, three different MRP models emerged during
implementation, which were executed with varied degrees of success. In addition, in view of the worsened
security conditions in 1999, a clear (re-)definition of the Project objective would have been beneficial.

Design. In light of the uncertain implementation environment and limited public sector capacity, opting for
a LIL rather than a larger scale program was an appropriate choice. In view of the high level of
displacement-induced poverty and the weak public sector capacity to address the needs of more than two
million displaced persons, the Project's two-track approach of assisting the Government in formulating a
Reintegration Strategy while at the same time developing and pilot testing concrete interventions was
reasonable and innovative. In addition, the two components were closely linked, given that the MRP
activities were expected to provide valuable guidance and realism in the formulation of the policy
framework. While the design details of the Project were prepared in a creative and thoughtful way, the key
components could have been defined more clearly and consistently. For example, in the PAD, the number



                                                      - 3 -

of Project components varies from two (Reintegration Strategy and MRP) to three (Reintegration Strategy,
MRP, and Project Coordination Unit). In addition, more explicit consideration could have been given to the
design of capacity building activities aimed to strengthen the ability of municipal authorities to participate
in Project implementation. In the PAD, capacity strengthening should have been designed as an integral
part of and explicitly linked to MRP activities, and it should have entailed actual "hands on" project
management training. Furthermore, while little data was available at the time of preparation, it would have
been helpful if the Project design had taken into account the phased nature of the resettlement process.
Lastly, in line with the experimental nature of the Project, a simple and "user friendly" M&E system should
have been designed at entry.

Implementing arrangements. Taking into account the limited implementing capacity at community and
local government levels, the Project sought to rely primarily on non-governmental Implementing
Organizations (IOs) to deliver basic social and economic services, in response to community priorities.
However, the critical assumption that sufficient capacity was available in the non-governmental sector to
implement "broad but shallow" support packages in the identified Project areas proved somewhat
unrealistic. The envisaged integrative approach demanded multi-sector expertise that the IOs clearly did not
possess. Thus, selection criteria for IOs could have been more clearly formulated and adhered to. Also,
Project design should have delimited more clearly the division of roles and responsibilities among IOs,
municipal authorities, and the Project Unit. While enhancing the capacity of municipal authorities
constituted an envisaged Project activity, the expectation that a Project like this small scale LIL would
enable municipal authorities to gradually manage resettlement and development activities was overly
optimistic.

Risks. One of the critical assumptions at the time of project preparation was that the peace process would
continue and that displaced persons would thus remain committed to returning to their areas of origin.
Firstly, it was believed that the war was over and that resettlement could start. At the time of preparation,
the risk of renewed conflict was rated moderate to substantial, which was an overly optimistic assumption.
Given that five out of six pilot projects (financed under the PPF for the originally envisaged larger scale
Emergency Recovery Credit) were prematurely terminated due to insecurity in 1997, the significant
political uncertainties were not sufficiently recognized. Moreover, by the time the Project was taken to the
Board, hostilities had resumed, yet no provisions had been made for adjusting Project design accordingly.

Overall assessment. In view of several significant shortcomings in the quality at entry such as the
ambiguous definition of the development objective, the overly optimistic risk assessment and insufficient
mitigation measures to account for the changing security situation, unrealistic assumptions about displaced
persons' willingness to return to their areas of origin, unclear definition of Project components, including
envisaged capacity building and M&E activities; and unrealistic expectations of NGO capacity, the overall
performance of the Bank from identification to Board approval was unsatisfactory.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The imprecise definition of the MRP objective appears to have resulted in different interpretations by the
two Bank task managers, which caused inconsistencies and inefficiencies during implementation. More
specifically, while the MRP in Huambo provided support to communities in their areas of origin, the other
two MRPs, in fact, created disincentives to resettlement through supporting areas of dislocation (Benguela)
and temporary resettlement sites (Golungo Alto). Despite the shortcomings in design, the Project has
substantially achieved its overarching objective of contributing to the development, and to a limited extent
testing, of a Government strategy and policy framework for resettlement and reintegration. In addition,



                                                      - 4 -

valuable lessons have been learned from the MRP pilot activities, and one of the MRPs managed to provide
substantial assistance through the resettlement of over 13,000 families in the province of Huambo.

4.2 Outputs by components:
Assistance to the Government in formulating a Reintegration Strategy. A comprehensive Strategy for
supporting the reintegration of displaced persons and revitalization of war affected communities has been
formulated and is currently being discussed within the Government. A draft Strategy for Operationalization
has been prepared; however, the details of its implementation, in particular time table, funding sources, and
concrete plan of action remain to be determined. There appears to be significant ownership of the document
by the Government; the Strategy, along with provincial programs for resettlement and reintegration are
presently being integrated into the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP). As part this process,
several Government documents related to resettlement and reintegration have emerged, including two
Decrees approving resettlement of IDPs and regulating donations and counterpart funding; a Presidential
Despatch setting up National Comission for Social and Productive Reintegration of Demobilized Soldiers
and Displaced Persons; and an Instructive establishing guidelines for implementation of resettlement.

Municipio Recovery Program (MRP). In line with the component's intended objective to test the
provision of community-based resettlement and reintegration support, executed by NGOs as Implementing
Organizations, three MRPs were conducted in Caala, Huambo province, by ADRA; in Chongoroi,
Benguela province, by ADPP; and Golungo Alto, Kwanza Norte province, by World Vision. While the first
can be considered successful, the other two are not. Factors beyond the Project's control, in particular
insecurity, have played a major role in the low achievement of the two latter MRPs; however, extremely
weak project and financial management by World Vision, and the lack of a clear support strategy on the
part of ADPP also played a major part. As the table below shows, only the MRP in Caala, province of
Huambo, achieved its resettlement objectives. It provided mainly agricultural support to more than 95% of
its intended beneficiaries. Revolving livestock arrangements and credit systems were implemented, and
professional associations were formed in the target communities and seemingly sustained past the Project
closing date. While the MRP in Chongoroi, Benguela province, assisted about 60% of its intended target
population, no families were resettled, given that assistance was provided in the areas of displacement. The
MRP in Golungo Alto, Kwanza Norte province, assisted about 70% of its target families, and only slightly
more than 10% were resettled to a temporary resettlement site.

         MRP sites                  # families targeted         #beneficiary       # families resettled
                                                                  families
 MRP-Caala                         14,000                   13,402                 13,402
 (Huambo Province)
  MRP- Chongoroi                    9,600                   5,762                         0
  (Benguela Province)
 MRP- Golungo Alto                   3,000                  2,121                      336
 (Kwanza Norte Province)


One of the key features of the MRP approach was the intended provision of integrated "broad but shallow"
support packages to communities, as opposed to a project by project approach. However, the practical
implementation of the intended integrated support approach through NGOs, in close collaboration with
municipal authorities, was limited due to three main factors. Firstly, community demand for specific forms
of support was strongly influenced by the nature of their resettlement process. As the case of Caala,
Huambo province, showed, resettlement tends to be a gradual process. Initially, the male village members
would commute back and forth between their areas of origin (to tend to their fields) and their areas of
dislocation, and once a basis for their families' livelihoods was established, the entire family would



                                                       - 5 -

permanently resettle to their community of origin. In the early stages of resettlement, social infrastructure
was considered less of an immediate priority by community members compared to basic agriculture and
livelihood support. The provision of basic social and economic infrastructure, however, is a vital second
step in helping resettling families to sustain their livelihoods. Under the Caala MRP, these services were
provided to a very limited extent only.

Secondly, as the experience of the three MRPs shows, the nature of the NGO interventions reflect a certain
bias toward the area of expertise of each NGO, e.g. agriculture in the case of ADRA and education in the
case of ADPP. This is partly a result of the unclear specification of the NGOs' roles and Terms of
Reference. Had NGOs been clearly instructed to provide support to areas of origin rather than resettlement
and dislocation sites, implementation would, most likely, not have resulted in the implementation of three
different MRP approaches. Thirdly, the selection of NGOs was based on their established presence in
pre-selected provinces, rather than successful experience with broader-based post-conflict resettlement,
reintegration and reconstruction activities. Furthermore, the case of Caala, Huambo province, suggests that
the financial incentive structure of the MRPs favored quantitative resettlement targets rather than
enhancing social recovery of already resettled communities. In other words, there seemed to be a bias
towards expanding basic livelihood support over engaging in social infrastructure provision such as
education and health services.

Lastly, one of the strengths of the Project was its focus on learning, in accordance with the LIL objectives.
Towards the end of the Project, various in-depth studies were undertaken to evaluate the MRP experience
in order to provide valuable practical guidance to the formulation and eventual implementation of the
Reintegration Strategy. The most important studies included an in-depth study and comparative cost
analysis of the three MRPs; a follow-up and case study of the MRP in Caala, Huambo province; interviews
with beneficiaries; an evaluation of capacity building initiatives; and the proceedings of a stakeholder
workshop held towards the end of the project to evaluate the implementation experience and identify lessons
learned.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not Applicable.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project made a relevant and significant contribution to institutional development, primarily by
contributing to the development of a policy framework for resettlement and reintegration of displaced
populations. Moreover, the lessons learned under the MRP component have been institutionalized into the
Reintegration Strategy, largely due to the Project's focus on learning, and political advocacy on the part of
the Project Unit. The MRPs clearly demonstrated the need for: (i) an integrated approach among different
ministries and the need for cross-sectoral support to resettling families; (ii) security as a necessary
precondition for resettlement; and (iii) actively involving and strengthening the capacity of provincial and
municipal authorities in the process; and (iv) knowledge about migration patterns of displaced persons to
properly tailor support packages.

As part of the MRP component, the Project undertook capacity building activities to enable municipal
administrations to take on more responsibilities in future development and resettlement activities through
formal management training, supplies and equipment. However, the capacity building initiatives seemed to
have been implemented in a rather unplanned, ad-hoc manner, and were found to be of a more theoretical,



                                                        - 6 -

rather than practical, nature. In addition, they were not coordinated with IOs and thus not directly applied
to and integrated into actual community-based Project activities. Furthermore, the envisaged objective to
enable municipal authorities to gradually take on more Project responsibilities was overly optimistic for a
small scale Project like this LIL. Lastly, it is unclear to what extent technical assistance was provided to
the Project Unit; however, in any case, the institutional development impact appears to have been rather
low, given that the Project Unit was dismantled the end of the Project.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The precarious security situation constituted a substantial factor outside the Government's or Project Unit's
control that adversely affected Project implementation, especially in the cases of the MRPs in Chongoroi,
Benguela province, and Golungo Alto, Kwanza Norte Province. While these areas had been selected in
2000 because they were considered safe enough to undertake resettlement activities, deteriorating security
proved to be a significant problem in both cases and contributed to the low achievement of the Chongoroi
and Golungo Alto pilots. However, the MRP in Caala, Huambo province, performed well despite security
problems experienced during implementation. It thus appears that the lack of a clearly defined support
strategy in the cases of the MRPs in Chongoroi and Golungo as well as poor management and high staff
turnover in the case of the latter represent the main reasons for the unsatisfactory performance of both the
ADPP- and World Vision-executed programs.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Government could have been more proactive in ascertaining security in the selected Project areas.
However, Government commitment did improve over time as evidenced by the fact that the Armed Forces
of Angola (FAA), per request by the Minister of MINARS, issued a guarantee of protection for the three
Project areas.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The Project benefited from the strong commitment of the Project Unit, which succeeded in achieving great
visibility of this rather small scale Project within MINARS and other parts of the Government. The Project
Unit demonstrated ownership of the implementation process and great dedication, even beyond the Project
closing date. However, the leadership quality appeared to depend greatly on the nature and extent of the
leadership provided by the Bank.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The final cost of the project was US$ 4.73 million, i.e. about US$ 110,000 below the estimated cost at
appraisal. The MRP component underdisbursed slightly at US$ 2.7 million compared to the originally
allocated US$ 3.09, while consultant services exceeded the allocated estimate at appraisal. The lower cost
of the sub-projects was partly due to the precarious security situation in 1999, when Project activities were
mostly on hold, and the early closing of MRPs in Chongoroi, Benguela province, and Golungo Alto,
Kwanza Norte province, in June 2002.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, Project sustainability is rated as likely. The Government's Reintegration Strategy has been
endorsed and supported by external assistance agencies and is being integrated into broader Government
initiatives and interministerial efforts. The participatory approach underlying the MRP increases the
likelihood that community-based social and economic services provided under the Project will be sustained.
In Caala, Huambo province, the MRP resulted in the creation of professional community-based



                                                       - 7 -

organizations such as farmers' associations that continue to play a strong leadership role in their
communities. In Golungo Alto, Kwanza Norte province, the MRP investments are unlikely to be
sustainable. The project depended heavily on international staff, and investments were mostly undertaken in
areas where beneficiaries had no intentions to stay permanently. While the MRP in Chongoroi, Benguela
province, invested little in agricultural self-sustainability, the education and health sub-projects are likely to
be of significance for those who reside in the center of Chongoroi. The sustainability of capacity building
investments is unlikely, given that no "hands on training" was provided and that institutional strengthening
was not coordinated with MRP activities "on the ground".

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
While there is no concrete plan on the Bank's part to scale up the Project's pilot activities to a larger scale
reintegration and resettlement project, the Bank is planning to expand its support to the transition process
in Angola through a second-phase of the Transitional Support Strategy (TSS). Furthermore, post conflict
rehabilitation and reconstruction forms a substantial part of the presently prepared I-PRSP, which draws
on lessons learned and the Reintegration Strategy formulated under the Project. External development
partners are awaiting the finalization of the I-PRSP and an agreement between the Government and the
IMF prior to committing resources to the implementation of the Reintegration Strategy. However, those
two conditions are expected to be met in the near future, at which point a planned roundtable conference
will be held. In the meantime, the Government is investing its own resources towards the implementation of
Provincial Emergency Plans of Action for Resettlement and Reintegration (PEPARR), which have emerged
from the Project experiences. Technical assistance has provided valuable policy support to the Government,
the Project Unit, which was a driving force and advocate for the Strategy, but since the Project Unit has
been dismantled, the responsibility for future engagement and the application of lessons learned is left to the
political leadership.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The quality at entry of the Project was unsatisfactory. The dual strategy to pilot test support to
community-based reintegration efforts while at the same time strengthening the Government's reintegration
policy framework, with a view to replicating lessons learned from the pilot activities, was sensible.
However, the design of the project had some significant weaknesses which caused inconsistencies and
inefficiencies during project implementation. Among the main shortcomings were the ambiguous definition
of the development objective; unclear definition of Project components, including envisaged capacity
building and M&E actitivites; the overly optimistic risk assessment and insufficient mitigation measures to
account for the changing security situation; unrealistic assumptions about displaced persons' willingness to
return to their areas of origin; and unrealistic expectations of selected NGOs' capacity to undertake a broad
range of activities.

7.2 Supervision:
Initially, the Project seemed to lack a coherent strategy for the provision of support to communities, due to
the absence of clearly defined objectives for resettlement. As a result, the MRP in Chongoroi, Benguela
province, provided support to community development rather than resettlement activities; and the MRP in
Golungo Alto, Kwanza Norte province, provided support to people living at a temporary resettlement site.
It would have been useful if workshops with all three IOs had been held at the beginning of implementation
to agree on a consistent implementation and M&E approach. More proactive guidance on the part of the
Bank team would have been beneficiary. Bank performance improved in 2001, with the change in task
management, as the development objective was translated into a clear and coherent strategy for supporting
resettling communities in their areas of origin. The clarity of purpose resulted in the cancellation of the



                                                       - 8 -

MRPs in Chongoroi, Benguela province, and Golungo Alto, Kwanza Norte province, in June 2002. While
considerable efforts were made to develop a consistent M&E system during supervision, it is surprising
that the three IOs did not use the same reporting format for collecting and submitting their data, making a
comparison of measured outputs rather difficult. In addition, the reporting requirements for the IOs seemed
excessively detailed, especially given that no Project Unit staff had been assigned with clear responsibilities
for overseeing the M&E activities and aggregating the data at the end of the Project. As mentioned above,
capacity building activities in the pilot municipalities appeared to have been implemented in an ad hoc
untimely, and uncoordinated manner. One other shortcoming during supervision was the quality of record
keeping. At the time of ICR preparation, critical documents were not available at HQ for review, including
most of the studies undertaken under the Project. Furthermore, supervision activities effectively ended with
the departure of the second task manager in late 2002, leaving the Project Unit without guidance until
Project closing, which adversely affected the consolidation of indicators and other important Project
documentation.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The Bank's overall performance was satisfactory, based on the clarification of project objectives and the
redirection of activities as well as the great emphasis placed on learning during Project supervision, in
accordance with the LIL objective, following the change in task management in January 2001.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance during preparation was satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Especially in the earlier phases of the Project, the Government could have been more proactive in terms of
cooperation among ministries, engaging municipalities more evenly, securing counterpart funds, and
ascertaining security in the selected Project areas. However, there was strong Government commitment to
the Project, particularly to the formulation of the Reintegration Strategy.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Implementing Agency's performance was satisfactory. The Project Unit, established within MINARS
in 1997, proactively and successfully advocated for the Project within the Government, which resulted in a
broad political impact of the Reintegration Strategy supported under the Project. A weakness, however,
was the fact that the overall responsibility for M&E was not assigned to one particular staff member;
output and impact indicators collected during Project implementation were therefore not systematically
consolidated at the end of the Project. Overall, it would have been beneficial if strong technical skills had
been a higher priority in selecting the staff of the Project Unit. As a result, the Project Unit's leadership
was closely related to the quality and extent of guidance received from the Bank. On a positive note, record
keeping was very organized, as indicated by the fact that documents requested for review by the ICR
mission were made available in a very timely manner. Project audit reports have been submitted to the
Bank in a timely manner. The final audit report covering the period from January 2002 through January
2003 was received on June 12, 2003. The overall performance of the Implementing Organizations (IOs)
was partly satisfactory; while ADRA performed satisfactorily in the municipality of Caala, Huambo
province, ADPP and World Vision did not achieve their objectives under the MRPs in Chongoroi, Benguela
province, and Golungo Alto, Kwanza Norte province, respectively.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Government was satisfactory.




                                                       - 9 -

8. Lessons Learned

·        Communities tend to remain together during displacement and return as a group to their areas of
origin, once the security conditions are favorable. Communities tend to be committed to engaging
proactively in the rehabilitation of social and community infrastructure destroyed during the war, even if it
means rebuilding structures from scratch.
·        In the preparation of future resettlement support operations, it is critical that displaced persons'
resettlement patterns and the phased nature of the resettlement process be taken into consideration.
Displaced families require minimal support as an incentive for returning to their villages. The primary need
identified by resettling families is food security. While the goal is for communities to attain food security
through community-based agricultural production, it is crucial that returning families have access to
adequate (WFP-supplied) food rations as they await the harvest of their first crop. Furthermore, close
coordination is required with other externally supported initiatives and line ministries to improve access to
health, education and other basic services. During implementation, it also became apparent that more
emphasis needs to be placed on the special needs of the very large number of female-headed households and
orphaned children.
·        The roles and responsibilities of NGOs, communities and local governments need to be clearly
defined and fostered through meaningful capacity building, close collaboration among actors, and
mentoring. In order to enable municipal authorities to play a gradually more substantial role in Project
implementation, capacity building at the local government level needs to be provided in a more systematic,
integrated, and timely fashion. Careful screening of NGOs is crucial to ensure cost effective Project
implementation; in addition, it may be more effective to contract the services of several NGOs in their
particular areas of specialization, rather than choosing a single NGO per municipality. In addition, up-front
training is required to ensure that implementing NGOs have a clear understanding of financial management
and reporting requirements to ensure timely disbursement. In addition, a clear entry and exit strategy needs
to be defined for NGOs.
·        A satellite-approach proved to be a cost-effective implementation system. The approach entails
forming and training implementation committees in each of a limited number of core villages, which also
supports Project activities in select neighboring satellite villages.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Wide consensus was expressed among external assistance agencies and NGOs during the ICR mission that
the Project provided substantial support as well as important practical lessons in the development of the
Government's policy on resettlement and reintegration of displaced people. Great interest was expressed in
a broad dissemination and implementation of the Reintegration Strategy. However, regarding the
implementation of the MRPs, some donors were puzzled at the choice of Project sites as well as NGOs,
given that other NGOS operating in Angola reportedly had more experience in resettlement and
reintegration work. Some partners emphasized that the identification and dissemination of lessons learned
earlier in the Project would have been beneficial, in order to achieve more synergy among partner
organizations.

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 10 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
Government decision; Operational model         Having understood fully the relevance of this A comprehensive National Strategy for
suitable for national implementation of        LIL, the implementing agency identified most Resettlement and Integration has been
support to support to reintegration of         of the lessons that can be learned from the    formulated, and is presently being discussed
displaced people and revitalization of         experiences conducted. Many of these           within the government. There appears to be
war-affected communities developed.            lessons are already being utlilized for the    strong Government ownership of the
                                               interventions that the GoA is supporting to    Strategy, which is also expected to feed into
                                               assist IDPs who want to return now that        the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy
                                               peace has become a reality.                    (I-PRSP). While an implementation plan for
                                                                                              the Strategy has been prepared, it is unclear
                                                                                              how and when the operationalization of the
                                                                                              Strategy will be funded. According to several
                                                                                              agencies, the Strategy (as well as the
                                                                                              lessons learned under the MRP component)
                                                                                              have played an important part in the overall
                                                                                              political process regarding resettlement and
                                                                                              reintegration in the country.




Output Indicators:
                                                                                   1
               Indicator/Matrix                             Projected in last PSR                         Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Reintegration Strategy                      1. The joint monitoring and evaluation system 1. As part this process, several Government
Government approval of Strategy document       is functioning and most of the studies on      documents related to resettlement and
reflects collaboration among MINARS and        Resettlement Factors and on costs have         reintegration have emerged:
other concerned ministries, and donors and     been completed. A final study is now being        - 2 Decrees approving resettlement of
UN agencies.                                   conducted, which will contribute to finalize   IDPs and regulating donations and
                                               the formulation of the Government              counterpart funding;
                                               Reintegration Strategy.                           - 1 Presidential Despatch setting up
                                                                                              National Comission for Social and Productive
                                                                                              Reintegration of Demobilized Soldiers and
                                                                                              Displaced Persons;
                                                                                                  -1 Instructive establishing guidelines for
                                                                                              implementation of resettlement;
                                                                                                  - Provincial Strategies.



2. Municipio Recovery Program                  2. The three sub-projects to pilot Municipal   2. Achievement of resettlement objective:
- MRP successfully tested as model for wider Recovery Plans (MRP) have been completed
replication                                    by September 30, 2002. The closing date for - MRP Caala: 13,402 families resettled to
- Efficiency and cost effectiveness of         the overall project has been extended once     their villages of origin;
implementing organizations evaluated           again for four additional months, until January
- Extent to which returning people remain      30, 2003, to permit some final studies and     - MRP-Golungo Alto, 336 families resettled to
settled in recipient communities in the target ensure the learning of all the relevant        a temporary resettlement site;
areas                                          lessons.
- Evidence of stronger community                                                              - MRP Chongoroi: 0 families resettled
organization in the assisted areas             Having successfully resettled about 20,000
- Number of displaced population who have      families, while at the same learning the
returned to recipient communities in target    lessons for future operations, it seems very
areas and % whom continued to stay             likely that the Development Objective of this
- Provision of MRP support in a timely         LIL will be fully accomplished
manner and significant increase in access to
basic social services in accordance with
performance indicators to be defined by                                                       -46 community groups formed
beneficiary communities in the formulation of
MRP.                                                                                          -capacity buiding in all MRPs undertaken in
- Provincial and community level                                                              health, organization, leadership, hygiene
organizations more active in development




                                                                   - 11 -

decisions in target areas
Economic and social activities revitalized in                 Total support provided includes:
target areas, including, inter alia, increase in
access and use of social infrastructure and                   - construction of 2 schools
services (health, education and safe water)                   - provision of 62 waterposts
                                                              - 18579 ha cultivated
                                                              - seedbanks established
                                                              - livestock credit system established
                                                              (the seedbank and livestock funds did not
                                                              appear to be operational as revolving funds,
                                                              as intended
3. Performance of IOs                                         3. Two out of three MRPs were cancelled
- Good community relations established as                     prior to Project closing
determined by No. of subprojects halted for
poor IO performance and no. complaints
from communities in course of M&E

4. Capacity established within Project Unit                   4. Project Unit no longer exists
sufficient to undertake a larger reintegration
program

- Sound financial and technical management                    - (Inconsistent) M&E indicators established
systems established to permit efficient                       by each MRP and monitored.
project monitoring

- No. of MRP sub-projects reviewed and time                   - 3 MRPs reviewed and evaluated
needed for evaluation

- No. of training courses successfully                        - N/A
completed in relevant financial and technical
issues.

- Onformation bank established on emerging                    - 11 studies undertaken on resettlement and
reintegration issues.                                         reintegration

1End of project




                                                    - 12 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                  Appraisal    Actual/Latest      Percentage of
                                                                   Estimate      Estimate           Appraisal
                          Component                               US$ million   US$ million
Reintegration Strategy                                               0.30             0.10               33.3
Municipio Recovery Program                                           4.40             4.20               95.5
Support for Project Unit                                             1.20             0.90                 75

Total Baseline Cost                                                  5.90             5.20
                           Total Project Costs                       5.90             5.20
                    Total Financing Required                         5.90             5.20
Source: Component breakdown based on categroy reporting

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                            1
                                                     Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                ICB              NCB                  2        N.B.F.        Total Cost
                                                                       Other
1. Subprojects *                       0.00              0.00            3.60           0.00           0.00
Community-based
rehabilitation contracts
under MRP (including
goods and works as
required)
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
2. Incremental Operating               0.00              0.00            0.08           0.00           0.00
Costs *
(including equipment for
Project Unit)
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
3. Services **                         0.00              0.00          1.32***          0.00           1.32
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                       0.00              0.00            0.00           0.00           0.00
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
   Total                               0.00              0.00            5.00           0.00           5.00
                                      (0.00)            (0.00)          (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
* Includes amounts financed under the PPF
** Includes TA for Reintegration Strategy, assistance for PCSRP Unit for M&E of MRPs and Capacity
building for MINARS
***In addition, the first contract with an IO at the beginning of an MRP would be subject to IDA review
regardless of the value




                                                     - 13 -

   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                      1
                                                Procurement Method
       Expenditure Category         ICB             NCB                  2        N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                                   Other
   1. Subprojects                   0.00            0.00           2.69            0.00          2.69
   Community-based
   rehabilitation contracts
   under MRP (including
   goods and works as
   required)
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
   2. Incremental Operating         0.00            0.00           0.09            0.00          0.09
   Costs
   (including equipment for
   Project Unit)
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
   3. Services                      0.00            0.24           1.25            0.00          1.49
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)       (0.00)***        (0.00)      (0.00)***
   4. PPF refinancing               0.00            0.05           0.40            0.00          0.45
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
   5. Unallocated                   0.00            0.00           0.00            0.00          0.00
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)
      Total                         0.00            0.29           4.43            0.00          4.72
                                   (0.00)           (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)         (0.00)


Project Financing by Category (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                      Percentage of Appraisal
        Category              Appraisal Estimate            Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank     Govt.       CoF.      Bank      Govt.       CoF.   Bank   Govt.    CoF.
Goods and works for        3.09                           2.69                          87.1
sub-projects
Consultants services       0.97                           1.49                         153.6
Incremental operating      0.08                           0.09                         112.5
costs
Refunding of PPF           0.64                           0.45                          70.3
Unallocated                0.06                           0.00                          0.0




                                                 - 14 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Cost effectiveness

A cost effectiveness analysis was conducted for all three MRPs. The MRP Golungo Alto was the least cost
effective of the three MRPs. The calculations are, however, based on families supported, not families
resettled. The cost effectiveness analysis suggests that the unit cost are inversely proportional to the size of
the target group, i.e. the unit cost will be hight, the smaller the target group, due to fixed cost involved in
the resettlement process. Based on the MRP experiences, resettlement cost estimations for three different
population sizes have been developed for future operations, as part of the Government Strategy.

Sub-projects by sector and MRP, USD per beneficiary family

Specification            MRP-Caála                MRP-Chongoroi            MRP-Golungo
                                                                           Alto
                         Planned Real             Planned Real             Planned Real
Personnel                     19.08        14.32        13.61       27.02     141.23        93.39
Direct                          4.79        3.89             0          0      18.38        24.02
administrative costs

Fixed inventories               8.35        7.41        11.39       19.74      29.69        33.12

Direct agricultural           74.36        78.67         9.44       11.95      29.23        41.34
support
Small trade support             0.96        0.63         1.21        1.62        0.75        1.06
Commercialization               2.08        1.87             0          0        1.78        2.52

Health
support                         5.96        4.14           3.5       2.41      14.43        20.41
Education                       4.63        2.62        17.23       26.13           0           0
Capacity building               1.93            1        3.91        7.01      30.25        42.55
Other                         14.42            10        3.59        4.91        66.7       23.93
TOTAL                       147.59        130.55        71.09     109.73      332.88       282.95




                                                        - 15 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty               Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)       Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                      Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              06/19/1997 to             1    Lucy Keough, Task Manager
              07/03/1997


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              01/27/1998 to             2    Lucy Keough, Task
              02/14/1998                     Manager; Pedro de Blas,
                                             Mission Adviser


 Supervision

              12/09/1999                2    Lucy Keough, Task Manager;          U               U
                                             Pedro de Blas, Mission Adviser
              08/14/2000 to             2    Lucy Keough, Task Manager;          S               U
              08/25/2000                     Marguerite Salah,
                                             Implementation Specialist
              02/11/01 to               3    Elca Rosenberg, Task Manager;       S               U
              02/24/2001                     Marguerite Salah,
                                             Implementation Specialist;
                                             Michael Bamberger, Monitoring
                                             and Evaluation Specialist
              05/13/2001 to             2    Elca Rosenberg, Task Manager;       S               S
              05/25/2001                     Michael Bamberger, Monitoring
                                             and Evaluation Specialist
              10/25/2001                1    Elca Rosenberg, Task Manager        S               S
              02/19/2002                1    Michael Bamberger, Monitoring       S               S
                                             and Evaluation Specialist
              05/17/2002 to             1    Elca Rosenberg, Task Manager        S               S
              05/25/2002
              09/13/2002 to             1    Elca Rosenberg, Task Manager        S               S
              09/25/2002

 ICR
              04/07/2003                2     Sabine Cornelius, Task
              04/20/2003                      Manager; Sigrun Aasland,
                                              Post-Conflict Specialist




                                              - 16 -

(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            61.5                         461.5
  Appraisal/Negotiation                    89                          672
  Supervision                              47                          355
  ICR                                      10                           43
  Total                                207.5                        1531.5




                                            - 17 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 18 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 19 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

List of Supporting documents
A.     Project Appraisal Document Report No. 17546 ANG, dated March 31 1998
B.     Development Credit Agreement, Credit No. 3059-ANG, dated May 7, 1998
C.     Aide Memoires (July 1997, February 1998, November 1999, February 2001, May 2002,
September 2002, April 2003)
D.     Audit Reports, PriceWaterHouseCoopers FY end 2000, FY end 2001, FY 2002 and
January 2003
E.     Studies
1.     Geproc, Julio Morais and Joao Pereira de Soisa Junior:
-      Análise Comparativa dos Custos dos três Modelso de Reassentamento MRP
-      Operacionalização da Estrategia de Reassentamento Volume I and II
2.     Angola Instituto de Pesquisa (AIP), Mario Adouta:
-      Estudo do Modelo MRP ­ Caala
-      Estudo do Modelo MRP- Chongoroi
-      Estudo do Modelo MRP- Golungo Alto
-      Estudo sobre a Evolução do MRP ­ Caala
-      Estudo Comparativo de Modelos de Reassentamento
3.     GTZ, Wolfgang Springer
-      Encontros com as Comunidades
-      Avaliação do Reforço Institucional
4.     ADRA:
-      Projecto de Reabilitação Social pos Conflito- Receitas de Sucesso, António J. Sapalo
-      Estudos de Caso sobre o Processo de Reassentamento, José Maria Katiavala
-      Trimestral Reports/ Logframe analysis
5.     ADPP: Relatório Final
6.     Workshop September 2002 ­ report
7.     Interviews with beneficiaries - audiotapes
8.     Government documents
·      Decree Nr. 1/01 which approves the resettlement norms for internally displaced persons;
·      Decree Nr 80/01 which approves the regulations on the control of donations and
counterpart funding;
·      Presidential Despatch Nr. 5/02 which outlines the procedures for setting up the National
Commission for Social and Productive Reintegration of Demobilized Soldiers and Displaced
Persons and approves the respective Regulation;
·      Instructive nr. 01/GAB.MINARS/02, which establishes the guidelines of methods for the
implementation of the program for the return and resettlement of people directly affected by the
armed conflict; and
·      Formulation of provincial strategies through the Provincial Emergency Plans of Action for
Resettlement and Reintegration (PEPARR).




                                               - 20 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR (original version)

Angola - Post Conflict Rehabilitation Project - PRSPC
IDA-Credit nº 3059


                                            Abbreviations

ADPP-Ajuda de Povo a Povo (AID FROM PEOPLE TO PEOPLE)

ADRA--Acção do desenvolvimento Rural e Ambiente (Rural and Environmental Development Action)

FAS- Fundo de Acção Social (Social Support Fund)

IDA- International Development Agency

LIL- Learning and Innovation Loan

PRSPC-Projecto de Reabilitação Pós Conflito (Post Conflict Rehabilitation Project)

MINARS- Ministry of Assistance and Social Reintegration

UNITA-União Nacional da Independência Total (Union for the Total Independence of Angola)

WVI- World Vision

Geproc-Gabinete de Estudos e Projectos (Research and Project Office)

AIP- Instituto de Pesquisa Angolano. (Angolan Research Institute)




                                                 - 21 -

INTRODUCTION

         The World Bank approved a Project Preparation Facility of USD 600, 000.00 for the Angolan
government in July 1996. The declared aim of the PPF was to finance some expenditure needed for the
preparation of the Emergency Recovery Project", which would help meeting the critical needs of the most
vulnerable people in the prevailing post-conflict situation in Angola.

         The PPF activities formally started in April 1997 with the appointment of the Project Director. At
the end of 1997, the PRSPC staff were selected and their offices equipped. In 1997, the project unit staff
participated in two workshops; one on Social Funds and the other on World Bank Purchasing Procedures.
During 1997, the Project spent the sum of USD 240.217.00 on PPF project. Through a selection process, a
booster was given to 6 projects aimed at rehabilitating schools, small roads, health posts, as well as
reactivating agriculture and the community.

         The destiny of 5 of the 6 projects signalled what was yet to come. Although in theory, there was
prevalent peace in Angola during the PPF phase, in reality, there were frequent attacks from UNITA forces
and at the end of 1998, five of the six projects funded were either destroyed or fell under areas that were
occupied by UNITA forces. At the end of December 1998, Angola was once again plunged into a situation
of war.

I-LIL- Learning and Innovation Loan.

         In May 1998, the World Bank-IDA approved an LIL ­ Learning and Innovation Loan of USD 5
Million equivalent to 3.7 Million SDR.

The project was envisaged to end in September 2001. At the request of the government, this term was
extended for another year ­ September 2002. In order to conclude some important Studies for the
Reintegration Strategy, the project term was further extended until 31 January 2003 for the first component
only, the MRPs having concluded in September 2002.

         The LIL is a facility to expand the pilot activities beyond what is obtainable under the auspices of
an advance of the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The LIL is designed for a situation where it is
difficult to define all project design and implementation details beforehand. Under the scope of the LIL,
project activities may begin on a small level, with the aim of testing the design and delivery mechanisms
during its implementation, using the systematic feedback of the beneficiary.

         The LIL was seen as a loan instrument that would enable the World Bank to keep its link with the
Angolan government, although limiting its exposure, as the LIL could not exceed USD5 Million. The LIL
was a new type of loan facility offered by the World Bank and Angola was the first country to benefit from
this type of loan.



II. Objectives of the Project and Assessment

         The Post Conflict social Rehabilitation Project (PRSPC) was designed during the time of an armed
conflict, which had already given rise to 2 million IDPs, of which 1.5 million lived in IDP and transit
camps. Years of intense war had destroyed most of the social infrastructure as well as the economic
systems. The areas that are most affected were those at the Central Highlands, namely in Huambo and Bié


                                                     - 22 -

Provinces, in the remote areas of Benguela, as well as Moxico, Malange and Uíge Provinces. Most areas of
the country were heavily mined.

As a fallout of the armed conflict, thousands of people lived around cities and were prevented from
producing and totally dependent on humanitarian aid.

The PRSPC was designed within this context.

The LIL had two components:

         a) Technical assistance to formulate the National Reintegration Strategy, given the reintegration
needs of all the displaced segments of the population.

         b) Municipal Recovery Program, providing assistance in key areas for:

·        Rehabilitation of social infrastructure
·        Rehabilitation of economic infrastructure
·        Support the reestablishment of small-scale agricultural production
·        Support the reestablishment of small scale animal production
·        Income generation activities
·        Mine clearance and
·        Establishment of community user groups facilitated by implementation partners.
·        Resettlement of IDPs.

             The idea of the MRPs envisaged their future reapplication.

         One of the key points for the successful implementation of this project was that the "peace process
would be successful and would be consolidated with time".

III. Outcome/Achievement of Objectives

         In June, the following Municipalities were selected as pilot locations: Cazombo in Moxico
Province (Eastern part of the country), Catabola and Camacupa in the Central highlands, in Bié Province
and Golungo Alto in Kwanza Norte Province, in the centre of the country. Later Balombo, Benguela
Province, was added. Unfortunately, during the period under review, the security situation of Angola
quickly slumped in December of the same year, with the beginning of UNITA attacks. This marked the
beginning of return to war. As a consequence of this renewed violence, the Post Conflict Social Recovery
Project was temporarily suspended during the first nine months of 1999.

         In Mid-1999, a World Bank Mission headed by Dr. Barbara Kafka, World Bank Director for
Angola, suggested that Angola apply to the World Bank for cancellation of the Project. At this juncture it
was clearly evident that the security situation would not allow the project to be implemented as planned and
there were no signs that peace would be re-established within the short or medium term. Despite this
situation, the government requested that the project be reviewed to meet the needs of IDPs. In September
1999, the Bank granted this request. In October 1999, the government forces took Bailundo and Andulo,
two key locations of the military strength of UNITA. This victory injected renewed optimism, which led to
the decision at the end of 1999 that project be continued with slight revisions. Given that the project
activities were temporarily suspended during most of 1999, on USD162, 568.06 was disbursed in loan



                                                    - 23 -

sums that year, corresponding to a total cumulative expenditure of USD 676,721 as at 31 December 1999.

    During the first quarter of the year 2000, the PRSPC decided to continue its plans to implement the
project in Golungo Alto, Kwanza Norte and substituted the other three Municipalities that fell to the control
of UNITA at the time. The three new locations were under government control and at the time considered
as safe. The three new locations were Cáala, in Huambo Province, Chongoroi in Benguela Province and
recently liberated Andulo, in Bié Province. The criteria used for the selection of these Municipalities were:
v        Social infrastructure in need of rehabilitation
v        High numbers of IDPs in the area
v        Accessibility and security
v        Local government capacity to implement the Municipal Recovery Program (MRP)


    It was later decided that Andulo could not yet be considered as safe and was removed, while Cáala,
Chongoroi and Golungo Alto were maintained. As soon as the Municipalities were selected, the PRSPC
selected implementation partner NGOs through a public tender process. A total of six NGOs tendered their
proposals (ADRA, ADPP, Oikos, Hábitat, AASP, and World Vision - WVI). Based on the selection
criteria, ADRA, an Angolan NGO was selected to implement the MRP of Cáala, ADPP the Chongoroi
MRP and WVI the Golungo Alto MRP.

Unfortunately the war raged on until the declaration of ceasefire in February 2003. As a corollary to this,
only one of the three locations selected, Cáala achieved significant success in the resettlement of IDPs in
their areas of origin. The other areas were attacked two times each during the project implementation,
delaying the resettlement process.

1. Development of the Cáala Municipal Recovery Project

         The Cáala MRP was the first to conclude its needs assessment and the first to begin implementing
the subprojects. A total of USD2,033,420 was approved for the Cáala MRP to be spent between October
2000 and September 2002. The funds were divided between the Communes in the Municipality, Cáala
Commune for which the sum of USD862,000 was approved to support the resettlement of 6,000 families to
return from Cáala town to their villages. Out of this total, 4,350 families were successfully resettled. The
other 1,650 families stayed behind in Cáala town. Over USD 1,170,520 was approved to assist the return
process of a total of 13,550 families to their villages in Cuima Commune. The total cost per family
resettled in Cáala was USD130.

         The Cáala MRP was implemented during a period of two months, beginning in October 2000 and
ending in September 2002. The project was implemented in five phases, each with a work plan and separate
budgets. The general goal of the Cáala MRP was to contribute towards the "enhancement of the
socio-economic conditions of the beneficiary population" and toward their psychosocial and emotional
welfare". The initial proposal was aimed at resettling 6,000 families in the Transit Camps of Salsicharia
and Calenga, both located in Cáala town. The main thrust of the Cáala MRP resettlement was to reactivate
the agricultural sector. During the first phase of the resettlement, the MRP distributed seedlings and
agricultural inputs to all resettled families with a view to stimulating their self-sufficiency in subsistence
farming. Seeds were also distributed on credit. It was planned that the beneficiaries would return part of
their harvest to a community seed bank that could serve as a reserve for the community. Another priority
was the promotion of more extensive cultivation and diversification of agricultural production to include
products for sale, fruit trees and small animals. The project reintroduced cattle-pulled ploughs to facilitate
the extension of farmed areas. This strategy also tried to reactivate commercialisation of agricultural


                                                      - 24 -

produce. This involved investment in the rehabilitation of roads, carts pulled with cattle to transport
agricultural produce to markets in Cáala town and to Huambo. The project also gave priority to access to
potable water in Cuima and Cáala and envisaged that the IDPs should have access to basic health and
education services in their areas of origin.

2. Development of the Chongoroi Municipal Rehabilitation Project

ADPP signed an agreement to conduct the needs assessment in Chongoroi Municipality in the month of
February 2000. It was envisaged that the needs assessment would take one month, but due to a UNITA
attack on Chongoroi and the subsequent lack of flights to Chongoroi, its conclusion was delayed till April.
The initial request of USD800,000 for Chongoroi for the first year of activities was approved in September
2000. As at 31 March 2002, ADPP received 240,423 in disbursements and had started implementation of
all 19 subprojects planned. The Chongoroi project was expected to be implemented in three phases. During
the first phase, it would focus its efforts on activities within Chongoroi town and depending on the security
situation, it expand its scope of action to the villages along the Benguela - Huíla road during the second
phase and subsequently to the Bolonguera and Camuine Communes during the third phase.

         The target of the Chongoroi MRP was to support the Municipal government in implementing a
resettlement program for IDPs living in Chongoroi town. The aim was to create living conditions in the
villages of origin to attract the people outside the town in order for them to return to their villages. The
ADPP plan included commencing their work in Chongoroi town during the first phase and gradually
expanding its coverage to the neighbouring villages, as the security situation would allow. It was hoped that
the resettlement would commence during the second and third phases.

         The Chongoroi MRP gathered speed in September 2000. Sin January 2001, all 19 subprojects
planned for phase I had begun. Unfortunately, the project implementation dropped speed and became very
slow on 2 August 2002, when UNITA forces attacked Chongoroi. In the process, 11 people were killed,
three were injured and two employees of the Ministry of Health were kidnapped. A total of 52 houses were
destroyed. ADPP office and residence were broken into and a lot of carpentry project equipment was
stolen. This August attack led to a great increase in the number of IDPs both in Chongoroi town and along
the coast. Soon after the attack, ADPP left Chongoroi and returned only 2001.As a result, most of the
projects were suspended for two to three months.

During this period, the Task Manager and Project Director requested that the MRPs refocus their efforts
toward resettling IDPs. Thus, on returning to Chongoroi, ADPP and the Municipal Administration began to
search for locations where 5,457 IDPs living in Chongoroi town could be resettled. The first place,
Cambadi II was 8 kilometres away. In November, ADPP submitted a resettlement plan and there was no
objection from the World Bank. Before the end of the year, ADPP had distributed seeds and inputs to 962
IDP families. The proposed plan aimed at encouraging these families to build a house in Cambandi II and
begin farming activities. These families started to cultivate the land and build their houses in Cambandi, 8
Km away, but they refused to leave the safety of Chongoroi town at night. During discussions with the
Municipal administration and ADPP, the IDPs made it clear that they had no intention to move to
Cambandi II, as they intended to return to their areas of origin, located 30 ­ 70 Km away, as soon as the
security conditions thus allowed.

The Chongoroi MRP was closed on 30 June 2002 without having contributed directly to the resettlement of
Chongoroi IDPs. However, in May of the same year, many IDP families had started to prepare themselves
for a possible return to their areas of origin with a ceasefire that was declared during the first quarter of
2002.


                                                       - 25 -

Notwithstanding the difficulties, the Chongoroi MRP invested in the implementation of different
subprojects, mainly in Chongoroi town, during the 2 years of implementation. Among the achievements of
the Chongoroi MRP were: building and furnishing of 2 primary schools, rehabilitation and equipping of
one secondary school, training of 36 young community activists, building of two pre-school centres,
professional training for Chongoroi youth, building of 98 family and 15 community latrines, rehabilitation
of 10 water pumps, training of 152 nursing assistants, conducting of HIV/AIDS awareness session for
1000 direct beneficiaries and distribution of seed and farming inputs to more than 5000 families.

3. Development of the Golungo Alto Municipal Rehabilitation Project

         The Golungo Alto MRP, just like the Chongoroi MRP encountered numerous security problems
while it lasted. It was the last of the three locations to conduct a needs assessment, because the NGO
contracted had to abandon the area in June 2000 due to lack of security. WVI finally signed the contract to
conduct a needs assessment on 15 September 2000, but the outcome was not to be ready until several
months later. The initial budget of the Golungo Alto MRP was USD900,000. After the project activities
had started up, they were halted again when UNITA attacked the Municipality in May 2001. Similar to the
case of Chongoroi, these repeated security difficulties had a negative impact both on the IDPs resettlement
and the implementation of the subprojects planned. Progress in Golungo Alto was also affected by the
constant turnover of WVI staff, which also affected continuity both on the field and in terms of financial
reports. The delay and bad quality of financial reports slowed down the pace of disbursements and project
implementation.

During the needs assessment conducted by WVI, about 35% of the Golungo Alto population estimated at
about 42,406 people were IDPs. A UNITA attack on Golungo Alto in May 2001significantly reduced these
figures, as many of the people fled to the Provincial capital and safer areas.

         The Golungo Alto MRP also had two different types of groups of beneficiaries. The first group
was composed of 1,602 IDP families from other parts of Kwanza Norte that lived in Golungo Alto town.
The second group was composed of 1,059 families from Golungo Alto, but which had fled the war for
Luanda Province and were living in Boa Fé and Viana IDP camps.

Notwithstanding the security problems, WVI succeeded in resettling 336 IDP families that lived in Golungo
Alto town, in Kigila, a village that had been abandoned for years located 3 kilometres from town. These
families came from the other part of Kwanza Norte that is now inaccessible due to the destruction of a
bridge. With the end of the project in June 2002, the installation of the other IDP families became the
responsibility of the Municipal Administration.

The Golungo Alto MRP tried to support the following project components: I) access to safe potable water
and sanitation, II) support for agricultural development, III) rehabilitation of the healthcare system, IV)
rehabilitation of the educational system and V) rehabilitation of access roads and bridges. The original plan
was aimed at benefiting approximately 3,000 IDP families based in Golungo Alto town and Viana in
Luanda Province.

         Regarding the 3 MRPs, that of Cáala, where the resettlement of 13,550 families was recorded,
achieved the best outcome.

         Notwithstanding the above, they all recorded improvements for the Municipality in terms of
rehabilitation of basic social infrastructure and training of Municipal Administration staff.


                                                      - 26 -

         We can conclude that the performance of ADRA was good, ADPP satisfactory and WVI
unsatisfactory.

4. Institutional Reinforcement

         One of the general objectives of the PRSPC is to build the capacity of the local government to
accommodate the returned population and provide continuous basic services to their communities.
Although the project has used NGOs as implementation partners, there as need for the plans to be
developed and implemented in partnership with the Municipal government and community-based
organizations. The PRSPC organized a series of training workshops in response to MRP requests, to build
the capacity of the Municipal government to lead the communities in participatory needs assessment and
project identification and planning processes. The PRSPC also organized a series of national workshops
with the participation of three MRPs. Finally, the PRSPC invested in equipment, office furniture and
motorbikes to support the Municipal Administrations.

         It is our understanding that the investment in institutional reinforcement and training of Municipal
staff will ensure sustainability of the program that was developed.

5 Studies

Although the war environment had stalled the success of the PRSPC in resettling significant numbers of
IDP families, the experience taught useful lessons for the future, as the government of Angola is working to
resettle thousands of IDPs now that the war has come to an end. The project invested in various studies that
may be grouped as follows:

a) Within the scope of the MRPs : Alto: study of resettlement patterns in Huambo, Study on the
development of the situation of the Cáala MRP; Comparative cost analysis of the 3 MRPs; Dividends of
Cáala MRP Success; Case study of Cáala MRP.

b) Within the scope of the Reintegration Strategy: Contribution to the Social Reintegration Strategy;
Social Reintegration Strategy Operationalization

Major Lessons learned from these studies:

* Minimum package varies a little, depending on the conditions that the people are in during their
displacement. If their present conditions of living very bad, they shall need less than if their current living
conditions are were better than what they would probably meet in their areas of origin.

*Security: The areas of origin have to be safe and with free movement of people and goods and minimum
risk of landmine accidents.

* Project Location and Natural Resources: there should be fertile land and abundant water resources in
the resettlement areas. In areas with regular rainfall and access to irrigation, it is possible to introduce a
large variety of products and reduce exclusive dependence on subsistence farming.

*Agricultural Productivity and support for animal ploughing: Introduce animal ploughing to enable
farmers expand their farmlands. Increased agricultural production is as a result of increased farmlands as



                                                     - 27 -

in the improvement of seeds and fertilizers. Animal ploughing is now more important than before, given the
scarcity of young men in many of these returned communities. Without improved agricultural productivity,
it would be difficult for the resettled families to improve their socio-economic welfare, which is a strategic
MRP objective.

*Increase the Minimum Package per family: Based on the experience of the Cáala MRP, the size of the
resettlement package is insufficient. The minimum includes the following types of seeds: maize, vegetable,
sweet potato and wheat. The seeds are distributed according to the season. 10kg of maize and beans seeds
are not enough, especially given the bad sate of fertility.

* Food Distribution for 3-6 months- Food aid is a critical component for the resettlement programs
because many families return without anything and need to eat until the first harvest. The food aid policies
have to be modified in order to ensure continuity of the donation of food to resettled families during a given
timeframe. Continue to give food at the transit centres encouraged/give incentives to the families to remain
in the hinterland.

*Project Duration: One year is enough for the returned families to become completely self-sufficient. At
least two years is needed to stabilize the returnees and you and train the local administration to take on full
responsibility for administering the project.

*Capacity building and Institutional Development - More and better capacity building and involvement
of administration staff, enhanced work in favour of the communities

6. Reintegration Strategy

As said earlier, the PRSPC is composed of two components:

The MRPs that have already been referred to and the formulation of a reintegration strategy.

Through this component, technical assistance was guaranteed for the formulation of a wide and consistent
strategy for the post conflict rehabilitation and reintegration needs of various sectors, covering all the
segments of the population.

The first job requested to advance with this project component was a study entitled "Contribution toward a
social reintegration Strategy", requested from the Consultant Dr. Mário Adouta, conducted between April
and May 2002.

The study included the following topics:

*Profile of the IDPs;

*Resettlement Legal framework;

*Patterns and risks of population resettlement;

*Development and resettlement aid;

*Development Partners;



                                                     - 28 -

*Elements for a resettlement policy.

This work was disclosed to the project convening all actors in the resettlement process.




Within the scope of the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy, where the IDP Reintegration issue was is an
important factor, MINARS as the governing body of social reintegration policies, prepared a strategy for
the support of IDPs reintegration.

Sequel to this strategy, the PRSPC commissioned Geproc, a Research Office, to conduct a study on the
operationalization of this strategy.

This study aimed at establishing mechanisms and indicating the types of action to carry out in support of
reintegration of IDPs into their areas of origin or in resettlement areas voluntarily chosen by them to settle
down. The space of reference was the Municipality.

The PRSPC through the experience gathered from the MRPs also gave its contribution so that the Norms
for the Resettlement Displaced Persons could be approved by the government and later, the regulation of
these Norms.

The plan is to transform this reintegration strategy into a project to be implemented in two or three
Provinces to be selected.

7. Performance

        7.1.The World Bank

During its validity, the PRSPC had two Task Managers and while the vision of the first facilitated support
in the recuperation of basic social infrastructure in the MRP Municipalities, the second concentrated more
on the IDPs "resettlement process", which at the end was the main objective of the LIL and ensuring that
lessons could be learned for the future.

The World Bank Assessment Missions were carried out within the expected regularity on an average of two
missions per year and enabled the adjustments needed in the project implementation.

In terms of disbursement, there were no significant delays by the Bank and there was smooth
communication with the project unit.

Only some project expenses were misinterpreted in the categories leading to accounts not being reconciled
between the Bank and the project.

We are of the opinion that the performance of the Bank was good.

It was in view of this that we closed the Chongoroi and Golungo Alto MRPs earlier, as there were no
prospects of resettlement.




                                                     - 29 -

         7.2. The Borrower

The government got interested in the project and during the final phase, the Standing Committee of the
Council of Ministers regularly considered the outcome of the project. The government fulfilled it obligation
of the availability of counterpart funding. We can thus consider that the performance of the borrower was
good.

         7.3. Non-governmental Organizations.

Out of the three NGOs, ADRA had the best performance, followed by ADPP. WVI showed a lot of
shortcomings during the Project. The Cáala MRP had fixed staff at the project, which facilitated the work
there. ADPP and WVI changed their coordinator midway through the project and also due to security
issues, the Coordinators could neither live in Chongoroi nor Golungo Alto. Furthermore, the fact that the
core objective of the NGOs selected, for instance in the case of ADRA, leaned more towards agriculture
and community development issues further facilitated their performance.

There were difficulties during the presentation of the NGO accounts, which in some cases made the
implementation of the different phases difficult. The performance of ADRA and ADPP in the area of
finance was satisfactory. WVI did not have a good performance.

         7.4. Consultants

         Although Angola is not very strong in terms of National Consulting Offices, some are already
beginning to emerge to compete in the Market. Among these are AIP ­ Angolan Research Institute and
GERPROC- Research and Projects Office. The PRSPC contracted these two and AMA- A Associação
Mãos Abertas. The outcome presented was good and we can conclude that the performance of the
consultants was good. AIP had some difficulty in complying with the deadlines established in the contracts.

         8. Conclusion

         We are able to conclude that the PRSPC experience was positive. Studies on the Reintegration
Strategy Project contributed to a large extent to the definition of this strategy.

Regarding lessons learned from the MRPs, these lessons have been important during all the IDPs
resettlement process.

The resettlement and social reintegration strategy that the government intends to present to the Donors
Conference to be held on a future date, was prepared based on the Social Reintegration Strategy
Operationalization study.




                                                     - 30 -

Additional Annex 9. Aide-Memoire of ICR Mission (April 2003)

                           Post-Conflict Social Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 30590)

                                Implementation Completion Report Mission
                                               April 7 ­ 20, 2003
                                                 Aide-Memoire

1.       Between April 7 and 20, 2003, a mission consisting of Sabine Cornelius (Senior Social Protection
Economist, AFTH1, April 15-20), and Sigrun Aasland (Post-Conflict Specialist, SDVCP, April 7-19),
visited Angola to undertake an implementation review and gather the necessary information to commence
the preparation of the Bank's portion of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Angola Post
Conflict Social Recovery Project (PCSRP). The PCSRP (Cr. 30590) was approved by the World Bank's
Board of Directors on April 15, 1998, became effective on September 25, 1998, was partially extended on
September 20, 2002, and fully closed on January 30, 2003.

2.       In accordance with the Statement of Mission Objectives, the mission held discussions with the
Minister and Vice Minister of Social Assistance and Reintegration (MINARS) as well as other relevant
stakeholders such as the International Office of Migration (IMO), ADPP, Associação de Mãos Abertas
(AMA), Angola Instituto de Pesquisa (AIP), Gabinete de Estudos, Projectos e Consultória, Lda (Geproc),
OCHA, and the FAS Project Unit. The mission tried to meet with World Vision, but was unsuccessful. The
purpose of the above consultations was to solicit feedback on: (i) the project's performance in terms of
process, outcome and impact; (ii) the studies conducted under the project, including evaluations of the
project components.

3.       In addition, the mission visited project sites in the province of Huambo, where direct feedback was
solicited from resettled families in several villages in the municipality of Caala, and extensive consultations
were held with ADRA project staff in Huambo. Due to adverse road conditions and prior commitments of
ADPP and lack of cooperation on the part of Word Vision, the mission was unable to visit Golungo Alto
and Chongoroi. However, the mission visited with families in Boa Fé, Viana, who initially intended but
then decided not to return to the Golungo Alto resettlement area, in order to seek their views on necessary
conditions for their return to their area of origin.

4.       This aide-memoire summarizes the mission's main findings and agreements reached. The mission
congratulates the Project Unit, particularly the Project Director, on the completion of the project. Further,
the mission gratefully acknowledges the extraordinary collaboration of the Project Director, and the
assistance extended particularly in gathering project related information and studies, and in facilitating
logistics. In addition, the mission would like to thank the ADRA-Huambo staff for their valuable
cooperation during the mission's field visit.

Overall assessment

5.       The mission concluded that, overall, the project development objectives of the PCSRP have been
met, for the most part. While the goal to formulate a comprehensive National Strategy for Resettlement and
Reintegration of internally displaced people has been fully achieved, the Municipio Recovery Program
(MRP) component has been partially successful. However, in line with the LIL objectives, valuable lessons
learned during MRP implementation have been identified in the process of formal stakeholder
consultations. Furthermore, the studies conducted by the project appear to be relevant and useful for future



                                                      - 31 -

planning and policy development.

Reintegration Strategy

6.       A comprehensive National Strategy for Resettlement and Integration been formulated, and is
presently being discussed within the government. There appears to be strong Government ownership of the
Strategy, which is also expected to feed into the Interim Poverty Reduction Strategy (I-PRSP). While an
implementation plan for the Strategy has been prepared, it is unclear how and when the operationalization
of the Strategy will be funded. According to several agencies, the Strategy (as well as the lessons learned
under the MRP component) have played an important part in the overall political process regarding
resettlement and reintegration in the country. As part this process, the following codes have been
established:

·        Decree Nr. 1/01 which approves the resettlement norms for internally displaced persons;
·        Decree Nr 80/01 which approves the regulations on the control of donations and counterpart
funding;
·        Presidential Despatch Nr. 5/02 which outlines the procedures for setting up the National
Commission for Social and Productive Reintegration of Demobilized Soldiers and Displaced Persons and
approves the respective Regulation;
·        Instructive nr. 01/GAB.MINARS/02, which establishes the guidelines of methods for the
implementation of the program for the return and resettlement of people directly affected by the armed
conflict; and
·        Formulation of provincial strategies through the Provincial Emergency Plans of Action for
Resettlement and Reintegration (PEPARR).

Municipio Recovery Programs (MRPs)

7.       The three MRPs were implemented in the municipio of Caala, province of Huambo, by ADRA; in
the municipio of Chongoroi, province of Benguela, by ADPP; and in the municipio of Golungo Alto,
province of Kwanza Norte, by World Vision. While the first MRP is considered largely successful, the
latter failed to meet their objectives. The deteriorating security situation played an important role in the low
achievement of the Chongoroi and Golungo Alto pilots; however, according to ADRA, the MRP-Caala
performed well despite persistent security problem during sub-project implementation. It thus appears that
the lack of clear and consistent strategies in the cases of the Chongoroi and Golungo Alto MRPs as well as
poor project management and high staff turnover in the case of the latter are the main reasons for the
unsatisfactory performance of both the ADPP and World Vision executed programs. Moreover, the
provision of social infrastructure in the areas of displacement under those MRPs represented disincentives
to resettlement to people's areas of origin.

8.       Achievement of MRP objectives. Due to some ambiguity in the initial formulation of the MRP
objectives, three different MRP models emerged, which were implemented with varied degrees of success.
According to the PAD, the objective of the MRPs was to help war-affected communities reintegrate
returning families and restore village level economic and social activities. The PAD does not clearly specify
that the support was to be provided in the communities' areas of origin, rather than areas of dislocation or
temporary resettlement sites. The objectives appear to have been interpreted differently by the two Bank
task managers. In addition, no provisions were made for adjusting the approach in the event of renewed
conflict. These shortcomings seem to have caused some inefficiencies during implementation. In view of the
worsened security conditions in 1999, a clear (re-)definition of project objectives would have been



                                                      - 32 -

beneficial. However, at the beginning of 2001, a clear understanding was reached that support was only
supposed to be provided to dispersed communities' areas of origin, which led to the continuation of the
ADRA-executed MRP and the cancellation of the Chongoroi and Golungo Alto MRPs.

9.       Resettlement of families to areas of origin. Under the MRP-Caala, a total of 13,402 families
were resettled to their villages of origin, and the MRP thus met its resettlement target. The majority of the
ADRA-executed sub-projects included agricultural support that appeared to have contributed substantially
toward the villagers' livelihoods and food security. It is unclear, however, to what extent vulnerable
community groups have profited from the project benefits. The MRP-Caala was also the most
cost-effective of the three programs. Under the MRP-Golungo Alto, 336 families, i.e. slightly more than 10
percent of the overall target, were resettled to a temporary resettlement site; however, no families were
resettled to their areas of origin. The MRP-Golungo Alto constitutes the least cost effective of all three
MRPs. No resettlement took place under the Chongoroi program. Given that displaced families accounted
for only one quarter of the assisted population, the MRP had more of a community development character.
It appears that the interventions in the area of dislocation, mostly school construction and capacity
building, made useful contributions to people's livelihoods.

10.      Integrated support packages. The implementation of the intended integrated support approach
was limited due to three main factors. Firstly, communities' specific needs for support depend on the nature
of their resettlement process. Typically, resettlement seems to be a gradual process whereby male village
members commute back and forth between their areas of origin (to tend to their fields) and their areas of
dislocation. As was the case in Caala, social infrastructure was considered less of an immediate priority by
community members than basic agriculture and livelihood support. (The design of appropriate and relevant
resettlement and reintegration support programs must thus build on communities' migration/resettlement
patterns.) Secondly, as the experience of the three MRPs shows, the nature of the NGO interventions imply
a certain bias toward the area of expertise of each NGO, e.g. agriculture in the case of ADRA and
education in the case of ADPP. Thirdly, the case of Caala suggests that the financial incentive structure of
the MRPs favored quantitative resettlement targets rather than enhancing social recovery of already
resettled communities. In other words, there seemed to be a bias towards basic livelihood support over
social infrastructure provision such as education and health.

11.      Capacity building. Essentially, capacity building was envisaged to take place at both the
community and municipio levels. At the community level, it is unclear to what extent ADPP and World
Vision were able to enhance communities' capacity; however it seems that ADRA managed to strengthen
community capacity through the participatory nature of the sub-project process as well as management
skills provided to various community associations. Based on consultations with beneficiaries at several
project sites in Caala, the mission was led to believe that the project investments particularly in agricultural
associations appear to be well sustained, despite the fact that project support terminated nearly 8 months
ago.

12.      At the municipio level, interventions aimed at strengthening the institutional capacity of municipal
authorities appear to have had a positive impact. However, it is unclear how sustainable the activities are,
considering the extremely low overall capacity of municipal authorities. In addition, it was noted that the
capacity building efforts appear to have been of a rather theoretical nature, rather than hands-on skills
training. Furthermore, in the case of Caala, the mission noted a lack of coordination and overlap between
capacity building provided by ADRA and AMA/GTZ. The mission was therefore led to believe that the
capacity building activities at the community and municipio levels were not implemented in an integrated
fashion.




                                                      - 33 -

13.      Monitoring and evaluation. While valuable process-related key lessons have been identified at the
end of MRP implementation, aggregated data on output and outcome indicators are not readily available. It
seems that much thought and effort was put into the development of M&E indicators, and data collection
and reporting to the Project Unit appears to have been very diligent, at least in the case of the MRP-Caala.
However, despite the NGOs' compliance with the seemingly excessively detailed reporting requirements,
the available data has not been consolidated by the Project Unit, partly due to a lack of guidance provided
by Bank staff toward the very end of the project.

Government Contribution to the ICR

14.      The mission reviewed the first draft of the Government's contribution to the ICR and provided
further guidance to the Project Director, particularly on the evaluative character of the ICR in terms of: (i)
project outcomes, (ii) the project identification, preparation, and implementation process, (ii) and
performance of the Bank, the Government, Project Unit, external consultants, and IOs. It was agreed that
the final version of the Government's contribution will submitted to the Bank by May 15, 2003.

15.      The audit report for the 13-month period from January 2002 through January 2003 is currently
being finalized and will be submitted to the Bank by May 15, 2003.




                                                      - 34 -

- 35 -

- 36 -

