Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3059-ANG
Development Credit Agreement
(Post-Conflict Social Recovery Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated  May 7, 1998
CREDIT NUMBER 3059-ANG 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated May 7, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA (the Borrower) and 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997) (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Beneficiary" or "Beneficiaries" means a community or communities, 
respectively, for whose benefit an activity under Part A of the Project is financed or 
proposed to be financed from the proceeds of the Credit; 
Page  2
(b)
"Beneficiary Grant" means a grant made by the Borrower to a Beneficiary 
for the purpose of providing funds on a grant basis for the financing of a Sub-project 
(as hereinafter defined); 
(c)
"Beneficiary Grant Agreement" means the agreement entered into between 
the Borrower, through the Project Unit (as hereinafter defined), and a Beneficiary, 
providing for the terms and conditions of a Beneficiary Grant; 
(d)
"IAPSO" means the Inter-Agency Procurement Services Organization of the 
United Nations; 
(e)
"Implementation Manual" means the manual comprising the policies, 
procedures and guidelines which shall be followed by the Borrower in the 
implementation of the Project, including those for use by the Implementing 
Organization (as hereinafter defined), such manual to be adopted pursuant to Section 
5.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(f)
"Implementing Organization" means an organization operating under the 
laws of the Borrower which is contracted by the Borrower to prepare a Municipio 
Recovery Plan (as hereinafter defined), or to implement a Sub-project (as hereinafter 
defined) under the management and supervision of the Project Unit (as hereinafter 
defined); 
(g)
"Kwanza Reajustado" or "Kzr" mean the currency of the Borrower; 
(h)
"MINARS" means the Borrower’s Ministry of Social Assistance and 
Reintegration, established by Decreto-Lei No. 2/93, dated February 12, 1993; 
(i)
"Municipio Recovery Plan" means the planning document prepared by an 
Implementing Organization, in collaboration with a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries, 
describing, inter alia, the demographic, social, economic and physical characteristics 
of a Beneficiary or Beneficiaries and identifying possible rehabilitation and recovery 
work to be done by, or for, the Beneficiary or Beneficiaries; 
(j)
"Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to a Letter-Agreement, signed by 
the Association on July 24, 1996 and by the Borrower on August 29, 1996, as amended on 
May 30, 1997;
(k)
"Project Unit" means the unit referred to in paragraph 1 of Section A of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(l)
"Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and 
(m)
"Sub-project" means a specific rehabilitation or recovery activity 
proposed by a Beneficiary, within the scope of a Municipio Recovery Plan and financed, 
or proposed to be financed, through a Beneficiary Grant.
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to three million seven hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 3,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, amounts to be paid) by MINARS on 
account of withdrawals made by a Beneficiary under a Beneficiary Grant to meet the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for a Sub-project in respect of which 
the withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or, 
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
dollars a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against set-off, 
Page  3
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2001 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at 
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such 
other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April, 15 and October, 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each April, 15 and October, 15 commencing April 15, 2008 and ending October ,15, 2037. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on October, 15, 2017 shall 
be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on 
which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this paragraph 
(b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of a minimum 
of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
Page  4
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out 
the Project through MINARS with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, financial, technical and environmental practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and, except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
open and maintain an account, in dollars or such other currency as may be 
acceptable to the Association, in a commercial bank (the Project Account), on terms 
and conditions satisfactory to the Association; 
(b)
make an initial deposit into such account in an amount of $40,000 or its 
equivalent in other currency acceptable to the Association;  
(c)
deposit every six months, beginning on the date six months after the date 
of the initial deposit referred to under sub-paragraph (b) above, into the Project 
Account, such amounts, in dollars or such other currency as may be acceptable to the 
Association, as shall be required to replenish the Project Account, having regard to 
the program of work established by the Project Unit in accordance with the provisions 
of sub-paragraph (e) of paragraph 2 and sub-paragraph (c) of paragraph 3 of Part B of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and 
(d)
ensure that the funds in the Project Account are used exclusively to make 
payments in order to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods and services required for the Project and not financed from the proceeds 
of the Credit.
Section 3.04. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  5
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, including those for the Special Account, for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association;
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this Section, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal 
from the Credit Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such 
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a)
the Borrower has adopted the Implementation Manual in form and substance 
acceptable to the Association; and 
(b)
the Borrower has opened the Project Account and made the initial deposit 
therein in accordance with Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement. 
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Planning of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Social Assistance and Reintegration
Page  6
Hoji Ya Henda 117 
Luanda
Republic of Angola
Fax:
244-2-348 265 or
244-2-341 444
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI) 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF ANGOLA
By /s/ Antonio de Santos França 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Jean-Louis Sarbib 
Regional Vice President 
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
  % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods and works 
   2,370,000
100% of amounts
for Sub-projects
disbursed
(2)
Consultants’
     780,000
100%
services
(3)
Incremental
      60,000
50%
operating costs
(4)
Refunding of
     450,000
Amount due
Project
pursuant to
Preparation
Section 2.02 (c)
Advance
of this Agreement
Page  7
(5)
Unallocated
      40,000
TOTAL
   3,700,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule, "Incremental operating costs" means 
incremental expenses incurred by the Project Unit on account of Project 
implementation, management and monitoring, including office equipment and supplies, 
furniture, vehicle operation, travel and supervision costs but excluding salaries of 
officials of the Borrower’s civil service.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of :
(a)
expenditures against Category (1) unless a Beneficiary Grant has been 
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for Sub-projects costing less 
than $50,000 equivalent each (except the first three contracts entered for any one 
Municipio costing more than $30,000 equivalent), for expenditures for consultants’ 
services under contracts costing less than $100,000 and $50,000 equivalent with 
consulting firms and individual consultants, respectively, and for all expenditures 
under incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the Association 
shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to: (a) develop and test a participatory 
approach in the reintegration of vulnerable social groups in the territory of the 
Borrower and to assist in the reconstruction of basic social structures; and (b) 
strengthen the Borrower’s capacities required to plan and implement a population 
reintegration support strategy.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Municipio Recovery Program
1.
Carrying out a program of promotion and appraisal of Municipio Recovery Plans, 
and provision of Beneficiary Grants for the financing of Sub-projects, including, 
inter alia: (a) emergency support to the reintegration of population returning to 
communities affected by the conflict in the territory of the Borrower, including 
building materials and tools; (b) a phased program of rehabilitation of 
infrastructures, including small works, de-mining and strengthening of community 
institutions; and (c) vocational and basic skills training for Beneficiaries. 
2.
Carrying out an evaluation of the results achieved in the utilization of the 
participatory approach in the activities carried out in support of Beneficiaries and 
assessing the suitability of such participatory approach for replication in other 
parts of the Borrower’s territory.
Part B:
Formulation of a Reintegration Support Strategy
Preparation and implementation of a comprehensive framework for post-conflict 
rehabilitation of social and economic infrastructure in local communities and 
population reintegration, which addresses the needs of all segments of the population 
affected by the conflict in the territory of the Borrower and strengthening the 
Borrower’s capabilities to plan, implement and monitor projects using a participatory 
approach, through the provision of technical advisory services.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2001. 
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  8
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A:
General 
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I 
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the 
Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 and September 1997 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of 
the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods and works estimated  to cost more than $50,000  but less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded  in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods under Part B of the Project  estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, 
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
3.
Procurement from UN Agencies
Office equipment, supplies and furniture may be procured from IAPSO in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.9 of the Guidelines. 
4.
Community participation
Goods and works under Part A of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 
per contract, may be procured in accordance with paragraph 3.15 of the Guidelines and 
with procedures satisfactory to the Association. 
Part D:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost more than $50,000 
equivalent, and to the first three contracts entered in each Municipio estimated to 
cost more than $30,000 equivalent, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Page  9
Introduction and Section IV of the "Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section 
II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
In the procurement of consultants’ services in accordance with the provisions of 
the preceding paragraph, the short list of consultants for consultants’ services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may comprise entirely 
national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Least-cost Selection
Audit services may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Single-Source Selection
Services  which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 per contract, may, with 
the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs  3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
Page  10
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply, provided that the terms of reference for the respective assignments shall be 
subject to prior review and approval by the Association.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
Part A:
Overall Project Implementation
1.
The Borrower shall establish and maintain, within MINARS, not later than sixty 
(60) days after the Effective Date, a Project Unit to be headed by a General Manager, 
assisted by a staff in number and with qualifications satisfactory to the Association, 
which shall be responsible for the overall implementation of the Project in accordance 
with the provisions of Section 3.01 of this Agreement and in particular for: (a) 
selecting Implementing Organizations for the preparation and presentation of Municipio 
Recovery Plans; (b) screening and evaluating Municipio Recovery Plans and Sub-project 
applications under Part A of the Project; (c) making disbursements for Beneficiary 
Grants and maintaining adequate financial records for each Sub-project; (d) preparing 
and submitting replenishment requests and withdrawal applications to the Association; 
(e) monitoring implementation of the Project and submitting the required technical, 
financial and other reports to MINARS and to the Association; and (f) initiating 
studies and capacity building efforts necessary to allow for continuous monitoring of 
Project activities and achievement of the objectives of the Project. 
2.
The Borrower shall ensure that the position of General Manager of the Project 
Unit shall, at all times during the execution of the Project, be filled by a person 
having qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Association.
3.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall: (i) cause 
the Project Unit to apply,  in the carrying out of the Project, the criteria, 
policies, procedures and guidelines set out in the Implementation Manual; and (ii) not 
amend or waive the Implementation Manual, or any provision thereof, in a manner which, 
in the opinion of the Association, may materially and adversely affect the 
implementation of the Project.
4.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Association, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, at least two months before the date referred to under 
sub-paragraph (c) below, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the 
progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the 
date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the 
period following such date; 
(c)
review with the Association, at a date eighteen (18) months after the 
Effective Date or on a date specified by the Association after 50% of the proceeds of 
the Credit have been committed, whichever is earlier, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter;
(d)
cause the Project Unit to furnish to the Association through MINARS 
quarterly financial reports summarizing progress in the carrying out of the respective 
Municipio Recovery Plans, including Sub-projects reviewed and approved, progress made 
in the implementation of Project-related activities and disbursement of funds for the 
Project; 
(e)
cause the Project Unit to submit semi-annual reports to the Association, 
beginning on the date six months after the Effective Date; such reports shall address, 
at a minimum, evaluation of Sub-projects during the six-month period in question, 
implementation and supervision of Project activities, procurement activities, rate of 
disbursement and any specific operational issues that have presented difficulties and 
for which guidance from MINARS has been sought; and
Page  11
(f)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association through MINARS, not later than two months prior to the 
closing date of the Project, a comprehensive report containing an evaluation of the 
implementation of Municipio Recovery Plans, including lessons learned, conclusions and 
recommendations for future implementation of similar activities on a wider scale.
Part B:
Municipio Recovery Plans under Part A of the Project 
1.
Eligibility Criteria for Beneficiaries
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, eligible Beneficiaries shall be 
those communities in Municipios in the provinces of Bie, Kwanza Norte and Moxico of 
the territory of the Borrower which: (a) have received, or will receive, large numbers 
of demobilized soldiers, displaced people, returning refugees and their respective 
dependents; (b) have sustained significant damage to their social and economic 
infrastructure as a result of the conflict; and (c) meet additional criteria 
regarding, inter alia, physical accessibility and security as specified in the 
Implementation Manual. 
2.
Preparation, Review and Approval of Municipio Recovery Plans
(a)
Prior to the preparation, review and approval of a Municipio Recovery 
Plan, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, for its approval, the names of 
the eligible Beneficiaries which shall have been selected in accordance with the 
provisions of Part B.1 of this Schedule.
(b)
The Project Unit shall advertise publicly and request expressions of 
interest from potential Implementing Organizations for the preparation of Municipio 
Recovery Plans and potential participation in their implementation.
(c)
Potential Implementing Organizations shall be required to have: (i) been 
registered under the relevant Laws of the Borrower and to have full legal capacity to 
enter into contracts; (ii) experience in comparable community development activities, 
preferably in the territory of the Borrower; (iii) experience in participatory project 
design and implementation; and (iv) proven technical expertise as well as financial 
and administrative capacity.
(d)
After selection of an Implementing Organization to prepare and present a 
Municipio Recovery Plan, the Project Unit shall enter into a contract with such 
Implementing Organization for such preparation and presentation of the Municipio 
Recovery Plan, the form and substance of such contract to be acceptable to the 
Association and included in the Implementation Manual. 
(e)
Municipio Recovery Plans shall contain: (i) a brief description of the 
prospective Beneficiary or Beneficiaries and the status of its economic and social 
infrastructure; (ii) a description of how the Beneficiaries participated in the 
formulation of the Municipio Recovery Plan and will participate in its implementation; 
(iii) a two-year program of rehabilitation and recovery activities, based on the needs 
expressed by the Beneficiaries concerned; and (iv) a detailed six-month program of 
specific Subprojects to be implemented.
(f)
Municipio Recovery Plans shall be submitted through the Project Unit to 
the Association for prior evaluation and approval. In evaluating Municipio Recovery 
Plans, the Project Unit shall verify whether said Municipio Recovery Plans: (i) ensure 
that the activities reflect the Beneficiary’s needs and preferences and can be 
implemented in accordance with the timetable or tables included in such Plan; and (ii) 
allow for periodic adjustment in content, funding requirements and implementation 
arrangements. 
3.
Approval and Implementation of Sub-Projects
(a)
Implementation of a Sub-project, within a given Municipio Recovery Plan, 
shall require a specific written request from the concerned Beneficiary, which shall 
be submitted to the Project Unit for approval.
(b)
Following approval of the Sub-project and the written request referred to 
in paragraph (a) above, a Beneficiary Grant Agreement shall be entered into between 
the Project Unit and the Beneficiary. Each Beneficiary Grant Agreement shall be in 
form and substance satisfactory to the Association and shall be included in the 
Implementation Manual. The principal terms of such Agreement shall include, inter 
alia: (i) that financing shall be on a grant basis; (ii) a specification of the name 
of the Implementing Organization which shall be contracted by the Project Unit to 
Page  12
participate in the implementation of the Sub-project, where appropriate; (iii) 
provisions relating to the specific participation of the Beneficiary in the 
implementation of the Sub-project; (iv) provisions relating to the commitment of the 
Beneficiary in ensuring sustainability of the Subproject and the maintenance of works 
and goods contracted or acquired under the Sub-project, where appropriate; (v) the 
right of the Project Unit to inspect, by itself or jointly with the Association, if 
the Association shall so request, the goods, work sites, plants and construction 
involved in the Sub-project, the operations thereof and any relevant records and 
documents; and (vi) for the right of the Beneficiary to suspend or terminate the 
Sub-project upon failure by the Implementing Organization to perform any of its 
obligations under the contract between the Implementing Organization and the Project 
Unit.
(c)
The Project Unit shall enter into contracts with Implementing 
Organizations for the implementation of Sub-projects in a given Municipio. The form 
and substance of such contract shall be satisfactory to the Association, shall be 
included in the Implementation Manual, and shall provide, inter alia, for: (i) a 
rolling quarterly advance in an amount determined by the Project Unit having regard of 
the program of work included in the Municipio Recovery Plan and the level of approval 
of Sub-projects for which the services of the Implementing Organization shall be 
required; (ii) an obligation, on the part of the Implementing Organization, to submit 
to the Project Unit, every six months following the signing of the contract, detailed 
programs of work for the ensuing six-month period (iii) the rights of the Beneficiary 
with respect to the carrying out of the Sub-project in question, which MINARS, through 
the Project Unit, shall be entitled to exercise on behalf of the Beneficiary; (iv) the 
right of the Project Unit to visit and inspect the area of the Sub-project being 
implemented by the Implementing Organization; (v) an obligation, on the part of the 
Implementing Organization to carry out all procurement and contracting of consultants’ 
services to be undertaken for specific Sub-projects in accordance with the provisions 
Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (vi) the right of the Project Unit to obtain all 
information as the Project Unit or the Association shall reasonably request regarding 
the administration, operations and financial conditions of the Sub-project.
(d)
The Project Unit shall ensure and shall monitor compliance of the 
obligations of the Beneficiary contained in each Beneficiary Grant Agreement and in 
the contracts with Implementing Organizations, and shall undertake periodic visits to 
the Beneficiaries and to the provincial offices of the Implementing Organizations, in 
order to assess the progress made in the implementation of Sub-projects.
Part C:
Part B of the Project
The Project Unit shall formulate a plan for the implementation of Part B of the 
Project, which shall be submitted to the Association for its approval, not later than 
November 15, 1998.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (3) set forth 
in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories]in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $500,000, 
to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to $250,000, until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered 
into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be 
equal to or exceed the equivalent of SDR 1,500,000. 
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Page  13
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount 
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Category shall 
follow such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Association shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the  Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Page  14
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
