Document of
FILE COpy                           The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
)RETURN TO
REPORTS         DESK                    Report No. P-1923a-YU
WITH-IN
ONE W-EEK
REPORT AND RECOrii2ii5NTi -
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN
TO
VODOPRIVREDNA ORGANIZACIJA METOHIJA
(WATER MANAGEMENT ORGANIZATION, METOHIJA)
WITH THE GUARANTEE OF
THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
FOR THE
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE WATER PROJECT
December 17, 1976
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorzation.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS*
Currency Unit                                        Yugoslav Dinar (Din.)
US$1                                                  Din. 18.00
Din. 1                                               US$0.0555
Din. 1,000                                            US$55.55
Din. 1,000,000                  =                     US$55,555.55
* The Yugoslav Dinar has been floating since July 13, 1973.
The currency equivalents given above are as of July 31, 1976.
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BOAL        -    Basic Organization of Associated Labor
GMP         -    Gross Material Product
Kosovo      -    Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
LDR         -    Less Developed Regions (of Yugoslavia)
\IAM        -    T.Tater Managerment Organization *'etohija



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED LOAN
TO VODOPRIVREDNA ORGANIZACIJA "METOHIJA" WITH THE
GUARANTEE OF THE SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
loan equivalent to US$54.0 million to Vodoprivredna Organizacija "Metohija"
(VOM) with the guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia,
to finance the foreign exchange cost of the Metohija I Multipurpose Project.
The loan would bear interest at 8.7 percent per annum and would have a term
of 15 years including a grace period of 3 years.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic mission visited Yugoslavia in November 1972; its
report entitled "The Economic Development of Yugoslavia" (194a-YU) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 2, 1974. An economic mission
visited Yugoslavia in October 1975; its report entitled "Economic Memorandum--
Yugoslavia" (1086b-YU) was distributed to the Executive Directors on September
3, 1976. A special Economic Mission to review the new development plan and
the new planning system visited Yugoslavia in October and November 1976, and
its report is under preparation. Some of the material gathered by the Mission
has been utilized for updating the information contained in the subsequent
paragraphs of this report. Basic data on the economy are given in Annex I.
Economic Trends and Development Issues
3.        The Yugoslav economy has experienced rapid growth during the last
two decades, with total GDP at constant prices having increased by an aver-
age rate of 6.3 percent, and per capita GDP at 5.2 percent annually. In 1975,
per capita GNP was about US$1,480 (World Bank Atlas methodology). This
impressive record of growth was accompanied by some fundamental structural
changes in the economy which has moved towards a modern industry/service
oriented urban society.
4.        The population growth rate averaged 1 percent per year during the
last two decades, but with considerable regional variations ranging from an
average rate of 1.6 percent for the less developed Republics and Provinces
to 0.7 percent for the developed ones. The structural changes in the economy
permitted a sizeable transfer of the labor force from agriculture to industry
and services. Despite this, however, by 1975, 37 percent of the employed
resident labor force was still engaged in agriculture and forestry, mostly on
small private farms; industry (including mining) accounted for 23 percent, and
other sectors for 40 percent.
This document has a restricted dutribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfomance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discloed without World Bank authorization.



- 2 -
5.        The socio-political framework evolved through several constitu-
tional amendments which were consolidated in the new Constitution of 1974.
It strengthens three important features of the socio-political system of
Yugoslavia. First, self-management, whereby the use and control of the socially
owned means of production are entrusted to the workers' collectives, is the
fundamental right and obligation of every Basic Organization of Associated
Labor (BOAL--the smallest technologically identifiable unit of operation) in
every sector and activity. Second, the responsibility for most important
social and policy decisions has been shifted from the Federation down to the
Republics and Provinces, and on to the communes. And third, the management
and financial responsibility for social activities (health, education, wel-
fare, etc.) is transferred from the realm of the state to Communities of
Interest (decision-making bodies which comprise delegates of both suppliers
and users of the specific services). Responsibility for certain economic
activities affecting large segments of the society (like communal services,
power production, highways and water management) can be--and progressively
is--similarly organized through Communities of Interest.
6.        The social sector, which includes government, most enterprises and
public institutions such as libraries, hospitals, theatres and schools, has
the leading role in economic and social development; it accounts for 85 per-
cent of GDP and employs over half of the total labor force. The private sec-
tor is comprised predominantly of peasant farms (with a 10 hectare limit to
land holdings) and small enterprises (with a 5 person limit on the number of
nonfamily workers), mainly in handicrafts, construction, trade, transport
and tourism. In the past, the private sector had been relatively neglected
by government policy. However, lately increased attention is being devoted
to private farmers with a view to accelerating the growth of agricultural
production and reducing the rural/urban income disparity.
7.        Regional income disparity--with a gradient of per capita income
falling generally from North to South--has emerged as one of the most impor-
tant develbpment issues of the country. Four regions can be distinguished by
stage of development. The Republic of Slovenia is the high income region
with almost double the national average. The Republics of Serbia, Croatia
and the Autonomous Province of Vojvodina make up the middle income regions,
ranging from 100 to 125 percent of the national average; however, even within
these regions pockets of underdevelopment persist. The Republics of Bosnia-
Herzegovina, Montenegro and Macedonia, with per capita income between 67 to
75 percent of the national average, constitute the upper group among the of-
ficially designated Less Developed Regions (LDRs). The Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo (Kosovo), with an average income of only 33 percent of the
national average (about US$490.0 equivalent), is at the bottom of the spread.
These inter-regional disparities can be traced back further to intra-regional
disparities. Within Republics and Provinces the spread between communes can
extend over the range of 10 to 1, and it is the prevalence of stagnating poor
rural communes within the LDRs which largely determines the disparity between
the regions. The rate of economic growth of the LDRs as a whole was only
slightly below the average for Yugoslavia, but due to the faster population
growth (1.6 percent per year versus 0.7 percent in the more developed regions)
the income disparity has tended to widen significantly during the last two



- 3 -
decades. In order to reverse this trend and to accelerate economic growth
and social development in the LDRs, mechanisms have been instituted for
sizeable transfers of financial resources. In 1975, net credits on highly
favorable terms (containing a grant element of around 50 percent) were made
available through the Federal Fund for the Accelerated Development of Less
Developed Regions to the LDRs in the amount of US$370 million, equivalent
to about 20 percent of their total investment in the social sector. An addi-
tional US$197 million were transferred as budgetary grants for social services.
The mechanism for both categories assures a growth of transfers in line with
the growth in total GDP.
8.        Open unemployment has not been a serious problem and is estimated
to be only around 4 percent of the resident labor force in 1975. However,
this low rate conceals three important aspects of the employment problem.
First, an estimated 800,000 out of a total labor force of around 9 million
(in 1974) has assumed temporary employment abroad. Second, there is some
evidence of growing regional and occupational imbalances, due to low inter-
regional mobility of labor and to unmatched skill requirements in a fast
changing economy. Third, severe underemployment persists in the private
agricultural sector.
Recent Developments
9.        In 1974, Yugoslavia recorded a rapid increase of GDP of 9 percent
in real terms as compared to 5 percent and 4 percent in 1973 and 1972, respec-
tively. Industry was the leading sector with an estimated growth rate of 11
percent in 1974; however, the growth of agricultural production, enhanced by
favorable weather conditions, and of services (with the exception of tourism)
also accelerated during the year. This rapid expansion of economic activity
permeated the whole economy. Investment outlays grew in nominal terms by al-
most 40 percent (9 percent in real terms) and total consumption expenditures
by about 41 percent (13 percent in real terms). The resulting rapid increase
in total demand for goods and services was reflected both in the rise of em-
ployment and of imports--both in nominal and real terms--and domestic prices.
The gain in total employment amounted to about 5 percent in 1974 and exceeded
for the first time the natural increase of the labor force. Industrial pro-
ducer prices rose by almost 30 percent while the cost of living rose less
rapidly by some 21 percent. Since fiscal policy leaves, for institutional
reasons, little room for demand management, the major response to the infla-
tionary pressures was in terms of monetary policy and direct controls through
prices and income policy, including recent legislation placing greater con-
trol on investment expenditures. After an expansionary phase during 1972 and
1973, the money supply increased by only 24 percent as compared to a nominal
increase of social product of about 36 percent. The shift to a large deficit
in the balance of payments in 1974 also contributed to the increased effec-
tiveness of the monetary policy.
10.       The balance of trade deficit increased from US$1.7 billion in 1973
to almost US$3.7 billion in 1974 both on account of an increase in the volume
and the rapid rise in the price of imports and the stagnation of real exports
(the terms of trade for the country are estimated to have deteriorated by



- 4 -
about 11 percent). The recession in Western Europe led to a sharp decline in
exports to that area. The traditionally large surplus for invisibles (mostly
from workers' remittances and tourism receipts) failed to compensate for the
large trade deficit, and the country recorded a current account deficit in
excess of US$1 billion in 1974 as compared to a surplus of US$464 million in
1973. In response to the circumstances, the import regime has been gradually
tightened since August 1974, affecting a large variety of consumer goods and
some capital and intermediate goods. In addition, the National Bank raised
the intervention point in the foreign exchange market, in effect devaluing
the dinar by about 7 percent against the currencies of Yugoslavia's major
trading partners. The large current account deficit led to some loss of
foreign exchange reserves; the official reserves fell by US$438 million in
1974 (compared to a gain of US$632 million in 1973). In addition, net for-
eign borrowing, which averaged US$390 million during 1971-73, increased to
around US$650 million in 1974. Commercial import credits from suppliers and
credits from financial institutions continued to be the major sources of for-
eign capital. Long-term funds related to financing of development are being
made available mainly by the IBRD and some bilateral sources (particularly
the US Export-Import Bank and Federal Republic of Germany). Yugoslavia has
also been one of the beneficiaries of the IMF's Special Oil Facility. Yugo-
slavia's medium- and long-term external debt outstanding as of December 31,
1975 is estimated at US$6,050 million (disbursed only). Debt service payments
amounted to about 16.5 percent of foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances) in 1974 and 16.9 in 1975.
11.       In 1975, the growth rate of the economy receded to 4.5 percent, due
mainly to the combined effects of a restrictive monetary policy, stagnating
exports and a reduced growth of personal incomes and stagnating consumption;
economic investment and housing construction provided the major growth stimulus
during 1975. The inflationary pressure, which built up during 1974 and ex-
tended into 1975, receded drastically in the second half of the.year; the rate
of increase of industrial producer prices decreased from 30 percent for 1974
to 11 percent during 1975, and the index of real personal receipts slightly
declined for the whole of the year. The good harvest in 1974 had a favor-
able impact on the balance of payments, although meat exports were severely
affected by the European Community ban on meat imports. Exports to oil
producing countries and to the non-convertible currency area continued to
expand rapidly in 1975, but were insufficient to compensate for the sharp
decline in exports to the convertible currency area. Workers' remittances
and receipts from tourism have increased marginally. As a result, commodity
exports declined by 2 percent in real terms. However, a larger contraction
of imports and an improvement in the terms of trade led to a decline in the
current account deficit to $1,032 million.
Estimates for 1976 and Prospects for 1977
12.       Further reduction of the balance of payments deficit and of the
inflationary pressures in the economy were the major objectives of economic
policy during 1976. On both counts, these objectives are successfully being



- 5 -
met. Due to the reduction of imports--with sizeable stocks of imported inter-
mediate goods being gradually depleted--and to a lesser extent the increase of
exports, a small current account surplus is expected for the year as a whole.
The rate of inflation declined further, with the cumulative index of indus-
trial producer prices dropping to 6 percent for the first nine months of 1976
compared with 26 percent for the same period of the preceding year. However,
the measures and policies leading to this improvement simultaneously halted
economic growth during the first half of 1976. By the middle of the year,
industrial production started to expand again, mainly as a result of an expan-
sion of investment and exports, and an increase of money supply during the
first part of the year. This upsurge, in conjunction with the favorable crop
of 1976, is expected to lead to a real increase of GDP by about 4 percent for
the year as a whole. For 1977, Yugoslav authorities expect the growth rate to
rise to 5.5 percent, accompanied, however, by a reappearance of a moderate
current account deficit and a moderate resurgence of the rate of inflation.
Employment growth, estimated at 3 to 3.5 percent for 1976 is expected to
continue at about the same rate through 1977.
Medium- and Long-Term Objectives and Prospects
13.       The surfacing of major economic problems during 1974, such as rapid
inflation and balance of payments pressures, has led to a reappraisal of de-
velopment objectives. In the light of the recent shift of relative prices
in favor of raw materials, more emphasis will be given to the development of
Yugoslavia's own natural resources. In this connection, the development of
the energy sector is given the highest priority. It focuses on electric
power, where the generating capacity is likely to fall critically short of
the rapidly rising power requirements of the expanding economy. The devel-
opment of the power sector will be based primarily on the largely unutilized
hydropower potential and soft-coal reserves of the country. Other priority
activities are ferrous metallurgy, some segments of non-ferrous metallurgy
(notably lead, zinc, copper, nickel and bauxite/aluminum), technologically
advanced production equipment, basic chemicals including petroleum refining,
agriculture and food processing, interrepublic transportation, multipurpose
works, and housing and basic construction material.
14.       This emphasis on accelerated development of the raw material basis
and of the economic infrastructure requires a more capital-intensive invest-
ment pattern, associated with longer time lags between investment and out-
put. To sustain this development path, both continued high borrowing abroad
and an increased savings rate will be essential. Since, with the possible
exception of private savings, interest rates have not been given a signifi-
cant role to play in the determination of the level of aggregate savings, the
income policy--i.e. the guidelines governing the distribution of enterprise
income between workers' income and accumulation--will have a crucial role.
15.       The new Five Year Plan (1976-80) focuses on the implementation of
these objectives. For growth, an average rate of 7 percent per year is pro-
posed, comparing with a target growth rate of the previous Plan of 7.5 per-
cent and an expected realized growth rate of 6.5 percent. For employment,



- 6 -
the average planned growth rate would come to about 3 percent with annual in-
crements exceeding the natural increase of the labor force by growing margins.
This would permit more vigorous pursuit of two major social objectives: the
reduction of the number of temporary migrants abroad, and an increased absorp-
tion of the rural underemployed into the social sector. The economy will con-
tinue to be open to the world market, although the composition of foreign
trade is expected to change with a reduced share for raw material, semi-
finished products and consumer goods on the import side, and an increased
share for agricultural products and manufactured goods on the export side.
Workers' remittances are not expected to increase in real terms, but rising
tourism receipts are expected to compensate for the expected declining impor-
tance of workers' remittances.
16.       The reduction of regional disparities is another priority objective
of the new Five Year Plan. To that end, the transfer of financial resources
to the LDRs in the forms of loans at concessionary terms for economic invest-
ment and of budgetary grants for social development will be continued and
probably increased as a proportion of total GDP. Since most of the natural
resources of the country, including hydropower, are to be found in the LDRs,
these regions will also benefit from the increased emphasis on the develop-
ment of power and basic industries which will be financed largely through
direct financial contributions from the consuming regions.
17.       The new Five Year Plan was prepared according to the self-management
principle stipulated in the Constitution of 1974. Self-management planning is
perceived as an iterative process of sequential, converging consensus-finding.
In the initial stage, broad priorities (as to sectors and activities) and
general quantitative targets and constraints (like growth rates of social prod-
uct and the volume of savings and investment) are determined on the basis of
consensus by the Assemblies (Communal, Republican and Provincial, and Federal)
of the socio-political communities. Subsequently, the planning process starts
at the bottom with individual enterprises and Communities of Interest setting
out expectations and targets. The planning process then proceeds through suc-
cessive and partially overlapping stages of horizontal adjustments within sec-
tors and branches (aimed primarily at eliminating gross duplications), verti-
cal adjustments between closely interdependent sectors and branches (aimed at
determining realistic orders of magnitudes of production, conceptually within
an input/output framework), and regional adjustments between Republics and
Provinces (aimed at both horizontal and vertical consolidation). The socio-
political communities participate in this process by ensuring observance of
the broad priorities, targets and constraints, and by resolving conflicts
which cannot be resolved by the direct participants. The evolving consoli-
dated programs of action, which in their totality constitute the operational
portion of the Plan, are codified in the form of "social contracts" or "self-
management agreements" which are legally binding for the whole Plan period
unless renegotiated in the case of major deviations occurring in the course of
Plan implementation. The new Plan differs from the previous one in strength-
ening and formalizing the commitments for implementation by enterprises, banks
and government institutions.



-7-
Creditworthiness
18.       In spite of the recent balance of payments problems, the prospects
for Yugoslavia's continued economic growth during the next decade are good.
The country's endowment of natural and human resources, its relatively low
dependence on imported primary energy, its pragmatic approach to economic
problems and its readiness to undertake institutional changes, combine to
give grounds for a favorable assessment of future prospects. Yugoslavia will
need to continue to raise foreign capital on a fairly large scale, mostly
from established channels such as the Euro-currency market, suppliers' credits
and the World Bank. In addition, greater use may be made of credit lines from
COMECON countries and the European Communities, and efforts are being intensi-
fied to open up new sources of capital in OPEC countries. The debt service
ratio is likely to remain in 1976 at the same level as in 1975 (around 17 per-
cent), and it is expected to decline slightly in the subsequent years. Taking
into account Yugoslavia's debt service record and the measures taken in the
past to control balance of payments problems, as well as the prospective
growth of production and structural improvement of the balance of trade,
Yugoslavia remains creditworthy for a substantial amount of Bank lending.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
19.       The Bank has made thirty-nine loans to Yugoslavia totalling about
US$1,313 million. Of this amount, approximately 47 percent (US$620.4 mil-
lion) has been for fourteen loans for the transportation sector--seven for
highways totalling US$220.0 million, four for railways totalling US$248.0 mil-
lion, US$59.4 million for natural gas, US$49.0 million for oil pipelines, and
US$44.0 million for a port project. Bank lending has generally concentrated
on infrastructure including, in addition to the transportation loans, power
(three loans totalling US$135.0 million), telecommunications (one loan for
US$40.0 million), four multipurpose projects totalling US$123.0 million and
US$51.0 million for two water supply and sewerage projects. Ten loans have
also been made for industry and two each for tourism and agriculture. The
first Bank loan for air pollution control was approved May 25, 1976. In
addition, IFC has made investments in nine Yugoslav enterprises totalling
about US$130.0 million. Experience with on-going projects has been generally
good. Annex II contains a summary statement of Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of November 30, 1976, and notes on the execution of on-going projects.
20.       The basic thrust of the Bank's activities in Yugoslavia continues
to be dictated by the following interrelated, yet distinct objectives:
(a) support of the Yugoslav efforts to accelerate development in
the Less Developed Regions (LDRs);
(b) promotion of agricultural development in both the private and
social sectors by providing basic infrastructure and credit;



-8-
(c) encouragement of structural reforms in the major sectors
through improved coordination, institution-building and
technical assistance;
(d) help in the identifying and financing of gaps in basic
infrastructure--particularly transport and energy; and
(e) alleviation of critical shortages of convertible foreign
exchange by providing part of the required long-term capital,
encouraging and promoting Yugoslavia's efforts to tap other
sources of medium- and long-term capital, and supporting
projects which generate or conserve foreign exchange.
These objectives have guided Bank lending in previous years. It is obvious
that each Bank operation cannot address all these objectives which are not
always fully compatible. There has, however, been an evolving change in the
relative weights of these objectives with particular emphasis being directed
towards the support for the lesser developed regions and the agricultural
sector.
21.       Our emphasis on aiding the accelerated development of the LDRs is
fully in accord with the Federal Government's wishes and avowed policy to
reverse the widening gap between the richest and the poorest regions (Slovenia
and Kosovo). Over the past two years, over two-thirds of our lending has been
to the lesser developed regions, and we hope to maintain a comparable pattern
of distribution over the medium-term, though there will undoubtedly be year to
year fluctuations. Over the next two years, operations envisaged for LDRs in-
clude a second loan for agricultural credit, another loan for irrigation and
loans for agricultural industries. Proposed loans for agriculture and agro-
industries projects in Macedonia and Montenegro have been negotiated and are
expected to be presented to the Executive Directors shortly. Highway, railway
and power transmission projects during the same period will both assist the
LDRs and promote structural reforms in the transport and energy sectors. IFC
is currently investigating several new investment opportunities to encourage
joint ventures which would provide technical, management and marketing exper-
tise as well as long-term capital.
22.       In recognition of the fact that such an expanded investment pro-
gram for the LDRs would need to be preceded by a systematic survey of these
regions to take stock of development potential and identify constraints,
the Bank undertook and completed economic surveys of the four LDRs (Kosovo,
Bosnia-Herzegovina,. Macedonia and Montenegro).  These regional surveys, coupled
with intensified Bank assistance in project formulation, should enable the
Bank to achieve a high level of participation in the development of these
regions.
23.       The Bank supported and assisted in the formulation of the 1973
"Green Plan" which, in addition to providing a comprehensive framework for
promoting agricultural development, recognized and encouraged the role of the
private sector which holds almost 85 percent of the cultivated land and employs
over 90 percent of the farm population.- It is now generally appreciated that



-9-
the private farm sector can--given sufficient support in terms of extension
services, credit for inputs and basic infrastructural facilities--generate
significant increases in production. Our loans for the Ibar Multipurpose
Project (Loan No. 777-YU) in Kosovo, the Agro-Industries Project (Loan No.
894-YU) in Macedonia and the Agricultural Credit Project (Loan No. 1129-YU)
have given special attention to the needs of the private farm sector. The
proposed project and the forthcoming projects for agro-industries, irrigation
and agricultural credit will support agriculture development in general and
in particular the private sector.
24.       Decentralized management, which is the cornerstone of Yugoslavia's
socio-economic philosophy, compounds the inherent complexities of coherent
sector planning which are evident in any economy. This is of particular rele-
vance to the transport and energy sectoirs. The Bank's significant involvement
in these sectors, both in terms of mone|y and technical assistance, has helped
to highlight the critical need for, and to evolve mechanisms to further country-
wide coordination of, sectoral investment programs and policies. The limited,
yet discernible progress made has been supported by our lending for'electric
power distribution, railways and highways. Our continuing involvement in the
transport and power sectors, though the funds we can make available are limited,
will, we hope, have further beneficial impact on fostering coordination. For
instance, a proposed eighth highway project, for which we expect to negotiate
a loan shortly, will provide for studies of road-user charges and railway costs
which the Government and ourselves believe essential for fostering inter-modal
coordination and devising a policy framework for the transport sector.
25.       A persistent foreign resource gap looms as the major impediment to
Yugoslavia's ability to attain its growth targets. While the Yugoslavs are
making concerted efforts to open up and enlarge access to Western financial
markets and institutions (including the European Investment Bank), there is
presently no concrete evidence of substlantial additional inflows. The Bank,
therefore, remains a major source of long-term external capital for the
foreseeable future. In our financing of infrastructure projects, we propose
to devote particular attention to those which have clear possibilities of
attracting co-financing and where our participation, albeit limited, is likely
to induce the entry of financing partners.
26.       The level of Bank lending has remained constant, averaging about
US$200 million annually during the period FY74-76. Although this represents
only a small proportion of the country's need for external finance, it is
equivalent to almost one-third of the annual long-term official capital in-
flow in convertible currencies. Yugoslavia's debt to the Bank amounts to
about one-fifth of its total public debt outstanding and disbursed. The
outstanding debt to the Bank is, however, expected to decline gradually from
its current level of less than 10 percent of Yugoslavia's total external debt.
Service on Bank loans as a proportion of total debt service was 4 percent in
1974 and is projected to increase to about 6 percent in 1980.



- 10 -
PART III - THE AGRICULTURE AND WATER SUPPLY SECTORS
Agriculture in Yugoslavia
27.       The agriculture sector, which occupies about one-third of the pop-
ulation and accounts for around 15 percent of the GMP 1/ in 1975 has grown at
an average rate of about 3 percent during 1970-75. In view of emerging food
deficits and rural poverty, increasing emphasis is being placed upon accelerat-
ing agricultural development, and the new Plan (1976-80) projects an increase
in the growth rate to about 4 percent over the period.
28.       The country has three distinct climatic zones and a predominantly
mountainous terrain. Agricultural activities are consequently many and
varied, ranging from cultivation of wheat, maize and sugar beets in the
fertile plains, to livestock rearing in the upland pastures, and cultivation
of sub-tropical crops and fruits along the Adriatic Coast and in the catch-
ment basin of the Aegean Sea.
29.       An important feature of Yugoslav agriculture is the co-existence of
social and private sectors. The social sector, which grew out of the postwar
collectivization, is made up of a number of different institutions including
kombinats (integrated factory farms), cooperatives and research institutions;
this sector accounts for about one-third of the total agricultural output,
controls 15 percent of agricultural land, and employs about 6 percent of agri-
cultural manpower. In contrast, the private sector, which controls 85 per-
cent of the cultivated land and employs over 90 percent of agricultural man-
power, is handicapped by fragmented and poor quality landholdings and has
been neglected in terms of provision of basic infrastructure, financing and
technology. The Government now recognizes that any further significant growth
in production will have to emanate from the private farms, and has accordingly
launched programs which embrace the private sector and give it access to in-
frastructural facilities, credit, improved technology through exteniion ser-
vices and cooperation with the social sector, and also to marketing|services.
30.       The Bank has, to date, made two loans for agricultural projects:
the first being the Agro-Industries Project in Macedonia (Loan No. 894-YU)
in 1973, which primarily involves the social sector, and the Agricultural
Credit Project (Loan No. 1129-YU) in 1975, 30 percent of the funds provided
therein being made available directly to the private sector. In addition to
the proposed project, the bulk of which will directly involve the private
sector, two agricultural and agro-industries projects (referred to in para-
graph 21 above) one for the Republic of Montenegro--primarily involving the
social sector--and the other for the Republic of Macedonia, which has signif-
icant involvement of the private sector, have been negotiated and are expected
to be submitted to the Executive Directors shortly. In addition to these
1/   GMP (Gross Material Product) corresponds to GDP (Gross Domestic Product)
less output of certain services, such as public administration, defense,
education, health and social insurance.



- 11 -
five agricultural projects, previous Bank loans for multipurpose projects
have included small agricultural components, such as irrigation works under
the Ibar Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU) of 1971 and two pilot irriga-
tion projects under the Morava Region Development Project (Loan No. 1262-YU)
of 1976, both involving primarily private sector farmers. The mix between
involvement in the social and private agricultural sectors in Bank projects
in Yugoslavia has been determined in each particular case by the Federal
and Republican Governments' own efforts for the social and private sectors,
the high priority attached to the specific agricultural project and the
relative absorptive capacity of the private and social sectors.
31.       Agricultural Policy in Kosovo.   Kosovo is the poorest member of
the Yugoslav Federation with an estimated per capita income of one-third the
national average. The province accounts for about 6 percent of the population
in the country, or 1.6 million persons, but contributes only 2 percent of the
GMP. Although the GMP growth rate in the province has about equalled the
national average in recent years, the per capita income has tended to decline
in relation to the national average owing to the rapid increase in the provin-
cial population (about 2.4 percent per year). Agricultural policy for Kosovo
must therefore provide a response to two dominant problems: a rapidly-growing
population and increasing underemployment in rural areas.
32.       Thus, the challenge for agriculture is to ease underemployment and
create additional employment through the intensification and extension of
agriculture. To this end, Kosovo seeks to foster the growth of smallholder
productivity, primarily through irrigation development as well as credit
provision and by expanding the capacity of the social sector to absorb and
process the output from the smallholder sector. Two major programs have been
promoted in Kosovo to attain these goals, the Ibar-Lepenac Program, under
which falls the Ibar Multipurpose Project (Loan 777-YU), and which envisages
the irrigation of about 73,000 ha, and the master plan for the water re-
sources development of the Metohija region, which includes the proposed
project, and which foresees irrigation of about 93,000 ha.
33.       The Ibar Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU), the first of its
kind undertaken by Kosovo, experienced a number of difficulties and delays
which have now been largely resolved. These included significant cost over-
runs due to unforeseen international and domestic inflation. The additional
financing requirements have been met from Provincial and Federal sources.
A major impediment to the progress of the irrigation distribution system was
the delay in the legislation which permits adjustment of boundaries of small
parcels of land owned by private farmers. This, too, has now been overcome,
and enabling legislation was enacted in July of this year, and consultants
have commenced work on the laying out of the system.
Water Supply
34.       As it is generally the case in Yugoslavia, public water supplies
are the responsibility of the local communes which organize water departments
(vodovods) for construction, operation and maintenance of water supply systems.



- 12 -
In addition, a number of water management organizations, autonomous enter-
prises, develop new water resources for other purposes, including irrigation,
flood control and stream regulation. The activities of these latter organiza-
tions may also extend to domestic and industrial-water supply, though, in
general, the emphasis has been on providing water for agriculture.
35.       Of the 1.6 million persons living in Kosovo, less than 10 percent
have access to public water supply systems. Geophysical influences cause
variable rainfall distribution, provoking frequent floods in spring and winter
and acute water shortages in the summer and fall when industrial and agricul-
tural demand is highest. Further, discharges of untreated wastewater into
local water sources often contaminate the supply of drinking water.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
36.       Owing to the chronic problem of inadequate water supply for agri-
cultural, domestic and industrial requirements, a master plan for water
resource development in Metohija was prepared in 1973 by the Yugoslav con-
sultants, Energoprojekt. The plan determined that it would be possible to
irrigate as much as 93,000 ha by providing for water storage facilities at
different sites; from this plan was derived a water resources development
program for the Metohija region (see attached maps IBRD 12061R and 12062R)
conceived in two phases which, when completed, would irrigate about 21,000 of
the aforementioned 93,000 ha and provide industrial and domestic water supply
for three towns and forty-seven villages.
37.       A feasibility study for the proposed project (the first phase of
the development of the Hydro-System Radenic) was prepared by Water Management
Organization "Metohija" (VOM) and its consultants (Kosovoprojekt) with the
assistance of the IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program, and subsequently submitted to
the Bank in 1975. This project would provide for (a) intensive irrigation of
10,250 ha, of which 6,950 ha are owned by 2,200 smallholder private sector
families and the remainder by the social sector, and (b) domestic and indus-
trial water supply in an area affected by water-borne diseases and whose
industrial development is hampered because of inadequate water supply. The
project was appraised by two Bank missions, in November 1975 and in January
1976. Negotiations were held November 8-19, 1976. The Yugoslav delegation
was led by Mr. Djemsit Durici, Secretary for Finance and Member of the Exe-
cutive Council of Kosovo.
Project Objectives and Description
38.       The proposed loan and project are summarized in Annex III and
described in detail in the report "Appraisal of Metohija I Multipurpose
Project, Report No. 1218-YU". This report, dated December 17, 1976, is
being distributed separately to the Executive Directors.



- 13 -
39.       As originally determined in the master plan for water resource de-
velopment in Metohija, an optimal long-term solution for water supply needs
would include a reliable water source enabling gravity distribution to a
maximum number of consumers. Such a source is foreseen under the proposed
project in the provision of Radenic Dam, fed principally by diversions from
the Decanska Bistrica River, which would supply water for joint use on the
basis of 20 percent for domestic and industrial purposes and 80 percent for
irrigation. This would meet major objectives to benefit a portion of
Yugoslavia's poverty target population (those with a per capita income of
US$160.0 equivalent or less) by increasing crop production, raising labor
productivity and improving water supply.
40.       The project would include:
(a) construction of the Radenic Dam;
(b) a diversion weir with intake works and a feeder canal;
(c) water supply works for three towns (Djakovica, Orahovac and
Zrze) and twelve villages, including a water treatment plant
with pumping equipment and new water storage facilities;
(d) an irrigation distribution system; and
(e) miscellaneous works comprising drainage, erosion control,,
soil improvement, power supply lines, equipment, farm roads,
buildings, demonstration farms and consultant services.
Project Cost Estimates and Financing Plan
41.       Total project costs are estimated at US$88.3 million equivalent
excluding taxes and duties but including physical and price contingencies.
The foreign exchange component would amount to US$43.0 million equivalent or
49 percent of total costs. Taxes and duties are estimated at about US$22.0
million equivalent. Interest and other charges during construction on the
proposed Bank loan are estimated at about US$11.0 million equivalent. Overall
contingencies amount to about 49 percent of base cost. Details of the cost
estimates are shown in Annex III.
42.       The proposed Bank loan to VOM of US$54.0 million would finance in
full (a) the estimated foreign exchange component of the project cost, and
(b) the estimated interest and other charges during construction on the Bank
loan. This would represent about 55 percent of project costs (including
interest during the five-year construction period on the Bank loan). Local
costs of US$45.3 million equivalent, or about 45 percent of total costs, would
be met by loans from Kosovo to VOM channelled through the Bank of Kosovo
(Kosovska Banka Pristina). Kosovo would obtain these resources from the
Federal Fund referred to in para 7 of this report.



- 14 -
Project Implementation
43.       The Water Management Organization, "Metohija" (VOM), the borrower
of the Bank loan and the entity responsible for project implementation, is a
socially-owned autonomous enterprise which constructs; operates and maintains
irrigation and water supply systems in the Metohija region and, as an Organi-
zation of Associated Labor, is comprised of three Units of Associated Labor:
Irrigation, Construction and Engine Repair and Maintenance. A Joint Service
is attached to the directorate of VOM to handle administrative matters.
44.       Under the proposed project, VOM plans to transform its three units
into Basic Organizations of Associated Labor (BOALs--see para 5 of this report)
and would, itself, be expanded to include a new organism, BOAL Hydro-System
Radenic, created to bear responsibility for operation and maintenance of the
proposed project. The irrigation works would be operated and maintained by
four Sector Offices of the Operations Division of the BOAL Hydro-System
Radenic. Each sector would service about 2,500 ha. Field operation staff
would cooperate with extension units to promote proper use of irrigation
water. The water supply facilities, except for distribution systems for
the towns of Djakovica and Orahovac and the water treatment plant, would be
operated and maintained by the four sectors mentioned above. The towns of
Djakovica and Orahovac would operate and maintain their distribution systems
through the existing water departments (vodovods), as at present. The water
treatment plant would be operated by BOAL Hydro-System Radenic, but under the
control of a separate Chemist-Manager, who would be assisted by technicians.
The BOAL Hydro-System Radenic would supply potable water for consumers in
rural areas and directly to industry in the towns of Djakovica, Orahovac and
Zrze on the basis of metered bulk supply. Agreement was reached during nego-
tiations that (a) VOM would create Hydro-System Radenic under arrangements
satisfactory to Kosovo, VOM and the Bank, prior to December 31, 1978 (Loan
Agreement Section 1.02 (d)), and (b) Hydro-System Radenic would employ at
all times a qualified and experienced engineer to act as its Director and a
qualified finarrcial expert to act as his Deputy (Loan Agreement Section 3.01
(c)). In addition, and in view of the very substantial increase expected in
its operational and financial activities, VOM's General Director would be
assisted by a qualified person appointed as Financial Director. The appoint-
ment of the latter is a condition of effectiveness of the Loan Agreement
(Section 8.01 (b)).
45.       Extension Services.  Joint Services would be enlarged by the es-
tablishment of an Agricultural and a Technical Division. The Agricultural
Division, in cooperation with various national agricultural institutes, would
provide extension services and help in the adoption of new irrigation tech-
nology by farmers, and would provide training for new agricultural staff. The
Technical Division would provide engineering design support to field units.
It would be assisted by consultants, who would be responsible to the General
Director.
Marketing
46.       Project output would be marketed   through established networks.
Kombinats in the project area would purchase industrial crops, fruits and



- 15 -
most vegetables from all producers through annual contracts for processing.
Sales of these commodities and/or their products outside of Kosovo would
be coordinated by Agro-Kosovo Kombinat, which has future delivery contracts
with major buying and selling organizations throughout Yugoslavia and with
importers in West Germany and other Eur,opean countries. Cereals would be
distributed through existing wholesale grain enterprises which are equipped
to handle incremental output of grains from the project area. A portion of
project output of vegetables would be marketed by farmers through peasant
free markets in Prizren and the surrounding area.
Procurement and Disbursement
47.       Contracts for civil works and equipment financed under the proposed
Bank loan would be grouped, to the extent practicable, into 10 contracts
totalling about US$61.0 million which would be tendered on the basis of
international competitive bidding. A preference margin of 15 percent, or
prevailing custom duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids for equipment under international competitive
bidding.
48.       Procurement in accordance with local competitive bidding, following
Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank, would be appropriate
for the remaining contracts totalling about US$15.3 million. These contracts
would cover such items as the first section of the main canal, the access road
to the Radenic Dam, the diversion tunnel, grouting, erosion control works and
buildings. Most of the works are scattered over the project area, are of
minor nature and would be built at different times. Construction of the ter-
tiary network and farm roads, and soil improvement measures (cost: US$11.0
million) would be carried out by VOM under force account. Individual purchases
of equipment not exceeding US$40,000 in value would be allowed to be procured
in accordance with applicable local procedures, which are acceptable, up to an
aggregate value of US$300,000.
49.       To avoid unnecessary delay of further project design, VOM has, in
accordance with normal Bank procedure, contacted a foreign consultant firm
acceptable to the Bank for assistance in final design of the irrigation
component and has requested retroactive financing for these services. The
Bank will review the terms of reference and draft contract documents prior to
its formal approval. With this understanding, it is recommended that the Bank
finance retroactively expenditures up to a total amount of US$100,000 for this
purpose.
50.       Disbursement of the Bank loan would begin in the third quarter of
1977 and be completed by June 30, 1982.   It would be made on the basis of:
40 percent of total expenditure for civil works; 100 percent of foreign ex-
penditure, or 100 percent of ex-factory cost of equipment manufactured locally;
20 percent of total expenditure for headquarters and field office buildings
and demonstration farms; 100 percent of foreign expenditure for consultants;
and amounts due on interest and other charges during construction on the Bank
loan.



- 16 -
Cost Recovery
51.       The cost of investment in, and operation and maintenance of proj-
ect facilities which are common to the irrigation and water supply components
would be allocated to each component in proportion to the volume of water
used. Costs relating to the water supply component would be totally recovered
from beneficiaries through water charges. Costs relating to the irrigation
component would be only partially recovered since, despite the substantial
increase in incomes of irrigation beneficiaries expected under the project,
these incomes will still fall within Yugoslavia's poverty target range, and
irrigation beneficiaries' average per capita consumption level would remain
considerably below the country's projected average. With a view to VOM's
needs, as well as to financing continuing development while avoiding excessive
tariff rates that would undermine the incentive of poor farmers to participate,
proposed charges for the irrigation component would therefore be designed to
recover 100 percent of the operation and maintenance and only about 10 percent
of investment costs over a project life of 40 years. The actual water charges
to be levied on the farmers as well as the kombinats would be agreed with the
Bank and, for the first three years of irrigation, these charges would be
increased gradually, attaining the full rate in the fourth year following
commencement of irrigation. During negotiations it was agreed that VOM would
collect, from the start of irrigation, water charges annually at rates that
would be agreed with the Bank, and would review these rates periodically in
consultation with the Bank (Loan Agreemen Section 5.07).
52.       As noted in the preceding paragraph, investment in and operation and
maintenance cost of water supply facilities would be recovered through a water
tariff. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that VOM would impose
charges for potable water sufficient to provide in any given year, commencing
in 1981, revenues to cover all administrative and operating expenses (includ-
ing depreciation) incurred in providing the supply, as well as capital costs
of the project (Loan Agreement, Section 5.07). In addition, it was agreed
that such revenues would be sufficient to provide a rate of return on the
fixed assets employed of not less than 7 percent by the year 1982 and there-
after. Although this would entail a fourfold increase over the present
charges for domestic supplies in the project area, its price is broadly
consistent with charges for water supplies for other Bank-assisted projects
in rural and small urban areas of Yugoslavia.
Financial Performance
53.       Although VOM earned a small net income in the past three years,
these financial results are not useful as a guide to future performance
since the proposed project would substantially expand the scale of VOM's
operations. Under the proposed project, the sale of potable water will pro-
duce a positive rate of return on the attributable assets from the outset,
rising to 20 percent by 1987. However, the constraints on pricing the irriga-
tion service (para 51) mean that this activity will incur operating losses,



- 17 -
reducing the financial rate of return to the project to 3 percent in that year.
The other activities of VOM will by then be so small in comparison to the
operation of the project as to have no significant effect on VOM's overall
rate of return.
54.       All the funds for project construction will be provided in the form
of loans from IBRD and the Bank of Kosovo. The loans have repayment terms of
12 and 20 years respectively, compared with a project life of approximately
40 years. Taken in conjunction with the low rate of return, this situation
imposes on VOM a debt service burden which is beyond its capability to support
from operational cash flow; for practical purposes this condition may be ex-
pected to persist, though to a diminishing extent, until retirement of the
proposed Bank loan in 1992. Therefore, a financing plan has been developed
to provide VOM with the funds it requires during this period. The plan com-
prises grants by Kosovo to cover (i) the amount of all maturities of the Bank
loan due for repayment before December 31, 1981 and (ii) a certain portion of
the interest and other charges payable by VOM on the Bank loan and the first
Bank of Kosovo loan (for capital financing) in the years 1982 to 1989 in-
clusive. In addition, a second loan from the Bank of Kosovo to be repaid
over 25 years beginning in 1993, would provide roll-over financing, between
1982 and 1991, of part of the original project loans. The assurances necessary
to implement this financing plan were received at negotiations from Kosovo and
the Bank of Kosovo (Section 6.02, Recital (D) (i) and (iii) of the Preamble
and Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement).
55.       The effect of these arrangements is to secure a small positive cash
flow for VOM in each of the years following project completion. Although the
enterprise will be entirely debt-financed for a number of years, it can rea-
sonably be expected to be capable of servicing this debt without aid by 1992,
and to develop an increasing degree of self-financing thereafter.
56.       Boundary Adjustment and Irrigation Systems.   Of the 10,250 ha in-
cluded under the project, 6,950 ha are private freehold and 80 percent of the
smallholders falling within this category own less than 5 ha. These small
private holdings are of irregular shape and often consist of scattered parcels.
It would, therefore, have been desirable to carry out land consolidation and
to design on-farm irrigation systems accordingly. But land consolidation,
because it is opposed by the conservative local farm population, is not fea-
sible. For this reason, a law allowing minor boundary adjustment to regularize
the haphazard shape of small parcels has been passed by the Kosovo Assembly.
Farmers in the project area have been consulted on this matter, and have
agreed in principle to it, and on-farm irrigation systems for private holders,
including portable sprinkler equipment, have been designed. It wals agreed
during negotiations that VOM will carry out a program of adjustment of farm
boundaries to permit regular irrigation layout (Loan Agreement Section 4.05).
57.       Accounts and Audit.   The greatly increased scale of operations
envisaged by the project would place significantly greater demands on the
accounting systems and staff. Therefore, assurances have been given that



- 18 -
VOM would recruit suitably qualified personnel and, if necessary, modify its
accounting, budgeting and financial procedures to ensure accurate information
on current financial performance and future projections. VOM's accounts are
audited by the Social Accounting Service of Yugoslavia (SAS) and would be
reviewed in the *future by a special group of SAS inspectors trained in carry-
ing out audits to international standards acceptable to the Bank (Loan Agree-
ment, Sections 3.01(b)(iv), 5.02 and 5.03).
Benefits and Justification
58.       The principal beneficiaries of the irrigation component would be
about 2,200 smallholder and poor private farmers and their families whose
average current per capita income is estimated at about US$150 equivalent.
At full project development by 1985, however, the proposed project would
increase this per capita income by about 170 percent to US$412 equivalent in
1975 prices. The project would also increase profits to the social sector and
incomes to its workers, it would reduce instability in crop production and
help a sugar factory in the area by providing a cheaper source of sugar beet.
Ultimately, indirect beneficiaries would include other residents of Kosovo
through greater availability of domestically produced goods. Underemployment,
particularly of smallholder private farmers, would diminish as a result of a
doubling of labor productivity.
59.       The irrigation development costs, which roughly amount to US$4,700
per hectare or US$15,000 per family, can be regarded as high, though not un-
usually so when compared with other irrigation projects elsewhere. Further-
more, these costs must be assessed in the context of the limited development
alternatives that exist within this particularly poor region of Yugoslavia
as well as the country's ability to afford such costs.
60.       The water supply component, by providing new sources of hygienic
water, would benefit the entire population of the project area (presently
64,700). It would, as well, benefit social sector industrial enterprises
and persons within the project area and an increasing livestock population
owned by private farmers.
61.       The economic rate of return on all project components is estimated
at about 11 percent. The rates of return on the irrigation component and on
the water supply component are computed at approximately 11 percent each.
Relatively high investment costs result partly from the inclusion in Phase I
(the proposed Metohija I project) of costs of those common facilities which
would serve both Phases I and II of Hydro-system Radenic. If the investment
costs were prorated between Phases I and II, the economic rate of return on
Phase I would be about 13 percent. The social rate of return of the project,
which measures the effects of the project on both economic growth and on
income distribution, is computed at about 16.6 percent.
62.       Though the proposed project will attempt to address the problems
of a significant number of private farmers, the risks of the project not being
implemented in accordance with its agreed design and schedule and not achiev-
ing its benefits are regarded as minimal. This is owing to a number of cir-
cumstances, including the fact that crops to be grown are not new to the



- 19 -
participating farmers who traditionally have also had experience with some
form of irrigation. This, along with provision of complementary inputs and
supporting agricultural services to be established by the project entity, is
expected to expedite the achievement of project goals. Furthermore, officials
of the Government of the Province of Kosovo as well as other local authorities
have learned valuable lessons from past experience with such undertakings as
the Ibar Multipurpose Project (Loan No. 777-YU--para 33), and the proposed
project stands to benefit from the now mandated boundary adjustment program
for small parcels of land owned by private farmers (para 56). Thus, the risks
for the project are low.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
63.       The draft Loan Agreement between the Bank, Kosovo and Vodoprivredna
Organizacija "Metohija"; the draft Guarantee Agreement between the Socialist
Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Bank; the report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement;
and, the text of a draft resolution approving the above loan, are being
distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
64.       Provisions of the agreements of special interest are noted in para-
graphs 44, 51, 52, 54, 56 and 57 of this report. Special conditions of. loan
effectiveness (Loan Agreement Section 8.01) are:
(a) Execution and authorization or ratification of the Kosovska
Banka Loan Agreement (para 42 of this report); and
(b)  Appointment of VOM's Financial Director (para 44 of this
report).
65.       I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Bank.
PART IV - RECOMMENDATIONS
66.       1 recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed loan.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by J. Burke Knapp
Attachments






V.  W
-2In
me  *c                                                                                       C
::-                                                                      41~~0  C  ho --  0 
40 0 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  
a 
V                                                                                           S
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~z                                     A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
A  ZI2
CP  mmoom                                          Ct O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
2 0              o  Z                                      o  Vm P.-    t fuW
0  6                                                                          ci~~ma f4 t  0  v I 
~~~o W ~ ~ - 
I. C  C C   -~~~~~~~~~~ 054                                00                          * 
OC  Xc                      0-                                               -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C rc IZ9L W cc:
CC~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ VC 
C  OC                                                                           I~~~~~~~~~~~~~r, 7WVIC  _ _
Mee_                                                                                      C
oNe  C            ci       CiUiiuI.5Iv*W -.i                 a   I  IJ  'n  7Z-   -I'-I    I
C oc-c  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~ cC 
056  tao cc  a  00~~~W I  0 :.c CWI  h  .. 0-a, ... C0' CC  0 V     CC  I0      Z 1 C 0 - 0 0
ooeftoa           6         EW r-C                         -  a.OC     00 -  ..4     0   P.4 
C-C  S  CO  CO          0'                001.1   -                        0   C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ a -M - 0   .  .  L9~ -
Zc  ci CC                                                                                  - )c3 f-6 I 
CCC  C                                                                                 c~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
sCow  c                                                                                    c~aa  aa 
.A   Z  a-4I                                                                CC
CO c   I                           W&V                          C.0 



Pega 2 of 4 pgage
NOTE
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year betweoeo 1959 and 1961, for 1970 berwa.o 1968 and 1970 sod for Meet Ronent atiseeta betwee
1973 and 1971.
I  Agritulturs land held by comb!.. hetor 'lKnnbfmace', n Agrlcaltorm lend held by privato, amll-holders "110 hectoreosio.
Selection of Federal Republic of rermny as an objenctive       -to ry is based on the o1oe ecnoic ties maintained by the two countries           as wait as
oo the fact that the greeter Pert Of Tugoaavies aroun.d one million woritera teuporarily abroad hio- found          sployaent in the Fadr.ra   topubio of
YUf-OSLAVIA             1960    /a1961;       lb   Including aidwive, asletcst     midivs,      esitont ourace and noraig .cellsrir-
1970         Including midwies e..  s.ietact eidtfons   .. aeiocat murena and norain  -anailare.
MOST RECEN   ESTIMATE:    /a  1972-     Ab  1971;     Ic  Including about 8IO thounand migrant workere working outaide;          IdRsdet
only;     7l  Including   idvosie, asisitamti.didwivsa, assistant ournce and oursotg auilarles;
If  Goveemaent hospital establteionente;      JR   1969-71 average;     Lh    Inside-     It  Ratio Of popuietioo
under iS and h5 end over to total labor force.
RfWItPA:                1970    I    The calculation of the.n figures is under dincse .   im; the eatinste foe 1975 1e 9i300;        /b  Ratio of popuIlaion under
15 and 65 and over to total labor forte.,      Ic   roll-time education only;      I'd  1966;   -7.   Ineide.
SPAIN                   1970        Fuoggiatered unemployed;     lb  Regiatered, nout all practLicin   So the country;     I   6-10 and 11-16 yeatn Of age
respect-ivey.
GERMANY FED. REP.       1970    Ia   TOra, orhen and rural;       lb  Inside only.
Ill3, Decbenh 6, 1976
RXPUTNITCSN OP SOCIAL IRDICATORS
Land Area (thou kn2)                                                                 Pooulti-operncuraioa pcrem      - Population divided by cobat of practitiug
Totl     Total surface compriuIog land are- and inland -oes.mle enod femal                              gradato notat, 'treined" or "certified" nurana , and
bARb. - Hoot recen     eti.ata of agriculcura1 area ued tempora rily or                auxliary pronoel with training or e-perienc..      .
peroanetlyl for crpo, pasrure, market & kitchan gardana or to lIeto.lto                      per hoopital bed - Papuiacion divided by conk- of hoopirsi beds
fallow,                                                                            available ino public and private general and opecie1lond hoapirol and
CNII                                                             '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ehabilitation centers; excludes ooeing bra-. and ontabiloinbento for
C  IPpe capidtb (1$  - GlNP Per capita eotiuareo at 6urreet   -arkt pricea.         cuatodial and preventive cart.
cac ted by an   n   -covrion  ethud as World Rank Atlas (1973-75              Par capita supplv of caloie    f  o   reaulrenntsl - Computed from     energy
bauim); 1960, 19 70 and 1970 data.                                                  equivalent of net fodopln           via     Le in outry Per caP ita per day;
avala ble supplina comptian disuestit production, importe lens enporte,
Poculariog and viral atatiocica                                                        and rhnges in etockc; net supplios exclude animal feed, oced., quanti-
P.oaciactL   fold-r. million) - As ofJuly first:      if nor.. avalable,               tins need in fond pracenuing and Iounen In distribution;, reqoitements
a-erog   of two ond-yanr cutixtaco; 1960, 1970 and 1975 data,                       ware etimnatod bly FA0 hone.d on Phyniolgsi.al nand    for annea   activity
and health connidanig envlrometal txperature, body veighro, og.eand
Population mushy - pcr usluteo          Mid-yea   Population Pet square bib.-         eo   distributions of population, end allowing 10% for score       t bone.-
meter (100 hectaro    of to:tal arcs,                                              hold Level.
Pooulatioc density - onr suars ls of antIc, loud - Computed as shove, far            Per capita ouppic of proteinL (Rao.O,ef day) - protein contnet of Pet
agniculcural loud only.                                        o~~~~~~~."iair  not supply of food per day; net supply of food in defined as
above.    "I rouret   for all em-nrina ostablinhad by V70A Eu-oic
vital atatiotico                                                                       Resea.rch Servicnprovida for a nini.-o aloac            f 61 gram   Of totol
Crude birth rate or thouesnd -      ooAl..  live births per rhounand of mid-           protein per day, and 20 grewa Of animal and polse protein, of which
year populatioo, ten-year arithmetic -veroges ending in 1960 and 1970,              10 Rrann ahouId be ainat protein, these utandards are Lover thee those
and five-year avrogo ending in 1973 for moor recent estimate,                       of 71 gram   of total proteIn end 23 groan of an-Ima     protein. as.e
Crude destb rota par th-.uod - Ac-Ia daths par thoun...d of         id-ymr              average for the world, proposed by tAoi in the Third Wonld Fand Survey.
population  . rc-ycar urithsctio utag-an ending in 1960 and 1970, nod           fr, onc    uottooPpiw,..i-mom       Asw..lal. noSest - Psroio etCoe     f nc
(inc-year average -ndlog in 1975 fur moot recen.t etimate,                         deie      rmaiassd             selo  in Sr---  per day.
Infect mortality rate (Inhuo    - Aco-l doaths ofL      :niata under one year Of     Dahrate     thou) agesI-b -4     Annual dantha per thousaud in age    roup
ag  per thousand live births..Iiys.                                                             to children in thia age group; nuggentedasn indicator of
life eupactency at birth fyra) - Average aobor of ye.ar of life remaining              malnutrition.
at birth; ..auolly ficn-you overagn ending in 1960, 1970 and 1975 for
deoneIoping ununriec,-                                                            Edcainrl-             rti-pr.             c-   -Enometf.1             g.
Croon reproduction rate - Avensge nnber of lire, d.Sgbrer       a woa    wii         Ajse.nnlnnrru-piar1rol-trlmeno1l                                      gsa
beerInhrnma         reproductive period If abe emperienre     pre....r age-         percent.ae of Primary achoa1-age population; includes children aged
oprIfi  fertility cacao    osoe...ly five-year averges ending in 1960,             6-11 ynar.o hut adjuoted for differn-t lengths of pti-nry oduecatio,
1107an    19751 for developing  -tocriet.                                           frcutiswt           uionleuain             enrolment may en..oed 100%
pooclaion growth rac     t     oa      -CoPound annual growth rate     of mid-         nince   _    P L0 uIs  ar   hem  or shoe the- offLicia  achb l age.
yea   populatio  fo    91-0      6-5sd 1970-75,                                   Adiunted_enrol1lment ratio-ncodrsho              - Computed on abhove,
-uunlaaoth rtat    5%) - urban  C-Coputed like growth rote of total              socundary edu-caton requiresn    Isi ea  four yaars of appr-,d prinary
population, differoat definitiouc of urban areas n.y affect cop.ra-                  Lmot-ution, provides general, vocational or teacher training
b1iliy ogfdata anong countries SInLatrucciona for pupils of 12 to 17 y.ara of oge; cotrrepudence
irkac popolrio, ft oftotaL      -   ato. of urban to totsi population;                  couraa are gene.rally excluded.
different definitiono of urhen oroo nay affect comparabilitry of dais             Yer   fsho%jpoided itrso                  eod ees            TOta  years cf
-mog countries.                                                                     athauling; at secondry lee, onal           linatmtcion nay be par-
don atruccure (percecil - Children (i-li years), working-age (15-64 yearn),             tinlly or cnploelty ..uc1uded.
andp;retired,' (65, yesrn aed ovmr) sopercentages of mid-pest pupulatios.         Vocatiuonal eny.,L1ment (T_of    j aeodrv  - Votati-ta1 institutiomo
Age decdn      aio   - Rntia ofP.1 poploton   cit  11 and 65 and ourt to             lurlude technical, indoutrial Or mther progra-s which operate
cheat of ages 15 through 44.                                                        Independently o- as depnrtnantu of aecondary innttfttina..
Et-ooic dependencyrtio - Ratio of population under 15 and 65 and -.                 Adult literacy rate _tj, - lterate .ii        (able to read .ad write) as
to rho labor forc   In age group il-hi ynr.pretg                                                of coral adult populaton aged 15 yearn and ove.t
Familty planniag - accptors (c,scltivn,thou5 - Comulati-e comber of
acceptora of birth-cotrol devices coder a.spce. of ostiona1 (emily               fimo iltR
Planning pormnceince.ption                                                        Persona par room isevaer).   - A-eroge nnber of potmon      Per roan in
yanily nla.n..a - usea f      of arie  Fne)-         rcencagec of married               occupied cano-  tiona1 dtaelllasgn in urban arean; dwellings enolude
women of child-hearing age (15-44 yearn) who 000 birth-control devices              non-permnoent atrutturen   and unoccupied parts..
to all married cano    Sono saw ge grou.p.                                        Occpied dwelIngs without pI apedrwater_'           .., lnpied conveotionab
dwlinsinuban and rural areas without inside or outsIde Piped
Emoionmnt                                                                              water isuilicien As perceta3t Of all occupied dwellings.
Total labor force ichouoand5 - Econontlctly active persona, includIng                Accena to electrlcity,fl,,f_all_ dwelliugs     - Canuentjnnl dwellings
armed tforun  and uneployed hot ercludlng hotuewinma, utudenta, etc.,                with electricity in living qu,arters as percent of total dwaliimga to
definittano In various contis       c   nut comparoble.                             urboo and rucaisra1
Labor force in og(otc         %) - Agricoltu-l labor force (in forming,              loaldulina        cn        ectedt metriicj   1)   Computed a. ohoe for
forestry, hunting and fiohicg) as percenrege of tot.l labor force.                  rura   dwellgo only.
Ulcmploved fT. of  abor force) - 11neepl-oed ar    usually defined on peranno
who steabi    su    illieg to take a job, out of a jab on a given day,            Ccesun..cio
,remined oat of a job, end a..eking work fur s specified ninimom period           Rdorctea(e            hu00        - All types of receivers for radio broad-
not enucecddg out week; may ear be comparable between countrlta due to               cau to to general public, pot thoc..and Of population; includes
different deficitions of uneployed and source of data, e.g. , employ-               unliceosed receivers in casantrita and go peace when registratIon of
cent office ataciatico,    asaple  aorvnyo, cnPu1nocY   eemplny,ueet innursce.      radio sets us    in ofset, deta fnc rcannt year. may nor be comparable
nicn- nou   -ntotrea abolished liceaning.
Inco- diarriburfon - Percentage of private incom-      (barb in ...sh end kInd)     1Panuonger, cars (get thou pap) - Pasa...ger care comprise -atot cars
r-coird by riohen- 5%, richest 2Ot, por-t 2ft, ocd po-rens 60. of                   seating les    than eight per.u.m; excludes rbls       o   h......e . ad
hooseholds.                                                                         ellitary vehnln...
Di.trib.tiOn Of J..d                                            E~~~~~~~~~~lectnitictkb/r ,gcc9,  - A-nuol c-onuptima Of industrial, ama-
Diaribriu oflon ,owers.hip - Percen.tages of land owned hy wealthiest             nerciat, public and priv.at    electricity in kilowtt bourn per capita,
lilt and poorest 1     f land owera                                                 generaly based 00 Production dare, wgtb,,r allowance for lo-aeu in
grids but allowig for imports and moporta at electricity.
Health and nutritionRware (ke/r pOr caP                                                                           - Per capita annul consumption in kilagrna.
Ponul.tio. Pet chyalciam   - Population divided by osochr of practicing                 estimated from domestic production plus net imports of n-wprint.
physiciano qualified from a nedica1 achool at unIveuIty level.



ANEX I
Page 3 of 4
RCWONMIC DEVEWPMKRT DATA
(Anounts in MiLlion US Dollars)
Actual             Prelheinsry   Projected
1972     1973     1974       1975           1976             1965-72      1972-75      1973-76       1972     1974      1976
NATIONAL ACCOOLNTS                     4on  r  19Prices and LtxhongeA Rate of 81 - 17.0 Die.            Averase A-nnal Growth Rates             As Percent of CDY
Cross Ose,eorlr Pr.oduct                21,638 22,720    24,765     25,887         26,922               5.6          6.2          5.8         97.8    100       99.3
Catos frog, Tersa of Trade                 468     6SI      -         +14            +197                                                      2.2    -          0.7
Cross Doaestic Incoe                    22,106 23,401    24,765     26,029         27,119               5.5          5.6          5.0        100.0    100      100.0
Ixports (itol. NFS)                      6,588   7,600   8,312       8,350          S,082              12.6          8.2         2.1         29.7     33.6      29.8
Reports (torl. NFSI                      3,437   5.788   5.694       5.872          6.506               8.3          2.6          4.0        24.5     23.0      24.0
Resource Cop                             1,151   1,812   2,618       2,478          1,576
Consomptioc fopendit.re                 16,139  17,716   19,953     19,795         19,670               6.7          7.0          3.5        73.0     80.6      72.5
Investoent Expenditure                   6,650   6,816   7,429       8,570          8,827               6.0          8.8          9.0        30.1     30.0      32.5
National Savings                         6,904   6,806   6,241       7,330          8,717               6.6          2.0          8.6         31.2     25.2     32.1
Domestic Savings                         5,499   5,006   4,812       6,092          7,252               3.1          3.5         13.2         24.9     19.4     26.7
MERCHANDISE TRADE                                AnMol Date at Current Prices                                                                As a Perrentage of Total
Imp,orts
Capital Goods                            689   1,004    1,305      1,887          1,877                                                     21.4     17.4     25.0
Petrolesa                                126     296     843         756          1,015                                                      3.9     11.2     13.5
Inttrnediete Goods                     1,910   2,513   4,398       4,296          3,826                                                     59.2     58.5     51.0
Coms.ooption Goods                       502     698     972         758            784                                                     13.6     12.9      10.5
Total Merch. Soports (c.i.f.)          3,227   4,511    7,518      7,697          7,502                                                    100.0    100.0     100.0
Boporta
Capital Goods                            316     389      514        695            920                                                     14.1     13.5      18.8
Textile and Leather Goods                362     409     477         600            761                                                     16.2     12.5      15.6
Fo.-ferrou.s Ptallorgy                   272     325     556         438            472                                                     12.2     14.6      9.7
Agrirolt.rsl Products (inl. food)       400     475     439         488            640                                                     17.9     11.3      13.1
Other                                    887   1.255    1.819       1.831         2.093                                                     39.7     47.8      42.8
Total Merch. Exports (f.s.b;)          2,237   2,833    3,805      4,022          4,886                                                    10.0     100.0     100.0
MERCHANDISE TRADE INOICES                                 1974 - 100
Export Price Index                        63      76      100        109            114
Ieport Price Index                        58      68      100        105            109
Tar.s of Trade Ind"                      109     112      100        104            105
Export Voloe Imd-     -                   93      99      100         98            112
VALUE ADDED BY SECTOR                   onnrl Data in Comatant 1974 Prices aod Exbkaogo Rate
of $i - 17.0 Din.                                                                   As a Percentage of Total
Ariculture                             3,213   3,496    3,763      3,663          3,846                2.7         4.5          3.2         15.6     16.0      15.0
Manufacturing and Mining               6,374   6,712    7,471      7,888          8,125                6.6         7 4          6.6         31.0     31,0      31.8
Other             -                   10.956  11,362   12.276     13.026         1359                  5.4         5.9          6.2         53.3     52.2      53.2
Total                                 20,543  21,370   23,512     24,377         25,560               5.3          6.2          6.2        100.0    100.0     100.0
PUBLIC FINANCE  Lj                                       Current Prices                                                                      As Percent of GDP/Market Prices
Current Receipts                       2,772   3,489    4,841       ..             ..                 ..           ..           ..          17.5     19.5
Currest Eapeaditures                   2,520   3,154    4,794        ..            ..                 ..           ..           ..          16.0     19.4
Budgetary Savings                        251     334     -47        ..             ..                 ..           ..           ..           1.6      0.2
Public Sector Ioveotmeor                 224     281      328        ..            ..                 ..           ..           ..           1.4      1.3
LABOR PORCE AND OUTPUT PER WORkniR j2                 TOTAL LABOR PORCE                               VALUE ADDED PER WORKER (1974 PRICgS AND EXCHANGE RATE $1 - 17 Din.
Million       7 of Total         1972-75                    US Dollarl          Percent of Average       1972-75
1972    1975    1972   1975   A-. Ane. Grwth Rate            1972     1975            1972     1975    Av. Ann. Growth Rate
Agriculture /3                          3.6     3.0    43.0    37.4        -5.9                       893    1,211             35       40           10.7
Meo-facturintg  nd Mining               1.65    1.67   20.6    23.3         4,3                     3,863   4,218             150      138            3.0
Other 3/                                2.75   3215    34.4    39.3         4.6                     3.984   4 135             155      135            1.2
Total                                   8.00    8.02  100.0   100.0         0.1                     2,568   3,0               100      I00            6.1
Li Rudgots of Federation, Repoblics and Autnon"oss Provinces, and Coonsose.
f2 Total resident active libor force, i.e. excluding workers abroad and unesployed.
3 Active labor force in the private sector (Agriculture and othar) and, acoordingly, total are estimates.
Europe* Middle East and North Africa Region
Deseober 6. 1976



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE AND DEBT
Annual
Actual                   Projected  Growth Rates
1972    1973    1974     1975     1976       1972-75
SUMMARY OF BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
Exports (incl. NFS)                3425    4407    5694    6315     7306          16.5
Imports (incl. NFS)               3821     5168    8312    8767     8809          23.1
Resource Balance (K-M)             -395    -761   -2618   -2452    -1503
Interest                           -165    -222    -285    -337     -355          19.6
Workers Remittances                 889    1310    1511    1575      1747         15.4
Other factor services net            17      50      93      62        70         38.2
Current Transfers (net)              74      87     110     120       135         12.8
Balance on Current Account          419     454   -1189   -1032        94
M&LT Loans /I
Disbursements                     943    1170    1426    1850     2031          20.1
Repayments                       -570    -686    -814    -930    -1025          13.6
Net Disbursements                   373     454     612     920      1006         28.3
Capital Transactions n.e.i./       -117    -285     139     -68       -
Use of Reserves                    -675    -663     438      180    -1100                            Actual
Estimated
GRANT AND LOAN COMMITMENTS                                           DEBT AND DEBT SERVICELA    1972     1973    1974     1975
Official Grants & Grant-like         -       -       -       -     Public Debt Out. &
Disbursed
Public M&LT Loans
IBRD                             75.0   104.9   256.5   209.0    Interest on Public Debt    63.2     97.1   101.2    120.8
IDA                                -       -       -       -     Repayments on Public Debt 154.3    205.0   282.3    309.0
Other Multilateral                 -       -       -        -    Total Public Debt Service 217.5    302.1   383.5    429.8
Governments                     183.9   179.7   615.4   274.7    Other Debt Service        634.5    726.9   826.6    937.0
Suppliers                        82.3     3.0      .6      -     Total Debt Service        852.0   1029.0  1210.1   1366.8
Financial Institutions          121.4      -     73.1    86.2
Bonds                              -       -     51.5      -     Burden on Export Earnings (2)'-
Public Loans n.e.i.               4.2      -       -       -
Total Public MELT Loans           466.8   287.6   997.2    569.9   Public Debt Services Ratio   5.0     5.2     5.2       5.3
Total Debt Service Ratio    19.4    17.7     16.5     16.9
IDS - Direct Investment Inc. -        -       -         -
Actual Debt Outstanding on Dec. 31, 1975
EXTERNAL DEBT                Disbursements only        Percent       Average Terms of Public Debt
World Bank                        559.1                 24.6
IDA                                 -                   -            Int. as Z Prior Year
Other Multilateral                  5.3                   .2                       DO&D         5.3     7.3     6.3       6.5
Governments                      1304.3                57.4          Amort. as % Prior Year
Suppliers                         115.6                 5.1                        DO&D        12.9    15.3    17.4      16.5
Financial Institutions            269.9                 11.9
Bonds                              18.1                   .8       IBRD Debt Outs. & Disbursed
Public Debt n.e.i.                   .1                  -              as x Public Debt O&D   20.7    19.6    18.8      20.6
2272.5                100.0            as x Public Debt
Services    14.7     12.7    11.9     13.4
Other M&LT Debts/3               3780.0
Short-term Debt (diab. only)        -
1/ Includes direct foreign investment.
2/  Includes errors and ommissions, short term loans, net export credits,    IMF account,
National Bank and Commercial Bank Credits.
3/ Estimate.
4/ Figures on debt service do not correspond with balance of payments figures due to
differences in coverage.
5/ Includes workers remittances.
Europe, Middle East 6 North Africa Region
December 2, 1976



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 8 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN YUGOSLAVIA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS (as at November 30, 1976)
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number Year             Borrower(s)            Purpose          Bank  Undisbursed
Sixteen Loans fully disbursed                                    474.7
751      1971   SFRY                         Roads                39.O     0.3
752      1971   Hotel "Bernardin", Piran    Tourism               1 .0     1.6
777      1971   SFRY                        Multipurpose Water    45.0    29.5
782      1971   "Babin Kuk" Hotelsko
Turisticki Centar,Dubrovnik Tourism               20.0     2.3
836      1972   Twelve Electric Power
Enterprises in Yugoslavia   Power                 75.0    15.1
894      1973   Stopanska Banka, Skopje     Agricultural
Industries         31.0      8.5
916      1973   Naftagas                     Gas Pipeline         59.4    24.4
947      1973   Kikinda                      Iron Foundry         14.5     2.3
965      1974   IMT                          Tractor Factory      18.5     0.7
966      1974   FOB                          Iron Foundry         15.0     1.9
990      1974   Bosnia-Herzegovina
Road Funds                Roads                 30.0     2.0
1012     1974   Stopanska Banka, Skopje      Industrial Credit    28.0    13.4
1013     1974   Privredna Banka Sarajevo     Industrial Credit    22.0    14.0
1026     1974   Community of Yugoslav
Railways                  Railways              93.0    63.8
1060     1974   Port of Bar                  Harbor Expansion     44.0    40.3
1066     1974   Vodovod Dubrovnik           Water Supply and
Wastewater          6.0      5.9
1129     1975   Vojvodjanska Banka           Agricultural Credit  50.0    49.3
1143     1975   Republic Road Organization
in Slovenia, Montenegro
and Serbia                Roads                 40.0    38.0
1173     1975   Jugoslavenski Naftovod       Pipeline             49.0    49.0
1262     1976   Republicki Fond Voda         Water Supply,
Sewerage & Water
Resources             20.0    20.0
1263     1976   Sarajevo Water Supply &      Water Supply &
Sewerage Enterprise          Sewerage             45.0    45.0
1264/a   1976   Sarajevo Gas Enterprise      Air Pollution
& Naftagas Gas Unit          Control              38.0    38.0
1277     1976   Privredna Banka, Sarajevo,
Stopanska Banka, Skopje,
Investiciona Banka,
Titograd, Kosovska Banka,    Second Industrial
Pristina                    Credit                50.0    50.0
/a Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 8 pages
US$ million
Amount (less
cancellations)
Number  Year             Borrower(s)           Purpose           Bank  Undisbursed
Total (less cancellation)                             1,313.1    515.3
of which has been repaid                                152.0
Total now outstanding                                 1,161.1
Amount sold                            7.8
of which:  Amount repaid             6.3                1.5
Total now held by Bank                                1,159.6
Total undisbursed                                                515.3
B.   STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as at November 30, 1976)
Type of       Amount in US$ million
Year             Obligor                      Business      Loan    Equity   Total
1970   International Investment Corporation   Investment
for Yugoslavia                       Corporation     -       2.0      2.0
1970   Zavodi Crvena Zastava Fiat S.P.A.      Automotive
Industry        5.0     8.0     13.0
1971   Tovarna Automobilov in Mororjev        Automotive
Maribor (TAM)/Klockner-Humboldt      Industry         7.5    2.2      9.7
Deutz A.G. (KHD)
1972   FAP-FAMOS Belgrade/Daimler             Automotive
Benz A.G.                            Industry        12.8    2.9     15.7
1972   Sava/Semperit                          Tires            4.0    1.5      5.5
1973   Belisce/Bell                           Pulp and Paper 13.3      -      13.3
1974   Zelezarna Jesenice/ARMCO               Special Steel   10.0     -      10.0
1974   Salonit Anhovo                         Cement Plant    10.0     -      10.0
1975   Rudarsko Melaturski                    Steel          50.0      -      50.0
Total Gross Commitments                                 112.6   16.6    129.2
less cancellations, terminations,
repayment and sales                                   60.1     2.3     62.4
Total commitments held by IFC                           52.5    14.3     66.8
Total Undisbursed                                         8.7    6.1     14.8



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 8 pages
C.   PROJECTS IN EXECUTION 1/
Loan 657 Telecommunications: US$40.0 million Loan of February 20. 1970;
Effective Date: August 30, 1970; Closing Date: March 31, 1976.
After initial delays the Bank-financed part of the project is pro-
ceeding satisfactorily and is now nearing completion. The installation of
trunk exchanges which are not financed by the Bank, has been delayed but
will be fully completed in the near future. The loan has been largely dis-
bursed and the balance of US$146,000 is expected to be disbursed shortly.
Loan 751 Fifth Highway: US$35.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12. 1972: Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
After an initial delay of about eight months in fulfilling the con-
ditions for effectiveness of the loan, construction work on all sections has
progressed well. All road sections but one are open for traffic. Completion
of the remaining section in Slovenia is about 92 percent complete. Because
of shortage of funds the Republican Road Authority has reprogrammed its com-
pletion. The first 44 km was opened at the end of June 1976 and the last
6.5 km will be finished by September 1977.
Loan 752 Bernardin Tourism: US$10.0 million Loan of June 18, 1971; Effective
Date: May 31. 1972; Closing Date: June 20, 1977.
Following initial delays in project implementation due to appointing
consultants, providing the necessary infrastructure and obtaining approvals by
local authorities, bids received in July 1974 indicated that the project, as
originally envisaged (2,500 beds), would cost approximately 100 percent above
the originally estimated cost of US$25.6 million. This increase was mainly
due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the project spon-
sors have agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 1,616 beds
(Amendment to Loan 752-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-258) at an estimated cost
of US$39.9 million, requiring additional financing by the sponsors of about
US$14.0 million. Following the resolution of the financial problems excellent
progress was made and the Port and Village hotels were opened for occupancy on
June 4, 1976. Structural problems were encountered with the foundations for
the Cliff Hotel, but the main structure has now been completed and is expected
to be opened by the end of October.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense, and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 8 pages
Loan 777 Ibar Multipurpose Water: US$45.0 million Loan of June 20, 1971;
Effective Date: May 31, 1972; Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The start of project work was delayed for one year. Construction
is now underway, the main dam is almost completed and the reservoir will be
filled starting in February. A small part of the irrigation network has been
completed with the remainder expected to be completed by 1978. Project costs
have been above appraisal estimates, but the overrun financing is being pro-
vided by the Province of Kosovo and from Federal sources. Delays have been
encountered in the arrangements for boundary adjustment and agricultural ex-
tension services. Consultants have been engaged to help find solutions, and
the Kosovo Government has enacted appropriate legislation.
Loan 782 Babin Kuk Tourism: US$20.0 million Loan of July 21, 1971; Effective
Date: June 12, 1972; Closing Date: July 31, 1977.
There were initial delays in the implementation of the project due
to lateness in making the loan effective and in mobilizing consultants. Bids
for civil works and estimates for other components indicated that the project
would cost at least twice as much as originally estimated (US$49.9 million),
largely due to rapid inflation in construction costs. The Bank and the
project sponsors agreed to finance a reduced complex containing some 2,034
beds (Amendment to Loan 782-YU, December 16, 1974, R74-259) at a total cost
of US$51.5 million, requiring additional financing by the sponsor of about
US$1.6 million. This additional financing for the revised project has been
arranged but in light of the increased financial commitments necessary from
the local banks and a re-evaluation of the financial capabilities of the
sponsor necessary to implement a project of this size, the local banks and
the Borrower have proposed and are discussing with the Bank a change in
sponsorship. This proposed change in sponsorship will be submitted to the
Executive Directors for their consideration after being fully reviewed by
the Bank. Meanwhile, construction proceeded well and the hotels were
inaugurated and opened for occupancy on June 5, 1976.
Loan 836 Power Transmission: US$75.0 million Loan of June 23, 1972; Effective
Date: December 29, 1972; Closing Date: June 30, 1977.
The Project construction is progressing slowly and is expected to
be completed by December 1977, about one year late. Its cost has increased to
about $415 million (up 84 percent) chiefly due to escalation in prices. The
resulting cost overrun is being financed by the Government from funds received
from the Federal Republic of Germany and from the Borrowers' own internal
sources. Appointment of management consultants was delayed until mid-1976
and their report is now expected in June 1977, about 3 1/2 years late. The
financial performance of 3 of the 12 Borrowers in 1976 was below the required
level of 35 percent self-financing following a downturn in electricity sales
and higher operating costs arising from inflation. The promulgation of the
new Constitution in 1974 and the consequent evolution of the legal and



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 8 pages
financial status of the Borrowers, particularly in regard to the requirement
of their policy of pooling resources at the Republican levels requires changes
in the legal arrangements including the application of financial covenants.
These are being considered along with the proposed second power transmission
project which has just seen appraisal.
Loan 894 Agricultural Industries (Macedonia): US$31.0 million Loan of May 25,
1973; Effective Date: November 28, 1973; Closing Date: December 31,
1978.
All loan funds provided under the project have been committed by
subloan agreements through Stopanska Banka. There have been, however, diffi-
culties in obtaining satisfactory procurement contracts for the big facilities
mainly due to the heavy cost overruns. With considerable delay, contracts
have now been signed for one of the wine by-products processing facilities,
and the central wine cellar and construction has begun on both sites. Con-
tract negotiations for the slaughterhouse are nearing completion. The second
wine by-products facility will either be retendered or not constructed at all
because of the high investment costs and resulting low financial viability.
Loan 916 Naftagas Pipeline: US$59.4 million Loan of June 25, 1973; Effective
Date:  March 22, 1974; Closing Date:   June 20, 1977.
The costs of equipment and civil works increased so that project
costs were about 71 percent above the appraisal estimate. As a result of
this and of a reallocation of priorities in the use of natural gas, the
project has been redefined (Amendments to Loan 916-YU, May 13, 1976, R76-116).
Phase I is a reduced version of the original plan. Phase II provides for a
pipeline extension to link up with the pipeline to be constructed under the
Sarajevo Air Pollution Control Project, for which additional Bank financing
was obtained. Naftagas has obtained additional local currency financing
required for Phases I and II. A delay of more than two years in project
implementation has occurred as a result of the increased project costs and
revision of the project. Construction started in late June 1976, and the
project is scheduled for completion by end 1978.
Loan 947 Kikinda Iron Foundry: US$14.5 million Loan of November 30, 1973;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: March 31, 1978.
Effectiveness was delayed about five months due primarily to the
extra time required for the ratification of the Guarantee Agreement by the
Federal Assembly. Project implementation is about four months ahead of
schedule. Total project costs now are about 13 percent (about US$4.6 million
equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to large increases in local costs.
Financing of this cost overrun has been arranged with a local bank.
Loan 965 IMT Tractor Factory Expansion: US$18.5 million Loan of February 22,
1974; Effective Date: June 11, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The factory was officially inaugurated on March 7, 1976. Completion
work on minor portions of the project, however, is continuing.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 8 pages
Loan 966 FOB Iron Foundry: US$15.0 million Loan of February 22, 1974;
Effective Date: May 28, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Implementation is expected to be on schedule. Local costs are about
27 percent (about US$10.0 million equivalent) above appraisal estimates due to
design changes and domestic inflation. Financing of this local cost overrun
has been arranged with a local bank.
Loan 990 Sixth Highway: US$30.0 million Loan of May 31, 1974; Effective Date:
December 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
Four out of six road sections are complete. The remaining sections
should be completed by March/April '77. Two requests for changes in road
alignments have been agreed; both changes were requested to accommodate
communities which would be better served by the realignments.
Loan 1012 Macedonia/Kosovo Industrial Credit: US$28.0 million Loan of June
21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Progress has been satisfactory. The loan is almost fully committed,
but the final date for submission of sub-projects is likely to be extended by
six months,to June 30, 1977 to allow adjustments in individual sub-loans, as
needed, and to allow the banks time to submit additional projects for financing
from resources freed as a result of such adjustments. Loan disbursements have
been accelerating after a slow start and are expected to soon catch up and
even surpass appraisal estimates.
Loan 1013 Bosnia-Herzegovina/Montenegro Industrial Credit: US$22.0 million
Loan of June 21, 1974; Effective Date: December 19, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978.
The note under Loan 1012 above applies also to this loan.
Loan 1026 Fourth Railway: US$93.0 million Loan of July 10, 1974; Effective
Date: February 12, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1977.
The project consists of the 1974-76 slice of the Railways' 1973-77
Investment Plan. There have been substantial delays in project execution due
principally to financial and administrative difficulties. Government efforts
to combat inflation have caused railway tariffs to lag too far behind inflation.
Substantial subsidies are now being proposed, and the Bank is currently review-
ing this matter with the Government. Good progress continues on investment
planning.



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 8 pages
Loan 1060 Port of Bar: US$44.0 million Loan of December 11, 1974; Effective
Date: June 13, 1975; Closing Date: June 30, 1978.
In general the Project is progressing well, but is now about 12
months behind schedule due to delays in procurement, most recently regarding
the grain silos, for which final designs have not yet been completed. Comple-
tion of the project is likely to be at least 6 months after the original
completion date of December 1977.
Loan 1066 Dubrovnik Water Supply and Wastewater: US$6.0 million Loan of
December 24, 1974; Effective Date: June 26, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978.
Delays in preparation of final designs and tender documents have put
construction about a year behind schedule. Services to the Bank financed
Babin Kuk Hotel Complex (Loan 782-YU) were, however, completed in time for its
initial operation. Preliminary calculations indicated the need for a substan-
tial tariff increase to meet the Loan Agreement's financial covenants, but the
commune authorities approved a smaller increase. The Bank is seeking explana-
tions from the communal and federal authorities together with their proposals
for resolving the matter.
Loan 1129 Agricultural Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 20, 1975; Effective
Date: February 12, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
The Project Operations Unit of Vojvodjanska Banka, established in
March 1976, is working in a competent manner with respect to preparation of
subproject appraisal reports. Disbursements of IBRD funds under the project
initially were lagging behind appraisal estimates, reflecting both learning
curve problems with the methodology for subproject appraisal and the time
required for the effective organization of implementation by Vojvodjanska
Banka, the lead bank. Project operations now show encouraging progress with
respect to appraisal methodology and related aspects of institution building.
Commitments for investments in social sector enterprises are running ahead
of those for private farmers, due largely to institutional arrangements in
Yugoslavia, but a substantial pipeline of private sector subprojects should
ensure the desired balance. A second project is at the appraisal stage and
is expected to reach negotiations by May 1977.
Loan 1143 Seventh Highway: US$40.0 million Loan of July 18, 1975;
Effective Date: March 30, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
Construction has started in the Republic of Serbia. Construction
contracts are in the process of being awarded in the Republics of Slovenia and
Montenegro.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 8 pages
Loan 1173 Naftovod Oil Pipeline: US$49.0 million Loan of November 19, 1975;
Effective Date: July 28, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Due to slower than anticipated progress of design and procurement
it is estimated that a four-month slippage in the completion of Phase I will
occur, though it is expected that the balance of the project will be completed
on schedule.
Loan 1262 Morava Regional Development Project - Water Supply, Sewerage and
Water Resources: US$20.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976; Effective
Date: November 3, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
The regional development study is under way. Terms of Reference
and selection of consultants is about to be finalized for the flood control
and water quality studies. Final designs and tender documents for the Vrutci
Dam are being reviewed, and construction should begin in 1977. Construction
is under way on some parts of the Cacak component and tenders are being in-
vited for the principal work in Titovo Uzice. The impetus towards the creation
of the Morava Region Water Community of Interest has slowed due to the longer
than anticipated process of seeking agreement among all the Yugoslav parties
concerned on the structure of the organizations. Staffing is being strength-
ened in th,e water authorities in Cacak and Titovo Uzice. There has been a
delay in the implementation of initial tariff increases in Titovo Uzice but
action is expected shortly.
Loan 1263 Sarajevo Water Supply and Sewerage: US$45.0 million Loan of June 8,
,1976; Effective Date: November 9, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Consultants for final designs and tender documents have begun their
work. Tendering is expected to begin early 1977.
Loan 1264 Sarajevo Air Pollution Control: US$38.0 million Loan of June 8,
1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
Terminal date for declaring effectiveness is December 31, 1976.
Loan 1277 Second Industrial Credit: US$50.0 million Loan of June 14, 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Declared effective on October 29, 1976, on schedule.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 4 pages
YUGOSLAVIA: METOHIJA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Loan and Project Summary
Borrower:           Vodoprivredna Organizacija Metohija (Water Management
Organization Metohija--VOM).
Guarantor:          Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
Amount:             US$54.0 million equivalent, in various currencies.
Terms:              Amortization in 15 years, including a three-year grace
period, with interest at 8.7 percent.
Project             Essential features of the project include (a) construc-
Description:       tion of the Radenic Dam; (b) a diversion weir with intake
works and a feeder;canal from the Decanska Bistrica
River; (c) water supply works for three towns (Djkovica,
Orahovac and Zrze) and twelve villages, including a water
treatment plant with pumping equipment and new water
storage facilities; (d) an irrigation distribution system;
(e) miscellaneous works including drainage, erosion
control, soil improvement, power supply lines, equipment,
farm roads, buildings, demonstration farms and consultant
services.



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 4 pages
Estimated Cost:
Percent
(of total
project cost
Local  Foreign  Total    excluding taxes)
---------- (US$ million) -----------
Dam and Intake                    2.3     4.2      6.5          7
Domestic Supply Civil Works       2.2     1.5     3.7           4
Domestic Supply Equipment         1.9     2.6     4.5           5
Irrigation Network
Civil Works                     9.5    13.1    22.6          26
Irrigation Equipment
and Vehicles                    0.2     3.0     3.2           4
Buildings and Demonstration
Farms                           1.7     0.4     2.1           2
Expropriation and
Compensation                    6.9       -     6.9           8
Land Improvement                  2.0     3.5      5.5          6
Engineering                       4.0     0.2     4.2           5
Subtotal                       30.7    28.5    59.2          67
Physical Contingencies            3.8     3.5      7.3          8
Price Contingencies              10.8    11.0    21.8          25
Total Project Costs
without Taxes                45.3    43.0    88.3         100
Interest and Other Charges
during the Grace Period
on the Foreign Exchange
Component                        -     11.0     11 0
Duties and Taxes                 22.0      -       -
Total Financing Required         67.3    54.0    121.3
Financing Plan:      (for the investment costs--1977-1981--including interest
during construction on the bank loan)
Million US$    Percent of Total
IBRD                        54.0             45
Socialist Autonomous
Province of Kosovo
(Kosovo) excluding
federal and local
duties and taxes          45.3             37
Duties and Taxes            22.0              18
Total                      121.3             100



ANNEX III
Page 3 of 4 pages
Estimated                                          Amount tuS$ Million)
Disbursements:          Calendar Year            Arntixtl  Cumulative
1977                   4.3         4.3
1978                  13.9        18.2
1979                  13.1        31.3
198p                  11.5        42.8
1981                   8.6        51.4
1982                   2.6        54.0
Procurement          Contracts for civil works and equipment financed under the
Arrangements:       proposed Bank loan would be grouped, to the extent practic-
able, into 18 contracts.   Of these, 10 contracts totalling
about US$61.0 million would be tendered on the basis of
international competitive bidding. A 15 percent preference
margin, or prevailing custom duty if lower, would be ex-
tended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids
for equipment under international competitive bidding.
Procurement in accordance with local competitive bidding,
following Government procedures, would be appropriate for
the remaining 8 contracts totalling about US$15.3 million.
These contracts would cover such items as the first sec- -
tion of the main canal, the access road to the Radenic
Dam, the diversion tunnel, grouting, erosion control works
and buildings. Most of the -works are scattered over the
project area, are of minor nature and would be built at
different times; others will be procured lccall7 to avoid
delays in project implementation. Construction of the
tertiary network and farm roads, and soil improvement
measures would be carried out by VOM under force account.
Individual purchases of equipment not exceeding US$40,000
in value would be allowed to be procured in accordance
with applicable local procedures up to an aggregate value
of US$300,0'00.
Consultant           Funds for local and foreign consultants would be provided
Services:           under the proJect.   Local consultants would be retained
to prepare final design and tender documents. Foreign
consultants-would be aeeded to review final design and
tender documents a-nd to train local staff in advanced
hydraulic computer technology. To avoid unnecessary delay
of further project- design, VOM has contracted a foreign
consultant firm acceptable to the Bank for assistance
in final design of the irrigation component. For this
purpose, it is recommended that the Bank finance retro-
actively to June 30, 1976, expenditures up to a total
amount of US$100,000.



ANNEX III
Page 4 of 4 pages
Rata of Return:      Ihe economic rate of return on all project components is
estimated at about 11 percent.
Estimated Project
ComDletion Date:   December 31, 1981
Appraisal PeDort:    Report Number 1218-YEJ
Date: December 17, 1976
EMENA Projects Department



ANNEX IV
Page 1 of 2 pages
YUGOSLAVIA: METOHIJA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section 1: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken to prepare project:  One and one-half years (June 1974
to October 1975)
(b)  Agency which prepared project:  Water Management Organization,
"Metohija" (VOM), with assistance
of consultants and the FAO!IBRD
Cooperative Program
(c)  Project first presented         During visit in May 1974 of
to Bank:                   Supervision mission for the Ibar
Multipurpose Project (Loan 777-YU)
(d)  First Bank mission to review project:   June 1974
(e) Departure of Appraisal Mission:   November 1975
(f)  Completion of Negotiations:  November 19,1976
(g) Planned date of effectiveness: June 1, 1977
Section II: SDecial Bank Implementation Actions
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
(a)  VOM, in agreement with th'e-Bank, to-.es,tablish BOAL Hydro-System
Radenic for operation and, '-aint-nancd -"6f project facilities prior
to December 31, 1978 (parad44);
(b)  VOM to appoint, prior to effectiveneiss.-and in consultation with the
Bank, a Financial Director (para 44);
(c)  VOM to review and if necessary modi-ty--Its accounting procedures to
ensure that they provide timely, rel-evant and accurate information on
current tinanc.al performance and tuture projections (para 57);
(d) VOM to submit a report on project a-ccounts, audited by the Social
Accounting Service of Yugoslavia (para 57);



ANNEX IV
Page 2 of 2 pages
(e) VOM to collect, from commencement of irrigation, water charges annually
at rates which would be agreed with the Bank, and review these rates
periodically in consultation with the Bank (para 5i);
(f)  VOM to impose charges for potable water sufficient to provide, in
any given year, revenues to cover all administrative and operating
expenses incurred in providing the supply and, in addition to provide
a return on net fixed assets employed of not less than 7 percent by
the year 1982 and thereafter (para 52); and
(g)  Government of Kosovo to implement the financing plan as agreed dur4ng
negotiations (para 54).



YUGOSLAVIA         5
N                  ,                            -     --     u . X , - --- '  /-  =e\ -  - ..................... /,1 METOHIJAI MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
P 's,'--'X'4f- '- C ,) *-,;\u\_S  O                    / . t , A E- \POTABLE WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
t>.                         t'ss  e a, N - . 0 X , t '~~~~~~~~~~~~~[s(  /o  ERJECT APTA  TSUNOOR '
'<in                          \  RADENIC . C ), F,Sov ., -2 rRUNK ANDQ   D A  RJMDS  SOORIASUTR,,AS  NS Hs
5  IREDERVOIR               /                 )- i           TRRUI. AND D STRIEUTIO  DO M NO ROOSET
N'   C>                   EDITON  DD  S
\\  N.-,-o  RD.  3  ALSOE.-   D  S-  
iij  k~~~jtci~~~  /  &  64k ~~~~         DO-TD
NT.- IW -  - RADI
m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2L
V I~ ~~I 






YUGOSLAV A
; METOHIJAI MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
5' {  w         IRRIGATION NETWORK
_ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~   ~   ~    . _,  I 
.5         -- _-                                   5- '  I - - -
WOEWIC ~ ~~~~ ~ '  I                           ISMENMTdS44C  HS  surn
-       Q  55551 K 55  55E-.D155511
~~~~~K                       A-                     555515  i5 I556 5 -- A35(5555X
- ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~A-
2  1  _j N 'U  55( 
156A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ CK5  S ~1O  ,5,c
0 ~ ~ ~  ~  _____________                       1
12~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~K i5
EEhIEh1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~tL~~~~~~.4!  - ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ 7



