Report No. 1218-YU                                                                  FILE  COPY
Appraisal of the Metohija I Multipurpose
Project Yugoslavia
December 23, 1976
Irrigation Division
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit                   =  Dinar (Din)
Din 1                            =  US$0.055
Din 1,000                        =  US$55.55
Din 1,000,000                    =  US$555,555
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 millimeter (mm)               =  0.039 inches (in)
1 meter (m)                      =  39 inches (in)
1 kilometer (km)                 =  0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)                   =  2.47 acres (ac)
1 square meter (m2)             =  10.76 square feet (ft2)
1 cubic meter (m3)               =  35.31 cubic feet (ft3)
1 million cubic meter (Mm3)    =  264 million US gallons (gal)
1 kilogram (kg)                  =  2.205 pounds (lb)
1 Metric ton (ton)              =  2,205.00 pounds (lb)
1 bar                            =  14.666 pounds/square inch (psi)
1 liter (1)                     =  0.264 US gallons (gal)
1 hectoliter (hl)               =  26.4 US gallons (gal)
SOCIALIST FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF YUGOSLAVIA
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
Bankkos              Bank of Kosovo
BOAL                 Basic Organization of Associated Labor
GNP                  Gross Material Product
Kosovo               Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
VOM                  Water Management Organization Metohija
This document has a reatricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their omcial duti". Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World lank authorization.



I



APPRAISAL OF
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS  .............             ..................           i-ii
I.    INTRODUCTION                  ..........................................            1
II.    COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL  SECTOR  ........                           2
A.    Country Background  ...................... ............                       2
B.    The Agricultural Sector                   ..........................         2
III.    THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL  INSTITUTIONS  ....... .....                           4
AA.    The Project Area  .................................                          4
B.    Natural Resources  ................................                          5
C.    Land Tenure  ..................................... .                         6
D.    Land Use,  Agricultural Production and Yields  .....                          6
E.    Farm Inputs  ......................................                          6
F.    Agricultural Research and Extension                      ...............     7
G.    Credit  .........................................................             7
H.    Marketing  .......................*.. . . . . .  ...............              8
IV.  THE PROJECT ........                                  .................    8
A.    Objectives  ......           ..........................                       8
B.    Description  ......         ................................                 8
C.    Detailed Features  ................................                           9
D.    Water Demand,  Supply,  Quality and Rights  .........                       10
E.    Status of Engineering  ............................                         11
F.    Cost Estimates  ...................................                         11
G.    Financing  ......        ...............         ...................        13
H.    Construction  Schedule  .............            ..     .............       13
I.    Procurement  ......................................                         13
J.    Disbursements  ....................................                         14
K.    Environmental  Impact  .............            ..      ..............      14
V.    PROJECT  IMPLEMENTATION  ................................                          15
A.    Organization and Management  ......................                         15
B.    Operation and Maintenance  ....                 ....................        16
C.    Boundary Adjustment  ..............................                         17
D.    Support  Services  .................................                         17
E.    Credit  ...........................................                         18



Table of Contents (Continued)                                           Page No.
F.   Marketing .......................................................  18
G.   Recovery of Project Costs           ........................  19
H.   Financial Performance of the Borrower ............          20
I.   Accounts and Audit ................................        21
J.   Monitoring of Key Project Indicators .        ............  21
VI.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION        ............................   22
A.   Crop Production ............................................  22
B. Markets ..... ...... .....  23
C.   Prices           ...........................................  24
D.   Producers' Income .................   ...............       24
E.   Main Benefits and Beneficiaries ................    ..      25
F.   Economic Rate of Return .....       .....................   25
VII.   RECOMMENDATIONS            ......................................  26
ANNEXES
1. Agriculture
2. Agricultural Finance
3. Marketing, Markets and Prices
4. Description of the Irrigation Component
5. Description of the Potable Water Supply Component
6. Water Requirements and Availability
7. Cost Estimate
8. Schedule of Expenditures
9. Schedule of Activities (Chart No. 16230)
10.  Procurement
11.  Schedule of Disbursement
12.  Farm Budgets and Recovery of Project Irrigation Costs
13.  Financing Plan
14.  Financial Projection of VOM
15.  Economic Evaluation
Chart 16006R
Map 12060R
Map 12061R
Map 12062R



APPRAISAL OF
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has a total area of 255,800 km2
and a population of 21 million, which is growing at about 1% per annum. The
rural population amounts to about 7.7 million. GNP per capita in 1975 was
estimated at US$1,480. About 35% of the rural population is in the poverty
target group. Regional disparity is wide, with large portions of the bene-
fits from growth accruing to the central and northern regions. The Socialist
Autonomous Province of Kosovo (Kosovo) in the southern part of Yugoslavia is
the poorest with an estimated per capita income of one third the national
average and which is declining relative to the national average. The Federal
Government gives high priority to the less developed regions. It assists
them by providing investment resources through its Fund for Accelerated
Development of Less Developed Regions. The present Five-Year Plan (1976-80)
gives increasing attention to regional distribution of benefits from growth,
particularly to less developed regions.
ii.       The Bank has made a total of 39 loans to Yugoslavia totalling
US$1,313 million. Of these, three loans amounting US$126 million were for
agricultural projects, one of which included an irrigation component. Pro-
gress of these projects is generally satisfactory. The proposed loan would
be the fourth to the agricultural sector.
iii.      Agriculture in Kosovo supports directly about half of the popula-
tion of the province. Available demographic and economic evidence suggests
that Kosovo's agriculture sector suffers from severe overpopulation and that
development has largely bypassed the peasant sector. Irrigation is important
to increase agricultural growth and development in Kosovo because of low and
irregular rainfall during the growing season. The proposed Metohija I Multi-
purpose Project would contribute to the realization of the objectives of the
Federal and Provincial Governments which call for (a) better income distribu-
tion on provincial and national level; (b) increased production; and (c)
better living conditions for the peasant sector. To promote these objectives,
the Government of Kosovo has requested Bank assistance to help finance the
proposed Metohija I Multipurpose Project which is located in the southern
and poorest part of Kosovo.
iv.       The proposed project would provide irrigation to about 10,250
ha (net), of which about 68% would be farmed by 2,200 smallholder private
farmers and the remaining 32% by social sector kombinats. It would also
provide potable water to about 64,700 inhabitants and to industry located
in and around the project area.



- ii -
v.        Total project cost is estimated at about US$110.3 million, with
a foreign exchange component of US$43 million or 39%. Interest and other
charges during construction on the Bank loan are estimated at US$11 million.
The proposed Bank loan of US$54 million would finance the full foreign ex-
change costs and interest and other charges during construction. The local
cost component of the project (US$67.3 million) would be financed by loans
from Kosovo. Construction would start in 1977 and would be completed in 1981.
Total value of the works and equipment including contingencies that would be
procured following international competitive bidding amounts to US$61 million.
Goods and services financed through the proposed Bank loan would be procured
in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines.
vi.       The Water Management Organization "Metohija" (VOM) would have
responsibility for planning and construction and operation and maintenance
of project facilities. VOM would expand and reorganize to meet project needs.
It would establish a new department (BOAL Hydro-System Radenic) which would
undertake operation and maintenance of the project.
vii.      At full development, the project would increase annual production
of main crops as follows: sugar beet 61,500 tons, vegetables 41,700 tons,
fruits 33,200 tons and maize 24,600 tons. The annual gross value of in-
cremental production would amount to about US$12 million. Main project
beneficiaries would be about 2,200 smallholder private farm households (17,600
people) who constitute part of the Poverty Target Group in Yugoslavia. The
average annual per capita income of these beneficiaries would increase from
US$150 to US$412 or 175%. The economic rate of return on the project is
estimated at 11%. The rate of return of both the irrigation and the water
supply component is about equal.
viii.     Provided agreements are reached on issues set forth in this report,
the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$54 million to the Water Manage-
ment Organization-Metohija for a term of 15 years, including 3 years of grace
at interest rate of 8.7%. The Federal Government of Yugoslavia would guarantee
the loan.



APPRAISAL OF
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
YUGOSLAVIA
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo
(Kosovo) has requested Bank assistance to help finance the Metohija I Multi-
purpose Project. The project, which is located in the Metohija region of
Kosovo, would be the first phase of a two-phase development called the Hydro-
System Radenic. It would provide (a) irrigation to 10,250 ha, of which
6,950 ha would be owned by smallholder private farmers and the remaining
3,300 ha by social sector kombinats, and (b) domestic and industrial water
supply in an area affected by waterborne diseases and whose industrial dev-
elopment is hampered by inadequate water supply. Total project cost is
estimated at US$110.3 million with a foreign exchange component of US$43
million (39%).  Most of the beneficiaries are poor and constitute part of
the poverty target group in Yugoslavia.
1.02      The Hydro-System Radenic is a part of the master plan for the water
resources development of the Metohija region. According to the master plan,
the Government of Kosovo intends to increase agricultural production in the
region by providing irrigation to about 93,000 ha, and to promote industrial
expansion and improve health standards of the inhabitants by supplying pot-
able water. These objectives can be achieved only through construction of
storage facilities because there is no other reliable and economically viable
alternative.
1.03      When completed, the Hydro-System Radenic would provide irrigation
to about 21,000 ha and would supply different towns and villages in the
Metohija region with industrial and domestic water. Because of budgetary
constraints, it was decided to implement the System in two phases. The pro-
posed project constitutes the first phase. A feasibility study for this
project was prepared by the Water Management Organization-Metohija (VOM) and
its consultants (Kosovoprojekt) with the assistance of the IBRD/FAO Coopera-
tive Program. The feasibility report was submitted to the Bank in October
1975. The project was appraised in November 1975 and January 1976 by two Bank
missions consisting of Messrs. M. Raczynski, T. Haile-Mariam, J.H. Laeyendecker,
R. MacWilliam, J. Renkewitz, F. Miyanaga and A. Zulfiqar (Bank), all of whom
and Messrs. V. Nwaneri and K. Thomas (Bank) participated in the preparation of
this report.



-2-
II. COUNTRY BACKGROUND AND THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Country Background
2.01      The Federal Republic of Yugoslavia has a population of 21.0 million
(mid-1973 estimate) which is growing at about 1% per annum; the rural popula-
tion amounts to about 7.7 million.  GNP per capita in 1975 was estimated at
US$1,480, and the poverty income level is estimated at US$165; about 35% of
the rural population is in the Poverty Target Group.
2.02      The economy is broadly characterized by social ownership of the
means of production, with management of resource allocation entrusted to
workers (social sector). However, private enterprise (private sector) also
plays a significant role, especially in agriculture. Regional income dispar-
ity is wide. Kosovo, in the south, is the poorest region with an estimated
per capita income of one-third the national average. The province accounts for
about 6% of the population in the country but contributes only 2% of Gross
Material Product (GMP). 1/  Recently, GMP growth rate in the province has
about equalled the national average, but because of a rapid increase in
population (about 2.4% per year), the per capita income has tended to decline
relative to the national average. This has increasingly limited the capacity
of the province to mobilize savings. The Federal Government assists the
province by providing it with investment resources through its Fund for
Accelerated Development of Less Developed Regions (Federal Fund). Presently,
this Fund amounts to Din 2 billion (US$110 million) per year, and is expected
to reach about Din 4 billion (US$220 million) within the next two years.
B. The Agricultural Sector
2.03      Resources.  Agricultural lands are estimated at 14.5 million ha or
57% of the total area. Of these, about 8.1 million ha are arable with 0.7
million ha under vineyards and orchards. The remaining 6.4 million ha are
permanent meadows and pastures. The soils are fertile and the climate condu-
cive to growing many crops, livestock and poultry. However, droughts are
common and cause frequent instability in production. Although the country
has substantial sources of exploitable irrigation water, only about 133,000 ha
are presently under modern irrigation systems.
2.04      In 1974, the country produced about 22 million tons of cereals,
5 million tons of vegetables, 4 million tons of sugar beet and 2.4 million
11/  GMP differs from GDP in that the former excludes services such as public
administration, defense, education, health and social insurance.



-3-
tons of various fruits and grapes. In the same year, the livestock popula-
tion was estimated at 5.7 million cattle, 7.4 million pigs, 7.8 million
sheep and 1.0 million horses and mules. The poultry population was 54.7
million. Output of livestock and poultry products amounted to 2 million
tons (liveweight) of meat, 3.5 billion liters of milk and 3.5 billion eggs.
2.05      Sector Organization.  Agricultural production is organized into
two separate but interdependent social and private sectors. The social
sector, which consists of complex agro-industrial kombinats and agricultural
cooperatives, operates under the principle of social ownership of the means
of production and workers' self-management. The private sector comprises
of smallholder farmers.
2.06      Sector in the Economy.  About 38% of the population derives its in-
come directly from agriculture. Agriculture accounts for about 20% of GMP,
20% of exports and employs 47% of the labor force. Investment in agriculture
has been low relative to the sector's share of GMP, accounting for about 10%
of total investments in the last ten years. About 70% of the investment was
allocated to the social sector which accounted for less than 30% of agricul-
tural output. The private sector received about 30% of the investments
although it produced more than 70% of the output and employed over 90% of
the farm population. Resource mobilization in the private sector has been
constrained by a rapidly growing farm population which has led to a subsis-
tence production. This has contributed to slow growth in agriculture which
averaged about 3% per annum during 1968-1973, to growing food imports and to
low labor productivity which is estimated at one-fourth of that in industry.
2.07      Future Development.  With the emerging problems of food deficit
and rural poverty, increasing emphasis is being given to rapid development
of agriculture. During the 1976-1980 Plan period, the volume of agricul-
tural production is expected to grow at an annual rate of 4%. Crop production
(particularly sunflower, sugar beet, maize, wheat and fodder) would grow at
about 3.6% and livestock production at about 5% per year. Annual investment
would amount to Din 6.3 billion or US$350 million (in 1974 prices), more than
50% of which would be allocated to the private sector.
2.08      The social sector's share of output is expected to increase
slightly, but the bulk of production would continue to be accounted for by
the private sector. More emphasis would be given to increasing output and
labor productivity in the private sector by increasing investments in proj-
ects which would directly benefit smallholder producers, increasing access to
farm credit, providing more technical support through the social sector and
widening the markets for outputs by establishing agricultural processing
plants to utilize marketed production from private farms. Also, particular
attention would be given to the development of agriculture in the less devel-
oped regions. The proposed project is an important component in the national
plan for achieving the above objectives.



-4-
2.09      Previous Agricultural Projects.  Three previous Bank loans have
been extended to Yugoslavia to help finance agricultural projects, one of
which included an irrigation component. The Ibar Mfultipurpose Water Project
(Loan 777-YU), which was financed under a 1971 loan, is behind schedule be-
cause of delay in passage of legislation on boundary adjustment and in secur-
ing funds to finance cost overruns. However, the legislation which allows
for boundary adjustment has now been passed and satisfactory progress is
being made in securing funds to finance the cost overruns. These develop-
ments are expected to improve project implementation. Progress on the other
two loans, a 1973 loan to finance an Agricultural Industries Project (Loan
894-YU) and a 1975 loan for an Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1129-YU),
is satisfactory.
III. THE PROJECT AREA AND NATIONAL INSTITUTIONS
A. The Project Area
3.01      Location.  The project area is located in the Metohija region of
SAPK. It extends along the Beli Drim river and comprises part of the com-
munes of Djakovica, Orahovac and Prizren (Map IBRD 12060R).
3.02      Population.  The population of the project area, including the
towns of Djakovica, Orahovac, and Zrze amounts to 64,700, about 24,000 of
whom constitute the active labor force. About 74% of this force is directly
employed in agriculture, 24% in industrial and service sectors and the re-
maining 2% in retail merchandizing and marketing of agricultural produce.
About 85% of the labor force works in the private sector and the remaining
15% in the social sector.
3.03      Electricity.  Kosovo is a net exporter of electric power and the
Metohija region suffers no deficiency in transmission lines. Djakovica,
Orahovac and Zrze are linked by 35 kv lines connected to a 110/35 kv sub-
station at Djakovica.
3.04      Water Supply.  Existing public water supply in the project area
is deficient in towns and practically non-existent in rural areas where the
inhabitants rely on shallow wells with low yields of doubtful quality. In-
creasing human and livestock population and expanding industry would worsen
the present situation unless new sources are developed.
3.05      One spring of variable yield, supplemented by two boreholes, pre-
sently supplies Djakovica, the largest town. After allowing for industrial
consumption and system losses, the combined sources provide about 60 liters
per capita per day, which is insufficient to meet present demand. Attempts
to obtain more water from underground sources have been unsuccessful. The
next largest community of Orahovac derives its supply from two wells with
a total of 10-12 liters per second, but has problems of both quality and



- 5 -
quantity. Water demand cannot be met and consumers are supplied on an inter-
mittent basis, some by day and others by night, raising the potential for
pollution within the pipe network. In Djakovica all consumers are metered,
but in Orahovac only 40% are metered and 60% obtain water from public taps.
Current practice is for meters to be privately owned but VOM will be working
towards a policy which will vest meter ownership in the supply authority,
including maintenance and will otherwise follow sound public utility practices
in its operations.
3.06      Transportation and Communication.  The  project area has one rail
and one all weather road linking it to Pristina, the capital of Kosovo. The
road system within the project area meets present needs, but additional feeder
roads would be needed to meet the demands of increased traffic after the
project.
3.07      Health.  A 480-bed (70 doctors) hospital in Prizren and an 80-bed
(8 doctors) hospital in Djakovica serve the project area. A particular health
problem is the high incidence of infectious intestinal diseases caused by de-
ficient water supply. Bacillary disentery is common. In 1961 and 1971, there
were outbreaks of typhoid and infectious hepatitis in Orahovac which were at-
tributed to the use of polluted water. In 1970 the first smallpox epidemic in
Europe, after half a century, started and took most of its toll in Metohija.
A Government vaccination program has already eradicated smallpox.
B. Natural Resources
3.08      Climate.  Metohija has a continental climate with mediterranean in-
fluence. Annual rainfall averages 844 mm and the pattern shows a moderately
dry period during the growing season, and great variation from year to year.
Average minimum temperature amounts to -5.80C in January and the average
maximum temperature is 29.10C in August. The potential evapotranspiration
is estimated at 1,300 mm and the water deficit in the growing season amounts
to about 700 mm. Annex 1 summarizes climatic data of the project area.
3.09      Soils.  Based on land capability classification, about 17% of the
project land is Class I, 35% Class II and 48% Class III. Soils are suitable
for irrigated farming, but some areas require drainage, liming and/or sub-
soiling. Details on soils and soil improvement measures are given in Annex 1.
3.10      Water Resources.  As the quality and quantity of groundwater is
inadequate, sources of water for the project would be the Decanska Bistrica
river, which is a tributary of the Beli Drim river. The Beli Drim river is
the major river flowing through Metohija to Albania. Its average discharge
at the border is 60 m3/sec of which one-third emerges from mostly karstic
springs. Total diversion for the project is estimated at about 68 Mm3 per
year or about 3.5% of total annual flow of the river.



- 6 -
C. Land Tenure
3.11      Of the total project land of 10,250 ha (net), about 3,280 ha (32%)
is owned by Agro-Kosovo Kombinat, which is an association of social sector
enterprises. The remainirng 6,950 ha '68%) is owned by smallholders most of
whom own less than 5 ha each. Holdings are irregular and scattered, averag-
ing 7.3 parcels each. The minimum size of an individual parcel is about 0.1
ha. None of the private farmers own more than 20 ha each. Details on land
tenure are in Annex 1.
D. Land Use, Agricultural Production and Yields
3.12      All project land is presently dry farmed with cereals occupying 56%,
alfalfa 6%, orchards and vineyards 10% and other crops (sugar beet, sunflower,
peas, vegetables) 11%. About 17% is occupied by meadows and forests of little
economic value. Present yields are low because of moisture deficits during
the growing season, inadequate drainage and poor soil management practices.
Yields in the private sector are slightly below those of the social sector,
mainly due to lower levels of technology. Present average yields of major
crops per hectare in the social sector are as follows: wheat 3 tons, barley
2.5 tons, maize 4 tons, sunflower 2 tons, sugar beet 30 tons, peas 3.5 tons,
orchards 20 tons, grapes 8 tons and alfalfa 5 tons.
E. Farm Inputs
3.13      Seeds, Fertilizers and Plant Protection Material.  Various national
institutes for agricultural production multiply and distribute seeds to all
farmers. Kombinats also operate fruit-tree nurseries for their own use and
for sale to private farmers. Yugoslavia produces various types of fertil-
izers and plant protection materials which are sold to farmers through var-
ious marketing intermediaries. It is also a common practice for kombinats
to supply private farmers with such inputs on credit.
3.14      Labor.  There is an abundant supply of farm labor in the project
area. Private farmers depend on the services of family labor. Demand for
labor in the social sector is satisfied by permanent workers and by temporary
labor supplied by the private sector.
3.15      Farm Machinery.  Yugoslavia manufactures tractors for export and
domestic use. The social sector has its own farm machinery stations, but
most private farmers depend on kombinats or private entrepreneurs for mechan-
ization services.



- 7 -
F. Agricultural Research and Extension
3.16      The social sector has its own technical staff and advises private
farmers on agricultural production and marketing of those commodities which
are of interest for its own processing industry. No independent extension
service exists. Applied agricultural research is carried out by the kombinats
and cooperatives under guidance of the national agriculture institutes. There
is also an Institute for Mechanization in Belgrade which carries out research
on farm machinery, including the introduction of appropriate implements for
smallholders. There is a need to strengthen agricultural support services in
the project area (para. 5.14).
G. Credit
3.17      The primary sources of agricultural credit in Kosovo are the Bank
of Kosovo (Bankkos) and a Provincial Fund for Betterment of the Individual
Sector (Provincial Fund) (Annex 2).
3.18      Bankkos was founded in 1962 as a development bank to channel and
regulate use of resources for the development of Kosovo; it is also involved
in commercial banking. Almost its entire resources for long-term investments
are borrowed at 3% from the Federal Fund which it relends at not more than 4%;
contribution from the Federal Fund has financed almost 40% of Kosovo's develop-
ment expenditures since 1971. In 1974, about 18% of credits sanctioned by
Bankkos were allocated to agriculture and a third of these were used for
development of irrigation. Bankkos also extends credits to private farmers
from its own resources for purchase of tractors, marketing and other activities.
Such loans carry interest rates of 10-12% and are usually repayable within 5
years.
3.19      The Provincial Fund was created in 1972 by Kosovo Government to
provide private farmers in relatively less developed communes financial assist-
ance to purchase improved seeds, fertilizer, farm machinery and other invest-
ment items and to improve quality of livestock. It receives contributions
from the provincial budget which currently amounts to Din 10.0 million
(US$0.5 million) per year. About 30% of the total resources are utilized
as grants to meet the cost of high-breed livestock, poultry, high quality
seeds and artificial insemination services; the balance is loaned for agricul-
tural infrastructure at 4% interest, repayable in 8 years.
3.20      The interest rates, particularly on loans from the Provincial and
Federal Funds, are low and imply negative real rates of interest. The
Yugoslavs consider low interest rates on investment credits an important
policy instrument for development, especially in the development of agricul-
ture and the less developed regions. The Bank has provided funds for the



- 8 -
study of interest rate structure for the agricultural sector under a previous
Agricultural Credit Project (Loan 1129-YU). This study is in progress and
results are not yet available.
H. Marketing
3.21      As in other economic activities in Yugoslavia, marketing of agri-
cultural products is organized into social and private sectors. The social
sector includes autonomous marketing enterprises with authority to buy and
sell commodities and with legal obligations to honor all contracts. The
private sector consists mainly of village free markets where producers and
consumers exchange goods. Most marketed agricultural products flow through
the social sector enterprises, although substantial volumes of some commo-
dities, particularly in the rural areas, are marketed through village markets
(Annex 3).
IV. THE PROJECT
A.  Objectives
4.01      The main objectives of the project are to (a) increase and stabilize
crop production in an area of 10,250 ha; (b) increase income of 2,200 farm
families who are among the poorest in Yugoslavia; and (c) improve water supply
to three towns and 12 villages to benefit a present population of 64,700,
which is expected to double by the year 2000.
B. Description
4.02      The project would divert water from the Decanska Bistrica River into
an off-channel reservoir formed by a dam on a small tributary, the Prue River.
The project works would include (a) a diversion weir and a supply canal from
the Decanska Bistrica River; (b) a rock-fill dam and reservoir on the Prue
River; (c) an irrigation distribution system to serve 10,250 ha, including one
pumping station; (d) a water supply distribution network, including a treatment
plant and a pumping station; and (e) miscellaneous works comprising drainage,
erosion control, soil improvement, power supply lines, equipment, farm roads,
buildings, demonstration farms and consultant services. Detailed features of
these works are described in Section C and Annexes 4 and 5.



- 9 -
C. Detailed Features
4.03      Diversion.  A 45 m wide 2.5 m high concrete weir in the Decanska
Bistrica River would divert water into a 7.4 km long concrete-lined supply
canal. The canal would terminate in a ravine, which would inlet into the
reservoir to be created by the Dam. Maximum capacity of the inlet and the
supply canal would be 15 m3/sec.
4.04      Dam and Reservoir.  A 550,000 m3 rockfill dam with a crest length
of 200 m and a height of 57 m would be constructed on the Prue River (Map IBRD
12061R). The reservoir would have a total capacity of 113 Mm3 (live capacity
102 Mm3), but because it is off-channel, the spillway would have a capacity
of only 2.6 m3/sec to pass the 1,000 year flood of the small Prue River. The
reservoir outlet would consist of a common tower with multiple intakes, but
separate irrigation and domestic water supply pipes would use the same tunnel.
No serious siltation problems are expected in the reservoir, as a sand-trap on
the supply canal from the Decanska Bistrica River would exclude sediment entry
from that river. The small catchment area of the Prue River would contribute
only a negligible amount of sediment. Special instruments would be installed
in the dam to monitor its safety. In accordance with existing laws adequate
cash or land compensation would be provided to 90 farm families, presently
living in the reservoir area.
4.05      Irrigation Distribution System.  The irrigation distribution system
would consist of a 27 km main canal and 245 km primary and secondary pressure
pipe network (Map IBRD 12062R). All project land of 10,250 ha would be
irrigated by sprinklers. Sprinkler irrigation was adopted because of uneven
topography.  About 7,500 ha would be pressurized by gravity and the remaining
2,750 ha would require pumping.  The buried pipe network would have a density
of 47 m/ha for field crops in the social sector and 100 m/ha in the private
sector.  The distribution system would be "on demand" with a design module of
0.8 1/sec/ha.  The pumping station would consist of nine units with a total
installed capacity of 1,700 kw; six pumps would have a head of 35 m and three
pumps would have a head of 76 m.
4.06      The portable irrigation equipment for field crops in the social
sector would consist of pipes and sprinkler which would operate in a 12 m x
18 m pattern under a nozzle pressure of 3.5 atm. For the private sector and
tree crops in the social sector the portable equipment would include individ-
ual sprinklers on 50 m long "garden hoses", which would be designed for a 12 m
x 12 m pattern operating at 3 atm. While the system is slightly more expensive
than a conventional layout it would allow irrigation of small plots. Such a
system was the only alternative that was acceptable to the smallholder farmers
in the private sector.
4.07      Potable Water Supply Works.  These would consist of distribution
pipelines, a treatment plant (400 1/sec) for filtration and chlorination and
pumping stations (Map IBRD 12061R). The reservoir level would be sufficiently
high to feed the treatment plant by gravity for nine months; for the remaining
3 months pumping would be required.



- 10 -
4.08      From the treatment plant, water would be distributed by a 40 km
trunk main for bulk supply to the towns of Djakovica, Orahovac and Zrze.
About 28 km of minor distribution Diping would be connected to the trunk to
supply about 12 villages. The pipes would be designed to meet gradually
increasing demand with allowance for peaks. New storage facilities totalling
10,000 m3 would be construc2-ed s- D§iZcvica, Orahovac and Zrze. A booster
pump on the trunk main would pump water to Orahovac and nearby villages. An
extension of the distribution syster is visualized in a second phase, but
its implementation is for later consideration and depends on VJOM's future per-
formance.
4.09      Drainage, Erosion Control and Soil Improvement Works. Open drains
would be constructed on 380 ha and underground drains on 3,500 ha. Drain
density would vary from 140 m/ha to 230 m/ha.  Anti-erosion measures would
consist of reforestation, gully control and terracing on about 2,600 ha. Soil
improvement works would include liming, subsoiling and phosphate treatment of
3,000 ha, 4,000 ha and 6,000 ha respectively.
4.10      Power Supply Lines.  A 110 Kv/35 Kv substation at Diakovica would
be extended and a new 35 Kv substation would be constructed at Petrovac. A
7.5 km long 35 Kv transmission line and a similar length of 6 Kv line would
connect the two substations with the dam site and the pumping stations.
4.11      Equipment.  The project would provide vehicles and other equipment
for operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities and for other project
related works.
4.12      Farm Roads, Buildings and Demonstration Farms.  Farm roads would be
6 m wide. The access road to the dam site would be asphalted. Buildings
would include expansion of VOM's headquarters in Prizren, construction of
field headquarters in Zrze, and field offices. A 40 ha demonstration area,
involving 18 owners, who have volunteered for this purpose, would be equipped
with the proposed portable sprinkler system. In addition the project would
equip a 20 ha experimental farm for vegetable production and mechanization and
a 4.5 ha trial area for study of irrigation methods for the vineyards.
4.13      Consultants.  The project would provide funds for local consultants,
who are already employed by VOM and have completed preliminary designs of the
irrigation system. These consultants would complete final design, supervise
construction and prepare and evaluate bid documents. Foreign consultants
would be required to review final design of the pipe network, assist in prep-
aration of tender documents and train local staff. VOM has agreed to retain
foreign consultants to s:-u.ply this expertise, and has already taken steps in
consultation with the Bank to employ a qualified firm.  Terms of Reference
are in Annex 4.
D. Water Demand, Supply, Quality and Rights
4.14      Water Demand.  Allowing for effective rainfall the net requirement
per hectare would be 3,250 m3. With an overall efficiency of 71%, the gross
irrigation demand would be 4,580 m3/ha or a total of 47.5 Mm30  The domestic



- 11 -
water requirement is calculated on the basis of a future daily consumption of
200 1/capita for the towns and 150 1/capita for the village population. The
latter figure includes an allowance for livestock.  Allowing for a system
efficiency of 90%, the annual domestic requirements would amount to 13.5 Mm3.
Thus the total project water requirement would amount to about 60 Mm3 per
year. The proposed capacity of the reservoir would meet the project needs
adequately. In addition it would also be able to meet the demands of the
second phase development of the Hydro-System Radenic. The alternative to
limit the size of the reservoir to only the project's needs with the possi-
bility of extension later was found uneconomical. Details on water require-
ment and availability are given in Annex 6.
4.15      Water Supply and Quality.  The source of water for the project
would be the Decanska Bistrica River. A detailed reservoir operating study
indicated that no water shortages would occur. High river discharges occur
from March to May, and usually the irrigation season would start with a full
reservoir. The waters of the Decanska Bistrica River are of excellent quality
for irrigation and domestic water supply purposes.
4.16      Water Rights.  The Decanska Bistrica River is a tributary of the
Beli Drim River which flows into Albania. A treaty signed in 1962 between
Albania and Yugoslavia allows Yugoslavia to divert up to 216 Mm3 per year.
Project needs would equal only 32% of the allowable diversion. Government of
Kosovo has submitted to the Bank a statement indicating that the proposed
diversions for the project comply with the treaty.
E. Status of Engineering
4.17      Preliminary design for all major project works has been completed
by VOM's consultants, Kosovoprojekt. Final design for the intake, feeder
canal and dam is well advanced. Longitudinal profiles for all mains, primary
and secondary pipes have been surveyed. Maps for drainage, erosion control,
and soil improvement works have been prepared. The final design of the water
treatment plant would be based on the proposal submitted by the successful
tenderer following international competitive bidding. VOM has engaged Kosovo-
projekt to prepare final design, tender documents for the project works and
also to supervise their construction; this arrangement is acceptable to the
Bank.
F. Cost Estimates
4.18      Total project costs are estimated at Din 1,986 million (US$110.3
million) including taxes, duties and physical and price contingencies.
The foreign exchange component would amount to Din 774.0 million (US$43.0
million) or 39% of total costs. Taxes and duties are estimated at about
US$22.0 million equivalent. Interest and other charges during construction



- 12 -
on the foreign costs are estimated at about Din 198 million (US$11.0 million).
Cost estimates for civil works and major equipment are based on unit rates
obtained in contracts for similar works in Kosovo and Serbia in 1975, which
have been updated to September 1976 equivalent. Physical contingencies are
taken at 15% for the dam and water supply component, and at 10% for other
civil works and equipment. For all civil works, price contingencies are
compounded at annual rates of 12% (1977-1979) and 10% (1980-1981) and for
equipment at annual rates of 8% (1977-1979), and 7% (1980-1981). Overall
contingencies amount to about 49% of base cost. Cost estimates are summarized
below and given in detail in Annex 7. Estimated schedule of expenditure is in
Annex 8.
Foreign
Item                  Local  Foreign   Total  Local  Foreign   Total  Exchange
----Din million /1----  ----US$ million/l-----         %
Dam and Intake         80.4    75.7    156.1    4.4        4.2       8.6      49
Domestic Supply
Civil Works           55.5    27.8       83.3    3.1      1.5       4.6     33
Domestic Supply
Equipment             73.3    47.3    120.6    4.1        2.6       6.7     39
Irrigation Network
Civil Works          273.5   235.6    509.1   15.2    13.1         28.3     46
Irrigation Equip-
ment & Vehicles       27.2    54.8       82.0    1.5      3.0       4.5     67
Buildings & Demon-
stration Farms        33.8      7.2      41.0    1.9      0.4       2.3     25
Expropriation and
Compensation         123.7        -    123.7    6.9         -       6.9      -
Land Improvement        63.8    60.2    124.0    3.4       3.5       6.9     49
Engineering            89.5      4.1      93.6    5.0      0.2       5.2      4
Subtotal            820.7   512.7  1,333.4   45.5    28.5         74.0     39
Physical Con-
tingencies            99.8    63.2    163.0    5.6        3.5      9.1      39
Price Con-
tingencies           291.6   198.1    489.7   16.2    11.0        27.2      41
Total Project
Cost            1,212.1   774.0  1,986.1   67.3    43.0    110.3         39
Interest & Other
Charges During
Construction            -    198.0    198.0       -      11.0     11.0       -
Total Financing
Requirements       1,212.1   972.0  2,184.1   67.3    54.0    121.3
/1   Discrepancies due to rounding.



- 13 -
G. Financing
4.19      The proposed Bank loan to VOM of US$54 million would finance
in full (a) the estimated foreign exchange component of the project cost,
and (b) the estimated interest and other charges during construction on
the proposed Bank loan. The project's local cost of Din 1,212 million
(US$67.3 million) would be met by loans from Kosovo to VOM through Bankkos.
The proposed Bank loan would be for 15 years including 3 years of grace.
H. Construction Schedule
4.20      Construction of works would start in 1977 and be completed in 1980
and 1981 for the water supply and irrigation components respectively (Annex 9).
I. Procurement
4.21      Contracts for civil works and equipment financed under the proposed
Bank loan would be grouped, to the extent practicable, into 18 contracts as
indicated in Annex 10 and would be tendered in accordance with the Bank Guide-
lines. Of these, 10 contracts totalling about US$61.0 million would be tendered
on the basis of international competitive bidding. A 15% preference margin,
or prevailing custom duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids for equipment under international competitive bidding.
Individual purchases of equipment not exceeding US$40,000 in value would be
allowed to be procured in accordance with applicable local procedures which
are acceptable up to an aggregate value of US$300,000. Agreement was reached
during negotiations that construction and equipment contracts, listed in Annex
10, would be awarded in accordance with the Bank Guidelines.
4.22      Procurement in accordance with local competitive bidding, following
Government procedures which are acceptable to the Bank, would be appropriate
for the remaining eight contracts totalling about US$15.3 million. These
contracts would consist of such items as first section of main canal, access
road, diversion tunnel, grouting, erosion control works, buildings, etc.
Most of the works are scattered over the project area, are of minor nature and
would be built at different times; others will be procured locally to avoid
delays in project implementation.
4.23      Construction of the tertiary network and farm roads, and soil improve-
ment measures (cost US$11.0 million) would be carried out by VOM under force
account, because (i) VOM is familiar with the traditions and customs in the
project area and would be able to minimize interruption to cropping; (ii) it
would further increase VOM's leverage to implement boundary alignment; and
(iii) it would permit training of VOM's staff for future repair work. The
construction equipment and materials would be procured under the Bank's
guidelines (para 4.21) and are listed in Annex 10, Tables 2 and 3.



- 14 -
J. Disbursements
4.24      The proposed Bank Loan would be disbursed as follows:
(i)  Civil Works (US$21.0 million)          - 40% of total expenditures.
(ii)  Equipment (US$16.0 million)            - 100% of foreign expenditure or
100% of local ex-factory cost.
(iii)  Buildings and Demonstration            - 20% of total expenditure.
Farms (US$0.7 million).
(iv)  Foreign Consultants (US$0.3 million) - 100% of foreign expenditure.
(v)  Interest and Other Charges             - Amount due.
(US$11.0 million)
(vi) Unallocated (US$5.0 million).
Expenditure of foreign consultants, after June 30, 1976, but up to US$100,000
would also be admissible for disbursement. Savings on the proposed loan, if
any, would be cancelled. The estimated disbursement schedule is presented in
Annex 11.
K. Environmental Impact
4.25      The availability of a safe water supply will improve the health of
the inhabitants of the area. The introduction of piped water would improve
sanitation in rural and urban areas. The need to prevent the spread of water-
borne pollution is well recognized by the communes and the towns. Both
Djakovica and Orahovac have sewage treatment plants nearing completion. In
the rural areas the soils are suitable for treated effluent disposal from
individual properties and it has been confirmed that provincial financial
assistance might be forthcoming for the construction of village sewerage
systems if community resources prove insufficient. A recently completed UNDP
province wide study has made preliminary proposals, in the project area, for
further wastewater facilities to regulate discharges to meet Yugoslav river
standards. VOM has a special responsibility for water management and pollu-
tion control measures in its area of operations and will use this study as a
basis for future actions.



- 15 -
V. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
The Borrower
5.01      VOM would be the borrower of the Bank loan under the guarantee of
the Governments of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and would be responsible
for project implementation. VOM is an organization of associated labor which
has an independent legal personality. It is composed of the following three
Units of Associated Labor: Irrigation, Construction and Engine Repair and
Maintenance plus a Joint Service. Unit Irrigation operates and maintains
small and traditional irrigation systems and Unit Construction carries out
civil works construction in and around the project area. The Unit Engine
Repair and Maintenance is a machinery service unit which serves the private
and social sectors. The Joint Service provides planning and administrative
services to the other units of associated labor. VOM has presently 167
permanent and 60 temporary employees.
5.02      VOM is headed by a workers' council which includes elected repre-
sentatives of all units, a seven-member executive committee and an executive
General Manager. It is a member of the composite organization of associated
labor, Water Nanagement-Kosovo formed under a joint self-management agreement,
executed in 1973 between its thirteen participants. The activities of VOM are
regulated by this agreement and by its own statute. The latter provides that
VOM is authorized to borrow money, to operate a bank account, and to enter
into contracts; the individual units are not so empowered. For this reason,
Government of Kosovo has designated VOM as the borrower of the Bank loan.
5.03      Organizational Changes.  With the project VOM would be reorganized
and expanded (Chart 16006R). The position of General Manager would be up-
graded to General Director, and a qualified person would be appointed to serve
as Financial Director and Deputy General Director. During negotiations
agreement was reached that the position of General Director would at all
times be occupied by a person experienced in the operation of irrigation
systems and water supply networks and that the Financial Director would be a
suitable qualified person selected by VOM in consultation with the Bank. The
appointment of a Financial Director would be a condition of effectiveness of
the loan.
5.04      VOM plans to transform its three units into Basic Organizations
of Associated Labor (BOAL). An additional BOAL to be known as BOAL Hydro-
System Radenic would be formed within VOM. This BOAL would be responsible for
operation and maintenance of the project and would be headed by a qualified
engineer Director assisted by a Financial Director. It would have a Finance,
an Adminstration, and an Operation Division. The BOAL's headquarters would be
at Zrze. The Operations Division would have four sectors to be headquartered
at Djakovica, Rogovo, Ratkovac and Velika Krusa (Map IBRD 12062R). During



- 16 -
negotiation agreement was reached that (a) VOM would create Hydro-System
Radenic under arrangements satisfactory to Kosovo, VOM and the Bank prior to
December 31, 1978, and (b) Hydro-System Radenic would employ at all times a
qualified and experienced engineer to act as its Director and a qualified
financial expert to act as its Deputy.
5.05      Joint Services would be enlarged by the establishment of an Agri-
cultural and a Technical Service. The Agricultural Service, in cooperation
with various national agricultural institutes (para. 3.-16) would provide
extension services to assist the farmers to adopt new irrigation technology,
and would provide training for new agricultural staff. The Technical Division
would provide design support to field units. It would be assisted by local
consultants, who would be responsible to the General Director.
Implementing Agencies
5.06      VOM.  The overall responsibility for planning, construction and
operation and maintenance of the project as well as keeping project accounts
(para 5.27) would rest with VOM. It will finalize the design, prepare and
evaluate bids, and coordinate construction. Construction of the tertiary
irrigation system and farm roads, as well as soil improvement measures would
be carried out by VOM on force account.
5.07      Bankkos.  All financial contributions to the project from the Federal
and Provincial Funds and other local sources would be channelled to VOM through
Bankkos. This Bank would also be a source of credit to farmers in the project
area (para. 5.15).
B. Operation and Maintenance
5.08      Irrigation Component.  The irrigation works including the Dam would
be operated and maintained by BOAL Hydro-System Radenic. Kosovoprojekt would
assist the BOAL in the Dam's operation and maintenance. To assure the Dam's
safety, VOM would arrange, at intervals of not more than five years, a formal
inspection of the Dam and appurtenant structures to determine any actual or
potential deficiencies in the condition of these structures or in the quality
of their maintenance or methods of operation which may endanger their safety
and to take any remedial action necessary. A copy of each inspection report
would be forwarded to the Bank. During negotiations agreement was reached
to this effect.
5.09      The irrigation works would be operated and maintained by the four
Sector Offices of the Operations Division of the BOAL Hydro-System Radenic
(para. 5.04). Each sector would service about 2,500 ha and would be staffed
by a maintenance engineer, a skilled technician, and a storekeeper. Field
operation staff (ditchriders) would cooperate with extension units to promote
proper use of irrigation water. The staff would also record acreage and hours
of irrigation and prepare water use data.



- 17 -
5.10      Water Supply Component.  The water supply facilities, except for
the distribution systems for the towns of Djakovica and Orahovac and the
water treatment plant, would be operated and maintained by the four sectors
mentioned above (para. 5.09). The towns of Djakovica and Orahovac would
operate and maintain their distribution systems through the existing water
departments (Vodovods), as at present. The water treatment plant would be
operated by BOAL Hydro-System Radenic, but under the separate control of a
chemist manager, who would be assisted by technicians.
5.11      The BOAL Hydro-System Radenic would supply potable water from
source to faucet for consumers in rural areas and directly to industry in
Zrze and to the towns of Djakovica and Orahovac on the basis of metered bulk
supply.
5.12      The annual operation and maintenance cost of project facilities
is estimated at about Din 31.4 million (US$1.7 million). Of this, about Din
24.7 million (US$1.4 million) would be chargeable to the irrigation component
and Din 6.7 million (US$0.3 million) to the water supply component.
C. Boundary Adjustment
5.13      Because of the irregular and scattered nature of private holdings,
it would have been desirable to carry out land consolidation and to design
the on-farm irrigation system accordingly. Although appropriate legislation
exists, land consolidation has not been successful because of farmers' resis-
tance. For this reason, the on-farm irrigation system for private farmers has
been designed on the basis of minor boundary adjustments rather than land
consolidation. A law which allows for boundary adjustment has been passed by
the Assembly of Kosovo. Farmers in the project area have been consulted
on boundary adjustment and have agreed in principle to this proposal. Some
farmers have volunteered to carry out boundary adjustment between themselves
and to demonstrate the proposed irrigation method. It is expected that the
farmers would adopt the proposed system without undue delay. Assurances
were obtained during negotiations that farm boundaries would be adjusted,
when and wherever necessary, to permit a regular irrigation layout.
D. Support Services
5.14      The social sector would strengthen its technical staff to meet its
own needs, and would continue to provide extension service to the private
farmers. In addition, the project would provide for and equip six extension
units to serve the private sector. These units would be under the Hydro-System
Radenic and would be staffed with three extension agents who would be Univer-
sity graduates; each unit would serve about 1,200 ha. Technical supervision
would be provided to the extension units by appropriate national agricultural



- 18 -
institutes. VOM would also provide on-the-job training and short technical
courses for the benefit of its staff. Existing agricultural research stations
would provide necessary technical assistance to the project area. Experi-
mental farms would also be established within the project area to supplement
the research efforts. During negotiations VOM agreed to employ at all times
sufficient agricultural saf-'  -- me_i 'he project needs.
E. Credit
5.15      Bankkos would continue to be the major source of agricultural
credit in the project area.   It has two existing branches in Prizren and
Djakovica and an office in Orahovac, all of which would be expanded to serve
private farmers and social enterprises. In addition, Agro-Kosovo kombinat
would set up its own in-house bank to act as a clearing mechanism for de-
posits and loan application of its member organizations and private farmers
who cooperate with them. VOM would have power to certify credit needs of
individual farmers, who would then be able to approach Bankkos directly
with loan applications rather than through social sector enterprises as
at present.
5.16      With the project, medium and long-term credit requirements of
farmers would increase. About Din 68 million (US$3.8 million), including
contingencies, would be required to purchase portable irrigation equipment
for the social and private sectors. During negotiations, assurances were
obtained that Government of Kosovo would ensure that adequate credit would
be made available by Bankkos to the farmers at standard terms applicable to
other borrowers of such funds (paras. 3.17-3.20). The use of equipment by
farmers would be prescribed by the irrigation system installed, leaving little
room for misallocation of resources.
F. Marketing
5.17      Project output would be marketed by the existing trade organi-
zations (para. 3.21 and Annex 3), but marketing facilities would need to
be improved. The project would provide funds for expansion of farm roads
to enhance transport of commodities. As a part of an integrated develop-
ment program for the project area, there is a plan to establish four vege-
table collecting centers; construct a packing plant and cooling station for
vegetables in Zrze; provide trucks to transport commodities to different
markets; and expand capacities of an existing sugar factory and a vegetable
processing/canning plant. These new facilities would not be essential for
the project until 1983 when substantial incremental production is attained,
ar, therefore  _re not in-luded in the project.  Assurances were obtained
during negotiations that the Government of Kosovo would ensure that these
marketing facilities would be made available to the project prior to 1983.



- 19 -
G. Recovery of Project Costs
5.18      General.  For the purpose of project analysis, investment and opera-
tion and maintenance costs of project facilities, common to the irrigation and
water supply components, have been allocated to each component in proportion to
the volume of water to be utilized. These costs would then be recovered from
the beneficiaries through water charges. Irrigation charges would be based on
farmers' ability to pay.
5.19      Irrigation Component.  The maximum feasible level of water charge,
which is equivalent to the project rent, is estimated at about Din 5,000
(US$278) per ha in constant 1976 prices. It is not appropriate to recover
all of the project rent from the smallholder private farmers because they are
among the poorest in Yugoslavia, having an average per capita consumption
level equal to about 50% of the critical consumption level in the country.
It would have been socially desirable not to recover project costs from such
beneficiaries at all. However, to generate adequate revenues for VOM to meet
the operation and maintenance costs of the project facilities, about Din 3,000
(US$167) per ha or 60% of the project rent would be recovered from the private
farmers. The kombinats would pay higher water charges as, in addition to the
direct benefits, they would also gain substantially due to an increased supply
of sugar beet to their factories at costs lower than they pay at present; the
current major source being 200 km away from the project area. Therefore, the
full project rent of Din 5,000 (US$278) per ha would be recovered from the
kombinats. The actual water charges to be levied on the farmers as well as
the kombinats would be agreed with the Bank for the first time in 1979 and
later on periodically as the need arises. The agreed water charges would be
recovered from the beneficiaries at full rate in the fourth year following
commencement of irrigation; for the first three years the charge would be
increased gradually. During negotiations it was agreed that (a) VOM would
collect, from commencement of irrigation, water charges annually at rates
which would be agreed with the Bank and review these rates periodically in
consultation with the Bank; and (b) the rates for the kombinats would always
be higher than those for the private farmers.
5.20      The present value of project charges calculated on the basis of
proposed rates in para 5.19 and in constant 1976 prices and discounted at
about 10% is estimated at Din 292.0 million (US$16.0 million). This would
recover 100% of the operation and maintenance costs and about 10% of the
investment costs over the assumed project life of 40 years. The Cost Recovery
Index would amount to about 30%, the Benefit Recovery Index would be about
25%, and the Rent Recovery Index about 55%. Details are in Annex 12.
5.21      Water Supply Component.  Investment costs and operation and main-
tenance costs of water supply facilities would be recovered through a water
tariff. This tariff has been set at the level of long-run average cost of
domestic and industrial water, which at a discount rate of about 10% is
estimated at about Din 4.32/m3 in 1976 domestic market prices. Adjusted



- 20 -
for inflation, this would be sufficient to produce a financial rate of return
of 7% by 1981, the first year of full supply. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that VOM would impose charges for potable water sufficient to
provide, in any given year, revenues to cover all administrative and operating
expenses (including depreciation) incurred in providing the supply and in
addition to provide a rate of return on the fixed assets employed of not less
than 7% by the year 1982 and thereafter. Although such a price represents a
considerable increase over the present charges for domestic supplies in the
project area, it is broadly consistent with the charges levied under other
Bank-assisted projects in Yugoslavia. Since about two-thirds of the expected
consumption is accounted for by bulk supplies to the towns of Djakovica and
Orahovac, it is not considered practical to attempt to apply separate tariffs
to industrial and domestic consumers.
H. Financial Performance of the Borrower
5.22      Past Performance and Present Financial Position.  In each of the
past three years, VOM earned a small net income, although the rate of return
on assets employed was under 2%. At the end of 1975, its debt/equity ratio
was 35:65 and it held cash balances of Din 1.2 million, equivalent to about
25% of past average annual capital expenditure. However, the proposed proj-
ect will expand the nature and scale of VOM's operations to such an extent
that past financial results are not useful as a guide to future performance.
5.23      Future Financial Performance.  The sale of potable water will pro-
duce a positive rate of return on the attributable assets from the outset,
rising to 20% by 1987. However, the constraints on pricing the irrigation
service (para 5.19) mean that this activity will incur operating losses,
reducing the financial rate of return to the project to 3% in that year.
The other activities of VOM will by then be so small in comparison to the
operation of the project as to have no significant effect on VON's overall
rate of return.
5.24      All the funds for project construction will be provided in the
form of loans from IBRD and Bankkos. The loans have repayment terms of 12
and 20 years respectively, compared with a project life of approximately
40 years. Taken in conjunction with the low rate of return, this situation
imposes on VOM a debt service burden which is beyond its capability to sup-
port from operational cash flow; for practical purposes this condition may
be expected to persist, though to a diminishing extent, until retirement of
the IBRD loan in 1992. Therefore, a second financing plan has been developed
to provide VOM with the funds it requires during this period. The plan com-
prises grants towards interest payments by Kosovo, and partial refinancing
of the original project loans by a second loan from Bankkos to be repaid over
25 years beginning in 1993. Details of both financing plans are in Annex 13;
the assurances necessary to implement them were received at negotiations from
Government of Kosovo and Bankkos.



- 21 -
5.25      The effect of these arrangements is to secure a small positive cash
flow for VOM in each of the years following project completion. Although the
enterprise will be entirely debt-financed for a number of years, it can
reasonably be expected to be capable of servicing this debt unaided by 1992,
and to develop an increasing degree of self-financing thereafter. Projected
financial statements, and an explanation of the assumptions on which they are
constructed, appear in Annex 14.
I. Accounts and Audit
5.26      The greatly increased scale of operations envisaged by the project
would place significantly greater demands on VOM's accounting system and
staff. In particular, the creation of the proposed BOAL Hydro-System Radenic
would call for an increased analytical capability in order to distinguish the
separate results of its irrigation and water supply activities. During nego-
tiations, assurances were obtained that VOM would (a) recruit suitably quali-
fied personnel to ensure that its accounting department is adequately staffed;
(b) within six months after appointment of the Finance Director of VOM (para
5.03), review and, if necessary, modify its accounting procedures to ensure
that they are capable of providing timely, relevant and accurate information
on current financial performance and future projections. VOM would keep
separate accounts which show (a) all project expenditures including those
related to goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the proposed
Bank loan; (b) overall financial position of VOM; and (c) separate financial
results of BOAL Hydro-System Radenic, distinguishing its irrigation and water
supply activities.
5.27      VOM's financial statements are prepared in accordance with Yugoslav
accounting law and the national code of accounts, and their format is ac-
ceptable to the Bank. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that
these accounts would be submitted to the Bank annually within four months of
the close of the Yugoslav fiscal year. They would be audited by the Social
Accounting Service of Yugoslavia (SAS). Recently, a special group of SAS
inspectors has been trained in carrying out audits to international standards.
J. Monitoring of Key Project Indicators
5.28      The Borrower would arrange to carry out a base survey before start
of the first irrigation season in 1979 and thereafter furnish to the Bank
necessary information through periodic reports for review of progress towards
attainment of project objectives. The information would include data on
physical implementation of the project; procurement and disbursement; project
costs; type, amount and terms of credit to farmers; area under irrigation in
the private and social sectors; cropping pattern and yields; farm-gate prices
of inputs and outputs; annual costs of producing crops; water charges; wages
to employees of the kombinats and incomes to typical farm models representing
smallholder private farmers; and population benefiting from domestic water
supply.



- 22 -
VI. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Crop Production
6.01      Presently, the project land is mostly dry farmed with winter cereals
and maize occupying about 56% of the cropped area. The estimated gross annual
production (at 1975 domestic farm-gate prices) amounts to Din 95.0 million
(US$5.3 million). Without the project, rainfed cultivation would continue
and the cropping pattern would not alter. But yields could improve by about
10-20% due to application of improved technology and better farm management
practices; further yield increases would be constrained by moisture deficits,
drainage and soil management problems. Without the project, the future gross
value of production would increase to about Din 115 million (US$6.4 million).
6.02      With the project, the cropping pattern would change in favor of
crops which are relatively more responsive to irrigation. Cropped area would
be increased by about 2,070 ha due to an increase in cropping intensity to
about 117% and reclamation of about 300 ha of wooded lands. Areas under maize,
sugar beet, vegetables and alfalfa would increase substantially, mainly at
the expense of wheat. Because of adequate and secure irrigation supplies,
increased fertilizer applications and better drainage and soil management
practices, incremental yields of crops would be as follows: wheat 40%, maize
85%, sugar beet 60%, vegetables 50%, alfalfa 160%, fruit trees 35%, and all
other crops 30-50%. Projected yields from any given area would be obtained
six years following initial irrigation in the private sector and four years
in the social sector. Yields and their development are based on experimental
results and on experiences gained from other irrigation projects in the region
(Annex 1).
6.03      Cropped area and output of various crops at present and in future
without and with the project are detailed in Annex 1, and summarized below:



- 23 -
Cropped Area                         Output
Present and                     Present   Future  Incremental
Future Without   Future With            Without  With
Project         Project             Project Project
----------- ha -------------  ---------- '000 tons --------
Wheat                    2,810           1,080         7.4    8.8    4.9   (3.9)
Maize I                  2,700           1,160         7.2    8.1    7.1   (1.0)
Barley                     270             340         0.6    0.8    1.4    0.6
Sunflower                  280             320         0.5    0.6    0.8    0.2
Beans                      -               140          -       -      1.4    1.4
Peas                       370             580         1.3    1.5    3.8    2.3
Sugar beet                 160           1,470         4.2    4.7   66.2   61.5
Vegetables /1              300           1,400         6.4    7.3   49.0   41.7
Fruit /2                   340           1,270         6.8    8.2   41.4   33.2
Grape                      720             720         5.8    7.2   10.1    2.9
Alfalfa (Hay)              590           1,760         2.5    2.7   21.2   18.5
Meadows &
Pastures               1,400             -            /5      -     -       -
Maize II                   -             1,770          -       -      8.5    8.5
By-Products /3             -               -          17.2   19.8   45.4   25.6
Total              9,940          12,010
Gross Value
(Din million) /4                                    95.0  115.0  330.0  215.0
/1   Mainly tomatoes and pepper.
/2   Primarily apples.
T3   Stalks of wheat, barley, beans and peas, corn cobs and sugar beet leaves.
/4   In 1975 (normal crop year) domestic farm-gate prices.
/5   Not harvested.
Full project benefits would be realized in 1987, eight years following com-
mencement of irrigation. At full development, the annual gross value of
production would amount to Din 330.0 million (US$18.3 million).
B. MIarkets
6.04      Despite substantial increases in production expected from the
project, the incremental outputs would represent only minor proportions of
total national production. The additional production of main project com-
modities such as sugar beet (61,500 tons), vegetables (41,700 tons), fruit
(33,200 tons) and maize (7,500 tons) would account for only about 1% each,
of total national production of these commodities by 1980. Similarly, the
incremental output of grapes, sunflower and barley would not exceed 0.2% of
expected production of these commodities in 1980; output of wheat would
decline slightly.



- 24 -
6.05      No serious marketing problems are foreseen for the project's out-
put. The entire incremental output of cereals, fruits, sugar beet (sugar)
and alfalfa, and most of the additional output of vegetables would be used
to satisfy a growing domestic demand. A small portion of project output of
vegetables and all additional output of grapes (wine) and sunflower would
be exported and the market outlook for these exports is favorable. Details
on markets are in Annex 3.
C. Prices
6.06      The socio-political system in Yugoslavia accepts the concept of the
price system as a guide for resource allocation, though with major qualifica-
tions. Prices are generally free to respond to changes in demand and supply
except for limited Government control over markets for a few selected commo-
dities. For wheat and maize, the Government provides farmers with modest
premiums above market prices. Prices of all other project commodities are
determined by free interplay of market forces except those of sunflower and
sugar beet where minimum official prices apply. In general, however, the
farm-gate prices of most commodities are about the same as prices elsewhere
in Yugoslavia and are in line with IBRD forecasts of World prices of similar
commodities for 1975-85.  For these reasons, the actual average post-harvest
prices for 1975 (which was a normal crop year), net of all subsidies, are
used for the economic analysis of the project. For farm budget analysis,
however, the farm-gate prices including all subsidies are used. Project out-
put of crops is not expected to have significant influence on the domestic
and international markets for these commodities. Prices of output used for
appraisal of the irrigation component are in Annex 15, Table 11.
D. Producers' Income
6.07      Three farm budgets were prepared to show the irrigation component's
impact on incomes to smallholder private farmers. These include a 1.5 ha
vegetable farm; a 4 ha and an 8 ha field crop farm. These farm models repres-
ent all smallholders in the project area who derive their incomes entirely
from farming.
6.08      The farm budgets show that the present household income for all farm
models amounts to about Din 21,790 (US$1,210). This is equivalent to a per
capita income of about Din 2,720 (US$150), which is below the upper limit of
income to the poverty target group in Yugoslavia. The average household in-
come would increase by 26% to Din 27,400 (US$1,520) in the future without
the project. The project would increase the farm income by a further 117% to
Din 59,360 (US$3,300) and the average per capita income to Din 7,420 (US$412).
Details are given in Annex 12.



- 25 -
6.09      The impact of the project on wages of workers in the kombinats is
not clear as their wages depend on the total income and profit of the kombi-
nats including their profits from non-project activities such as processing.
Presently, the workers are paid a minimum wage of about Din 150 (US$8.30) per
day or an equivalent of about Din 36,300 (US$2,020) per year. This is likely
to be increased in future with the project.
E. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.10      Main Benefits of Irrigation Component.  The major quantifiable
direct benefit of the project would be a substantial increase in the produc-
tion of crops. At full development, net incremental benefits at efficiency
prices would amount to about Din 112 million (US$6.3 million) per year. In
addition, the project would help to alleviate underemployment particularly
of smallholder private farmers, and would about double the labor productivity
from the present level of about Din 9,000 (US$400). It would also reduce
instability in crop production and help a sugar factory in the area by pro-
viding cheaper source of sugar beet.
6.11      Main Benefits of Water Supply Component.  The main benefit of the
water supply component would be improvement of the health and standard of
living of the inhabitants at the project area by providing them with potable
water. The project would also help industrial expansion in the towns of
Djakovica, Orahovac and Zrze.
6.12      Beneficiaries.  Principal direct beneficiaries of irrigation would
be about 2,200 smallholder and poor private farmers and their families. The
project is also expected to increase profits to the social sector and incomes
to its workers. Ultimately, indirect beneficiaries would include other
residents of Kosovo through increased and stable supplies of food.
6.13      The water supply component would benefit the entire population of
the project area (presently 64,700) which is expected to more than double by
the year 2000. It would also benefit growing social sector industrial enter-
prises within the project area, and a rising livestock population which is
owned by private farmers.
F. Economic Rate of Return
6.14      The economic rate of return on all project components is estimated
at about 11%. Assumptions used in computing the rate of return and results
of sensitivity analyses are in Annex 15.
6.15      Irrigation Component.  The economic rate of return on the irriga-
tion component is estimated at about 11.1%. The investment cost at border
prices is estimated at Din 94,440 (US$5,250) per ha. The high investment cost



- 26 -
results (a) from the design of the subproject to fit the needs of small
fragmented holdings, and (b) inclusion in phase I costs of those common
facilities which would serve both phases I and II of the project. If land
consolidation was practical, investment costs would have been lowered by about
5% and the economic rate of return would have increased from 11.1% to 11.4%.
Prorating of costs of project facilities which would benefit both phases I and
II would have increased the rate of return on phase I to 13%. The rate of
return would increase to 13.8% if land consolidation was practical and if it
were possible to realistically quantify the benefits from phase II facilities.
6.16      Total cost of the irrigation component of the project, excluding
price contingencies, and taxes and duties, is equivalent to about Din 270,000
(US$15,000) per family. This is high although it is not unusual when compared
with other irrigation projects elsewhere. The beneficiaries have limited
opportunities for gainful employment outside of agriculture. Their income
level productivity can be increased only through development of agriculture,
but the development of agriculture is constrained by shortage of soil moisture.
6.17      Water Supply Component.  The project represents the least cost solu-
tion to the water supply problems of the project area. Using incremental re-
venues as minimum measures of economic benefits, existing water tariffs result
in a negative economic rate of return. This demonstrates that existing charges
for potable water are inadequate to cover the incremental cost of additional
water. Based on estimated long-run average cost of potable water (para. 5.21)
and assuming quantifiable benefits as minimum measures of economic benefits,
the economic rate of return on the water supply component is computed at about
10.9%.
VII. RECOMMENDATIONS
7.01      During negotiation agreement was reached on the following main
points:
(a)  Construction and equipment contracts listed in Annex 10 would
be awarded in accordance with Bank guidelines (para 4.21).
(b)  VOM would employ:
(i)  at all times a General Director experienced in the opera-
tion of irrigation systems and water supply networks;
(ii) in consultation with the Bank a suitable qualified Finan-
cial Director;
(iii) suitable, qualified Director and Finance Director for
BOAL Hydro-System Radenic;
(iv) at all times sufficient agricultural staff to meet
project needs; and



- 27 -
(v) suitable qualified personnel for its accounting depart-
ment (paras 5.03; 5.05; 5.14; and 5.26).
(c) VOM would create Hydro-System Radenic under arrangements
satisfactory to Kosovo, VOM and the Bank prior to December 31,
1978 (para 5.04).
(d) Farm boundaries would be adjusted when and wherever necessary
to permit regular irrigation layout (para 5.13).
(e) VOM would collect:
(i) from commencement of irrigation water charges annually
at rates which would be agreed with the Bank, and
review these rates periodically in consultation with
the Bank. Rates for the kombinats shall always be
higher than those for the private farmers, and
(ii) charges for potable water sufficient to provide, in
any given year, revenues to cover all administrative and
operating expenses incurred in providing the supply and
in addition to provide a rate of return on the fixed assets
employed of not less than 7% by the year 1982 and thereafter
(paras 5.19 and 5.21).
(f) Government of Kosovo and Bankkos would implement financing
plans as outlined in Annex 13 (para 5.24).
7.02      The appointment of a Finance Director for VOM would be a condition
of effectiveness for the proposed loan (para 5.03).
7.03      With agreement on the assurances sought and fulfillment of the
proposed conditions, the proposed project would be suitable for a Bank loan
of US$54 million to VOM under a guarantee of the Socialist Federal Republic of
Yugoslavia. The loan would be repayable over 15 years with a three years grace
period at an interest rate of 8.7%.
December 23, 1976






ANNEX 1
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Agriculture
Organization of Production and Farm Size
1.        General.  One of the most important characteristic features of
the Yugoslav Agriculture is the existence of two separate sectors, social
and private, with different farm structures. The social sector includes:
(a) agro-industrial kombinats (integrated factory farms); (b) agricultural
kombinats (both general agriculture and livestock farms); and (c) general
agricultural cooperatives. These organizations operate under the principles
of social ownership of means of production and workers self-management. In
1973, the social sector owned and operated 15% of the agricultural land in
Yugoslavia, employed 6% of the total agricultural manpower, and produced
33% of the agricultural output. During the same year, there were 1,745
social sector holdings averaging 1,250 ha. The private sector comprises
about 96% of the agricultural population and owns and operates about 85%
of the agricultural land. The size of private holding is presently limited
to a maximum of 10 ha of arable land.
2.        In the Socialist Autonomous Province of Kosovo (KOSOVO) the
dominant social organizations are the kombinats and the cooperatives. Until
October 1, 1972 there were 6 kombinats and 33 cooperatives. However, after
a referendum of the workers' council in 1972 the larger of the social under-
takings have been integrated into the enterprise, "Agro-Kosovo", which is
composed of the following nine social enterprises:
(i) all kombinats Prizren, Pec, Pristina, Orahovac, Djakovica,
and Klina;
(ii) two production cooperatives Lipljan and Orahovac; and
(iii) one grain mill "Zito Promet", Pristina.
3.        The private sector of the Kosovo consists of 108,000 small holdings,
about 58% of which average 3 ha or less. The Government is currently con-
sidering a limited land reform which, if realized, would extend the maximum
size of private holding from 10 ha to 20 ha. The reform would also allow
farmers to divide the land among family members. Productivity of the private
sector lags behind the social sector due to inferior land, seeds, livestock
breeds, lower fertilizer consumption, limited mechanization and inadequate
extension services.



ANNEX 1
Page 2
4.        Farm Size in Project Area.  Of the project area of 10,250 ha,
about 3,300 ha would be owned and operated by Agro-Kosovo Kombinat. The
remaining 6,950 ha is private freehold. About 80% of the smallholders
own less than 5 ha, and the remaining 16% own and operate 5-10 ha each.
Holdings are scattered, averaging 7.3 parcels, and the minimum size of
individual plot is about 0.1 ha. The law of "Land Redistribution, Consolida-
tion and Boundary Adjustment" (Official Gazette No. 32/76) and the "Land
Survey and Cadastre Law" (Official Gazette SAP Kosovo No. 12/73) provide for
land consolidation and boundary adjustment. Land consolidation has never been
successfully implemented in Kosovo or in Yugoslavia as, because of traditional
and social ties, farmers have resisted to exchange part of their lands. The
Bank financed Ibar Multipurpose Project has suffered delays because of land
consolidation and the Bank agreed to implement boundary adjustment. For
the present project only boundary adjustment would be implemented and the
irrigation system has been designed to serve smallholders, provided boun-
daries are adjusted, but without requiring land consolidation. The project
authority has started to promote use of individual sprinklers on 50m long
"garden hoses" among smallholders and 18 farmers owning a total area of 40 ha
have volunteered to implement boundary alignment and demonstrate application
of this irrigation method which is suitable for irrigation of small plots.
The method is simple and it is expected that farmers would adapt to the new
technology without undue delay.
Natural Resources
5.        Climate.  Metohija has a continental climate with mediterranean
influence. Temperature vary from an average minimum of -5.80C in January to
an average maximum of 29.10C in August. Frosts occur between November 1 and
April 1. The annual potential evapotranspiration (Penman) has been estimated
at about 1,300 mm with 75% occuring during the growing season. Maximum aver-
age daily evapotranspiration amounts to 6.5 mm per day in July. Strong winds
with speeds about 12 m/sec were recorded during 16 days per year and the per-
centage of calm days is about 37%. Annual rainfall averages 844 mm with
about 90 rainy days per year, but only 23 days with precipitation exceeding
10 mm. Rainfall is least during June to September (25%) and greatest during
November to February (42%). Variations from year to year are large. The
water deficit in the growing season (April-October) amounts to about 700 mm.
Table 1 summarizes climatic data in the project area.
6.        Soils.  Soils in the project area are suitable for irrigated farming,
but some would require improvements in drainage, liming, fertilization and/or
erosion control. The soils in the project area are alluvial and colluvial
soils, pseudogleys, vertisols, gleys and semigleys. Alluvial soils developed
from transported and relatively recently deposited material along the main
rivers in the area. They are of variable texture and in general do not
present management problems, but some areas require drainage. Colluvial
soils developed from foothill deposits. Slopes are gentle to moderate
and physical and chemical characteristics are favorable for agriculture.



ANNEX 1
Page 3
Pseudogleys consist of an upper layer of clay soil of good structure and
physical characteristics but of high acidity. At depths of about 70 cm
the profile shows a dense acid clay layer.  The main constraints of these
soils are poor drainage and high acidity. Vertisols are dark colored, of
heavy texture with a high content of swelling clay minerals, which when
dry resul, ln 1eep and wide c:7acks.  These vertisols are susceptible to
erosion from runoff water. Gleys and semigleys are of varying texture and
subject to a fluctuating water table. They are presently used as meadows.
7.        Land Classification.  Based on land capability study, about 17%
of the project area is classified as belonging to class I, 35% to class II
and 48% to class III.
8.        Drainage.  Based on results obtained under similar conditions in
Bosnia and experimentation in the project area, vibratory subsoiling with
phosphate injection combined with mole drainage or tile drainage would be
carried out on slightly sloping (less than 3%) pseudogley soils. The moles
(at 70 cm depth) would discharge into collector drains at a depth of 1 m.
Localized perched water tables would also be drained. Material from local
marl deposits would be used to correct acidity.
Present and Future Land Use, Yields and Production
9.        Present and future land use, yields and production are summarized in
Tables 2 and 3. The project area is presently dry farmed with cereals occupy-
ing 56%, alfalfa 6%, orchards and vineyards 10%, and other crops (sugar beet,
sunflower, peas and vegetables) 11%. About 17% is presently occupied by
meadows or forest of little economic value. Present yields are low because
of moisture deficits during the growing season, inadequate drainage and poor
soil management practices. Yields of private farms are slightly below those
of the social sector, mainly due to lower levels of technology and inadequate
farm equipment. Orchards and vineyards are cultivated on trellises. Total
production presently amounts to 8,000 tons of wheat and barley, 7,200 tons of
maize, 6,400 tons of vegetables, 4,200 tons of sugar beet, 6,800 tons of ap-
ples and 5,800 tons of wine grapes.  The cropping pattern is not expected to
change in the future without the project but yields would improve slightly
due to improvement in farm management practices. Yields of fruit trees and
vineyards and winter crops could increase by about 20% and of summer crops by
about 10% in the next 5 years. Any additional increase would require irriga-
tion, drainage and/or substantial soil improvement measures such as those
provided for under the project.
10.       With the project, the cropping pattern would change.  Areas under
maize, sugar beet, vegetables and alfalfa would increase substantially at
the expense of mainly wheat. Cropped area would increase by about 2,070
ha due to an increase in cropping intensity by about 17% and reclamation of
about 500 ha of wooded land. Choice of crops and crop rotations take into
account soli conditions.  Vegetables and fruit trees are mostly grown on
the alluvial soils. Maize would be cultivated as second crop after peas,



ANNEX 1
Page 4
beans, and winter cereals. Incremental yields would be as follows: wheat
(40%); maize (85%); sugar beet (60%); vegetables (50%); alfalfa (160%);
fruit trees (35%); and all other crops (30-50%). Peak yields from any
given area would be obtained six years following initial irrigation in the
private sector and four years in the social sector. About 50% of the in-
cremental yields in the private sector would be obtained during the first
year of irrigation, 70% during the second year and 80%, 90%, 95% and 100%
during the third, fourth, fifth and sixth year respectively. In the social
sector, 50% of incremental yields would be obtained in the first year of
irrigation, 75% in the second year, 90% and 100% in the third and fourth
year respectively. These projections are based on experimental results 1/,
experiences gained from other irrigation projects in the region, and studies
carried out with OECD assistance.
Farm Inputs
11.       Farm Machinery and Labor.  Under the project, land preparation
and harvesting of field crops would be mechanized to assure that a second
crop can be grown on time. The relatively heavy texture of soils and the
amount of rainfall during land preparation and harvesting make timely and
adequate operations with animal traction difficult. There is an adequate
supply of farm labor in the project area. Smallholder private farmers
would satisfy their own labor requirements. Part of the demand for labor
by the social sector would, however, be satisfied with temporary labor
supplied by the private sector.
12.       Seeds.  Improved seeds are available and would be used in the
project area. There are various National Institutes for Agriculture
Production which are responsible for production and distribution of
improved seeds through agro-kombinats and cooperatives. Vegetable seeds
are also available through local merchants. Agro-kombinats operate
nurseries for fruit trees.
13.       Fertilizers and Plant Protection Materials.  The present con-
sumption of fertilizers in the project area amounts to about 550 tons of
N, 450 tons of P205 and 350 tons of K20. Future recommended doses assume
10 tons per ha of animal manure for vegetables, maize, sunflower, sugar
beet and orchards. With the project, fertilizer consumption would increase
to about 1,100 tons N, 1,100 tons P205, and 900 tons K20. A summary of
estimated future fertilizer demand is presented below:
1/   Experimental results per ha:  Apples 45 tons, grape 22 tons, sugar
beets 70 tons, vegetables 50 tons, maize 10 tons.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
Nutrient Consumption
Crops                              N         P205          K20
--kg/ha/year------
Wheat                             120         60            30
Barley                            100         60            30
Maize 1                           120        120           120
Maize 2                           120        120           120
Sugar beet                        120        120           120
Sunflower                          70         70            70
Peas                              100        100           100
Pepper                            100        100           100
Tomatoes                          100        100           100
Beans                             100        100           100
Alfalfa                            -          80            -
Vineyards                         150        150           150
Orchards                           90         70            50
A wide variety of chemical fertilizers and plant protection materials are
produced in Yugoslavia. Organization of the distribution system for these
chemicals is adequate, and private farmers could buy the chemicals from local
agro-kombinats, cooperatives or private retail outlets.
Research and Extension Services
14.       The social sector maintains its own staff of technicians and on
special matters is advised by various Agricultural Institutes of Belgrade.
Applied research is carried out on agro-kombinats. The social sector gives
technical assistance to private farmers for crops that are of interest to
their own processing industry. This extension service to farmers is defi-
cient and does not satisfy present or future needs. The project would
provide and equip 6 extension units for the private sector each covering
about 1,200 ha. Each unit, which would have about 3 extension agents, would
be directly responsible to VOM. VOM has an ongoing agreement with different
Agricultural Institutes in Belgrade (Soil Science Institute, Institute for
Mechanization, Institute for Cereals and Maize, Institute for Oil Crops,
Institute for Livestock) to provide the necessary subject matter specialists
to assist its agriculture service and to provide the necessary training for
local technicians.
December 23, 1976



ANNEX 1
Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Climatic Data
Month                           Temperature                      Relative Humidity
Maximum   Minimum   Average  Rainfall  Average  Minimum  Evaporation
(OC)        (°C)     (0C)      (mm)       (%)        (%)      (mm)
January                  3.2        -5.8       0.0        85        88         57        6
February                 7.6        -2.8       2.6        78        84         44      21
March                   11.1         1.1       6.1        65        72         25      52
April                   17.7         5.1      11.8        65        71         26     107
May                     22.6         8.7      16.8        77        67         33     144
June                    25.7        11.6      20.4        58        70         42     173
July                    28.2        12.6      22.4        51        72         37     195
August                  29.1        12.4      22.5        43        67         32     169
September               24.3         9.4     18.2         60        77        41      109
October                 19.6         5.5      12.3        70        75         38      41
November                13.4         2.9       7.8        99        84         43       10
December                 5.9        -1.9       2.8        93        89         62       10
Total                                                  844                        1,037
Average               17.4         4.9      12.0                  76         40
December L9l6



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Land Use, Yields and Production
SOCIAL SECTOR                                                                              PRIVATE SECTOR
Present              Future Without Project           Future With Project                   Present               Future Without Project         Future With Project
Crop                        Area  Yield  Production    Area  Yield  Production    Area  Yield  Production               Area  Yield  Production    Area Yield  Production    Area  Yield  Production
ha   ton/ha    ton            ha   ton/ha    ton             ha   to7a        -ton    h       a   ton/ha  toht           naon    h a  ton/ha    ton    h Ta-  ton/na    ton
Existing Orchards /i        330   20.0        6,600       330   24.0       7,920         330   30.0        9,900          10   15.0         150         10   18.0         180         10   25.0         250
New Orchards /1               -    -               -         -    -             -        650   35.0       22,750           -    -             -          -    -              -       280   30.0       8,400
Vineyard                    720    8.0        5,760       720   10,0       7,200         720   14.0       10,080           -    -             -           -    -             -         -    -             -
Wheat                       755    3.0        2,265       755    3.5       2,643         200    4.5          900      2,055    2.5        5,138      2,055    3.0       6,165        880    4.5      3,960
Barley                      195    2.5          488       195    3.0          585        160    4.5          720          75    2.0         150         75    2.5         188       180    4.0         720
Maize I                     330    4.0        1,320        330    4.4       1,452        170    7.0        1,190      2,370    2.5        5,925      2,370    2.8       6,636        990    6.0       5,940
Maize II  /2                  -    -               -         -    -             -        550    5.5        3,025           -    -             -           -    -             -    1,220    5.0        6,100
Sugar Beet                   50   30.0        1,500         50   33.0      1,650         200   45.0        9,000         110   25.0       2,750        110   28.0       3,080    1,270   45.0    57,150
Sunflower                   170    2.0          340       170    2.2          374        170    3.0          510         110    1.5         165        110    1.7         187        150    2.5         375
Peas                        260    3.5          910       260    4.2       1,092         295    6.5        1,918         110    3.5         385        110    4.2         420       285    6.5       1,853
Beans                         -    -              -          -    -             -        140    1.4          916           -    -             -           -    -             -         -    -             -
Vegetables  /3                -    -               -         -    -             -          -    -               -        300   21.0       6,300        300   24.0       7,200    1,400   35.0    49,000
Alfalfa                     100    5.0 /4       500       100    5.5          550        260   12.0        3,120         490    4.0       1,960        490    4.4       2,156    1,500   12.0    18,000
Meadow                      390    3.0 /4   1,170         390    3.0       1,170           -    -               -     1,010    3.0        3,030      1,010    3.0       3,030          -    -
Forest                        -    -              -          -    -             -          -    -               -       310    -              -        310    -              -         -    -             -
Total:               330                            3,300     -             -     3_845    -               -      6.950    -              -      6-950     -            -     8165    - _
/1   Based on apples.
/2   Second Crop.
/3   Based on tomatoes, pepper, melons etc.
4   Hay
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Cropped Area and Output
Crop                            Cropped Area                 __Outut_ _ _
Present and        Future          Present            Future           Incremental
Future Without        With                       Without       With
Project          Project                     Project      Project
____----(ha) ------------          -----------------('000 tons)----
Wheat                        2,810            1,080            7.4          8.8          4.9         (3.9)
Maize I                      2,700            1,160            7.2          8.1          7.1         (1.0)
Barley                         270              340            0.6          0.8          1.4          0.6
Sunflower                      280              320            0.5          0.6          0.8          0.2
Beans                          -                140             -            -           1.4          1.4
Peas                           370              580            1.3          1.5          3.8          2.3
Sugar beet                     160            1,470            4.2          4.7         66.2         61L5
Vegetables/1                   300            1,400            6.4          7.3         49.0         41.7
Fruit/2                        340            1,270            6.8          8.2         41.4         33.2
Grape                          720              720            5.8          7.2         10.1          2.9
Alfalfa (Hay)                  590            1,760            2.5          2.7         21.2         18.5
Meadows and Pastures         1,400              -                  /5        -            -            -
Maize II                       -              1,770             -            -           8.5          8.5
By-products/3                  -                              17.2         19.8         45.4         25.6
Total                     9,940            12_010
Gross Value (Din million)/4                                   95.0        115.0        330.0        215.0
/1  Mainly tomatoes and pepper.
/2  Primarily apples.
/3 Stalks of wheat, barley, beans and peas, corn cobs and sugar beet leaves.
/4 In 1975 (normal crop year) domestic farm-gate prices.
/5 Not harvested.
December 1976



ANNEX 2
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Agricultural Finance
A. Sources and Terms of Finance
1.        The primary sources of agricultural finance in Kosovo include a
Provincial Fund for Betterment of the Individual Sector, the Bank of Kosovo
and Association of Communes.
2.        The Provincial Fund.  This was created in 1972 by the Kosovo Govern-
ment to provide private farmers in relatively less developed communes finan-
cial assistance to purchase improved quality seeds, farm machinery and other
investment items and to improve quality of livestock. A Board, consisting of
representatives of private farmers, kombinats, cooperatives, agricultural
research institutions and the Ministry of Agriculture, controls and manages
the Fund.
3.        The Fund receives contributions from the provincial budget which
presently amount to Din 10.0 million (US$0.5 million) per year. About 30%
of the total resources are utilized as grants to meet the cost of high-breed
livestock, poultry, hives, high quality seeds and artificial insemination
services. The balance is loaned at 4% per annum repayable over eight years;
farmers are required to contribute about 20% of investment costs financed
through such loans. The financial assistance is routed through kombinats and
cooperatives, thus limiting the beneficiaries to farmers who cooperate with
the social sector.
4.        Bank of Kosovo (Bankkos).  The Bank of Kosovo was founded in 1962
as a development bank to channel and regulate use of resources for the devel-
opment of Kosovo; it is also involved in commercial banking. Bankkos is one
of eight major banks in Yugoslavia and the sole administrator of public invest-
ment funds in Kosovo. Its overall management is vested in an Assembly, which
determines general policies. Implementation of business policy and approval
of loans exceeding Din 100,000 (US$5,550) is the responsibility of an Executive
Board, whose members are elected by the Assembly; smaller loans can be approved
by a Credit Board at the head office in Pristina. Bankkos has a well qualified
staff, about 30% and 10% of whom have received university and post-secondary
education, respectively.
5.        Almost the entire resources of Bankkos for long-term investments
are borrowed at low interest from the Federal Fund for Accelerated Development
of Less Developed Regions. The Federal Fund consists of contributions from
all republics of Yugoslavia for use in development of poor areas, and is lent
to Bankkos at an interest rate of 3% per annum. It has financed almost 40%



kNNEX 2
Page 2
of Kosovo's development expenditures since 1971. Annual assistance to the
province through the Federal Fund is expected to increase from the present
level of Din 2 billion (US$110.0 million) to Din 4 billion (US$220 million)
in the near future.
6.        In 1974, about 18% of credits sanctioned by Bankkos were allocated
to agriculture and a third of the agricultural loans were used for develop-
ment of irrigation (Tables 1 and 2). Relending terms vary according to proj-
ects and financial conditions of borrowing enterprises. In general, however,
the loans are recovered in not more than 25 years and carry interest rate of
3-4% per annum (Table 3); borrowers are required to meet about 10% of invest-
ments financed through such loans.
7.        Bankkos also sanctions a few advances for tractors directly to
private farmers, but requires 50% participation and charges 12% interest with
repayment within 5 years. Short-term credits for production and storage of
agricultural produce, import of raw materials, general trading and marketing
activities are provided mostly from Bankkos own resources, including deposits,
at 10-12% interest. To date, repayment records have been satisfactory.
8.        Association of Communes.  Seventeen of twenty-two communes in Kosovo
province have their owr funds for extending financial aid to small farmers in
their respective areas.
B. Credit Arrangements for the Project
9.        Bankkos would continue to be the major source of agricultural
finance in the project area. It has two existing branches in Prizren and
Djakovica and an office in Orahovac, all of which would be expanded to serve
private farmers and social enterprises. In addition, Agro-Kosovo Kombinat
would set its own in-house bank to act as a clearing mechanism for deposits
and loan application to its member organizations and private farmers who co-
operate with them. It is expected that the project entity, VOM, would have
power to certify credit needs and financial soundness of individual farmers,
who would then be able to approach Bankkos directly with loan applications
rather than through social sector enterprises as in past practices.
10.       With project, medium and long-term credit requirements of farmers
would increase. This would be needed primarily to purchase sprinklers,
tractors and other equipment. It is expected that Bankkos would provide
farmers in the project area with adequate short, medium and long term
credit. The Government of Kosovo would ensure that adequate credit would
be made available by 2ankkos to the farmers at standard terms applicable
to other borrowers ofi such funds. The low interest rates, particularly
on loans from the Federal Fund, are unlikely to have serious resource



ANNEX 2
Page 3
misallocative effect because (a) the choice of design for the on-farm
irrigation system is based on the least cost solution of providing irrig-
ation, given the structure and size of holdings, and (b) VOM, in collabora-
tion with Bankkos, would have the opportunity to review the technical and
economic appropriateness of farmers' choice of technology of production
before approving loans for such purposes.
December 23, 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Sectoral Allocation of Development Credits Sanctioned by Bank of Kosovo, 1973-1974
Sector                                                                      Loans Sanctioned /1
Total                     Increase (Decrease)   Proportion in 1974
1973            1974            ------ ( %)---------   --(-            )--   -----
------(Din million) ------
Industry and Mining                            1,062.93         2,228.64                  109.7                    64.5
Agriculture, processing,
forestry, etc.                                 213.47           609.55                  185.5                    17.7
Construction                                      10.91            28.03                  156.9                     0.8
Transportation                                   312.84           348.94                    11.5                   10.1
Trade                                             34.59           115.05                  232.6                     3.3
Tourism and Catering                              99.95            49.02                  (103.9)                   1.4
Handicraft                                         1.51             0.89                   (69.7)                   -
Sub-total                            1,736.20         3,380.12                    94.7                    97.8
Non-Economic                             89.33            74.18                  (20.4)                    2.2
Total                                1,825.53          3,454.30                   89.2                   100.0
/1  As of December 31
December 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Loans Sanctioned by Bank of Kosovo for Agricultural
Development in 1974
Number of                   Total Loans Sanctioned /1
Purpose                  Projects                    Amount              Proportion
(Din million)             (%)
Processing  Capacity         8                         181.82               29.8
Irrigation Works             2                         178.96               29.4
Farm Machinery              25                          82.27               13.5
Rehabilitation Credits       6                          47.95                7.9
Livestock and Stables        4                          47.66                7.8
Storage and Civil Works    10                           30.78                5.0
Forestry                     4                          20.60                3.4
Revolving Funds              2                          19.01                3.1
Orchards and Vineyards       2                           0.50                0.1
Total                                           609.55              100.0
/1 As of December 31, 1974
December 1976



ANNEX 2
Table 3
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Repayment Terms on Developmental Credits in_
Agriculture by Bank of Kosovo (1975)
Purpose                     Repayment Period                Interest Rate
(Years)                         (%)
Irrigation                          25                             3
Vineyards and Orchards              20                             3
Water Storage and Civil
Works                              20                             3
Livestock Farms and Stables         20                             4
Wine Cellars and Cold
Storage                            20                             4
Livestock Breeding                   8                             4
Agricultural Machinery               7                             4
Transport Means                      7                             4
Poultry                              5                             4
December 1976



ANNEX 3
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Marketing, Markets and Prices
A. Marketing
Organization
1.        As in other economic activities in Yugoslavia, marketing of agri-
cultural products is organized into social and private sectors. The social
sector includes autonomous marketing enterprises (or enterprises owned by
kombinats) with authority to buy and sell commodities and with legal obliga-
tions to honor all contracts. The private sector consists mainly of peasant
free markets where producers and consumers exchange goods. Most marketed
agricultural products flow through the social sector enterprises although
substantial volumes of some commodities, particularly in the rural areas,
are marketed through numerous peasant free markets.
2.        Cereals.  Almost the entire marketed production of cereals flows
through socially owned and operated marketing enterprises. Special wholesale
enterprises buy the commodities from kombinats directly and from private farm-
ers through intermediaries like marketing cooperatives. About 60% of marketed
production of cereals is produced by kombinats and other social sector farms
which sell their produce entirely through the wholesale enterprises. Only
a small portion of production from private farms is marketed since a sub-
stantial part is retained on the farm for human and livestock consumption.
3.        Fruits and Vegetables.  A variety of channels exist for marketing
of fruits and vegetables. About 60% of marketed production is distributed
to consumers through processing enterprises and wholesale trade, and the
remaining 40% is sold directly through retail grocery shops and peasant free
markets. In general, processing units purchase the commodities from private
producers at minimum contract prices fixed at the beginning of the cropping
season, but these contract prices can be increased at the time of delivery if
supply is lower than demand. However, farmers sometimes hire jointly trans-
port facilities to market their own produce to large markets in distant places.
Transportation is generally by common trucks for short journeys and by refri-
gerated trucks or railroad cars for longer trips. Shortage of storage facili-
ties and lack of adequate quality standards are common problems of vegetable
marketing.
4.        Industrial Products.  Trade in industrial crops (sugar beet, sun-
flower, etc) is generally based on purchases by processing units from social



ANNEX 3
Page 2
arid private farms directly and/or through marketing cooperatives.  The pro-
cessed products are sold in domestic and international markets through the
pracessing units' own. shops and/or           specialized trade organizations.
5.        Project Output. Al  prooj            t    ld be marketed through
existing specialized trade organizat icn network. Kombinats in the project
area would purchase industrial crops, fruits and most vegetables from all
producers through annual contracts for processing.  Sales of these commodi-
ties and/or their products outside of Kosovo Province would be coordinated
by Agro-Kosovo, which has future delivery contracts with major buying and
selling organizations throughout Yugoslavia, and with importers in West
Germany and other European countries.  Cereals would be distributed through
existing wholesale grain enterprises which are equipped to handle incremental
output of grains from the project area. A part of project output of vegeta-
bles is also expected to be marketed by farmers through peasant free markets
in Prizren and the surrounding area.
6.        To ensure timely and efficient distribution of project output, par-
ticularly of perishable commodities, the project would provide funds for
improvement and expansion of farm roads, establishment of four vegetable
collecting centers, construction of a packaging and cooling station for
vegetables in Zrze and provision of trucks to transport project commodities
to different markets.  Under separate but related projects, processing capaci-
ties of a sugar factory and a vegetable processing/canning factory would be
expanded and improved to handle increased production of project commodities
more efficiently. The attainment of project objectives, therefore, is un-
likely to be affected seriously by inadequacies of market organization.
B. Markets
7.        The incremental outputs of sugar beet, vegetables, fruits, alfalfa
and maize would be substantial; those of barley, sunflower, beans, peas and
grapes would not exceed 3,000 tons each; and that of wheat would decline
(Annex 1, Table 2). The additional outputs could be consumed domesticaliy
and/or exported, and the outlook for expansion of sales in both markets is
good. It is, however, expected that most of the incremental supply would be
absorbed by a fast growing domestic demand.  Official Yugoslav plans call
for increased consumption of foodstuffs as a result of increased population
and of expected higher incomes. Current demands for many products are higher
than available supplies and significant quantities have to be imported to
fill the deficits.
Domestic Markets
8.        Cereals.  With the project, the production of wheat would decline
and that of barley and maize would increase by 600 tons and 7,500 tons



ANNEX 3
Page 3
respectively. The incremental production of barley would help to substitute
for imports which currently average over 15,000 tons per year. The additional
output of maize would represent about 1% of forecast production of maize in
the country by 1980; almost all of the incremental output would be used by
Kosovo Polje fpedmill which is presently operating at 60% of its 30,000
tons capacity because of shortage of raw materials. Feed produced would
help to feed a growing livestock population in the project area.
9.        Vegetables.  In the past, vegetable consumption in Yugoslavia has
grown at a faster pace than production resulting in substantial price rises.
It is expected that future consumption of fresh vegetables would increase at
about 4% annually (based on an income elasticity of demand of 0.64), with
per capita consumption (excluding beans and potatoes) amounting to about 85
kg by 1980 compared with about 70 kg in 1972. Per capita consumption of pro-
cessed vegetables is expected to increase to 10 kg by 1980, which would be
twice the amount consumed in 1972.
10.       At full development, the incremental output of vegetables would be
about 42,000 tons or an equivalent of 2% of total Yugoslav production by mid-
1980s. It is expected that about 10% of the additional output would be kept
for on-farm use, about 40% would be processed by the social sector and the
remaining 50% would be marketed by private farmers in various local peasant
free markets as fresh vegetables. In the long run, all the fresh market pro-
duction of vegetables is expected to flow through the packaging and cooling
station, which would be constructed under the project, and sold throughout
Kosovo Province, on the Adriatic Coast, and in large towns such as Belgrade
and Zagreb. The project would enjoy a particular marketing advantage in
fresh vegetables since, owing to favorable natural conditions, its outputs
would be available for marketing relatively early in the season.
11.       Fruit.  Per capita fruit consumption in Yugoslavia is currently
about 60 kg, which is among the lowest in Europe. With the project, fruit
production (most of which is apples) would increase by about 33,200 tons.
This is equivalent to less than 2% of projected production of fruit in the
country which is estimated to reach about 2.0 million tons by 1980. The
additional output is expected to be consumed domestically, where the market
outlook is favorable.
12.       Sugar.  Presently, the per capita consumption of sugar in Yugoslavia
is estimated at about 27 kg, which is also among the lowest in Europe. Do-
mestic demand has been increasing faster than supply necessitating significant
imports throughout the post war period. Recently, imports have amounted to
nearly 50% of domestic consumption, averaging about 300,000 tons of sugar per
year. At full development, the incremental output of sugar beet would amount
to about 61,500 tons per year all of which would be processed by an existing
sugar factory in Pec, whose capacity is expected to be increased. This would
yield about 8,600 tons of sugar which would be used to substitute for imports.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
13.       Alfalfa.  The incremental output of alfalfa is estimated at 18,500
tons of hay equivalent, all of which would be used to feed a growing livestock
population in the Metohija Region.
Export Markets
14.       With the exception of grapes (wine), sunflower and part of vegetables,
projects outputs of all other commodities are expected to substitute for cur-
rent imports and/or supply a growing domestic demand.
15.       Wine.  Yugoslavia has recently been exporting large quantities of
ordinary and high quality wines primarily to West Germany, United Kingdom,
Switzerland, Poland, East Germany and U.S.S.R. Prospects for continued expan-
sion of exports, particularly to Western Europe, are less favorable than they
are in the past and competition would intensify with increased production in
the European Economic Community. However, the Agro-kombinats, which would
process the entire project output of grapes, have a long-run contract to
supply West Germany with high quality wine. For this reason, no serious
problems are anticipated in marketing grape products from the project area.
16.       Sunflower.  Yugoslavia is a net exporter of sunflower seed.  Recent
annual exports averaged about 2,500 tons compared to imports of about 200 tons.
The incremental output of sunflower seed, which would be processed in an exist-
ing factory in Orahovac, is estimated at only 200 tons. The world market out-
look for oilseeds is favorable and can easily absorb this increased output.
17.       Vegetables.  Traditional importers of vegetables from Yugoslavia
include many Western European countries, particularly West Germany and
Czechoslovakfa. Import demand in these markets is expected to increase but
Yugoslavia would face severe competition from other suppliers. However, with
better organization and product quality, exports from Yugoslavia are expected
to reach about 120,000 tons by 1980 compared with about 20,000 tons in 1972.
Project outputs could contribute about 10% of the projected exports.
C. Domestic Prices
18.       The socio-political system in Yugoslavia accepts the concept of the
price sytem as a guide for resource allocation, though with major qualifica-
tions. Market prices for some products (e.g. vegetables and fruits) are deter-
mined freely by the forces of supply and demand, while prices of others are
controlled by the Government. There is a system of "protective prices" which
aims to provide security and profitability in the production of selected com-
modities. This system consists of guaranteed and minimum pricing policy. The
former category embraces crops such as wheat, maize, fattened livestock, cot-
ton, potatoes and plums. If prices of these commodities fall below guaranteed
levels, producers may offer their entire stock for purchase by the Federal



ANNEX 3
Page 5
Office of Food Product Reserves, which coordinates the markets for these com-
modities throughout Yugoslavia. The policy of minimum prices applies to sugar,
sunflower, soybean, tobacco and milk. The Government is not obliged to buy
these commodities, but no purchaser may pay farmers prices which are lower
than those which are established by law. The minimum purchase price policy
is designed to protect farmers from monopsonist or oligopsonist enterprises
which process these commodities.
19.       Protective prices are established by agreements between republics
and autonomous regions at the federal level, and enacted by the Federal Exe-
cutive Council. Prices are set at the beginning of each year on the basis of
production costs on social farms in the preceding year, plus a reasonable rate
of profit on capital engaged in production. The effort is to promote the role
of prices in resource allocation while at the same time ensuring that prices
of basic food remain within the reaches of consumers. If market prices in-
crease beyond consumers' capacity to pay, usually they are lowered and the
distributors are paid the difference through subsidies from budgets of socio-
political organizations in the region affected.
20.       In general, prices of most project commodities are about the same
in different markets throughout Yugoslavia and are in line with prices of
similar commodities elsewhere in the international market. Project outputs
are not expected to have any significant influence on the domestic and inter-
national prices of these commodities. Prices of outputs used for appraisal
are summarized in Annex 14, Table 1.
December 23, 1976



ANNEX 4
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Description of Irrigation Component
A. Selection and Formulation of the Project
1.        In August 1973 the consulting firm Energoprojekt was commissioned
by the Provincial Government of Kosovo to study water development in Meto-
hija. After the consultants had completed their preliminary report on a
master plan for water resources development of Metohija in May 1974, an FAO/
IBRD Cooperative Program mission, joined by a Bank mission, reviewed the
report in Belgrade and subsequently visited the project area and held dis-
cussions with the Provincial Government and other interested parties. Ac-
cording to the master plan, total irrigated area in Metohija Region would
reach 74,000 ha by the year 2000 with an annual gross demand of 4,900 m3/ha.
The master plan also suggests that 93,000 ha might be irrigated if shortages
are accepted, provided adequate storage facilities are constructed. As a
part of this master plan, Energoprojekt proposed development of Hydro-System
Radenic which would provide irrigation and potable water to a part of the
Metohija Region. The Hydro-System Radenic involves construction of the
Radenic Dam which would have a storage capacity enough to irrigate about
21,000 ha and to provide industrial and domestic water supply to urban and
rural areas in the region. Because of budgetary constraints, however, it
was decided to implement the Hydro-System Radenic in two phases. The pro-
posed project, which is Phase I of the Hydro-System Radenic, would pro-
vide irrigation to about 10,250 ha and smaller than originally envisaged
domestic and industrial water supply to urban areas and villages in and
around the project area. The Radenic reservoir, which would be constructed
under the project, would have a storage capacity which would be adequate
to serve both phases of the Hydro-System Radenic. The alternative of limit-
ing the size of the reservoir to only the project's needs with a possibility
for further expansion later was studied, but this alternative was found to
be inefficient.
B. Description
2.        The irrigation component of the project would consist of:
(a) a diversion weir on and supply canal from the Decanska
Bistrica river;
(b) a rock fill dam and reservoir on the Prue river;
(c) irrigation distribution system;



ANNEX 4
Page 2
(d) a pumping station; and
(e) miscellaneous works like drainage, erosion control, soil
improvement, power supply lines, equipment, construction of
farm roads, buildings, establishment of demonstration farms,
and consultant services.
3.        Diversion Weir.  A 45 m wide and 2.5 m high concrete diversion
weir would be constructed in the Decanska Bistrica river (see Map 12061R).
From the weir, which is designed to pass a 100 year flood with 1 m freeboard,
an intake structure with sand trap would lead the water into a 7.5 km concrete
lined canal. This canal would be crossed by four road bridges and 15 smaller
bridges for tractor and animal drawn farm vehicles. Eleven aqueducts would
carry existing small irrigation canals over the supply canal. Maximum
capacity of the intake would be 15 m3/sec. The canal would end in a rocky
ravine, through which water would cascade into the reservoir.
4.        Dam and Reservoir.  The dam would be a rockfill structure with
impervious core. It would close a gap in the serpentine-peridotite hills
through which the small Prue river has pierced its way. The off-channel
reservoir thus formed would have a normal maximum elevation of 456 m and
a maximum storage capacity of 113 Mm3, of which 11 Mm3 would be dead storage.
The dam would have a height of 57 m above the river bed, a crest length of 200
m, crest elevation of 458 m, an upstream slope of 1:1.9 and a downstream slope
of 1:1.75. On top of the left abutment a 500 m long spur dike 4.0 to 4.5 m
high would be required. The spillway would be placed in this abutment. The
design capacity of the spillway would only be 2.6 m3/sec, enough to discharge
the 1,000 year flood of the small Prue river. Total volume of dam and coffer-
dam would be 550,000 m3. The dam would be constructed from locally available
quarts-diabase, clay material for the core would also be available on site,
but sand would have to be obtained from the Beli Drim 20 km away.
5.        Irrigation and domestic water would share a common intake and con-
trol tower at the upstream end of the dam. A 325 m long tunnel through the
right abutment would carry the separate irrigation and domestic supply con-
duits. The irrigation conduit, with a diameter of 2.9 m, would have a
capacity of 16.8 m3/sec. At the downstream end, the irrigation conduit
would discharge into an open main canal.
6.        Irrigation Distribution System.  The irrigation distribution mains
(average length 1.3 m/ha) consist of concrete lined canals. Equalizing
reservoirs would be located at the main bifurcation and transitions from
gravity conduits to pressure conduits. They would contain automatic gates,
emergency overflows and telemetering devices. Automatic control devices and
gauging equipment would be installed in all major lines to guard against surges
in the system. River crossings by major lines would be steel siphons.
7.        The primary and secondary pipe network (average length 26 m/ha)
would be of asbestos cement. An alternative of prestressed concrete pipes
would be allowed for and encouraged in the bidding, because of possible price



ANNEX 4
Page 3
advantage. Pressure reducing valves in the secondaries would provide for
automatic control of pressure fluctuations in the tertiaries so that the
small automatic pressure regulators in the sprinklers can operate within
their working range. Primaries and secondaries would have valves at their
lowest point and the system would be emptied in the winter. Nevertheless,
all buried pipes would have sufficient protective frost cover. Design module
would be 0.8 1/sec/ha.
8.     - Two types of tertiary distribution systems are foreseen.  For the
1,600 ha of social sector field crops, PVC tertiaries would run at 200 m
intervals with hydrants at every 54 m; 100 m moveable aluminium lines would
take off from these hydrants, each line carrying 8 sprinklers which would
operate in a 12 m x 18 m pattern with a nozzle pressure of 3.5 atmosphere.
Average length of the tertiaries would be 47 m/ha. With an application rate
of 7 mm/hr per setting of 7.4 hours and an interval of 8 days, about 200 mm
of gross irrigation would be supplied in the period of peak demand.
9.        On the remaining areas the tertiary distribution system would con-
sist of PVC underground pipes (100 m/ha) at 100 m intervals with PVC hydrants
at 24 m intervals. Smallholders would use mobile equipment, which would
consist of a single sprinkler on a 50 m long "garden hose"t. The system would
be designed for a 12 m x 12 m pattern, operating at 3.0 atmosphere. With an
application rate of 7.5 mm/hr per setting of 7 hours and an interval of 8 days,
about 200 mm monthly of gross irrigation could be supplied. This system would
be the only possible solution to circumvent the severe limitations imposed by
small size of holdings. Farmers would own several portable units since they
may want to irrigate several scattered parcels simultaneously. For orchards
and vineyards, elevated sprinklers would be used.
10.       Pumping Station.  One pumping station, consisting of 9 units would
serve 2,750 ha and pump into a ground storage equalizing reservoir from which
the system would be gravity fed. Six pumps would have a head of 35 m and the
remaining three pumps a head of 76 m. Total installed capacity of 9 units
would be 1,700 kw.
11.       Drainage.  Drainage works would consist of open drains on 385 ha,
tile drains on 3,500 ha of lowland with a high groundwater table (presently
used as meadows), and pseudogley soils. A drainage module of 1 1/sec/ha would
be used. Moles would be installed on 650 ha and discharge into an open system
after completion of the tertiary irrigation network.
12.       Erosion Control.  Soil erosion works would be provided on about
2,600 ha. Overgrazed areas would be reforested. Landslides would be
stabilized and gullies controlled through the construction of check dams and
reforestation.
13.       Soil Improvement.  Different soil improvement works would be pro-
vided on various parts of the project area. About 3,040 ha would receive an
application of 12-14 tons/ha of local marl (50% CAC03). A further 3,100 ha



ANNEX 4
Page 4
would benefit through application of 300 kg/ha of P205 and another 2,900 ha
would benefit from application of 200 kg/ha of P205; 4,000 ha would be sub-
soiled, and 540 ha of the best area under forests will be converted to culti-
vated land.
14.       Power Supply Lines.  A 110 kv/35 kv substation at Djakovica would
be extended and a new 35 kv/6 kv substation constructed at Petrovac; 7.5 km
of 35 k-v and 7.5 km of 6 kv transmission lines would connect the two sub-
stations with the dama site and pumping station CS3 (see Map 12061).
15.       Equipment.  The project would provide vehicles and other equipment
for operation and maintenance of irrigation facilities and for demonstration/
experimental farms (para. 18).
16.       Farm Roads.  Farm roads would be provided with a density of 18 m/ha.
An access road to the dam site would be asphalt paved.
17.       Buildings. Buildings would be provided for housing of staff and
project officers, workshops, stores, etc. VOM's office in Prizren would be
expanded and field headquarters for the Metohija project established at Zrze.
Four section field offices and six extension units would be established in
the project area.  Buildings which would be constructed under the project
are in Table I and staff who would operate and maintain the irrigation facil-
ities are in Table 2.
18.       Demonstration Farms.  Eighteen farmers owning about 40 ha near
Marmule have volunteered to carry out boundary alignment and to demonstrate
the proposed mobile irrigation method as well as modern cultivation practices
on their land. In addition, the project would equip a 20 ha experimental
farm for vegetable production and mechanization, and a 4.5 ha trial farm
would be strengthened to experiment with various irrigation methods for tree
crops. Until water becomes available from the dam, irrigation would be pro-
vided to these areas from small local streams through mobile pumping equip-
ment.
19.       Consultants.  Funds for local and foreign consultants would be pro-
vided under the project. Local consultants would be retained to prepare
final design and tender documents. Foreign consultants (60 man months) would
be needed to train local staff in advanced computer technology of hydraulics,
review final design of the irrigation network, and assist the local consultant
in preparation of tender documents.
December 23, 1976



ANNEX 4
Attachment 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Project Description, Irrigation Component
Terms of Reference for Foreign Consultants
1.        The Consultants will review the final design of the irrigation canal
system and the pipe distribution network, which is being carried out by Kosovo-
projekt--a Yugoslavian consultant already retained by VOM for this Project,
and will make such modifications to the design that the Consultants may con-
sider essential to bring it to international standards. They will also assist
in the preparation of tender documents. In particular, the Consultants will:
(a) ensure that the proposed pipe layout, including the pipe
sizes used, is optimal. If not, the Consultants will
modify the design to achieve optimization;
(b) propose adequate safety measures in the canal and the
pipe distribution networks that will ensure a safe
operation of the whole irrigation system against water
surges and water hammer caused by sudden closures of a
part of the system or the whole system. The Consultants
will also carry out the detailed design of such measures;
and
(c) train local staff in the design work to be carried out
by the Consultants.
December 23, 1976



ANNEX 4
Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Project Buildings
Location          Type                        Number    Total    Total Cost
mZ       (Din '000)
General Management .
Prizren     Headqtiarters Extension              1       564        4,230
"1       Garage                               6       120          420
"t       Apartments                         10        750        3,750
"t       Store                                1        80          280
Subtotal Prizren                                     8,680
Djakovica   Apartments                           7       525        2,625
Total Buildings for General Management              11,305
Irrigation Management
Zrze        Central Office                       1       220        1,430
Store                               1         80         280
Apartments                          8        600        3,000
Subtotal Zrze                                        4,710
Section     Office                               1       120          780
Store                               1        250         750
Garage                              3         90          270
Apartments                          3        225       1,125
Subtotal for one section                             2,925
For 4 Sections                                      11,700
Distribution
Center     Office                               1         20         130
Store                               1        50          150
Apartment                           1         70         350
Subtotal for one Center                                630
For 6 Centers                                        3,780
Guardhouses                                      3       225        1,125
Total Buildings for Irrigation Management           21,315
December 197A



ANNEX 4
Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Operation, Maintenance and Agricultural Personnel
Location                Qualification             Number         Salary
(Din '000)
Prizren        Agriculture Subject MatterSpecialists4               418
Economist                            1              104
Administration                       4              248
Skilled                              1               45
Unskilled                             3             115
Zrze           Chief Engineer                        1              122
Assistant Chief                       1             113
Mechanics                             3             261
Agronomists                          2              209
Accountant                            1             104
Bookkeepers                          2              122
Skilled                              2               90
Unskilled                             2              77
Sections (4)   Head                                  4              452
Technician                           4              348
Storekeeper                          4              180
Pumping
Station       Mechanics (low grade)                 2              139
Dam, Intake,
Canals        Skilled                               2               90
Unskilled                             7             292
Field          Ditchriders                          42            1,900
Total                                           5,429
/1 Gross annual salary; includes 45% social charges.
December 1976



ANNEX 5
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METHOHIJAL- I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Description of Potable Water Supply Component
General
1.        A 1975 study undertaken for UNDP by Hydroprojekt of Prague, made
short term proposals for augmenting water supplies in the towns of Djakovica
and Orahovac (Map IBRD 12060R) to alleviate existing severe water inadequacies
as regards quantity and quality. For Djakovica, the study recommended develop-
ment of a spring about 15 km from the town, now used exclusively and reserved
for local irrigation, and for Orahovac, development of shallow wells near Zrze.
This latter proposal required a long pumping main of limited output which
would have become redundant in the long run. Other problems with the interim
solution are related to yield from the wells and evidence of a pollution risk.
The UNDP study also focused on wastewater treatment facility requirements to
meet Yugoslav discharge standards for the prevention of river pollution and
VOM will review what additional works by the operating authorities are
required to meet these standards.
2.        The long-term solution of potable water supply problems in the towns
and rural project area is best met from a single reliable source located at an
elevation which would permit gravity distribution to the maximum number of
consumers. Such solution is possible from the proposed Radenic dam. The
stored and "free water" would be jointly used on the basis of 80% for irri-
gation and 20% for water supply purposes for long-term use, and common costs
would be allocated accordingly. An operational study of the combined water
use from the proposed impounding reservoir over a 19-year period indicates
that 80% of the raw water requirement could gravitate directly to the pro-
posed water treatment plant; at other times, when the reservoir water level
is low, some pumping would be necessary. A future Phase II extension of the
distribution system would supply the remaining 35 villages in the project
area but the date of its implementation remains uncertain. The present pro-
posals visualize another trunk main from the new treatment plant but before
being finalized VOM will examine the possibility of supplying these consumers
from shallow wells, fed by infiltration galleries, from the Beli Drim River
to ensure that the least cost solution is adopted.
Project Works
3.        The proposed project would provide domestic and industrial water
to the towns of Djakovica Grahovac and Zrze, and domestic water to a further
12 villages in the Metohija Region. The project works, in addition to
a share of the Radenic dam., would consist of:



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(a) a potable treatment plant with all ancillary work;
(b) a pipe distribution network; and
(c) a pumping station to boost supply to Orahovac.
4.        Treatment Plant.  The water treatment plant, which would be located
adjacent to the proposed Radenic dam, would have an initial capacity of
400 1/sec. This capacity would be adequate to satisfy the projected demand
up to about 1995. Expansion thereafter would be necessary to satisfy growing
demand. The plant would consist of primary clarifiers followed by rapid
gravity filtration and chlorination. Ancillary pumping for raw water and from
clear water storage for backwashing would be provided in conjunction with
buildings which would house the filters and main controls. The quality of
water produced would be consistent with the Yugoslav National Regulations for
Drinking Water.
5.        Distribution Network.  The distribution system consists of a main
supply pipe with an initial diameter of 1,000 mm which would lead to the
town of Djakovica, there reducing to a diameter of 700 mm to Zrze and there-
after continuing as a 500 mm and 450 mm pipe to Orahovac. About 13 villages
would be served by pipe network which would be extended from this main trunk.
The lengths and diameters of the water main would be as follows:
Diameter (mm)       1,000    700    500    450    200    150    100
Length (km)          10.0   18.5    1.5   10.0    5.5    5.5   17.2
The larger diameters are likely to be in asbestos cement, material already
available in Yugoslavia, but equally acceptable pre-stressed concrete pipes
would be allowed and supply would be encouraged in the bidding. Smaller
diameters which would be in the 150 m to 100 m range are likely to be of
plastic. The elevation of Orahovac requires that all water be pumped to
this town but the pumping arrangements would make use of the residual
pressure in the pipeline at the location of the pumping station.
6.        The distribution has been designed on the basis of maximum flows
of 1.4 to 1.5 times the average in the trunk mains and twice the average in
the minor village systems. Staging of the larger trunks was examined and
found uneconomic in view of the anticipated early build-up in water demand
now currently suppressed. In the event that the extension of the distribu-
tion to the villages south of Zrze is not carried out, total flow in this
trunk main would reduce by 12%. This unused capacity does not upset the
economic advantage of a single pipe, as opposed to twinning at a later date.
The evaluation suggests a second trunk in 9 years at 10% higher cost using
a 9-1/2% discount rate. In the same analysis the consultant considered the
possibility of supplying Djakovica (the nearest town to Radenic dam) with raw
water from the irrigation system and constructing a separate treatment plant,
but also found this uneconomic. From the standpoint of economic viability the



ANNEX 5
Page 3
advantages of reaching, as rapidly as possible, the main centers of water con-
sumption are considerable and also provide for the possibility for continuous
and orderly expansion of the system to the rural area where now no service
exists.
7.        Associated with the distribution system clear water storage in
reinforced concrete construction would be provided as follows:
Location                        Volume
(m3)
Djakovica                       5,410
Orahovac                        1,990
Zrze                            2,860
Total                 10,260
The above storage would be provided at a level compatible with the existing
storage and supply arrangements.
8.        Pumping Station.  The pumping equipment to supply Orahovac would be
designed on the basis of a phased increase in demand. Initially, two pumps
would be installed with a combined capacity of 70 1/sec, and a third unit
would be installed at a later date. Use would be made of the residual
pressure in the supply line at the pumping station location to minimize
pumping head and operating costs. The pumping station would be designed to
accommodate equipment for the ultimate pumping requirement.
Status of Engineering
9.        Detailed design of the potable water supply component is well ad-
vanced and a considerable amount of field survey has been undertaken by VOM's
consultant in routing pipelines in the preparation of hydraulic profiles. A
site has been selected for the water treatment plant and the main structures
throughout the system. The preliminary design of the water treatment plant
would be made by the main consultant in conjunction with specialists in this
field. The final design of the water treatment plant would be the result of
international competitive bidding based on performance proposals and award for
supply of equipment will be made to the lowest evaluated bidder. Following
award of equipment the consultants would prepare final design and bid docu-
ments for the civil works which would be bid and evaluated separately.
December 23, 1976



ANNEX 6
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Water Requirements and Availability
Need for Irrigation and Potable Water
1.        Irrigation.  Because of the low rainfall in the project area (Annex
1), water deficit, particularly during the critical growing season is substan-
tial. The water deficit during the growing season amounts to about 700 mm and
agricultural production in the area is unlikely to increase substantially
without irrigation.
2.        Potable Water.  The total population in the project area is esti-
mated at about 64,000 people, which is growing at about 3% per annum. Of
these, about 47% live in scattered villages and the remaining 43% in the towns
of Djakovica and Orahovac. The existing supply situation in the villages is
unsatisfactory because the sources are mainly shallow wells of limited yield
and doubtful quality.  A UNDP sponsored study indicates that in Djakovica
Commune only about 5% of the rural population obtains water through a piped
system and in adjacent communes the situation is similar, or worse. Djakovica,
the largest town, has a public water supply system supplied from spring
and augmented by two deep boreholes. Quality of water supplied is generally
satisfactory as water before distribution undergoes disinfection. There are,
however, serious water shortages and the situation is worsening as the town
continues to grow. The spring is located 18 km from the town and yields from
18-180 1/sec. As the minimum flow is the critical factor, the two boreholes
with a combined output not exceeding 40 1/sec are in almost continuous use
supplementing the supply. Quantity of water supplied in 1973 totalled 800,000
m3, with about 500,000 m3, equivalent to about 45 l.c.d. for domestic purposes,
and 300,000 m3 for industry. Orahovac, a town on the edge of the project area,
is desperately short of water and despite continuing exploration has been un-
able to find new sources of reasonable quality or quantity to relieve the situa-
tion. The sources of supply for this town are two deep wells with a combined
output of between 10-12 1/sec. Allowing for a 30% consumption by industrial
users, and system losses, the available consumption is less than 40 l.c.d. based
on production figures obtained for 1973. As demand cannot be met 24 hours per
day, the distribution system is operated on a shift basis which raises the
potential for pollution within the pipe network. One half of the town receives
water by night and the other half by day.
Water Requirement
3.        The total gross water requirement for the project is estimated at
about 61.0 Mm3/year, of which about 47.5 Mm3 would be required for irrigation
and about 13.5 Mm3 for domestic and industrial water use. Details are in
Table 1.



ANNEX 6
Page 2
4.        Irrigation Demand.  Water requirements for different crops were
computed using the Penman formula with crop and growth stage factors recom-
mended in FAO Water Supply and Paper No. 24. Meteorological data from Prizren
and Pec and covering the period 1927-1966 were used. Allowing for effective
rainfall of 75% and an overall irrigation efficiency of 71%, the net water
requirement is estimated at about 33.7 Mm3/year, about 30% of which would
be required in July, the month of the maximum demand. Details on net monthly
irrigation demand for different crops are in Table 2.
5.        Potable Water Demand.  Domestic and industrial demand projections
assume maximum per capita daily consumptions of 200 litres per capita for
towns and 150 litres per capita for villages by the year 2000 in the areas
which would be served by the project. In forecasting this demand, VOM's
Consultant, Kosoprojekt, has assumed gradually increasing consumption, dif-
ferentiating between the urban and rural communities as follows:
1975        2000
Towns (l.c.d.) /1         150          200
Villages (l.c.d.)         100          150
Between 30% and 40% of the per capita water allowance in the rural area would
be allocated for the use of livestock. Industrial demand would be centered on
Djakovica, Orahovac and Zrze. The first two towns already accommodate manufac-
turers of textiles, engineering food processing, metal and metal working,
wines, soft drinks, electroplating, etc., while Zrze would be an industrial
development center of the future. Allowing for system efficiency of 90%, the
net water requirement would be about 12.1 Mm3 per year.
Water Availability
6.        Water would be supplied from the Decanska Bistrica river.  As con-
sumption increases, a further source of supply could be the Locanska Bistrica
river. A reservoir operating study was conducted for a 19-year period of
streamflow records. The study indicated that no water shortages would occur
even after deducting a minimum flow for (a) biological reasons in both streams,
and (b) upstream irrigation requirements from the Decanska Bistrica river.
Highest discharges in the rivers occur from March to May, and usually the
irrigation season would start with a full reservoir. The reservoir is off-
channel and closes off the 26 km2 catchment area of the Prue stream. Inflow
from this stream would balance estimated evaporation and leakage losses from
the reservoir. The Decanska Bistrica river also receives a base flow from
karstic springs and consequently never runs dry.
Water Quality
7.        Water quality of the Decanska Bistrica and Locanska Bistrica rivers
is excellent. For both streams total dissolved solids are 165 ppm, consisting
/1 Includes industrial demand.



ANNEX 6
Page 3
of 90% calcium bicarbonate and pH of 7.5. The chemical analysis of the water
for potable water supply is within recognized international standards for
drinking water. Initially, due to storage in the reservoir basin, there would
be an increase in suspended matter and bacteriological activity; but these
conditions would be overcome by treatment (Annex 5). In the long run the
reservoir would have a beneficial effect bacteriologically and on turbidity.
Water Rights
8.        Decanska Bistrica and Locanska Bistrica rivers are tributaries of
the Beli Drim river which flows into Albania. An agreement between Yugoslavia
and Albania for water management, signed in Tirana on July 16, 1962, allows
Yugoslavia to divert up to 216 Mm3 per year. The project's requirement would
amount to only 28% of this allowable diversion. Therefore, no serious problems
are anticipated on international water rights.
December 23, 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Gross Average Water Requirements
Year                Domestic Demand        Irrigation Demand    Total Demand
-------                (Mm3/year)-----------------------
1979                        0                     5.8                   5.8
1980                      4.0                    16.3                  20.3
1981                      4.5                    28.0                  32.5
1982                      5.0                    32.7                  37.7
1983                      5.6                    37.4                  43.0
1984                      6.1                    42.1                  48.1
1985                      6.7                    45.7                  52.4
1986                      7.2                    47.5                  54.7
1987                      7.7                    47.5                  55.2
1988                      8.1                    47.5                  55.6
1989                      8.7                    47.5                 56.2
1990                      9.0                    47.5                  56.5
1991                      9.3                    47.5                  56.8
1992                      9.8                    47.5                  57.3
1993                     10.2                    47.5                  57.7
1994                     10.6                    47.5                 58.1
1995                     11.1                    47.5                 58.6
1996                     11.5                    47.5                  59.0
1997                     12.0                    47.5                 59.5
1998                     12.5                    47.5                 60.0
1999                     13.0                    47.5                 60.5
2000-16                  13.5                    47.5                 61.0
December 1976



ANNEX 6
Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA
MUTOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Average Net Irrigation Demand
Crop                                 May       June      July   August   September Total
- -                ----(mm)-
Wheat and Barley                      69        -          -        -          -        69
Maize                                 29         95       133      76          4      337
Sunflowers                           34        109        118      11          -      272
Summer Vegetables                    29         95        133      76          4      337
Sugar Beet                           29         95        133      76          7      340
Peas                                 69        102         -        -          -       171
Alfalfa                               40         74        94      83         29       320
Green Beans                           -         -          24      83         42       149
Second Crop Maize                    -          -          24      83         42      149
Orchards                              29         95       133    116          51       424
Vineyards                             -          40         71     62          7       180
December 1976



ANNEX 7
YUGOSLAVIA
METO'11JA I ULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Cost Estitela /1
1im                                                                                                                                Fore rgo
Loral      Pevt3f-      lg ocal          Ltczl   lorLan          Inl        Exchange
- --Dtn  Nillio---- ---          -       -LS$         --11 -0 -
Dam and Intake                                     80.4        73.7       156.1             4.47        4.20        8.67               49
Price Contlgency                                 24.5        23.i        47.7             1.36        1.29        2.65
Total                                        104.9         98.9       207.8             5.81        5.49       11.32               49
Domestit Sup0l   - C      W-k bob
Treatment Plaot                                 22.2          3.9        26.1             1.23        0.22        1.45               1t
Trank and Discrlibtiot Noons                     17.6        15.7        33.3             0.98        0.87        1.85               47
Minor Sapply  oains                               2.3         2.G         4.3             0.13        G.11        0.24               47
Storage  Reservoir                               12.3         6.0        18.3             0.6S        C.33        1.01               33
Psnpig Station                                   1.1         0.2         1.3             0.06        0.01        0.07                15
Subtocal                                      5535         27.8        83.3             3.08        1.54        4.62
Price Cor-tlgotry                             14.4          7.0        21.4             0.80        0.39        1.19
Totol                                         69.9         34.8      I4.7              3.88        1.93        5.81               33
Dnot.esti Sorply - itolepmolt
(Toreaten  P iant                                25.5        12.6        38.1             1.42        0.70        2.12                33
Crook and Diatelbotion Rains                    ls.9         32.5        77.4             2.49        1.81        4.30               42
Minor Supply Noino                                1.0         0.8         1.8             0.06        0.04         0.10               44
Storgeg  R-erc_oirs                               1.0         1.0         2.0             0.08        0.06        0.12                50
Posp'og stolls-                                   0.9         0.4         1.3             0.05        0.02        0.07                31
Subto-l                                       73.3        47.3        120,6            4.08         2.63        1.74
prico  Co-tingetoy                            12.4          7.9        20.3            0.69         0.44        1.13
Total                                         85.7         55.2       140.9             4.77        3.07        7.81               39
Irnigj.toi   - Ciil o Wsrks
Noit Conalo                                      51.7        65.5       157.2             5.09        3.64         8.73               42
Prnstro 7eNotrik                                 94.2        73.0       17.2              5.23        4.06        9.29               44
Terniary Network                                 03.6        63.1       101.7             2.98        3.27         6.76               36
.arr Rgods                                       21.5        19.0        40.5             1.19        1.06        2.25               47
P--e Solpply                                      7.3         7.4        l4.7             0.41        0.41        0.82                50
pvmpilng Station                                  5.2         2.6         7.8             0.29        0.14        0.43                33
Subtotal                                     273.3        735.6      D09.1             13.19       13.09       28.228
Prior Co-ti,g-cy                             105.1         92.3       197.4             5.04        5.13       10.97
Totl1                                        378.6        327.9       746.5            21.03       18.22       39.25               46
Sneigation - Land leprovot.orc
Drainage works                                   28.8        36.9        6507             1.60        2.05        3.65                56
Erosion Control                                  17.4         4.5        21.9             0.97        0.25         1.52               20
Seil I,prt-ceost                                 17.0        18.3        36.4             0.98        1.04         8.02               52
gubtotal                                      63.8         63.2       124.0             3.55        3.34        6.09
Prit. Co-tieg-cy                              29.1         25.8        54,9             0.62        1.43        3.05
Total                                         92.9         86.0       178.9             5.17        4.77        9.94               48
Irrsgalion -Egguipment
Nobale cqralpeeot                                18.2        33.8        52.0             l.Cl        1.88         2.08               65
Auttomtit Sarge Cs-trol                           5.2        12.1        17,3             0.24        0.67         0.86               70
operot-ot and  Nolto  aser Veltetet               3.8         8.9        22.7             '.21        C.49         0.72               70
Sobtotol                                      27.2         51.8        82.0             1.51        3.04        4.51
Peito Colttrg_cty                              9.7         55.8         5.35            0.54        0.86        1.s7
Total                                         36.9        70.6        107.5             2.05        3.92        5.97               66
Buildings otd Demonstration  orms
Btildings                                        25.8         4.5        30.3             1.43        0.25         1.68               15
Don.nootorico Forn                                i.E         7.         10.7             0.t14       0. 15        0.59               25
Dent,o                                         33Fi 8       7.2        41.0             1.87        9.40        2.27
PDeco Co-tiog-tty                             11.7          2.3        14.0             0.66        D.12        0.78
Total                                         45.5          9.3        55.0             2.53        0.52         3.05               17
C  -rpertci-r                                    05.4          -         95.4             5.31          -          5.31
Crop ,sdniflootor                                20.0          -         20.0             1.11          -          1.11
B-esd-ry .Adjootmett                              8.3          -          8.3             0.46          -          C.46
Subtotal                                     123.7           -        123.7             6.88         -           6.88
Prim  Contiogency                             24.2           -         24.2             1.34         -           1.54
To010                                        147.9           -        147.9             8.22         -           8,22
Croocltoot3 and Adolnist-aian
PoCnOgflConsultantn                               1.0         4.1          5.1            0.06        0.23         0.29               80
Loal Consultan-t  and Adriliatrat-on             88.5          -         88.5             4.91          --         4.91                -
Subtotal                                       09.5         4.1        93.6             4.97        0.23         5.20
Price Conllrgotcy                              30,8         1.8        32.6             1.71        0.10         1.81
Total                                         120.3         5.9       126.2             6.68        0.33         7.01                5
Total Tncledlng Proco C.ntieg-c--s    1,08?.4             688.8    1,771.4             60.14       38.27        08.41               39
Physinal Coong retna                               99.8        63.2        163.0             5.00        3.51        9.06
PocO_ntingnoo                                 29.7        2-2.        51.7~I           1.83        1.27         2.87
Total Pentical Cynsiogranies                 129.5         85.2       214.7             7.20        4.73        11.93               45
GEANID TOTAL                               1,212.1        274.0     1,986.1            67.34       43.00      111.34                39
Totl Cotingtnc.e                             391.4       261.3       652.7            21.75       14.52        36.27
Total Prite Coetitg-eni-s                     291.6       198.1       489.7            16.20       11.Ot       27.21
/L    Dil-ropanoi-o dan 1o rounding.
Decobeer 1976



ANNEX 8
YUC0OS.AV.
88101IA I MUITIIpLi8 SE PkOJECT
Schedule of Expenditurss
Itm                                       Total                 1977            3   1978                   1979                 1900                 1981           Foroign
For-locc    Total    Foreign    Tot,a    F-reign    Total   elmrlig        Total    Woet38    bot;    oroi.on T t     Total    Excharge
Dom and Intske                                    75.7     156.1       15.9       33.7      29.3       62.5      28.2       53.3        2.3        6.6       -          -         19
Price Contingency                              23.2       47.7        2.1       4.5        7.9       16.9-     11.9       22.5        1.3       3.8        -          _
Total                                       98.9      203.8       18.0      33.2       37.2       79.4      40.1       75.8        3.S      10.4                            4 _  49
Do-Ootic Supply - Civil Works
Trootsot Ploat                                   3.9      26.1        0.7       4.8        2.5       16.5        0.7       4.8        -          -         -          -         15
Trook and Dlstrlbutoo  Mains                   15.7       33.3        7.3       4.5       12.4       26.3        1.0       2.2        -          -         -                   47
Minor Supply Mai=o                               2.0       4,3        1.0        2.2       1.0        2.1         -         -         -          -         -          -         47
Stor-go R-esrvoir-                               6.0      18.3        1.3       4.0        4.7       14.3         -         -              -          -               -         33
PuapIng Staction                                 0.2       1.3         -        0.1        0.2        1.2         -         -         -          --                             15
Subtotal                                    27.8       83.3        5.3      15.9       20.8       60.4       1.7        7.0
Price Contingocay                            7.0       21.4        0.7       2.1        5.6       16.3       C.7        3.0
Total                                       34.8      104.7        6.0      18.0       26.4       76.7       2.4       10.0        -          -         -          -        33
Dlo[estic Sopply - Eauipmetoa
Treat-not Plout                                 12.6      38.1        2.0        6.0       7.1       21.4        3.5      10.7        -          -          -                   33
Truck cod Distribution Mnion                   32.5       77.4       10.0      23.0       20.2       48.2        2.3       5.4        _          _         _          _         42
Minor Supply Maino                               0.8       1.3        0.4        0.9       0.4        0.9         -          -        -          -          -                   44
Sto-ago Reso- -eo                                1.0       2.0        0.2        0.4       0.8        1.6         -0
P_apig Statl-on                                 0.4       1.3        0.2        0.6       0.2        0.7         -         _         -          -          -         -         31
SubLotal                                    47.3      120.6       12.8      31.7       28.7       72.8        5.8      16.1
Price Coctingoocy                            7.9       20.3        1.2       2.9        5.1       13.0       1.6        4.4        -         _          -
Total                                       55.2      140.9       14.0      34.6       33.8       85.8        7.4      20.5        -          -         -          -         39
rrigatio. - Civil Wor-k
Main Canals                                     69.5     157.2        -          -        33.5       79.7       32.0       77.5       -          -          -                   42
FPrare  o Network                               73.0     167.2        -          -        23.4       54.7       26.7      62.6       19.4       42.6        3.9       7.3       44
Tertiary Not-cck                                68.1     121.7        _          _        22.7       40.6       22.7      40.6       22.7       40.5        -         -         56
Farm Roado                                      i9.0      40.5        _                     6.3      13.5        6.4      13.5        6,3       13.5        -         -         47
Pover Supply                                     7.4      14.7        7.4       14.7        -         -          -          -         -          -          -         -         50
PUlapmg Statica                                  2.6       7.0        2.6        7.8                                                                                            33
Subtotal                                   235.6      309.1       10.0      22.5       85.9      188.5       87.8     194.2       48.0       96.6        3.9       7.3
Fri-c Cnctiga-cy                            92.3      197.4        1.3        3.0      23.2       50.9       37.1      8201       27.8       55.9        7.9       5.5
Total                                      327.9      706.5       11.3       25.5     109.1      239.4      124.9     276.3       75.8      152.5        6.6      12.8       46
lrrigation - Lsod Iaprovement
Droincgo Wueko                                  36.9      65.7        4.1        7.3       8.2       14.6        8.2      14.6        8.2       14.6        8.2      14.6       56
Ero-on- Co-trol                                  4.5      21.9        -          -         0.8        3.9        0.7        3.4       1.5        7.3        1.0        7.3      20
Soil lup-ov---oc                                18,0       36,4       3.4        6.6        3,4       6.6       12.0       23.7             -    7                    -         52
Subtot.l                                     80.2     124.0        7.5       13.9      12.4       25.1       20.9      41.2        9,7       21.9        9.7      21.9
PFice Conntingecy                           25.8       54.9        1.0        1.9       3.3        6.8        8.8      17.4        5.6       12.7        7.1      16.1
Total                                       86.9      178.9        8.3       15.8      15.7       31.9       28.2        8.6E     15.3       34.6       16.8      38.0       48
borlation - EauiPment
Mobilc Eqiuipent                                33.8      52.0        -          -          6.0       8.5        2.8        3.5        .9       70.0       12.9       20.0      65
Automatic Surge Coatrp                          12.1       17.3       2.3        3.3        4.9       7.0        4.9        7.0        -         -          -          -        70
Op-ration oud Maint-nanc Vehiulot                8.9       12.7       -          -          4.2       6.0        4.7        6.7        -
Subtotal                                    54.8       82.0        2.3        3.3      15.1       2105       11.6      17.2       12.9       20.0       12.9      20.0
Frric  Conting-cy                           15.8       25.3        0.2        0.3       2.7        3.8        2.1       11.7       4.8        7.4        6.0       9.3
Total                                        70.6     107.5        2.5        3.6       17.8      25.3       13.7       21.9      17.7       27.4       10.9       29.3      67
8uildings cod Deonstration Farps
Buildings                                       4.5       30.3        1.4        9.0       0.5        3.5        2.0       13.5       -          -          0.6       4.3       15
Demonstr-tico Farm                               2.7      10.7        0.9        3.5       0.9        36         0.9        3.6       -.--                             -3    25
Subtotal                                      7.2      41.0        2.3       12.5        1.4       7.1        2.9       17.1       -          -          0.6       4.3
Frioc Cocuingrn_y                            2.3       14.0        0.3        1.7       0.4        1.9        1.2        7.2       -          _          0.4       3.2
Total                                         9.5      55.0        2.6       14.2       1.8        9.0        4.1       24.3       -          _          1.0        7.5      17
Coampensation cod Ocoudacy Adustnment
Exprupriation                                    -        95.4        -         90.3        -         2.4        .          2.7        -          -         -          -         0
Crop Indemnification                             -        20.0        -          -          -          6.0       -          7.0        -         7.0        -          .         °
Boundary Adjuatnont                              -          8.3       -          4.0        _         4.3                              --                                        0
Subtctal                                      -       123.7                  94.3        -        12.7        -          9.7                  7.0
Mrtoe ContinSency                             -        24.2        -         12.6        -         3.4        -          4.1        -         4.1
Total                                         _       147.9        -        106.9        -        10.1        -         13.d        -        11.1        -                    0
Conuultants and .8d,ooaooratioo
Foreign Cnonultanto                              4.1       5.1        2.1        2.6                             -               -                -         2.0        2.5       0
L.ocl Cnonultants and Admiuiotr-tio              -         88.5       -         22.5        -        31.0        -         16.4        -          9.9       -          8.7       0
Subtotal                                     4.1       93.6        2.1       25.1        -        31.0        -         16.4        -         9.9        2.0       11.2
Frico Contingency                             1.8      32.6        9.3        3.4        -         0.4        -          6.9        -         5.7        1.3        8.2
Total                                         5.9     126.2        2.4       28.5        -        39.4        -         23.3        _        15.6        3.5       19.4        5
T1t01  Includiog Pri-c COtingonCinS         668,8   1,771,4       65,3      285.3      g/4,3      603.0     222.3      524.5      112.4      251.6      47.0      107.0       39
Fhysical Cottingonicis                            63.2     163.0        .35       38.8       23.3      38.5       19.8       79.4        7.7      16.7         4.7       9.6       39
Priar Coatiog-ncy                               22.0       31.3       0.9        5.0        6.2      15.5        7.8       16.9        1.2       0.0        2.9        6.2
Total Physical Conting-ncieo                    85.2      214.7       8.4       43.s       29.5      74.0       2F.6       55.4       2.1.      2507        7.6       15.8       45
G8AND TOTAL                                    774.0   1,906.1       73.7      320.1      271.3     62770      29         ,74         2            3                 .IZL.7      40
=       _       _49 910405-                                           .~2,§       4
Total Contingencieo                            261.3     652.7       16.3       76.2       78.7     095.4       89.4      207.7       51.4     115.3       25.5       58.1       40
Total Pri-e Contingencis                       198.1     489.7        8.0       37.4       54.4     136,9       70.9      166.5       43.7      98.6       20.8       48.5       41
1ecemcr 19-76



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Schedule of Activities
CALENDAR YEAR                               1976              1977             1978              1979              1980               1981
DAM
DIVERSION WEIR                        _
FEEDER CANAL                                                             __
POWER SUPPLY
WATER TREATMENT PLANT
PUMPING STATIONS
DISTRIBUTION MAINS (Domestic Supply)
MINOR SUPPLY MAINS (Domestic Supply)
STORAGE RESERVOIRS (Domestic Supply)
MAIN IRRIGATION CANALS
UNDERGROUND NETWORK                                                         _                                 _________            _ _
FARM ROADS                                      P___*P____*__
DRAINAGE WORKS                                                                                                                  ________
__ -_                                              __    _
EROSION CONTROL                                                         A VA
SOIL IMPROVEMENT                                                         #4                                                     ___r____
BUILDINGS                                                        7       1 110 4'111.
TEST FARMS                            _      _    n
2750ha            6700ha           1 0,250ha
CUMULATIVE AREA IRRIGATED
* _      _   _Final Design and Document Preparation
_W A    ff r  Bidding and Award of Contract
Construction Period                                                                                                                              RI
World Bank-16230           X



I



ANNEX 10
Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOEIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Procurement
Total Cost /1
Item                                                   (Din Million)     (US$ Million)
A.  Procurement Following International
Competitive Bidding
1.  Diversion Weir, Feeder Canal, Dam                  181.6             10.1
2.  Water Treatment Plant, Civil Works                  33.2              1.8
3.  Water Treatment Plant, Equipment                    45.4              2.5
4. Domestic Trunk Mains, Storage,
Pumping Stations                                 158.2               8.8
5. Irrigation Mains, Pressure Network,
Reservoirs                                       410.0              22.8
6.  Equipment for Pumping Stations                       7.2              0.4
7.  Mobile Irrigation Equipment,
Water Meters                                       71.2              4.0
8.  Automatic Surge Control Equipment  /2               20.7              1.2
9.  Operation and Maintenance Vehicles -                15.6              0.9
10. Equipment and Materials for Tertiary
Network, Farm Roads, Soil Improvement-3           153.1              8.5
Total                                        1,096.2              61.0
B.  Procurement Following Local
Competitive Bidding
1.  First Section Main Canal                            40.0              2.2
2.  Access Road, Diversion Tunnel, Grouting             22.2              1.2
3.  Domestic Supply, Small Mains                         7.2              0.4
4.  Erosion Control, Drainage                          130.3              7.2
5.  Power Supply                                        16.7              0.9
6.  Irrigation Pumping Station, Civil Works              3.2              0.2
7.  Buildings                                           41.3              2.3
8.  Demonstration and Test Farms                        13.7              0.8
Total                                           274.6              15.2
C. Procurement of Consultants
1.  Foreign Consultants                                  7.3              0.4
2.  Local Consultants                                  118.9              6.6
Tctal                                           126.2               7.0
/1  Cost Includes price contingencies but excludes physical contingency
/2  Details Annex 10, Table 2
/3  Details Annex 10, Table 3
December 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 2
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIKfJkRPOSE PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Vehicles
Item                    No.      Total Cost
(Din Million)
Four Wheel Drive Cars               9           l.0
Cars                                8           0.9
Motor Bicycles                     54            1.4
Trucks (5 T)                        4           1.4
Tractors (75 HP)                    4           0.5
Crane Trucks                        2           0.8
Excavators                          2           1.6
Graders                             2           2.6
Subtotal                                     10.2
Duty and Taxes (35%)                          3.6
13.8
Price Contingency                             1.8
Total                                      15.6
December 1976



ANNEX 10
Table 3
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Force Account Procurement
Item                                     HP      No.   (Din Million)
Equipment
1.  Trenching Machine                   215       2          5.0
2.  Bulldozer                            66       2          0.9
3.  Tractors and Trailers                35       8          1.4
4.  Kiptrucks                           140       4          1.4
5.  Tractors and Trailers                60       2          0.4
6.  Bulldozers                          170       2          2.4
7.  Graders                             130       2          2.6
8.  Dump Trucks                         140       2          0.7
9.  Front Loader                        175       1          1.2
10. Autobus                             190       2          1.3
11. Mobile Cranes (2.5.ton)              60       2          0.8
12. Vibrators                           160       3          7.5
13. Tank Truck                          145       1          0.6
14. Flatbed Truck                       220       1          1.3
27.5
Spare Parts 33%                                         9.1
36.6
Duty and Taxes 35%                                      12.8
49.4
Price Contingency                                      12.7
Total                                                62.1
Mobile Plastic Pipe Plant                                    7.2
Price Contingency                                        1.9
Total                                                 9.1
PVC Pellets (1,200 tons)                                    17.5
Price Contingency                                        6.3
Total                                                23.8
Fittings and Hydrants                                       28.4
Price Contingency                                      10.3
Total                                                38.7
Chemicals for Soil Improvement                              15.4
Price Contingency                                        4.0
Total                                                19.4
GRAND TOTAL                                                153.1
December 1976



ANNEX 11
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Schedule of Disbursement
IBRD Fiscal Year                                                   Cumulative
and Quarter                                                    Disbursement
(US$ million)
1976/77:
June 30, 1977                                                        0.2
1977/78:
September 30, 1977                                                   2.2
December 31, 1977                                                    4.3
March 31, 1978
June 30, 1978                                                        9.0
1978/79:
September 30, 1978                                                  13.2
December 31, 1978                                                   18.2
March 31, 1979                                                      21.4
June 30, 1979                                                       25.7
1979/80:
September 30, 1979                                                  28.0
December 31, 1979                                                   31.3
March 31, 1980                                                      33.5
June 30, 1980                                                       37.2
1980/81:
September 30, 1980                                                  39.1
December 31, 1980                                                   42.8
March 31, 1981                                                      44.2
June 30, 1981                                                       47.4
1981/82:
September 30, 1981                                                  48.3
December 31, 1981                                                   51.4
March 31, 1982                                                      52.4
June 30, 1982                                                       54.0
December 1976



ANNEX 12
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budgets and Recovery of Project Irrigation Costs
A. Farm Budgets
1.        Three farm budgets (Tables 1-3) are prepared to show the project's
impact on incomes of smallholder private farmers. Based on expected cropping
pattern in the future with project, the farm models selected for the analysis
include a 1.5 ha vegetable farm representing about 20% of the households, a
4 ha field crop growing farm representing another 20% of the households and
an 8 ha field crop farm representing about 15% of the farmers. These farm
models represent all smallholders in the project area who derive their incomes
entirely from farming. The remaining 45% of the smallholders have other
sources of income, including income from livestock production and from part-
time employment with the kombinats and elsewhere, but these farmers are not
expected to be any better or worse off than those represented by the house-
holds selected for the analysis. No farm budgets are prepared for the kom-
binats because the impact of the project on salaries of the workers is not
clear. The salaries would depend on income and profits of the kombinats
not only from project related farming, but also from other non-project related
activities such as processing. Presently, the workers are paid minimum wage
of about Din 150 (US$8.30) per day or an equivalent of about Din 36,300
(US$2,020) per year.
2.        The assumptions made in preparing the farm budgets are summarized
below:
(i) Sizes of Holdings. About 15% of the smallholders own and
operate 5-10 ha each, nearly 20% of them have holdings of
3-5 ha and holdings by the remaining 65% of the farm fami-
lies own and operate less than 3 ha each. Because of the
labor intensive nature of vegetable production and of rela-
tively high return to labor from such activities, holdings
represented by 1.5 ha are expected to emphasize production of
vegetables and relatively large holdings production of field
crops.
(ii)  Cropping Pattern and Yield.  Cropping pattern in the future
without the project is expected to remain the same as in
the present but yields would improve slightly as a result
of application of improved farm technology and of better
farm management practices. Compared to the present,
average yields of cereals in future with the project



ANNEX 12
Page 2
would increase by about 110%, sugar beet by 80%, vege-
tables by 70% and all other crops by at least 70%.
Details of yields for individual crops are in Annex 1.
(iii)   Annual Production Costs.  Annual costs of producing various
crops in the private sector are in Table 4. These do not
include water charges (and interest) and taxes. Imputed
cost of family labor and costs of other inputs supplied by
farm families are not included in the computation of farm
income.
(iv)  Household Size and Demand for Labor.  There are about 8
people per household, no more than 3 males of whom are
presently active members of the labor force. Because of
expected increase in demand for labor with the project,
female members would participate in the labor force and
the additional demand for labor is expected to be supplied
entirely by the household.
(v) Project Charges. All private farmers would pay a uniform
nominal water charge of Din 3,000 (US$167) per ha. There
would also be project induced additional land tax of
Din 200 (US$11.10) per ha per year.
(vi)  Taxes.  Presently, farmers in the project area pay an aver-
age land tax of about Din 800 (US$44.40) per ha per year,
and this is assumed to remain unchanged in the future
without the project.  Farmers do not pay and are not
expected to pay any other taxes.
(vii)  Prices of Inputs and Outputs.  Domestic farm-gate prices
of inputs and outputs, which are used for the farm budget
analysis, are in Annex 14, Tables 8 and 11 respectively.
3.        Results of the farm budget analysis are summarized below:



ANNEX 12
Page 3
Farm Model/
I        II          III         Average
-----------------(Din)-------------------
Present
Production and Income
Gross Value of Production            34,400    36,910       42,390
Production Costs                      10,980    12,240      14,340
Land Tax (Din 800/ha)                  1,200     3,200       6,400
Income                               22,220    21,470       21,650        21,790
Income Per Capita /2                  2,780      2,680       2,710         2,720
Future Without Project
Production and Income
Gross Value and Production           39,750    43,650       50,190
Production Costs                      12,030    13,140      15,090
Land Tax (Din 800/ha)                  1,200     3,200       6,400
Income                               26,520    27,310       28,700        27,400
Income Per Capita /2                  3,310      3,410       3,590         3,420
Future With Project
Production and Income
Gross Value of Production            92,310   123,550    177,550
Production Costs                     28,600    52,150       78,710
Land Tax (Din 800/ha)                  1,200     3,200       6,400
Income before project charges        62,510    68,200       92,440
Proposed Project Charges              4,800    12,800       25,600
Income after proposed
project charges                   57,710    55,400       66,840        59,360
Income Per Capita                   7,210      6,920       8,350         7,420
Incremental Income Per Capita       3,900      3,510       4,760         4,000
Percentage Incremental Income
Per Capita                          120%       100%        130%          120%
/1   Model I is a 1.5 ha vegetable farm, model II is a 4 ha field crop farm and
model III an 8 ha field crop farm.
/2   Household size is estimated at 8 people.
4.        The farm budgets show that the present average household income for
all farm models amounts to about Din 21,790 (US$1,210). This is equivalent
to a per capita income of about Din 2,720 (US$150), which is below the upper
limit of income to the poverty target group in Yugoslavia.



ANNEX 12
Page 4
5.        The average household income would increase to Din 27,400 (US$1,250)
in the future without the project and to Din 59,360 (US$3,300) with project.
This means that per capita income would increase to Din 3,420 (US$190) in the
future without the project, and to Din 7,420 (US$412) in the future with
project.
B. Recovery of Project Irrigation Costs
The Setting
6.        Investments in, and operation and maintenance of project facilities
which would commonly serve the irrigation and water supply, components would
be allocated to each component in proportion to the volume of water which
would be utilized by each subproject. According to existing procedures,
project costs which would be chargeable to the irrigation component or a part
of such costs would be recovered from the beneficiaries through water charges
and project induced incremental land taxes.
Feasible Level of Water Charge
7.        The maximum feasible level of water charge should not exceed the
project rent, which is defined as incremental income to the beneficiaries
less allowances to additional family labor, entrepreneurship and risk. If
the water charge exceeds the project rent, farmers would have little or no
financial incentives to participate in the project. The project rent to all
beneficiaries is estimated at about Din 5,000 (US$278) per ha in constant
1976 prices. Estimation of the project rent for different farm types is
summarized below:



ANNEX 12
Page 5
Project Rent
Item                                                  Farm Type/1
Model I    Model II   MIodel III
----------- Dinars ------------
Farm Income
Present                                        22,220       21,470      21,650
Future Without Project                         26,520       27,310      28,700
Future With Project
(before project charges)                   62,510       68,200      92,440
Incremental income
(before project charges)                   35,990       40,890      63,740
Incremental income per ha                      23,990       10,220       7,970
Distribution of Incremental Income
Additional family labor                        16,350        8,100       1,250
Entrepreneurship                                8,280        8,020      12,460
Risk                                            1,660        3,900       6,360
Project rent                                    9,700       20,870      43,670
Project rent per ha                             6,470        5,220       5,460
/1   Model I is a 1-5 ha vegetable farm, model II a 4 ha field crop farm and
model III an 8 ha field crop farm.
Computation of the rent is based on the assumption that (a) the additional
family labor is fully remunerated, (b) payment to entrepreneurship equals the
difference between income to smallholders in the future without the project
and minimum wage of comparable labor in the social sector kombinats, this
being equivalent to an average of about 20% of incremental income, and (c)
return to risk equals insurance premium on incremental costs of purchased
inputs. The allowances to additional family labor are assumed to be equiva-
lent to additional labor costs of producing the different crops for each farm
type. However, computed returns to entrepreneurship and risk involve uncer-
tainty and the derived project rents for the different farm models are sub-
ject to errors of estimation.
Socially Desirable Level of Water Charge
8.        If all of the project rent is assumed to be used for consumption,
the socially desirable level of water charge would equal all project rent
from beneficiaries who are above the critical consumption level and none
from those who are below the critical consumption level. Average level of
consumption by project area farmers is estimated at about Din 2,450 (US$136)



ANNEX 12
Page 6
compared to the critical consumption level in Yugoslavia of about Din 5,130
(US$285). This implies that all project rent should accrue to the beneficia-
ries. However, to ensure at least adequate supply of funds required for
operation and maintenance of project facilities, VOM could recover part of the
project rent and still provide incentives for farmers to encourage their par-
ticipation in the project.
Proposed Level of Water Charge
9.        To be able to recoup at least the full cost of operation and main-
tenance of irrigation facilities, about Din 3,000 (US$167) per ha of the
project rent in constant 1976 prices would be recovered from private farmers,
and all of the project rent, also in constant 1976 prices, from the kombinats.
Since the incomes to all the private farmers in the project area are about the
same, the proposed water charge would apply equally to all beneficiaries. The
kombinats would pay higher water charges because in addition to direct benefits
from increased output of commodities they benefit indirectly through linkages
which result from the project. The kombinats own and operate a sugar factory
which presently obtains costly supply of raw material inputs from Vojvodina,
about 200 km from the project area. With project, the operating cost of the
factory could decline by at least Din 6 million (US$0.3 million) when more
sugar beet would be available from the project area. This is equivalent to
an additional benefit of about Din 2,000 (US$110) per ha of project land which
would be cultivated by the kombinats. Any additional water charge could dis-
courage farmers from participating in the project. For this and for equity
reasons, a higher than the above water charges at this time is not desirable.
Cost, Benefit and Rent Recovery Indices
10.       Cost Recovery Index.  The streams of project induced costs of the
irrigation component, excluding price contingencies but including physical
contingencies, and estimated project charges which are proposed to be reco-
vered from the beneficiaries are in Table 5. The present value of the project
charges in constant 1976 prices, discounted at 10%, is estimated at Din 292
million (US$16.0 million). This would recover 100% of Operation and Main-
tenance and about 11% of investment costs over project life of 40 years. The
total project cost recovery index, however, would amount to about 30%.
11.       Benefit and Rent Recovery Indices.  The proposed project charges
would result in average benefit recovery index of about 25% and rent recovery
index of about 55% (Table 6). Most of the project rent which is retained by
the beneficiaries would probably be used for consumption but some of it would
also be used as source of future investment resources. The proposed project
charge would also promote equitable distribution of income among the benefi-
ciaries because farmers with larger incomes would pay higher proportions of
their incremental incomes than poorer farmers.
December 23, 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget for a 1.5 ha Vegetable Farm
Item                            Cropped                   Production         Production    Income
Area              Output       Value          Cost
(ha)              (tons)       --Din--------------
Present
Vegetables                       0.75               15.7        31,400       9,670      21,730
Wheat                            0.50                1.2         3,000       1,310        1,690
Pastures and Meadows             0.25                 -            -          -             -
Total                          1.50                           34,400      10,980      23,420
Future Without Project
Vegetables                       0.75               18.0        36,000      10,690      25,310
Wheat                            0.50                1.5         3,750       1,340       2,410
Pastures and Meadows             O.25                 _            ___                     _
Total                         1.50                           39,750      12,030      27,20
Future With Project
Vegetables                       1.25               43.7        87,400      25,750      61,650
Wheat                            0.25                1.1         2,750       1,050       1,700
Maize (double crop)              0.25                1.2         2,160       1,90          360
Total                         1.75                           92,310      28,600      63,710
H
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget for a 4 ha Field Crop Farm
Item                     Cultivated                  Production         Production
Area                Output       Value        Cost           Income
(ha)                (tons)       ------ ------
Present
Wheat                     1.5                   3.7         9,250        3,930         5,320
Maize                     1.5                   3.7         6,660        1,860         4,800
Vegetables                0.5                  10.5        21,000        6,450        14,550
Pastures and Meadows      0.5                   -            -             -             -
Total                   4.0                              36,910       12.24         24,670
Future Without Project
Wheat                     1.5                   4.5        11,250        3,930         7,320
Maize                     1.5                   4.2         8,400        2,080         6,320
Vegetables                0.5                  12.0        24,000        7,130        16,870
Pastures and Meadows      0.5                   -            -             -             -
Total                   4.0                              43,650       13,140        30,510
Future With Project
Wheat                     1.0                   4.5        11,250        4,190         7,060
Maize I                    1.0                  6.0        10,800        7,210         3,590
Sugar beet                1.0                  45.0        22,500       12,940         9,560
Vegetables                1.0                  35.0        70,000       20,600        49,400
Maize II (Double Crop)   1.                     5.0         9,000        7,210         1,790                       fr
Total                   5.0                             123,550       52,150        71.400
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Farm Budget for an 8 ha Field Crop Farm
Item                   Cultivated                Production             Production        Income
Area             Output       Value              Cost
(ha)             (tons)        ---------Din------------
Present
Wheat                    3.5               8.7         21,750            9,170          12,580
Maize                    3.0               7.5         13,500            3,720           9,780
Peas                     0.5               1.7          7,140            1,450           5,690
Pastures and Meadows     1.0                -             -                -               -
Total                  8.0               -           42,390          14,340           28,050
Future Without Project
Wheat                    3.5              10.5         26,250            9,380          16,870
Maize                    3.0               8.4         15,120            4,170          10,950
Peas                     0.5               2.1          8,820            1,540           7,280
Pastures and Meadows     1.0                -             -                -               -
Total                  8.0                           50,190          15,090           35,100
Future With Project
Wheat                    1.0               4.5         11,250            4,200           7,050
Maize                    3.0              13.5         24,300           21,630           2,670
Sugar beet               3.0             135.0         67,500           28,680          38,820
Vegetables               1.0              35.0         70,000           20,600          49,400
Maize II                 0.5               2.5          4,500            3,600             900
Total                 __                           177,550           78,710           98,840
D bX
WH'
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Annual Production Cost in the Private Sector
Based on Domestic Prices of Inputs
Item                                                         Chemical       Plant                   Animal               /1
Seeds      Manure    Fertilizers  Protection  Machinery        Power         Laboi'        Total
----------  -------------------  ----- Din   per  ha------   -     --                        ---
Present
Wheat                                 610          -            580         120        1,320          400         1,500        4,530
Maize                                 120        1,000          680          -           440        1,230         5,000         8,470
Barley                                540          -           530           90        1,060          400         1,500        4,120
Sunflower                              80        1,000         660          370        2,210          -           1,000        5,320
Peas                                2,000          -            570         -            330        3,000        15,000       20,900
Sugar beet                            170        1,000          670         290          550        2,250        13,000       17,930
Vegetables                         10,000        1,000          570       2,000wa        330        3,240        15,000       32,140
Fruit                                 -            -           460        2,900        3,000          -          13,000       19,360
Alfalfa (Hay)                         100          _            210         -             80          760         3,000        4,150
Meadows and Pastures                  -            -            -            -           -            200         2,000         2,200
Future Without Project
Wheat                                 610          -            630         120        1,320          400         1,500         4,580
Maize                                 100        1,000          850          -           440        1,730         5,500         9,620
Barley                                540          -            590         120        1,320          400         1,600        4,570
Sunflower                              80        1,000          740         400        2,210          -           1,200         5,630
Peas                                2,000          -            760          -           330        3,00Q        15,000        21,090
Sugar beet                            170        1,000          830          340         550        2,250        14,000        19,140
Vegetables                         10,000        1,000          710       3,220;2        330        3,240        16,000        34,500
Fruit                                 -            -            550       3,480        3,000          -          15,600        22,630
Alfalfa (Hay)                         100          _            310          -            80          920         3,000         4,410
Meadows and Pastures                  -            -            -            -           -            200         2,000         2,200
Future With Project
Wheat                                 610          -          1,060          580       1,940          -             400         4,590
Maize (I and II)                       80        1,000        1,360          380       4,390          -           1,000         8,210
Barley                                540          -            920         460        1,940          -             400         4,260
Sunflower                              80        1,000          990          370       2,210          -             900         5,550
Beans                               2,300          -         1,140        1,400        6,180          -             900        11,920
Peas                                2,000          -          1,140          240       6,230          -             400        10,010
Sugar beet                            170        1,000        1,340          640       9,790          -           1,200        14,140
Vegetables                         10,000        1,000        1,020        3,800L      4,780          -          23,000        43,600
Fruit                                 -            -            670        3,640       3,270          -          20,000        27,580
Alfalfa (Hay)                          80          -            490           80       2,750          -             950         4,350
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I
/1  Based on imputed wage for family labor of Din 100 (US$5.6) per manday.
/2 Including wires and other plant supports.
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Annual Production Cost in the Social Sector
Based on Domestic Prices of Inputs
Item                                                         Chemical       Plant
Seeds      Manure    Fertilizers  Protection  Machinery          Labor         Total
----------------------------------Din per ha-----------------------------------
Present
Wheat                                 610          -            790         180        1,940           600         4,120
Maize                                  80        1,000        1,000         380        3,950         1,500         7,910
Barley                                540          -            650         150        1,680           600         3,620
Sunflower                              80        1,000          570         300        1,210         1,000         4,160
Peas                                2,000          -            760         180          840           600         4,380
Sugar beet                            170        1,000       1,000          640        9,340         1,500        13,650
Fruit                                 -            -            620       3,900        3,820        13,000        21,340
Grape                                 -            -          1,140          740       5,340        15,000        22,220
Alfalfa (Hay)                          80          -            310          -         1,920         1,400         3,710
Meadows and Pastures                  -            -            -            -         1,400         1,000         2,400
Future Without Project
Wheat                                 610          -            880         470        1,940           600         4,500
Maize                                  80        1,000        1,080          380       3,900         1,500         7,940
Barley                                540          -            680         460        1,940           600         4,220
Sunflower                              80        1,000          660          300       1,320         1,200         4,560
Peas                                2,000          -            850          190       6,230           750        10,020
Sugar beet                            170        1,000        1,080          640       9,790         1,800        14,4JO
Fruit                                 -            -            740       4,700        3,820        14,000        23,260
Grape                                 -            -          1,430          890       6,230        15,750        24,300
Alfalfa (Hay)                          80          -            310           80       2,260         1,400         4,130
Meadows and Pastures                  -            -            -            -         1,400         1,000         2,400
Future With Proiect
Wheat                                 610          -          1,060          580       1,940           600         4,790
Maize                                  80        1,000        1,340          390       4,400         1,500         8,710
Barley                                540          -            920         460        1,940           600         4,460
Sunflower                              80        1,000          990          300       2,210           600         5,180
Beans                               2,300          -          1,140       1,400        6,180           900        11,920
Peas                                2,000          -          1,140          240       6,230           900        10,510
Sugar beet                            170        1,000        1,340          640       9,790         1,800        14,740
Fruit                                 -            -            950       5,200        4,670        17,000        27,820
Grape                                 -            -          1,880          890       6,230        18,000        27,000
Alfalfa (Hay)                          80          -            490           80       2,750         1,420         4,820
/1  Based on an equivalent wage rate of Din 150 (US$8.30) per manday.
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Project Costs and Charges
of Irrigation Component L
Project Years                               Costs
Investment   Operation and   Total                    Water Charges
Maintenance                             -Din Million-
-----------Din Million -----------
77                        303            6             309
78                        297           13             310
79                        212           21             233                            6
80                          61          21               82                          16
81                          30          22               52                          30
82                         -            22               22                          36
83                                      22               22                          39
84                                      22              22                           39
Discount Rates (Z)                         Present Values
Costs                  Project Charges
Investment Operation and Total
Maintenance
------------Din Million -------------------------
7.6               833          269           1,102       392
9.0               822          232           1,054       329
9.6               817          219           1,036       306
10.0               814          211           1,025       292
/1 All costs and project charges are in constant 1976 prices. The investment cost
streams do not include investments in vegetable packaging plant and related facilities,
farm machinery , mobile equipment and in establishment of new orchards.  These would be extended to the
beneficiaries as credits and recovered according to existing terms of loans.
December 1976



ANNEX 12
Table 7
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Effect of Project Charges on Farm Income
Item                                                     Farm Type
Model I    Mcdel 1I    Model III
-Din---------------
Farm Income
Present                                        22,220      21,470       21,650
Future Without Project                         26,520      27,310       28,700
Future With Project
(before Project Charges)                    62,510      68,200       92,440
Incremental income
(before Project Charges)                    35,990      40,890       63,740
Project Rent                                    9,700      20,870       43,670
Project Charges
Water Charge                                    4,500      12,000       24,000
Betterment Levy                                   300         800        1,600
Total                                           4,800      12,800       25,600
Ratio of Project Charges
to incremental income (%) /1                       10          30           40
Ratio of Project Charges
to project rent (%) /1                             50          60           60
ii Discrepancy due to rounding. The average benefit and rent recovery.
indices for the three farm models amount to about 25% and 55%
respectively.
December 1976



ANNEX 13
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Financing Plan
1.        Requirements.  Excluding VOM's resource requirements for non-project
related activities, the funds which would be required by the enterprise for
project implementation during the construction period would be as follows:
1977-81
Item                            Din Million    US$ Million
Capital Expenditures               1,986.1          110.3
Interest During Construction         274.7          15.3
Working Capital                       50.8            2.8
Pre-Operating Expenses                24.2            1.3
Amortization of IBRD Loan            121.4            6.7
Total                        2,457.2          136.4
2.        Sources.  The financing plan agreed at negotiations to fund the
above requirements is as follows:
1977-81
Source                          Din Million    US$ Million
Net Internal Cash Generation          12.3           0.7
Sales of Sprinkler Equipment /1       52.0           2.9
Kosovo Grants /2                     121.4           6.7
Proposed Borrowings:
IBRD                            970.8          53.9
Bankkos                       1,300.7          72.2
Total                        2,457.2         136.4
/1   This is assumed to be recovered from farmers through sales of sprinkler
equipment, the cost of which is included in the project capital expendi-
tures.
/2   These grants from Kosovo will cover the repayments of principal of the
IBRD loan which fall due during the project construction period.



ANNEX 13
Page 2
3.        The term of IBRD loan is 15 years, including 3 years of grace, and
an interest rate of 8.9% has been assumed for the financial projections. The
loan from Bankkos (the source of which would be Kosovo) would be for 25 years,
including 5 years of grace, at an interest rate of 2%. The loans from IBRD
and Bankkos would place a heavier debt service burden on VOM than it would be
able to support from internally generated funds. Although VOM's revenue is
expected to grow during the early years of project operation, the rate of
growth is uncertain and dependent in part on the course of inflation; it is
unlikely to be sufficient to enable VOM to meet its debt service obligations
unaided until the Bank loan is retired in 1992.
4.        A second financing plan has, therefore, been developed to limit
the debt service obligations on VOM to what it can reasonably be expected
to meet during the early years of project operation by a program including
grants and partial refinancing of the original project loans. The main
elements of the plan are as follows:
(a) VOM is expected to meet, from its own resources, a propor-
tion of the amortization of the IBRD and Bankkos project
loans. The proportion increases, in line with expected
growth of VOM's revenue, from 10% in 1982 to 80% in 1991;
details are given in Attachment 1;
(b) Kosovo will provide to VOM by way of grant a proportion of
the interest due to IBRD and Bankkos, decreasing annually
according to the schedule in Attachment 1;
(c) advances to cover the remainder of total debt service in
each year from 1982 to 1991 will be made by Bankkos. These
advances will be accumulated interest-free until 1993 when
they will be consolidated into a loan repayable over 25
years at 2% interest.
5.        Undertakings necessary to implement this financing plan were
given by Government of Kosovo and Bankkos at negotiations.
December 23, 1976



ANNEX 13
Attachment I
YUGOSLAVIA
NETOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Proportions of Debt Service to be Paid
by VOM and Kosovo, 1982-1991
Percentage of
Amortization       Interest to
to be Paid          be Paid
by VOM           by Kosovo
1982                                10                80
1983                               20                 70
1984                               30                 60
1985                               40                 50
1986                               50                 40
1987                               60                 30
1988                               60                 20
1989                               60                 10
1990                               70                 -
1991                               80
December 23, 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MDLTIFDRPOSE PROJECT
VOM:  Income Statements for the veOra  ending December 31. 1973-1987
(Millions nf Dinars)
1973        1974          1975            1976          1977         1978          1979          1980       '-9l           1982          1983          1984         1985          1986          1987
Revenues
Irrigation & Water Supply                             -           -             -                -            -            -             -           33.3          61.8          87.7        107.2         124.7         138.8         152.8        168.3
Other Activities                                     8.6         14.9          16.0            18.6         21.1          78.4          85.7         93.7          39.3          42.9         46.9          51.3          56.0          61.2         66.9
T.tal Revenue                                     9.6        14.9          16.0            18.6          21.1          Z784      8           a                 101.1 130.6                134.1         176,0         Il2i.a0          .         2Zi5-2
Net Operatine Income
Irrigation & Water Supply                             -           -             -               -            -                                      (50.7)        (30.3)        (14.6)          1.1         14.7          26.0          38.5         52.8
Other Activities                                     0.6          0_5           0.1             0.4          01.1          9.1           q.0         11.1          (0.9)         (0.6)         (0.2)         0.7           4.2           6.1          6.6
0.6         0.5           0.1             0.4           0.1          9.1           9.0         (39.6)       (31.2)        (15.2)          0.9          15.4         30.2          46.6          59.4
Non-Operating Income                                              0 0.2         0.2             0.2          0.2           0.3           0.3          0.3           0.3           0.4           0.4          0.4           05            0.5           0.5
Net Inco=e before Interest                              0.6         0.7           0.3             0.6           0.3           9.4          9.3         (39.3)        (30.9)       (14.8)          1.3          15.8          30.7         45.1          59.9
Interest
Irrigation & Water Supply                              -           -             -               -             -            -             -          56.9          85.1         101.6          93.3         85.0          76.7          68.4         60.0
Other Activitiec                                     0,2          0.1           0.2             0.4          0.6           0.6           0.2           0.1          0.1           0.1           0,1           0.1          0.1           0.1          0.1
0.4         0.6           0.1             0.2          (0.3)          8.8          9.1         (96.3)      (116.1)       (116.5)       ( 92.1)        (69.3)        (46.1)       (23.4         ( 0.2)
Goverunent Grants                                        -          -              _               _             _             _            _            _                         9 81.2        65.3          51.0          38.4         27.4          18.0
Net Income                                              0.4         0.6           0.1             0.2          (0.3)          8.8          9.1         (96.3)      (116.1)        (35.3)        (26.8)        (18.3)        ( 7.7)         4.0          17.9
Analysis of Net Income:
Irnigation and Water Supply                           _      -            -              -              -                   -             -        (107.6)       (115.4)        (35.0)        (26.9)        (19,3)       (12.3)         (2.5)         10.8
Other Activities                                     0.4          0.6           0.1             0.2          (0.3)         8.8           9.1          11.3          (0.7)        (0.3)          0.1           1.0          4.6           6.5           7.0
Rate of Return (.):
Irrigation                                             _           _             _               _             _            _             _           (4.3)         (3.5)        (2.7)         (2.1)         (1.7)         (1.6)        (1.3)         (1.2)
Water Supply                                           _                         -               -             -             -            -            2.3           5.9          7.2           9.1          11.5          14.4         17.4          20.8
Irrigation & Water Supply                              _           -             -               -             -             -            -           (2.6)        (1.5)         (0.8)         (         - )  0.8           1.5          2.3           3.1
Other Activities                                      1.3         0.9           0.2             0.7           0.2         13.8          14.8          19.2          (1.7)        (1.3)         (O.S)          1.9          11.5         18.3          22.3
VOM                                                  1.3          0.9           0.2             0.7           0.2         13.8          14.8          (2.0)         (1.5)        (0.8)           -            0.8           1.6          2.5           3.5
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURHOSE PROJECT
VOM:  Bslane-  Sheets as at Deem-ber 31, 1973-1987
(Millions of Din-rs)
Item                                                 1973         1974         1975          1976        1977         1979         1979         1980        1981          1982        1983         1984         1985        1986        1987
ASSETS
Net Fixed Assets is Operatien:
Irrigatio- & Water Supply                         -            -            -             -           -            -          1696.1       1934.9       1998.3        1944.7      1891.1       1837.5       1783.9     1730.3      1676.7
Other Aetivities                                  44.0         43.3         43.3          42.8        64.3         68.9          63.4        57.6         51.6          45.4        38.9         37.8         36.4        33.2       29.6
44.0        43.3         43.3          42.8        64.3         68.9        1759.5       1992.5       2049.9        1990.1     1930.0       1875.3       1820.3      1763.5      1706.3
Work il Peogre-s                                   9.2         11.4         15.8          18.1       361.9       1081.0           8.7          8.6         9.3           9.9        20.2         32.7         33.1        33.6       A40
Total Fixed Assets                             53.2         54.7         59.1          60.9      426.2       1149.9        1768.2       2001.1       2059.2        2000.0      1950.2       1908.0       1853.4     1797.1      1740.3
I-og Term Isveatmenta                                0.7          0.4          0.4           0.4         0.5          0.5           0.6          0.6          0.7          0.8          0.8         0.9          1.0         1.1         1.2
Current Assets:
Invent-ries                                        4.8          4.0          4.3           1.9         2.1          8.5           9.2        10.8          5.4          16.7        18.5         19.8         20.7        22.0        23.1
Axesanta Receivable                                3.7          5.2          6.1           3.1         3.5          8.4           9.3         17.5         21.0          29.0       34.4          39.4        43.5        47.7        52.2
Cash sad Equivalent                                0.6          1.0          1.2           2.4        (0.3)         3.2          27.1          3.3        45.3           62.3       79.5         90.8        116.6       141.6       169.3
Total Currest Asseta                            9.1         10.2         11.6           7.4         5.3         20.1          45.6        31.6         71.7         108.0       132.4        150.0        180.8       711.3       244.6
TOTAL ASSETS                                          63.0         65.3         71.1          68.7       432.0       1170.5        1814.4       2033.3       2131.6        2108.8      2083.4      2058.9       2035.2      2509.5      1986.1
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Busineas Feed & Reserve                             27.3         42.1         41.5          41.7        41.4         50.2          39.3        (37.0)      (153.1)       (269.6)    (361.7)       (431.0)     (477.1)    (500.5)    (500.7)
Government Contribations                            -            -            -             -           _            _             _            40.5        121.4         202.6       267.9       318.9        357.3       384.7       402.7
Total Equity                                      27.3         42.1         41.5          41.7        41.4         50.2          59.3          3.5        (31.7)       ( 67.0)      (93.8)      (112.1)     (119.8)    (115.8)       (98.0)
Loag Term Debt:
Eniatieg L.oan                                    30.7         16.5         22.7          21.8        20.8         19.8           5.6          5.1          4.6           4.1         3.7          3.4          3.1        2.7         2.4
Proposed IBRD                                     -            -            -             -           76.6        328.0         564.4        730.8       804.4          768.5      687.6        606.7        525.8       444.9       364.0
Peoposed  bakkos I                                -            -            -             -          262.6        732.5        1151.2       1275.2       1300.7        1247.2     1192.6       1136.9       1080.1      1022.2       963.1
Propo.sd Baskkos II                                            -                    _       ,                ,      -                 -            -                    141.4       277.8       407.4        528.3       638.7       736.7
Total Long Term Debt                           30.7         16.5         22.7          21.8       360.0       1080.3        1721.2      2011.1       2109.7        2161.2      2161.7       2154.4       2137.3      2108.5      2066.2
Nan-Current Liabilities                              -           -            -             -           25.0         25.0          10.0         -            -             -           -            -            -           -           -
Carreat Liabilities                                  5.0           6.7          6.9          5.2         5.6         15.0          23.9         18.7         53.6          14.6        15.5         16.6         17.7        16.8       17.9            t 
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES                           63.0         65.3         71.1          68.7      432.0       1170.5        1814.4       2033.3       2131.6        2108.8      2083.4       2058.9       2035.2      2009.5     1986.1
Lecehber 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
HETOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
VOM:  G..h Flow St.teeente for ve-re  dlop December 31. 1974-1987
__---Actual ------       ----- ------------------ --- ---------------- ____Forecar.t------- ------- ----- ----- ------------------ ------------ ----- ---------_--------------
Itte                                                1974         1975         1976         1977        1978          1979         1980         1981         1982         1983         1984         1985        1986        1987
Internal Soercee
Net Incote before Interett                         0.7          0.3          0.6          0.3          9.4          9.3        (39.3)       (30.9)       (14.8)          1.3        15.8         30.7        45.1        59.9
Depreciation                                       1.8          2.4          2.4          2.9          6.4          8.1         52.5         57.8         63.1          63.4        63.9         61.9        60.8        61.7
Fixed Ascet Disposal  L                             -            -            -            -            -         15.4           -            -            -             -           -            -            -          -
Sales of Sprickler Equipnent                                                               -            -         10.0          21.0         21.0                       _-                                       _
Total Internal Souree                           2.5          2.7          3.0          3.2        15.8         42.8          34.2         47.9         48.3          64.7        79.7        92.6        105.9       121.6
Operotionol Rcquire=ents
Working Capital                                   (1.0)         1.0         (3.7)         0.2          1.9        (7.3)         15.0        (36.8)        58.3           6.3         5.2          4.0          6.3        4.5
Debt Service                                      14.2          0.2          1.3         14.1         34,3        80.0         134.4        177.0        236.6         229         222.0        214.8       207. 6      200.4
Totol Operati0onl Req.irecto                   13.2          1.2         (2.4)       14.3         36.2         72.7         149.4        140.2        294.9         235.        227.2       218.8        213.9       204.9
Net Availablc from  Operati.co                     (10.7)         1.5          5.4        (11.1)       (20.4)       (29.9)      (115.2)       (92.3)      (246.6)       (170.8)    (147.5)       (126.2)      (108.0)    ( 83.3)
lacital Ecpendtture
Proposed Project                                    -           -             -         329.1       684.3        596.8         277.3        122.8 9                     10.0        11.9                 -                  -
Other Projects                                     3.4          6.8          4.2         26.6         13.1         4.4           2.7          3.7          3.9           3.7         9.8          7.2          4.7        4.9
Total Capital Eopenditure                       3.4          6.8          4.2       355.7        697.4        601.2         280.0        128.5          5.9          15.7        21.7          7.244.7                 4.9
l-veetento                                        (0.3)          -            -           0.1           -          0.1           -            0.1          0.1           -           0.1          0.1          0.1         0.1
Balance to Fina.ce                                  13.8          5.3         (1.2)       366.9        717.8       631.2         395.2        218.9        250.6         184.5       169.3        133.5        112.8        88.3
Equity                                            14.2         (0.7)         -            -            -            -            -            -            -             -           -            -            -
E.i6ting Leons                                     -            6.2
Proposed Loaneo
THRD                                           _            -            _          76.6        251.4        236.4         206.9        154.5         45.0           -           -            _            _           _
Bankkos I                                      ---                                 262.6        469.9        418.7         124.0         25.5          -             -           -            -            --
bbnkkos II                                                                            -                                      -            -          141.4         136.4       129.6        120.9        110.4       98.0
Short Term Debt                                    -            -            -           25.0                                                 -            -             -           -            -            -           -
.oversamst Graets                                  _           -            -            -            -             _           40.5          80.9        81.2          65.3        51.0         33.4         27.4       18.0
C:.h Flow for Year                                   0.4          0.2          1.2         (2.7)         3.5         23.9         (23.8)       42.0         17.0           17.2       11.3         25.8         25.0        27.7
Carb at 8eginning                                    0.6          1.0          1.2          2.4         (0.3)         3.2          27.1          3.3        45.3           62.3       79.5         90.8        116.6       141.6
Cash at ERd                                          1.0          1.2          2.4         (0.3)         3.2         27.1           3.3        45.3         62.3           79.5       90.8        116.6        141.6       169.3            5 x
Ttra.ofr of aceeoolsted project expenditures from B0AL Cpnstruction to BOAL Hydro Systm  Radenic reflected in proposed project .opooditures.
December 1976



AMUl 14
Attaeph_t 1
Y1OSvGAVIA
M8HC5TA I MYLTIPL6POSE PROJECT
A.s'ntfons for Financial Pro1 ctions
Irrigation ond Potable                                              Other Activities
ITEM                                    Wetor Supply                                                       of VOM
A.  General                                     1.  Inflation is capital ad operating cost has bean asssed at tha following rates:
1977     1978      1979      1980     1981-1987
Capita  Costs                        12        12       12        10          10
Operating Costs                      13        10        8         8           7
2.  Oper-ting spces and fitd as-et costs for the separate serenes of VOM  re
sithar pecifically idsntified froe accounts, or where this is iVoesible,
allocatd em a reas ble basis.   All roots relating to ths d-c h". been
allocated betwen th  eter supply (201)  nd the irrigation ceepocent (80%).
B. Incotm Statiets
3.  Reveues                                Irrigation      The proposed charges for irrigatio        REistin. Irrietien gevenuc  arc assued stable,
are she   in A.nee 12 .sbject to adjustment for inflation, since future
ns ii-igatio  needs  ill bh  ceterod by the projct.
Water     Revnuse  frct   ter sales re based on
s  average pric  of Din 4.32/s3 at 1976 prics.           Construction       Construction revenues  re eapected
Charges for both servi,ee have been            to increase considrably during 1978-80 as a result
adjuated for inflation at 8% through 1980,                of work concerted with th  projct.  Fro  1981
72 thereaft r                                             they are projectd at the 1977 Ivel subject to
adjustment for ieflation.
4.  Operticg Er nesee                                 Olaris  wages, legal obligations to             Poracasts of comstructioo  repccs.  d-ring 1978-80
various funds and allocated costs of co  on                are bas   on dstailed estimates by co-sultacic
.ervic.e ar  bas d on for casts prepared by               The reining astisstee are projectd or previous
VOM nd itu con_sltnts                                     yars  ratio to rev ns.e.
Pfer costs  nd the cost of chemical
f-r wter treatment  re clculted with to-
fre_nc  to the erpcted rosiesioning dat s
of the puVpiug statioco and treatment work.
AllPeC  for inflatioc is iccloded in
accordance  ith the rates set ont at A
abov    Pro-operating eapenee in 1978/9
has beet capitalied.
;.  D-rreciatio-                                      Lepreciatioc has been providd, fret             Depoecietioc has beet proidtd:
th  yar following the -secud date of con-
nissocing, at th  followin          g  rats                (a)  at 3% on entering ir-igatioc assets;
(b)  at 13% on costutin         .uets.,
lerigatioc assets (including 807 of ths de): 2.3%
water eseets (ircluding 207% of the dee): 2.5%
6.  Intrert                                           Icterost has ben cocputd:                       Interest has been coqputd:
(s) oc IBgD lons, at 8.97% c  the outstanding             (a)  on existing BRnkkos 1ane, at 2.9% o  the
balanc                                                      outet-adiog b.lanc
(b) on B nkkos lonse  at 2% on the ousteanding            (b)  00 short-terc borroi-gg, at 2%
7   GOa-cs                                         Grants hane boon assucod
(a)  iu 1910 acd 198. tcdo:cer the
arsirtlootls of thy Bas I-ac;
(b)  othrwi=, as described is
Acse 13
C. Cash Flow Statemeote
8.  Debt Service                                      Debt cornic  paynots are based on               loans tsken for feasibility  nstdiee end prelimii-ry
the ficnncing pln in A.nce  13 cud aseuc                 engineering of the project (totalling Din 15.1 nillio-
(a)  rctiremc-t of the IBRD lon over 12                   at the  nd of 1975) ar  *aeuced retired in 1979, whn
ytaro by lo nl inst-llmnts of principal;             the corrsponding espenditure  are trasferred to
(b)  r tirement of Bankkos loans by the                   DAL hyrdro System Radnic,  Debt servic  for tho
anuity method:                                       reinder of the period ie accordiog to the repayment
(i)  oner 25 years (including S grace)               schedul  of the othe  loansh nec oustetading.
is respect cf bcrr-visig fro=
(ii)  1977-81;
over 25 years froc 1993 in -rep-r
of borrouingu froc 1982-91.
9.  Capital E spndit-rcs Capital eepunditrur Cpital epeudlres  cndfsage a shbstantial roqcire-
(a)  for 1977-81, project  epecnditure  as set            =net of now construction  quipment in 1977 and 78 for
ost in Aer x 8 plus pre-op-reting expeacs:           project emrs; in sobsequent years because of antici-
(b)  is suhbcqu nt yars, replacemect of                   patrd lower leve1s of activity only  pproeir-tely one-
vehicles,                                            third of this equipmnet is epected to bh  replaced
Interest applicable to esste  undr construction           at the end of its  norl life.
has been capitaliced.
10. Preposed Lons                                     Borrowings ar  in accordance  ith the
financing plan d scribed in Anner 13.
D.  Be-nc  Sheet
11. Long-ter  Investments                                                                              long-term iovesimente represent .ontributiens required
to be mde by VOM to th  -ospost   strprise Water
Management Kesovo under the torcs of the JoiJt .elf
managoen't agree'ent.
12.  Inentories                                       Inventories repres nt                           Inventories repr sent four months' eatimtad usage
(a) for irigatio-, 6 mn-ths' requirement                  of materials throughout lhe period
of materials;
(b) for eater supply, 6 months' requireents
of materials   d cheicls.
13. Accounne Recei-nblo                               Accont re-eiv-ble represent 3-1/2               Accounte receivabl  represent 3-1/2  .onths' revenu
months' rn   fo  irigatio  ad 2-1/2 mnths                  for irrigation  ad 2-1/2 montha for  osstructfo,.
fo  wter supply.
l-ebethe 1976



ANNEX 15
Page 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Economic Evaluation
A. Introduction
1.        The economic merits of the project have been evaluated using effi-
ciency and social prices. This Annex presents only analysis of the economic
rate of return on the project, based on efficiency prices of inputs and
outputs. However, analysis of the social rate of return on the project, based
on social prices of inputs and outputs, reveals that the project is sound on
social grounds. The beneficiaries are among the poorest in Yugoslavia or even
in Kosovo. Then present average level of per capita consumption is computed
at about 50% of the critical consumption level in Yugoslavia.
B. Economic Rate of Return
2.        The economic rate of return on all project components is estimated
at about 11%.  The rates of return on the irrigation component and on the
water supply component are computed at about 11% and 10.9%, respectively.
Cost and benefit streams are calculated over an assumed project life of 40
years (Table 2). Other assumptions made in calculating the rates of return
are summarized below:
Investment Costs
3.        Joint Costs.  All investments in project facilities which would
serve commonly the irrigation and water supply components are charge to each
component in proportion to the volume of water which would be utilized by each
subproject. Thus, about 80% of the investments in the Radonic dam and in
related facilities are charged to the irrigation subproject and the remaining
20% to the water supply subproject.
4.        Irrigation Component.  Investment costs are estimated using July
1976 prices. The cost streams exclude:
(i) cost of farm machinery because this is included in the
annual cost of mechanization services;
(ii) cost of land needed for farm roads and right of way, be-
cause these are reflected when computing project benefits
from smaller area;



ANNEX 15
Page 2
(iii) price contingency because all costs and benefits are cal-
culated in constant 1976 prices; and
(iv) taxes and duties.
5.        The remaining cost streams are disaggregated into foreign exchange
and local components (Table 3). No adjustment is made to the foreign ex-
change component of investment cost streams because it is already expressed
in CIF prices. The local cost components, which include labor, transportation,
materials and equipment are converted into their border equivalents by multi-
plying them with various conversion factors which were derived on the assump-
tions that about 30% of the local cost components of most items consist of
unskilled labor and transportation, and the remaining 70% skilled labor,
equipment and materials. The conversion factors for unskilled labor and
transportation are estimated at 0.80 each. The conversion factors for skilled
labor, equipment and materials are about the same as the standard conversion
factor (SCF) which is estimated at 0.93. Thus, a weighted average of the SCF
and of transportation, which is estimated at 0.90, is used to convert local
cost components of most primary inputs into their border equivalents.
6.        Water Supply Component.  The proposed water supply subproject re-
presents the least cost solution to the water supply problem of the project
area. UNDP consultants, Hydroprojekt of Prague, have established that alter-
native sources of water from groundwater are not in sufficient quantity to
meet demand in the project area.
7.        To derive costs based on efficiency prices, subproject costs are
disaggregated into foreign exchange, local cost and taxes/duties components.
The local cost components are further disaggregated into skilled and un-
skilled labor, transportation, materials (such as pipes, cement, fuel, etc.)
and equipment (Table 4). These are then converted to their border equivalents
by multiplying them with various conversion factors (Table 5); the conversion
factors are derived on the same basis as those used for estimating border
costs of the irrigation subproject.
Development Period
8.        Irrigation Component
(i) Construction would start in 1977 and be completed in 1981.
Drainage works on about 3,700 ha would be carried out during
1978-81 and erosion control works on about 2,700 ha during
1979-82. Initial irrigation benefits would accrue to about
2,750 ha in 1979 and the entire project area of 10,250 ha
would be irrigated by 1981.



ANNEX 15
Page 3
(ii) Full project benefit would be realized in 1986, seven years
following commencement of irrigation. Yield development
would proceed at varying rates in the private and social
sectors (Annex 1). Details about development of output
after irrigation are in Table 6.
(iii) Cropping pattern in the future without the project would
remain unchanged but yields would increase by about 10-20%
due to application of improved farm technology and of better
farm management practices (Annex 1). The additional yields
would be attained in equal installments over five years.
Development of output in the future without the project is
detailed in Table 7.
9.        Water Supply Component.  Construction of the trunk distribution
system is expected to commence by mid-1977 and of the water treatment plant
shortly thereafter; both would be completed by late 1978 or early 1979. Minor
supply mains, storage reservoirs and pumping stations would be constructed con-
currently. Impounding from the Radenic dam would start in the winter of 1978
and be completed in 1979 for full cycle operation in 1980.
Production Costs
10.       Irrigation Component.  Border prices of inputs used in computing
the economic rate of return are in Table 8. The assumptions made in deriving
these prices are summarized below:
(i) Mechanization Services. About 20% of domestic cost of
mechanization services include fuel and lubricants, 20%
skilled labor and the remaining 60% depreciation and spare
parts. The conversion factor for fuel and lubricants is
estimated at about 0.62, shadow wage rate for skilled
labor at 93% of market wage and the conversion factor for
depreciation and spare parts is assumed to be equivalent
to a conversion factor for tractors which is computed at
0.68. Thus, domestic costs of mechanization services are
converted into their border equivalents by multiplying them
with a weighted average of the above conversion factors.
(ii) Fertilizers. Border prices of chemical fertilizers have
been derived by adding Government subsidies to prices paid
by farmers. As there is substitution between chemical fer-
tilizers and manure, domestic price of manure was increased
by about 12%, which is equivalent to the average rate of
subsidy for chemical fertilizers.
(iii) Animal Power. Domestic prices, which include feed and de-
preciation, are converted into their border equivalents by
multiplying them with the SCF.



ANNEX 15
Page 4
(iv) Seeds and plant protection. No adjustment was made to
domestic prices of these inputs because distortions in
trade with these inputs are insignificant.
(v) Operation and Maintenance. More than 85% of the cost is
composed of electrical energy, material and skilled labor.
The conversion factors for each of these components are
close or equal to the SCF. For this reason, the SCF is
used to convert domestic prices into their border equi-
valents.
Annual production costs of different crops in the private and social sectors
based on border prices of inputs are in Tables 9 and 10, respectively.
11.       Water Supply Component.  Operation and maintenance costs are dis-
aggregated into labor, materials, equipment, chemicals and miscellaneous.
A weighted average of the conversion factors for these components is esti-
mated at about 0.90. This is used to convert domestic operation and mainte-
nance costs into their border equivalents.
Output Prices
12.       Irrigation Component.  There are little or no import duties or
export taxes on major project commodities, and prices are generally free to
respond to changes in demand and supply. But to encourage production of
maize, wheat, sunflower and sugar beet, the Government provides farmers with
modest premiums above market prices. In general, however, the farm-gate
prices of most commodities are about the same as prices elsewhere in
Yugoslavia and are in line with IBRD forecasts of world prices of similar
commodities for 1975-1985. For these reasons, normal year's post-harvest
domestic prices, net of all subsidies, are assumed to be about the same as
border prices equivalent of farm-gate prices. Efficiency prices of crop
output used in project appraisal are in Table 11.
13.       Water Supply Component.  Existing charges for potable water in
the project area are inadequate to cover the incremental cost of additional
water supply. As in most water supply projects, it is likely that these
charges do not reflect adequately the willingness of consumers to pay for
water. For this reason and because of widespread externalities in water
supply projects, benefits are usually underestimated. The long-run average
incremental cost of treated water in domestic prices is computed at about
Din 4.32 per m3. This figure converted to border prices is used to compute
the benefits from the water supply component.



ANNEX 15
Page 5
C. Sensitivity Analysis: Economic Rate of Returns
14.       Irrigation Component.  Investment cost at border prices is estimated
at Din 94,440 (US$5,250) per ha. The high investment cost results partly from
design of the subproject to fit the needs of small fragmented holdings, and
inclusion in Phase I of the project, cost of facilities which would serve both
Phases I and II. If land consolidation was practical, investment costs would
have been lowered by about 5% and the economic rate of return increased from
11% to 11.4%. Prorating of costs of project facilities which would benefit
both Phases I and II would increase the rate of return on Phase I to 13%. The
rate of return would increase to 13.8% if land consolidation was practical and
if the benefits from Phase II facilities can be realistically estimated.
15.       Water Supply Component.  Results of sensitivity analysis of the
economic rate of return on the water supply subproject and further results
of sensitivity analysis on the return to the irrigation component are
summarized below:
Economic Rate of Return
Assumptions                                    All Project                    Water
Components    Irrigation    Supply
--------------Percent-------------
(a)  Basic Run                                     11.0           11.1         10.9
(b)  Project Costs Increased by 15%                8.9             8.5          9.6
(c)  Project Benefits Reduced by 15%               8.5             8.1          9.4
(d)  Project Costs Reduced by 15%                 13.7            14.1         12.5
(e)  Project Benefits Increased by 15%            13.3            13.7         12.3
(f) Investment Costs Prorated between
Phases I and II                            - /1           13.0         - /1
(g)  Land Consolidation Practical                 - /1            11.4         - /1
(h)  (f) and (g) Combined                         - /1            13.8         - /1
/1   Not applicable.
December 23, 1976



ANNEX 15
Table 1
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Summary of Shadow Pricing Parameters
Item                                                          Co-efficient
General Conversion Factors
Standard Conversion Factor (SCF)                                  0.93
Consumption Conversion Factor (CCF)                               0.93
Conversion Factor for Intermediates                               0.93
Conversion Factor for Investment Goods                            0.91
Conversion Factor for Transport (CFT)                             0.82
Conversion Factor for Construction                                0.80
Project-Specific Conversion Factors /1
Conversion Factor for Inputs
Operation and Maintenance                                       0.93
Tractors                                                        0.68
Machinery Services                                              0.70
Fertilizers                                                     1.12
Insecticides and Herbicides                                     1.00
Seeds and Seedlings                                             1.00
AAimal Power                                                    0.90
Fuel                                                            0.62
Conversion Factors for Outputs
Wheat                                                           0.84
Sunflower                                                       0.96
Sugar beet                                                      0.94
All others                                                      1.00
Marginal Product of Capital at Market Prices                         9.0
Marginal Product of Capital at Border Prices                         9.6
Interpersonal Distribution Weights
Elasticity of Marginal Utility
with respect to consumption (n)                               1.0
Value of Public Income (v)                                      1.65
Critical Consumption Level (CCL)                                0.65
Discount Rates
Accounting Rate of Interest (ARI)                               7.6
Consumption Rate of Interest (CRI)                              7.6
Shadow Wage Rates for Unskilled Rural Labor
Efficiency (SWUL)                                               0.80
Social                                                          0.42
Shadow Wage Rates for Skilled Labor
Efficiency (SWSL)                                               0.93
Social                                                          0.93
/1 These have been estlted by the mission based on information obtained
during appraisal.
December 1976



YEUCOSLAV IA
METOHIJA I M4ULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Econoic Coot nod B-cfit Stre-   With no,d Without the Project
Cetegory                                       1977    1978    0979    t98O    0981    1982    1983   1984    1985~  0986    1987   I2M             IQli    12938    1991   0992    1993    1994    1995    1292    1997    1998    1999    2800-6  2007-8  2009  2210-11  2012Zo16
With ProJect
Irrigottoc                               2Rh     293      189      92       88 0                                                                                                                                                                                              
W otarO  PppEy                            88     036       17        -       -              -       -         -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        --                -      -        -       ----
Irrigation                                75      75       81    1083     130      137     043      148    109       159     050      159    159     199       150      150     150     105      150     150      158     150      150       150      108    150       158        158
Oparatioc 6 Maiet-eooo
nod Roploco..e.t
IrrIgation                                 2       4        6      12       14      17       28      23     27        23       23      28     23       27       23       29      26       41      37       33      23       25      32        23        36      43       33        23
Wat-rSPppEy                                -        -       -        3       3        3       4       4       5   5         5       5          -5      -5        -5      -5        1            6           8  6         6        6        6        6             6       6          6
ToteR Costs                           411      988     293      209     27        157    175      17    182        078     178      ER     178     182       178      184     182     197      193     089      079     179      188       179      192      199     189         717
B ...fits
IreRgatle                                   97      101     035      288     260     294      317     334    341       343      343     343    343      349       343     343     343      343     343      543     343      343      343      343       343     343      343        343
W.at-rOeppi                                   -       -        -      21       24      28      32L      36     48        42      44       46    4!8      58O       52       54      56    5_8        68       63      65       67      69        72       72       72      72         72
Total Benefits                           7      0      135      22-       8       2       4       378    381       385     38       38     39        93      39       397     399     401      403     486      488     418      412       415      41       49      45         45
Without Project
Irttgatiee                                  75       75      75       75      75       75      75       75     75        75      75       75     75      79        75       75      75      75       75      75       75      72       71        70       75       75      70         75
Zetarlapply                                   -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -       -        -        -       -       -:      -                  -       -       -                _        -_ -                      --                 -
T.t.1 Costs                            7L5      75      7L5      79       75      75       75      75     75        75       75      75     75       75        75      70      75       75      75       75      75       79       75       75        75      70       75         75
Ban... Eit.
Wat.erSupply                                  -       -        -       -        -       -        -       -      -         -        -       -      -        -        _-      _-       _-      _-       _-      _-        -      _-       _-        _-       _-        -      _-      
Ieorassate1 Costs
Irrlatee288                                           297      201     132      149      79       96      96   102         98       98    103      98      102        98     104     101      116     112      108       98      98       107      98       ill     118      188         94
Wa 1tarlepply                                 8§8     136       17        5       3        3I      4        4      5        _5       5      _5       5       5         5        5       6        6       6§       6       6        6         6       6         6       6        6          6
TotalSe1      ees  Costs               376     433      218      13      12       82      188     188    187       13       183      08    103      187      103      109     107      12       118     114      1        0414     113     14         11      124     014        14
Isora-ta1 B-efits
Irtigattue                                      8       8       32      93      149     183      206     223    230       232      232     232   232       232      232      232     232      232     232      232      232    232        232     232       232      232     202        252
Wutr Oepply                                     5        0       0       21      2        28      3       36      40        42      4       46      48      50        52      54       5       58       60      63       6        67       69       72        72      72      72         72
Totol Ieoau-tol B-efito                        0       0       32     114      173     211      238     259    270       274      276     278    280      282      284      286      288     298      292     295       927    299       301     384       384      304     304        304
D--,hsr 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Investment Cost of Irrigation Component
Item                                                      Domestic Cost                 Conversion Facto4ll                   Border Cost
Foreign       Local        Total          for Local Cost          Foreign       Local         Total
---       Din Million---------                                     -      --- Din Million---------
Intake and D                                      49.0          36.0         85.0        0.90                        49.0         32.4         81.4
Land Acquisition for Dam                             -          61.7         61.7        0.93                          -          57.4          57.4
Main Canals                                        63.7         57.6        121.3        0.90                        63.7          518        115.5
Primary Pipes                                     41.1          37.1         78.2        0.90                        41.1         33.4          74.5
Secondary Pipes                                    19.7         17.8         37.5        0.90                        19,7         16.0          35.7
Tertiary Pipes                                    68.1          18.3         S6.4        0.90                        68.1         16,5          84.6
Equalizing Reservoirs                               1.8          2.5          4.3        0.90                         1.8           2.2          4.0
Fittings                                            4.6          1.9          6.5        0.90                        .4.6          1.7           6.3
Discharge Control Equipment                        12.1          1.2         13.3        0.90                         U1.1          1.1         13.2
Sprinklers (Social Sector)                          3.2          4.3          7.5        0.90                         3.2           3.9          7.1
Farm Roads                                         19.0         11.3         30.3        0.90                        19,0         10.2          29.2
Land Acquisition for Farm Roads                      -           7.3          7.3        0.93 (SCF)                     -           6.8          6.8
Land Acquisition for Canals                          -          10.4         10.4        0.93 (SCF)                     -           9.7          9.7
Compensation for Crop Losses                         -          20.0         20.0        1.00                           -          20.0         20.0
Boundary Adjustment                                  -           8.3          8.3        0.93 (SW8L)                    -           7.7          7.7
Power Network                                       7.3          5.4         12.7        0.90                         7.3          4.9          12.2
Reservoirs B2 and B9                                1.1          1.5          2.6        0.90                         1.1           1.3          2,4
Pumping Station                                     1.4          2.3           3.7       0.90                         1.4           2.1          3.5
Drainage                                           36.8         15.8         52.6         0.93 (SCF)                 36.8          14.7         51.5
Erosion Control                                     4.4         13.1         17.5        0.93 (SCF)                   4.4          12.2         16.6
Soil Improvement                                    8.0         11.9         19.9         0.93 (SCF)                  8.0          11.1         19.1
Buildings                                           4.7         22.5         27.2        0.90                         4.7          20.2         24.9
Operation and Maintenance Vehicles                  8.9          1.3         10.2        0.80 (CFT)                   8.9           1.0          9.9
Test Farms                                          6.0          2.2          8.2        0.93 (SCP)                   6.0           2.0          8.0
Consultants                                         4.1          1.0          5.1         0.93 (CCF)                  4.1           0.9          5.0
Sprinklers (Private Sector)                        10.5         14.0         24.5        0.80 (SWUL & CFT)           10.5          11.2         21.7
Others                                             40.2         43.1         83.3        0.85 /2                     40.2          36.7         76.9
Engineering and Administration                       -          72.1         72.1        0.93 (SCF)                     -          67.0         67.0
Physical Contingency                               47.0         53.0        100.0        0.93 (SCF)                  47.0          49.0         96.0
Total                                        462.7         554.9      1.01-7.6                                  462.7        505.1        967.8
a    See Table 1 for more on the Conversion Factors.
Average of Conversion Factors for different components.
December 1976



METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Breakdown of Cost Items of Water Supply Component
Distribution of Total Cost                    Distribution of Local Cost
Cost Item                            Foreign      Taxes    Local    Skilled Labor   Unskilled Labor   Materials  Equipment
---------------------------------------Percent-------------------------------------
I. Civil Works
20% share of dam                    47          25        28             10                20              20          50
Filter Station                      33          13        54             10                20              35          35
Distribution and Trunks             47          25        28              5                20              50          25
Village Mains                       47          25        28              5                20              50          25
Storage Reservoirs                  33          20        47              5                25              50          20
Pumping Station                     33          13        54             15                10              50          25
II. Equipment
20% share of dam                    47          25        28             10                20              20          50
Filter station                      33          13        54             20                10              40          30
Distribution and Trunks             42          20        38              5                10              55          30
Village Mains                       42          20        38              5                10              55          30
Storage Reservoirs                  33          20        47              5                20              55          20
Pumping Station                     33          13        54             20                10              40          30
III. Other Capital Costs
Land Appropriation                  -            -       100              -                -                -           -
Engineering Services                -            -       100             90                 5               3           2
15% Physical Contingencies          38           -        62             10                20              40          30
IV. Operation and Maintenance
Salaries                            -            -       100             25                75               -           -
Materials                           -            -       100             20                 -              60           20
Administration                                   -       100             50                50                -           -    C x
Chemicals       /1                  40           -        60             20                 -              60          20    4 ~
Other Expenses -                    20           5        75             10                35               35         20
1/   Mainly Power, fuel and transport.
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Capital Expenditure on Potable Water Component
Border Cost
Domestic Cost                                                                       Distribution of Total Cost
Item                                          Foreign       Local        Taxes       Total               Local        Total       1977       1978      1979       1980        1981
Exch4nste
-----------------------------------------------------------Din  Million---------------------------------------------------
Civil Works
Dam                                            10.6         6.3         5.6         22.5                5.7          16.3        8.3        8.0       -
F;ilter Station                                 8.6        14.1         3.4         26.1               12.7          21.3        3.9       17.4       -
Distribution and Trunks                        15.7         9.3         8.4         33.3                8.4          24.1        3.4       19.0      1.6
Village Mains                                   2.0         1.2         1.1          4.3                1.1           3.1        2.0        1.1       -
Storage Reservoir                               6.0         8.6         3.6         18.3                7.7          13.7        3.0       10.7       -
Pumping Station                                 0.4         0.7         0.2          1.3                0.7           1.1        0.1        1.0       -
Sub-total                                 43.3        40.2         22.3        105.8               36.3          79.6       20.7      57.2       1.6
Equipment
Dam                                             2.6         1.5          1.4         5.5                 1.4          4.0        2.0        2.0        -
Filter Station                                 12.6        20.6         4.9         38.1                18.5         31.1        4.8       17.5       8.7
Distribution and Trunks                        32.5        29.4        15.5         77.4                26.5         59.0       18.2       36.7      4.1
Village Mains                                   0.7         0.7          0.3         1.8                 0.6           1.3       0.7        0.7        -
Storage Reservoir                               0.6         0.9         0.4          2.0                 0.8           1.5       0.3        1.2        -
Pumping Station                                 0.4         0.7         0.2          1.3                 0.6           1.1       0.5        0.5        -
Sub-total                                 49.4        53.8         22.7        126.1               48.4          98.0       26.5       58.6     12.8
Land Appropriation                                 -         16.0           -          16.0               14.9          14.9      14.9         -         -
Engineering Services                               -         18.7           -         18.7                17.4          17.4      17.4         -         -
Physical Contingency(15%)                        13.2        21.5           -         34.8                18.1          31.3        8.1      20.3       2.9
Total Costs                              105.9       150.2         45.0        301.4              135.1         241.2       87.6      136,1     17.3
,-_ -
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
/1
Development of Output After Irrigation
Item                                      1979      1980     1981     1982      1983     1984     1985     1986-2015
------------------------------ '000 tons -------------------------------
Crop
Wheat                                     6.9      6.7      6.5      5.8       5.4      5.1       4.9         4.9
Maize                                     8.2     10.2     12.4      13.6     14.7     15.4     15.4         15.6
Barley                                    0.6      0.9      1.1       1.1      1.2      1.4      1.4          1.4
Sunflower                                 0.4      0.5      0.6      0.7       0.7      0.7      0.8          0.8
Beans                                     0.2      0.5      0.9       1.1      1.2      1.3      1.4          1.4
Peas                                      1.4      2.0      2.7       3.1      3.5      3.7       3.8         3.8
Sugar beet                               10.0     23.2     40.2     49.9      57.5     63.4     65.8         66.2
Vegetables/2                             11.8     20.0     31.3      37.8     42.7     46.6     48.7         49.0
Fruit/3                                  15.1     26.5     34.3      38.0     40.2     41.2     41.4         41.4
Grape                                     8.6      9.4      9.8      10.1     10.1     10.1     10.1         10.1
Alfalfa (Hay)                             4.6      8.1     12.8      15.9     18.4     20.0      21.0        21.2
Meadows and Pastures                      6.4      4.1      2.1       1.3      0.7      0.2       -           -
By-product
Wheat Straw                               6.9      6.5      6.1       5.6      5.2      5.0       4.9         4.9
Barley Straw                              0.6      0.9      1.1       1.1      1.2      1.4       1.4         1.4
Beans Straw                               0.2      0.5      0.9       1.1      1.2      1.3       1.4         1.4
Peas Straw                                1.4      2.0      2.7       3.1      3.5      3.7       3.8         3.8
Corn Cobs                                 7.4      9.2     11.2      12.3     13.2     13.9     13.9         14.0
Sugar beet Leaves                         3.0      7.0     12.1      15.0     17.3     19.0     19.7         19.9
. _.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~q
/1   Outputs during 1977-1978 would remain the same as those in future without the project (See Table _4).
/2  Mainly tomatoes and peppers.                                                                                       X
/3   Primarily apples.                                                                                                 ° C
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
/1
Development of Output in Future Without Project
1977      1978       1979       1980       1981-2016
('--------------('000 tons)------------------
Crop
Wheat                                     7.7        8.0        8.2        8.3            8.8
Maize                                      7.3       7.5        7.6        7.8            8.1
Barley                                    0.7        0.7        0.7        0.7           0.8
Sunflower                                 0.5        0.5        0.5        0.6           0.6
Peas                                      1.3        1.4        1.4        1.5            1.5
Sugar beet                                4.3        4.4        4.5        4.6           4.7
Vegetables/2                              6.6        6.8        6.9        7.1            7.3
Fruit/3                                   7.1        7.4        7.6        7.9           8.2
Grape                                     6.0        6.3        6.6        6.9           7.2
Alfalfa (Hay)                             2.5        2.6        2.6        2.7            2.7
Meadows and Pastures                      4.2        4.2        4.2        4.2            4.2
By-Product
Wheat Straw                                7.7       8.0        8.2        8.3            8.8
Barley Straw                              0.7        0.7        0.7        0.7            0.8
Peas Straw                                1.3        1.4        1.4        1.5            1.5
Corn Cobs                                 6.6        6.7        6.8        7.0           7.3
Sugar beet Leaves                         1.3        1.3        1.4        1.4           1.4
/1   Discrepancy due to rounding.
/2   Primarily tomatoes and peppers.
/3   Mainly apples.
December 1976



ANi1EX 15
Table 8
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Prices of Inputs Used for Appraisal of Irrigation Component
Item                                                         Price
Unit          Domestic           Border
(Din)---------
Seeds
Wheat                               ton             3,030             3,030
Maize                               ton             4,000             4,000
Barley                              ton             3,000             3,000
Sunflower                           ton             5,500             5,500
Beans                               ton            23,000            23,000
Peas                                ton            10,000            10,000
Sugar beet                          ton            25,000            25,000
Alfalfa                             ton            40,000            40,000
Seedlings
Tomatoes                         1,000 pcs            400               400
Peppers                          1,000 pcs            100               100
Machinery
Light                               day               680               480
Medium                              day               890                620
Heavy                               day             1,110               780
Combine                             day             2,570             1,800
Fertilizers
Urea                                ton             2,800             3,080
10:30:20                            ton             2,500             2,750
12:30:16                            ton             2,520             2,810
14:14:14                            ton             1,670             1,860
14:22:9                             ton             1,960             2,150
16:16:16                            ton             1,880             2,100
17:13:10                            ton             1,620             1,840
45% P20                             ton             2,450             2,750
Manure                              ton             1,000             1,120
Plant Protection
Geolin                              ton             3,700             3,700
Mitation E-50                       ton            28,400            28,400
Etasin                              ton            35,500            35,500
Kasin                               ton             8,000             8,000
Diasinol                            ton            70,000            70,000
Lindan                              ton             8,150             8,150
Manila                              ton            32,000            32,000
Piramin                             ton            81,400            81,400
Agelon                              ton           135,000           135,000
Labor
Unskilled (Private Sector)          day               100                 80
Semi-skilled (Social Sector)        day               150               140
Animal Power                          day                100                90
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Annual Production Cost of Crops in the Private Sector
Based on Border Prices of Inputs
Item                                                    Chemical       Plant                      Animal
Seeds       Manure      Fertilizers  Protection    Machinery       Power          Labor          Total
------------------------------------------Din per ha--------------___________________________
Present
Wheat                          610           -            650           120          820           370         1,200          3,770
Maize                          120         1,120          760           -             270        1,140          4,000         7,410
Barley                         540           -            590            90          660           370         1,200          3,450
Sunflower                       80        1,120           740           370        1,370           -              720         4,400
Peas                         2,000           -            640           -            200         2,850        12,000         17,690
Sugar beet                     170         1,120          750           290          340         2,090        10,400         15,160
Vegetables                  10,000         1,120          640         2,000           200        3,010         12,000        28,970
Fruit                          -             -            510         2,900        1,860           -          10,400         15,670
Alfalfa (Hay)                  _             _            230           -            460           710          2,400         3,800
Meadows and Pastures           -             -            -             -             -            190          1,600         1,790
Future Without Project
Wheat                          610           -            650           120           820          370          1,200         3,770
Maize                          100         1,120          950           -             270        1,140          4,400         7,980
Barley                         540           -            660           120           820          370          1,280         3,790
Sunflower                       80         1,120          830           370        1,370           -              720         4,490
Peas                         2,000           -            850           -             200        2,850         12,000        17,900
bugar beet                     170         1,120          930           340           340        2,090         10,400        15,390
Vegetables                  10,000         1,120          790           460           200        3,010         12,800        28,380
Fruit                          -             -            620         3,480         1,860          -           12,480        18,440
Alfalfa (Hay)                  100           _            270           -             680          850          2,400          4,300
Meadows and Pastures           -             -            -             -             -            190          1,600          1,790
Future With Project
Wheat                          610           -          1,190           580         1,200          -              320          3,900
Maize                           80         1,120        1,520           380         2,720           -             800          6,620
Barley                         540           -          1,030           460         1,200          -              320          3,550
Sunflower                       80         1,120        1,110           370         1,370          -              720          4,770
Beans                        2,300           -          1,280         1,400         3,830          -              720          9,530
Peas                         2,000           -          1,280           240         3,860          -              320          7,700
Sugar beet                     170         1,120        1,500           640         6,070           -             960         10,460
Vegetables                  10,000         1,120        1,140           980         2,960           -          18,400         34,600
Fruit                          -             -            750         3,640         2,030           -          16,000         22,420
Alfalfa (Hay)                   80           -            420            20         1,700           -             760          2,980             LA
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Annual Production Cost of Crops in the Social Sector
Based on Border Prices of Inputs
Item                                                                  Chemical        Plant
Seeds       Manure      Fertilizers  Protection    Machinery          Labor         Total
--------------------Din per ha--------------------
Present
Wheat                                       610           -             880           180        1,200             560         3,430
Maize                                        80         1,120         1,120           380         2,450         1,390          6,540
Barley                                      540           -             730           150        1,040            560          3,020
Sunflower                                    80         1,120           640           300           750           930          3,820
Peas                                      2,000           -             850           180           520           560          4,110
Sugar beet                                  170         1,120         1,120           640        5,790          1,390         10,230
Fruit                                       -             -             690         3,900        2,370         12,090         19,050
Grape                                                     -           1,280           740        3,310         13,950         19,280
Alfalfa (Hay)                                80           -             350           -           1,190         1,300          2,920
Meadows and Pastures                                      -             -             -             970            930         1,900
Future Without Project
Wheat                                       610           -             980           470         1,200            560         3,820
Maize                                        80         1,120         1,210           380         2,420          1,390          6,600
Barley                                      540           -             760           460        1,200            560          3,520
Sunflower                                    80         1,120           740           300           820         1,120          4,180
Peas                                      2,000           -             950           190         3,860            700         7,700
Sugar beet                                  170         1,120         1,210           640         6,070         1,620         10,830
Fruit                                       -             -           1,600           890        2,370         14,650         19,510
Grape                                                     -           1,600           890         3,860        14,650         21,000
Alfalfa (Hay)                                80           -             350            20         1,400          1,300         3,150
Meadows and Pastures                                      -             -             -             870            930          1,800
Future With Project
Wheat                                       610           -           1,190           580         1,200            560         4,140
Maize                                        80         1,120         1,500           390         2,730          1,390          7,210
Barley                                      540           -           1,030           460         1,200            560         3,790
Sunflower                                    80         1,120         1,110           300         1,370            560         4,540
Beans                                     2,300           -           1,280         1,400         3,830            840         9,650
Peas                                      2,000           -           1,280           240         3,860            840         8,220
Sugar beet                                  170         1,120         1,500           640         6,070          1,670        11,170
Fruit                                       -             -           1,060         5,200         2,890        15,810         24,960
Grape                                                     -           2,100           890         3,860        16,740         23,590  
Alfalfa (Hay)                                80           -             420            20         1,700          1,320          3,540  
0 br
December 1976



ANNEX 15
Table 11
YUGOSLAVIA
METOHIJA I MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
Prices of Output Used for Appraisal of Irrigation Component
Item                                                       Prices
Domestic /1              Border
----------(Din per ton)-------
Crop
Wheat                                        2,500                   2,100
Maize                                        1,800                   1,800
Barley                                       1,800                   1,800
Sunflower                                    5,200                   5,000
Beans                                        3,000                   3,000
Peas                                         4,200                   4,200
Sugar beet                                     500                     470
Vegetables /2                                2,000                   2,000
Fruit /3                                     2,000                   2,000
Grape                                        4,000                   4,000
Alfalfa (Hay)                                  800                      800
Meadows and Pastures                           250                      250
By-product
Wheat Straw                                    100                      100
Barley Straw                                   100                     100
Beans Straw                                    100                      100
Peas Straw                                     100                     100
Corn Cobs                                      150                     150
Sugar beet leaves                              150                     150
/1 These are based on post-harvest prices during 1975 and expected to
prevail in 1976 on an assumption that both years have normal agricul-
tural seasons. Prices at other times of the year could be different
because of storage costs.
/2 Mainly tomatoes and peppers.
/3 Primarily apples.
December 1976



YUGOSLAVIA
METHOHIJA I MULTI PURPOSE PROJECT
VOM -Future Organization Chart
FOUNOERS COUNCIL
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
|ENERAL DIRECTOR
| JOIT SERVICES
I     FERVICI L             AMINISTRATIVE
8.0 A.L ENGINE REPAIR                                   B.O.A.L. CONSTRUCTION                                   B3.O AL IRRIGATION                                           R.O A7L HYRO SYSTEM RADENIC
WORKERS COUNCIL                                        WORKERS COUNCIL7                                        WORKERS COUNCIL                                                  WORKERS COUNCIL
CHIEF                                                 DIRECTOR                                               DIRECTOR
WORK SHOP                 CONSTRUCTION            ADMINISTRATION                   ~~~~~~~~~PERATON               FINANCIAL SERVICE               TECRNICAL SERVICE         -ADMIINISTRATIVE SERVICE
FINANCINGNACCOUNTING         WATER SUPPLY  IRRIGATION         PERSONNEL       LEGAL
WATER TREATMENT               AKOVICA                 ROGOVO                  RATCOVA          [   VELIKA KRUSA
PLANT             WAE                       AE                       AE        'WATER               IRI Tl
IRRIGTIONIRRIGATION              IAT RRATO
SUPPLY  SUPPLY                SUPPLY            I  I ~~~~~~~SUPPLYI
j ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ET EXEONO UNITT
EXTENSION UNIT         E
WC.ld B-RN0A L.IRA



I



IBRD 1206CR
21130'     ~NOVEMAERt 1976
½b5>      R BJxN   I2                                                                                           METOHIJAJI MULTIPURPOSE
"½ ~~~~  '-S                         C>  ~~~~~~~~                                               PROJECT
V                               ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROJECT AREA:
%MON T E N Ej~CRO<                                                                                                                                  PHAS FL-
MJROVIC  ~~~~~~~~~~                     L      2 ~~~~PHASE I
Rooaj  4  A ''                                              ' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0MAJOR   ROADS
>uI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~\IR~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3  ~~~~~~~~~~SEODRYKA)
>1 42-4
hoEd  on  ooI,t,ofDIflha 6,e21
'1~~~~~~~~~~2
-42Mmp   2-½~                                       y ~ K '                            Ls2        m
.9~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~0*






2   _    y yo:,~~~~~~~___________                                                SUPTEMHZR 1970
YUGOSLAVI A
A                                   <   2;--<,  >'  9 t  >0 w<0 / <   METOHIJAI MULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
7' -       <-S---    &                       oF/                    jn    T  - . wx POTABLE WATER SUPPLY COMPONENT
-PR-ECT AR  DOUNDAR
"'        0     W~~~A-E TREATMENT FLAMT
' 3YE.'S0~ 'OOt,,            -                          >    14                           /                                                   0 I        WAEER STORAGE PHASE I
, Uj0@   >,                                           /                                                                                         PUMPC)  WAINER DSTATION P.HA3E
'N2 O                           <   y     2  tn          9 'N-                                  hs     BO-STERS STATIONS PHSE n
'$(5                                                                    MS CRS,8111/                IT                                     '   S IUMS A:D OlSTYIlDTION MA NS, P SAYE I
MAEOJ                      TM J7 "                                                                    (i E -1SHUNN S, N                     TT         I. HAS 
7                 N    9    U); C ' <   OX ¢A y->EXISTING  "AINS
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'--C\H                                                            A" -  CO R  R  .M    100   _,  15    CEAAL,Cu g'  /)% 
0n.',.  0 PL                                                                                M RYE    S AMET   IN
Y U G O S L A V I A   \   \\     W      01                                 "0                                             0      OI. AA\Y
T IO9redo S >+  1  ,, .  t   ;  \ \           \       ('>
IB  I0             YT                                                               'A                               e,-/ 0                                         '-U---  TAUPA
I-J~~~-O
~~All 11 ~~~~~~~~~A 1,-"                                                                                 A"<
Y U G 0 S L A V I A ~       ~             ~             (0                                - G&7e,IY                                          '






-IBRD 12062R.
f  .   ,__.          ' , &, 7    .Me-' > 1f/              ~~YUGOSLAVIA
.  _  )   :7_,ffit  _,Pl   tB   r:-S-evt/i Jljr\8lt  ~~~~~~~METOHIJA IMULTIPURPOSE PROJECT
~ \,-  r1 ()&r '4'~ ~'P9, ^     m-       -§,-t   A v \fIRRIGATION NETWORK
ADW1 -Q-T A0\  .. I  1  -tr\S~ n   NODmIND IYEVL
i / //SH ) l . <1 *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ T-, .,>,   -- ACCESS ROAD
l   A  /  4-dS   t  $4 Q    t E >. *   W X  r o  fa r<    RtLROAD          W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~KIIMETRS
9 W/"'  <    "' f t"/  '' ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2 1 't'0
I    \       X                    ' "''   WA>1  X   ''V'-7    \        ''2X-t;' ' C- ,} iU X,'?E, 
_  >@,,i '  J_v  ./   0.  
A-.     41                                          :uD'   tX%z
Y  U   G 0    SS%s L A) V I A  ht 
500A      ^      iJ\f  0     |Xi;Z                g         ,           / 4 f.j: 



