CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1360 YU
LOAN AGREEMENT
(U9tohija I Multipurpose Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
SOCIALIST AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE KOSOVO
and
VODOPRIVREDNA ORGANIZACIJA "METOAIJA"
(Water Management Organization "Metohija"
from Prizren)
Dated February 3, 1977


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated February 3, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) such party of the first part, SOCIALIST AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE
KOSOVO (hereinafter called Kosovo) such party of the second part,
and VODOPRIVREDNA ORGANIZACIJA "METOHIJA" (Water Management Organ-
ization "Metohija" from Prizren) such party of the third part,
acting in its own name and in the name of, and on behalf of, its
constituent Basic Organizations (as this term is hereinafter defined),
all of which are hereinafter called the Borrower.
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower is an Organization of Associated
Labor for water management, established and operating under the
laws of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia;
(B) Kosovo has requested the Bank to assist the Borrower in
the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agree-
ment by making the Loan as hereinafter provided;
(C) Kosovo, pursuant to decisions of the Executive Council
of its Provincial Assembly, has decided and intends to allocate
funds for the purpose of assisting in the financing of the Project,
to be made available to Kosovska Banka Prigtina (hereinafter called
Kosovska Banka) for said Durpose;
(D) The Borrower and Kosovska Banka will enter into an
agreement (hereinafter called the Kosovska Banka Loan Agreement)


﻿-2-
which will provide inter alia for Kosovska Banka: (i) to assist the
Borrower in financing the Project by making to the Borrower a loan
in an amount of Dinars 1,300,000,000 equivalent to about seventy-two
million two hundred thousand U.S. Dollars (U.S.$72.200,000) (here-
inafter called the First Kosovska Banka Loan), carrying interest
at two per cent per annim and repayable over twenty-five years
commencing on January 1, 1982; (ii) to provide medium- and
long-term credit facilities for the purchase of portable sprinkler
irrigation equipment to private sector and social sector farmers
in the Project Area (as hereinafter defined), on terms similar to
those applicable to other farmers; and (iii) to assist the Borrower
in financing debt service on the Loan and the First Kosovska Banka
Loan by making to the Borrower a second loan, in an approximate
amount of Dinars 1,063,000,000 (hereinafter called the Second
Kosovska Banka Loan), in accordance with the provisions of para-
graph A of Schedule 5 to this Agreement, carrying interest at two
per cent per annum, and repayable over twenty-five years commencing
on January 1, 1993;
(E) By an agreement of even date herewith between the Social-
ist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (hereinafter called the Guaran-
tor) and the Bank, which agreement is hereinafter called the
Guarantee Agreement, the Guarantor has agreed to guarantee the*
obligations of the Borrower in respect of such Loan;


﻿-3-
WHEREAS the Bank, on the basis inter alia of the foregoing,
has agreed to make a Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and con-
ditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guar-
antee Agreements of the Bank, dated March 15, 1974, with the same
force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein, subject,
however, to the following modification thereof (said General Condi-
tions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank
being hereinafter called the General Conditions): paragraph 6 of
Section 2.01 of the General Conditions is deleted and the following
is substituted therefor:
"6. The ter- "Borrower" means Vodoprivredna Organizacija
"Metnhija" with all of its constituent Basic Organizations,
as the latter term is defined in the Loan Agreement, acting
jointly and severally as parties to the Loan Agreement
and, whenever the context so requires, includes any of the
foregoing entities."
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the
respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional
terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Self-Management Agreement of Vodoprivredna Organizacija
"Metohija"" means the Self-Management Agreement of the Composite
Organization of Associated Labor for Water Management "Kosovo"
from Pristina, dated October 12, 1973, as amended from time to
time;


﻿-5-
(b) "Statutes of Vodoprivredna Organizacija "Metohija"" means
the statutes of Vodorrivredna OrganizaCija "Metohija", dated
November 24, 1973, as amended from time to time;
(c) "Basic Organizations" means any basic organization of
associated labor, established or to be established as a constituent
part of Vodoprivredna Organizacija "Metohija";
(d) "Hydro System Radenic" means a constituent Basic
Organization of Associated Labor within Vodoprivredna Organizacija
"Metohija", to be established under arrangements satisfactory to
Kosovo, the Bank and Vodoprivredna Organizacija "Metohija" prior
to December 31, 1978, for the operation and maintenance of the
facilities provided under the Project, under the overall respon-
sibility of the Borrower;
(e) "Social Accounting Service" means Sluzba Drustvenog
Knjigovodstva referred to in Article 77 and in paragraph (5) of
Article 281 of the Guarantor's Constitution;
(f) "Project Area" means the area located in the Metohija
Valley of Kosovo, extending along the Beli Drim River and includ-
ing part of Djakovica, Orahovac and Prizren Communes; and
(g) "Dinar" means the currency of the Guarantor.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or re-
ferred to, an amount in various currencies equivalent to fifty-
four million dollars ($54,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Sched-
ule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time
to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank, for expen-
ditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in res-
pect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan
and in respect of interest and other charges on the Loan.
(b) On or before each of the semi-annual interest payment
dates specified in Section 2.07 of this Agreement, the Bank shall,
on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the T:oan Account and pay
to itself the amounts required to pay, on such date, interest and
other charges on the loan accrued and payable 1p to the date set
forth, P.nd up to the amounts allocated, in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to time.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, con-
tracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works required for
the Project, shall be procured in accordance with the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.


﻿-7-
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1982
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of
eight and seventy hundredths per cent (8.70%) per annum on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semi-annually on January 1 and July 1 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. The obligations of Vodoprivredna Organizacija
"Metohija" and the Basic Organizations to pay interest and other
charges on the Loan, or to repay the principal of the Loan, in
accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement, shall be
joint and several and shall not be subject to any prior notice
to, or demand upon, or action against, any of them.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate ad-
ministrative, financial, engineering, public utility and agricul-
tural practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other re-
sources required for the purpose.
(b) The Borrower shall employ inter alios: (i) at all times,
a General Director experienced in the operation and maintenance
of irrigation systems and water supply networks; (ii) after con-
sultation with the Bank, a qualified and experienced Financial
Director to be appointed as provided in Section 8.01 (b) of this
Agreement; (iii) at all times, qualified agricultural staff in
adequate number as needed for the carrying out of the Project;
and (iv) additional qualified and experienced staff for financial
operations and controls.
(c) The Borrower shall cause Hydro System Radenic" to employ,
at all times, a qualified and experienced engineer to act as its
Director and a qualified financial expert to act as his Deputy.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the prep-
aration of final design and bidding documents for the facilities
included in the Project and in the training of local engineers


﻿- 9 -
in the preparation of design and bidding documents therefor, the
Borrover shall employ or continue to employ consultants whose
qualifications, experience and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan against hazards incident
to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to the
place of use or installation, and for such insurance any indemnity
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall cause all goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and work and procurement schedules
for the Project, and any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Bank shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower shall: (i) maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan, and to disclose the use thereof in the Project;
(ii) enable the Bank's accredited representatives to visit the


﻿- 10 -
facilities and construction sites included in the Project and
to examine the goods financed. out of the proceeds of the Loan
and any relevant records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the
Bank all such information as the Bank shall reasonably request
concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) The Borrower shall enable the Bank's representatives
to examine all plants, installations, sites, works, buildings,
property and equipment of the Borrower and any relevant records
and documents, as the Bank shall reasonably request.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall take all such action as
shall be necessary to acquire as and when needed all such land and
rights in respect of land as shall be required for the construc-
tion and operation of the facilities included in the Project and
shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after such acquisition, evi-
dence satisfactory to the Bank that such land and rights in res-
pect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall make appropriate arrangements to
relocate in a timely manner residents displaced from the land
referred to in the foregoing paragraph (a).


﻿- 11 -
ARTICLE IV
Management and Operations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall take all steps necessary:
(i) at all times, to maintain its existence and right to carry
on its operations and to acquire, maintain and review all rights,
powers, privileges and franchises which are necessary or useful
in the conduct of its business; (ii) to operate and to maintain
all its buildings, equipment, facilities and property and from
time to time to make all necessary renewals and repairs thereof,
all in accordance with appropriate engineering and public utility
practices; (iii) to manage its affairs, to maintain its financial
position, to plan its future expansion and to carry on its opera-
tions, all in accordance with appropriate business, financial and
administrative practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management assisted by adequate experienced and
competent staff; and (iv) except as the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, to ensure that Hydro System Radenic shall be respon-
sible for the operation and maintenance of the facilities included
in the Project on terms and conditions which will enable the Bor-
rower to fulfill its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 4.02. Except in the normal course of its operations,
the Borrower shall not, without the prior approval of the Bank,
sell, lease, transfer, assign or otherwise dispose of any of its
rights, property or assets.


﻿- 12 -
Section 4.03. After the completion of the construction of the
dan and appurtenant structures included in the Project (herein-
after called the structures) and at intervals of not more than
five years thereafter, the Borrower shall cause such structures
to be inspected in order to determine whether there are any
deficiencies or potential deficiencies in (i) the conditions of,
(ii) the quality and adequacy of maintenance of, or (iii) the
methods of operation of, such structures, which may endanger
safety. Following the results of said inspection, the Borrower
shall promptly take any remedial action necessary.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 4.05. For the optimum utilization of the irrigation
and drainlage facilities included in Part B and Part D of the Proj-
ect, the Borrower shall carry out a program of adjustment of
farm boundaries as shall be required to permit regular irrigation
layout, in accordance with the provisions of the Law of Land
Distribution, Consolidation and Boundary Adjustment dated July 22,
1976.


﻿- 13 -
ARTICLE V
Financial Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, or cause to
be maintained, separate records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices the
operations and financial condition of the Borrower and of Hydro
System Radenic.
(b) Without limitation upon the foregoing and with respect
to the records referred to in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower
shall ensure that Hydro System Radenic maintain records which will
provide a reasonable analysis of the financial results between its
irrigation and water supply activities.
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall, and shall cause Hydro Sys-
tem Radenic to: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related
statements) for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by the Social
Accounting Service; (ii) furnish to the Bank as soon as avsilable,
but in any case not later than four months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audits by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other
information concerning the accounts and financial statements of
the Borrower and Hydro System Radenic and the audits thereof as
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿Section 5.03. Not later than six months after the appointment
of the Financial Director referred to in Section 3.01(b) (ii) of
this Agreement, or such other date as the Bank and the Borrower
may agree, the Borrower shall establish and put into effect appro-
priate accounting and financial procedures relating to all the
Borrower's activities and required under Section 5.01 and Section
5.02 of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. (a) The Borrower represents that at the date
of this Agreement no lien exists on any of its assets as security
for any debt except as otherwise currently reported to the Bank
or stated in writing.
(b) The Borrower undertakes that, except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree: (i) if any lien shall be created on any assets
of the Borrower as security for any debt, such lien will ipso
facto equally and ratably secure the payment of the principal of,
and interest and other charges on, the Loan, and in the creation
of any such lien express provision will be made to that effect,
at no cost to the Bank; and (ii) if any statutory lien shall be
created on any assets of the Borrower as security for any debt,
the Borrower shall grant, at no cost to the Bank, an equivalent
lien satisfactory to the Bank to secure the payment of the prin-
cipal of, and interest and other charges on, the Loan; provided,
however, that the foregoing provisions of this paragraph shall
not apply to: (A) any lien created on property, at the time of
purchase thereof, solely as security for the payment of the pur-
chase price of such property; or (B) any lien arising in the
ordinary course of banking transactions and securing a debt
maturing not more than one year after the date on which it is
originally incurred.


﻿- 15 -
Section 5.05. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
if the Borrower shall prepay part, or all, of the principal amount
outstanding of any debt of the Borrower, the Borrower shall prepay
a proportionate part, or all, as the case may be, of the Loan.
(b) All provisions of the General Conditions relating to re-
payment as redemption in advance of maturity shall be applicable
to any prepayment by the Borrower of the Loan under this Section.
Section 5.06. Except as the Bank shall othervise agree, the
Borrower shall take all necessary steps as shall be required to
ensure that its gross operating revenues will be sufficient to
cover, in any given fiscal year, all operating, maintenance and
administrative expenses (excluding depreciation), all taxes, if
any, or payments in lieu of taxes, increases in working capital
other than cash, and the amount of interest and other charges on,
and repayment of, loans not covered by funds to be provided by
Kosovo and Kosovska Banka pursuant to Recital (D) of the Preamble
and Section 6.02 of this Agreement.
Section 5.07. In order to generate the gross operating revenues
referred to in Section 5.06 of this Agreement, the Borrower shall
inter alia:
(a) establish, in agreement with the Bank, separate tariffs
for the services of irrigation and the supply of potable water so as
to be sufficient to cover (i) commencing with 1981, in any given
fiscal year, the operating, maintenance and administrative expenses
for such fiscal year in connection with the Borrower's irrigation
and water supply activities and (ii) capital costs of the Project;
and


﻿- 16 -
(b) shall thereafter review said tariffs, from time to time,
in consultation with the Bank.
Section 5.08. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not incur any debt unless its net revenues for the
fiscal year next preceding such incurrence, shall be not less than
the maximum debt service requirements in any succeeding fiscal year
on all debt including the debt to be incurred.
For the purpose of this Section and of Section 6.02 (b) of this
Agreement:
(a) the term "debt" means all debt, including debt incurred
by others but for the service of which the Borrower is responsible,
and guaranteed debt, maturing by its terms more than one year after
the date on which it is originally incurred;
(b) debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date such debt
becomes outstanding and repayable in accordance with the agreement
providing for the incurrence of such debt or modifying its terms
of payment; provided, however, that in the case of guaranteed debt,
debt .shall be deemed to be incurred on the date the agreement guaran-
teeing such debt has been entered into but only to the extent that
the guaranteed debt is outstanding;
(c) the term "net revenues" shall mean gross operating revenues
from all sources, adjusted to take account of the Borrower's tariff
rates in effect at the time of the incurrence of debt even though
said rates might not be in effect during all or part of the fiscal
year or twelve-month period to which such revenues relate, less


﻿- 1T -
all operating, maintenance and administrative expenses and provisions
for taxes, if any, or payments in lieu of taxes, but before provision
covering depreciation, interest and other charges on debt;
(a) the term "debt service requirements" shall mean the aggre-
gate amount of amortization (including sinking fund payments, if any),
interest and other charges on debt not covered by funds to be provided
by Kosovo and Kosovska Banka pursuant to Recital (D) of the Preamble
and Section 6.02 of this Agreement; and
(e) whenever for the purposes of this Section and of Section
6.02 (b) of this Agreement, it shall be necessary to value in the
currency of the Guarantor debt payable in another currency, such
valuation shall be made on the prevailing rate of exchange at which
such other currency is, at the time such valuation is made, lawfully
obtainable by the Borrower for the purposes of servicing such debt
or, if such other currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of
exchange that will be reasonably determined by the Bank.


﻿- 18 -
ARTICLE VI
Covenants of Kosovo
Section 6.01. Kosovo agrees with all obligations entered into
by the Borrower in this Agreement, and to be entered into by the
Borrower in the Kosovska Banka Loan Agreement, and, within the
limits of its constitutional powers, shall take all action required
on its part to enable and cause the Borrower punctually to perform
all of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Kosovska
Banka Loan Agreement.
Section 6.02. Kosovo specifically undertakes:
(a) to provide to the Borrower promptly as needed by way of
grant: (i) the amount of all maturities of the Loan due for repay-
ment before December .1, 1981 (approximately Dinars 121,000,000
equivalent); and (ii) such portions of the interest and other
charges payable by the Borrower on the Loan and the First Kosovska
Banka Loan in the years 1982 to 1989, inclusive, as are set out in
paragraph B of Schedule 5 to this Agreement (approximately Dinars
295,000,000 equivalent); and
(b) whenever, during any fiscal year, there is reasonable
cause to believe, on the basis of the latest audited financial
statements, that the sum of the Borrower's gross operating revenues
for any calendar half-year, grants to be provided as set forth in
paragraph (a) of this Section and proceeds of the Second Kosovska
Banka Loan, shall be inadequate to meet the Borrower's expenses
and debt service requirements, for the next following calendar


﻿- 19 -
half-year, to provide promptly to the Borrower, upon terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, such funds as are needed
to cover the difference between said revenues and said expenses
and debt service requirements.
For the purpose of paragraph (b) of this Section, the term
"expenses" shall mean all the Borrower's operating and maintenance
expenses, including adequate maintenance and taxes, if any, or
payment in lieu of taxes, but before provision for depreciation,
interest and other charges on debt.
Section 6.03. Not later than January 1, 1983 or such other
date as Kosovo and the Bank may agree, Kosovo shall ensure that
the necessary processing and marketing facilities in the Project
Area such as vegetable collecting and processing centers, packing
plants, cooling stations and transport facilities, be provided
a.nd operated appropriately.


﻿- 20 -
ARTICLE VII
Remedies of the Bank
Section 7.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (k) thereof:
(a) a default materially and adversely affecting the carry-
ing out of the Project or the operation of the facilities included
in the Project shall occur in the performance by any party of any
obligation, covenant, agreement, decision or other assurances under
the Kosovska Banka Loan Agreement or under the decisions referred
to in Recital (C) in the Preamble to this Agreement;
(b) Kosovo shall have failed: (i) to provide the Borrower
with the funds referred to in Recital (C) in the Preamble to this
Agreement; (ii) to make available to the Borrower, as and when
needed, the funds referred to in paragraph (a) or paragraph (b)
of Section 6.02 of this Agreement; or (iii) to perform any of its
undertakings referred to in Section 6.01 of this Agreement;
(c) any provisions of the Kosovska Banka Loan Agreement,
Vodoprivredna Organizacija "Metohija"'s Self-Management Agree-
ment, Vodoprivredna Organizacija "Metohija"'s Statutes, so as
to affect materially and adversely the Borrower's ability to
carry out the Project or the Borrower's existence as an independent
enterprise, shall have been amended, abrogated or terminated
without the prior approval of the Bank; and


﻿- 21 -
(d) any loan or credit to the Borrower shall have become due
and payable prior to its agreed maturity pursuant to the terms
thereof.
Section 7.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank
to the Borrower;
(b) any event specified in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Section
7.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 22 -
ARTICLE VIII
E fective Date; Termination
Section 8.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the
meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a) The Kosovska Banka Loan Agreement in form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank shall have been duly executed and author-
ized or ratified by all necessary governmental and corporate ac-
tion and shall be in full force and effect; and
(b) The Borrower's Financial Director referred to in Section
3.01 (b) (ii) shall have been appointed.
Section 8.02. The following Lre specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank, namely, that the Kosovska Banka Loan Agree-
ment in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank: (i) has been
duly .executed and authorized or ratified by all necessary govern-
mental and corporate action; (ii) constitutes valid and binding
obligations of the parties thereto in accordance with their terms;
and (iii) is in full force and effect.
Section 8.03. The date May 31, 1977, is hereby specified for
the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


﻿- 23 -
ARTICLE IX
Addresses
Section 9.01. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                Telex:
INTBAFRAD                     440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.              248423 (RCA) or
64145 (wUI)
For Kosovo:
Socijalisticka Autonomna
Pokrajina Kosovo
Izvrsno Vece Skupstine SAP Kosovo
38000 Pristina
Yugoslavia
Cable address:                Telex:
Izvrsno Vece Skupstine        Yu 18185
SAP Kosovo
Pristina
Yugoslavia
For the Borrower:
Vodoprivredna Organizacija "Metohija"
Ulica Zef Mark Ljusi Br. 53
38400 Prizren
Yugoslavia
Cable address:
Metohija
Prizren
Yugoslavia


﻿- 24
Section 9.02. (a) Any action required or permitted to be
taken, and any documents required or permitted to be executed,
under this Agreement on behalf of Kosovo may be taken or executed
by the Provincial Secretary for Agriculture, Forestry and Water
Resources of Kosovo or such other person or persons as Kosovo
shall designate in writing.
(b) Kosovo shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence
of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the
person or persons who will, on behalf of Kosovo, take any action
or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken or
executed by Kosovo pursuant to any of the provisions of this
Agreement.
Section 9.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿- 25 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agree-
ment to be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By Is/ Maurice P. Bart
Acting Regional Vice President
Europe, Middle East and North Africa
SOCIALIST AUTONOMOUS PROVINCE KOSOVO
By /s! Radivoje Petkovic
Authorized Representative
VODOPRIVREDNA ORGANIZACIJA "METOHIJA"
acting in its own name and
in the name and on behalf of
its constituent Basic Organizations
By /s/ Naum Ackovski
Authorized Representative


﻿- 26 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of ex-
penditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated           % of
(Expressed in        Expenditures
Category               Dollar Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) Parts A, B, C and
D of the Project    21,000,000          40%
(b) Parts E and F of
the Project            700,000          20%
(2) Equipment                 16,000,000         100% of foreign
expenditures and
100% of local
expenditures
ex-factory
(3) Consultants' ser-            300,000         100% of foreign
vices                                        expenditures
(4) Interest and other        11,000,000         Amounts due
charges on the Loan
withdrawn accrued
on or before Decem-
ber 31, 1981
(5) Unallocated                5,000,000
TOTAL     54,000,000


﻿- 27 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Guarantor and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than the Guarantor; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Guarantor and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Guarantor.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compli-
ance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the Loan
shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or
in the territory of, the Guarantor on goods or services, or on the
importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that
end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of
any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan decreases
or increases, the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, increase
or decrease the disbursement percentage then applicable to such
item as required to be consistent with the aforementioned policy
of the Bank.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expenditures
prior to the date of this Agreement, except that withdrawals in
an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 may
be made in respect of Category (3) on account of payments made
for such expenditures before that date but after June 30, 1976.


﻿- 28 -
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or
the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Bank has reasonably estimated that the amount of
the Loan then allocated to any Category or sub-Category will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures
in that Category or sub-Category, the Bank may, by notice to the
Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category or sub-Category, to the
extent required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the
Loan which are then allocated to another Category or sub-Category
and which in the opinion of the Bank are not needed to meet other
expenditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then appli-
cable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under
such Category or sub-Category may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Bank shall have reasonably determined that the pro-
curement of any item in any Category or sub-Category is inconsistent
with the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of
the Loan and the Bank may, without in any way restricting or lim-
iting any other right, power or remedy of the Bank under the Loan
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the
Loan as, in the Bank's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan.


﻿- 29 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the first phase of development of the Hydro
System Radenic in the Metohija Valley of Kosovo, for the purpose
of improving: (a) crop production through irrigation of about
10,250 ha of land; and (b) domestic and industrial water supply
to the towns of Djakovica, Orahovac and Zrze and to twelve villages.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
Part A:   Weir, Dam and Reservoir
Construction of:
(a) a diversion weir about 45 m wide and 2.5 m high
on the Decanska Bistrica River with headvorks
and a supply canal about 7.5 km long;
(b) a rockfill dam about 57 m high and 550,000 cubic
meters volume on the Prue River at the Radenic site,
including the creation of an off-channel reservoir
(Radenic Reservoir) with a capacity of about 113
million cubic meters and multiple intake structure;
(c) an access road and a diversion tunnel, and grouting
for the rockfill dam.


﻿- 30 -
Part B:   Irrigation Distribution System
Construction of an irrigation distribution system
serving an area of about 10,250 ha of farmland,
including:
(a) about 6 km of main canal;
(b) about 21 km of gravity irrigation canals, and
about 245 km of underground primary and secondary
distribution pipelines with automatic flow re-
gulation and surge control equipment;
(c) about 950 km of underground tertiary pipelines;
(d) an electric pumping station consisting of nine
units with a capacity of about 1,700 kw; and
power supply to such pumping station and the
dam included in Part A (b) of the Project;
(e) about 185 km of farm roads;
(f) portable sprinkler irrigation equipment;
(g) vehicles and other equipment for operation and
maintenance.


﻿- 31 -
Part C:   Potable Water Supply
The provision of domestic and industrial water supply
to the towns of Djakovica, Orahovac and Zrze and to
twelve villages including:
(a) construction and equipment of a water treatment
plant adjacent to the dam included in Part A (b)
of the Project, with an initial capacity of about
400 liters per second;
(b) about 40 km of trunk pipeline for bulk supply to
Djakovica, Orahovac and Zrze and about 28 km of
minor distribution pipelines connected to the
trunk pipeline for supply to twelve villages;
(c) storage facilities with a total capacity of about
10,000 cubic meters at Djakovica, Orahovac and
Zrze;
(d) pumping stations to (i) boost supply to Orahovac
and nearby villages and (ii) supply water to the
water treatment plant included in Part C (a) of
the Project, during periods of low water levels
in the Radenic Reservoir.
Part D:   Drainage, Erosion Control and Soil Improvement Works
(a) construction of about 80 km of open drains and
underground drains covering an area of about
380 ha and 3,500 ha respectively;


﻿- 32 -
(b) erosion control works (reforestation, gulley
control and terracing) covering an area of
about 2,600 ha;
(c) soil improvement through lime applications, subsoiling
and phosphate treatment, covering an area of about
3,000 ha, 4,000 ha and 6,000 ha respectively.
Part E:   Demonstration Areas
Development of:
(a) a demonstration area of about 40 ha with boundary
adjustment and portable sprinkler equipment;
(b) an experimental farm for vegetable production
and mechanization covering an area of about 20 ha;
(c) a trial irrigated vineyard area of about 4.5 ha.
Part F:   Project Buildings
Construction and equipment of buildings for the expan-
sion of the Borrower's headquarters in Prizren, the
establishment of field headquarters at Zrze, four sec-
tion field offices at Djakovica, Rogovo, Ratkovac and
Vilika Krusa and six units for extension staff.


﻿- 33 -
Part G:   Consultants ' Services
About 60 man-months' services for the preparation of
final design and bidding documents of Project works
and the training of local engineers.
*              *              *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1981.
__


﻿- 314-
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                             (expressed in dollars)*
On each July 1 and January 1
beginning July 1, 1980
through January 1, 1992                       2,250,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a
currency other than dollars (see General Conditions, Section
4.02), the figures in this column represent dollar equiva-
lents determined as for purposes of ,ithdrawal.


﻿- 35 -
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums pay-
able on repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the
principal amount of the Loan pursuant to Section 3.05 (b) of the
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment                           Premium
Not more than three years
before maturity                         1.75%
More than three years but not
more than six years
before maturity                         3.50%
More than six years but not
more than eleven years
before maturity                         6.40%
More than eleven years but not
more than thirteen years
before maturity                         7.55%
More than thirteen years
before maturity                         8.70%


﻿- 36 -
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B and Part D hereof, contracts for
the purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Part A of the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding.
2.   (a) Contracts for civil works and equipment shall be grouped
to the maximum extent practicable, as follows:
Contract No. 1:     Civil works of diversion weir, supply canal
and rockfill dam;
Contract No. 2:     Civil works of water treatment plant;
Contract No. 3:     Supply of equipment for water treatment plant;
Contract No. 4:     Construction of trunk pipeline and storage
facilities and civil works of pumping
stations for water supply;
Contract No. 5:     Construction of gravity irrigation canals,
and primary and secondary networks to be
tendered in two stages;


﻿- 37 -
Contract No. 6:     Supply of equipment for pumping stations for
water supply and irrigation;
Contract No. 7:     Supply of portable sprinkleT irrigation equip-
ment;
Contract No. 8:     Supply of hydraulic equipment for autoaatic
flow regulation and surge control;
Contract No. 9:     Supply of vehicles and other equipment for
operation and maintenance;
Contract No. 10:    Supply of equipment and materials for the
construction of irrigation tertiary network
and farm roads and for soil improvement.
(b) Foreign contractors and suppliers shall not be required
to register in Yugoslavia as a prerequisite for submitting bids.
In the event that registration shall be necessary after a foreign
contractor or supplier has been notified that he will be awarded
a contract, the Borrower shall facilitate the registration.
(c) Contracts for civil works shall include a provision al-
lowing non-Yugoslav contractors and suppliers to convert into
foreign exchange and to repatriate a reasonable portion of contract
payments, and to import equipment and specialized manpower as re-
quired to carry out their services.


﻿- 38 -
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
Contracts listed hereunder shall be procured on the basis of
competitive bidding advertised locally and in accordance with the
local procedures of the Guarantor:
1.   contracts for individual items of equipment estimated to cost
not more than $40,000 equivalent, provided that the total cost of
such goods so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of $300,000;
and
2.   except as provided in Part D hereof, contracts for civil works
included in Parts A (c), B (a), B (d), C (b), D, E and F of the
Project for access road, diversion tunnel, grouting, main canal,
power lines, irrigation pumping station and sub-stations, minor
distribution pipelines, drainage, erosion control, demonstration
areas and Project buildings, provided that the total cost of such
civil works so procured shall not exceed the equivalent of
$15,200,000.
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Domestic Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the
supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance with
local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their
bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or the
ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods; (ii) customs
duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales and sim-
ilar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall be excluded; and


﻿- 39 -
(iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expen-
ditures incidental to the delivery of goods to the place of their
use or installation shall be included.
2.   Goods manufactured in Yugoslavia may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following pro-
visions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall
clearly indicate any preference which will be granted, the infor-
mation required to establish the eligibility of a bid for such
preference and the following methods and stages that will be fol-
lowed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in
one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Yugo-
slavia if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank that the
manufacturing cost of such goods includes a value
added in Yugoslavia equal to at least 20% of the ex-
factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in Yugoslavia.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.


﻿- 4o -
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves,.excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes on
goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest evalu-
ated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be
compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison,
a bid from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected
for the award.
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this fur-
ther comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of cus-
toms duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer
would have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in
such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such
goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price.
If the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group C
which as a result of the-comparison under paragraph (c) is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
D.   Procurement Without Contracting
The construction of tertiary pipelines and farm roads and
soil improvement included in Parts B (c), B (e) and D (c) of
the Project shall be carried out by the Borrower under force
account.


﻿- 41 -
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Bank
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
With respect to all contracts for civil works and equipment
specified in paragraph 2(a) of Part A hereof:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Bank, for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid
and the specifications and other bidding documents, together with
a description of the advertising procedures to be followed for
the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said docu-
ments or procedures as the Bank shall reasonably request. Any
further modification to the bidding documents shall require the
Bank's concurrence before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Bank of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Bank, in sufficient time for
its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and comparison
of the bids received, together with the recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably
request. The Bank shall, if it determines that the intended award
would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, with-
out the Bank's ccncurrence, materially differ from those on which
bids were asked or -recualification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Bank promptly after its execution and prior to the submis-
sion to the Bank of the first application for withdrawal of funds
from the Loan Account in respect of such contract.
2.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Loan and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, promptly after its execu-
tion and prior to the submission to the Bank of the first applica-
tion for withdrawal of funds from the Loan Account in respect of
such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together
with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations for
award and such other information as the Bank shall reasonably re-
quest. The Pank shall, if it determines that the award of the
contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such de-
termination.


﻿- 43 -
SCHEDULE 5
A.   Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the Second Kosovska Banka Loan
The table below sets forth the withdrawal of the proceeds of
the Second Kosovska Banka Loan and the calendar years in which these
withdrawals are to be made by the Borrower:
Amount of Installments
Expressed in Thousand of Dinars Equivalent
Year                               (Approximately)
1982                                141,000
1983                                136,000
1984                                130,000
1985                                121,000
1986                                110,000
1987                                 98,000
1988                                 98,000
1989                                 96,000
1990                                 78,000
1991                                 55,000
TOTAL          1,063,000
B.   Kosovo Grants
The table below sets forth the approximate amount of the grants
to be provided to the Borrower by Kosovo under Section 6.02 (a) (ii)
of this Agreement as a portion of the interest and other charges
payable on the Loan and the First Kosovska Banka Loan in the calendar
years shown:


﻿- 44-
Amount of Grants
Expressed in Thousand
of Dinars Equivalent       Portion of Interest
Year           (Approximately)           and Other Charges
1982                 81,ooo                  80 per cent
1983                 65,000                  70 per cent
1984                 51,000                  60 per cent
1985                 39,000                  50 per cent
1986                 27,000                  40 per cent
1987                 18,000                  30 per cent
1988                 10,000                  20 per cent
1989                  4,ooo                  10 per cent
TOTAL     295,000


