Docwument of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 7367-MAL
STAFF AP?RLISAL REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
DECEMBER 20, 1988
Country Department V
Asia Region
This document bas a resricted distibution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency unit = Rufiyaa (Rf)
US$1.00 = Rf 9.09
(December 1988)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
February 1 - January 31
GLOSSARY
AEC            -    Atoll Education Center
AHSTC          -    Allied Health Service Training Center
APS            -    Atoll Primary School
DPWL           -    Department of Public Works and Labor
RTC            -    Hotel Training Center
ITE            -    Institute of Teacher Education
JSC            -    Junior School Certificate
MFA            -    Ministry of Foreign Affairs
NMA            -    Maldives Monetary Authority
MOE            -    Ministry of Education
MPD            -    Ministry of Planning and Development
NSB            -    National Scholarship Board
NSP            -    National Scholarship Program
OPPD           -    Office for Physical Planning and Design
PCC            -    Project Coordinating Committee
PIU            -    Project Implementation Unit
RSS            -    Regional secondary school
SEC            -    Science Education Center
UWCDF          -    United Nations Capital Development Fund
VTC            -    Vocational Training Center



FOR OMCLAL IUSE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA......................... *                                    (ii i)
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ...................                 .........  (iv)
I. EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN MALDIVES
A. Introduction ................................... I
B. The Education and Training Systemo...........................       1
C. Issues and Constraints........... ..*............ ................ ..  3
D. Government Policies and Planso...............................   10
E. External Assistance to Education and Training................   12
F. IDA Strategy and Rationale for Involvement...................   12
C. Previous IDA Lending Experience      rience o.....o........0*......   13
II. THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project                                              14
B. Project Objectives and Scope ..............................o*      14
C. Project Description       .............. ................   14
D. Technical Assistance Summary.................................    17
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs........................................................s  18
B.                                                                   iacn .....  20
C. Project Management and Implementationoo......................    21
D. Environmental Impact.....................................    24
E. Impact on Womeno ...................... 25
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A* Benefits2.....................................                     25
B* Risks .....................................                        25
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION.....o................ o.....   26
This report is based on the findings of a preappraisal mission which visited
Maldives during January 31-February 21, 1988 and an appraisal mission
consisting of Mr. W. Rees (mission leader) and Ms. R. Montague (architect)
which visited Maldives during May 18-June 5, 1988.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLES IN THE TEXT                                                        Page No.
3.1   Summary of Project Costs by Component ...........................   18
3.2   Suimmary of Project Costs by Category of Expenditure.*...........   19
3.3   Financing Plan ...... ...... ... ............... ., .... ..***   21
3.4   Project Expenditure by Procurement Category.*...................       23
ANJNEXES
1.   The Education System in Republic of Maldives
2.   Employed Population by Industry and Main Occupation in 1977 and 1985
3.   Study Outlines
4.   Technical Assistance
5.   Detailed Project Costs
6.   Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
7.   Area and Unit Capital Costs for Nev Regional Seconda--; School
8.   Implementation Schedule
9.   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
10. Selected Documents Available in the Project File
MAP
IBRD No. 21059, Maldives - Education and Training Project



- iii -
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND fRAINING PROJECT
BASIC DATA
Population (1985)
Census                                      180,000
Annual growth rate                          2.9Z
Average density                             604 per sq. km.
Adult literacy rate                         91X
GNP per capita (1986)                       US$310
Enrollments (1986)                            Total   Male   Female  Z Female  CER 1/ (Z)
Kindergarten                                6,406   3,091   3,315       51.7       N.A.
Primary (grades 1-5)                       22,206  11,432  10,774       48.5      89.8
Middle school (grades 6-7)                  2,949   1,483   1,466       49.7      33.6
Secondary school (grades 8-10)              1,094      652     442      40.4       8.6
Total                                 32,655  16,658  15,997       49.0
Intermeviate, Certificate and Diploma Programs (1986)
Science Education Center (grades 11-12)       117       81      36      30.8
Institute of Teacher Education (1987)          97       30      67      69.1
Vocational Training Center                    101      100        1      1.0
Total                                     315      211     104      33.0
Government Education Expenditure, Capital and Recurrent (1986)
As a percentage of GNP (1985)                         3.3%
As a percentage of total government outlay            7.7X
Government Recurrent Education Expenditure (1986)
As a percentage of total government
recurrent expenditure                              14.1Z
Breakdown by Sector:
Administration                                     17.1%
Primary/middle                                     26.0%
Secondary                                          38.2Z
Vocational training                                 8.8%
Teacher training and curriculum development         7.1%
Maintenance                                         2.8%
1/ Gross Enrollment Ratio



- iv -
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDU'CATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Republic of Maldives
Beneficiary:            Ministry of Education, Republic of Maldives
Amount:                  SDR 6.00 million (US$8.19 million equivalent,
including retroactive financing of US$0.2 million for
expenditures after appraisal on fellowships and
equipment)
Terms:                   Standard with 40 years maturity
Froject Description:    The project aims to alleviate the shortage of skilled
manpower which is posing a crucial constraint to
development in the Maldives. It will provide direct
assistance to training through the provision of
overseas fellowships to increase the supply of highly
skilled manpower and also alleviate the basic
bottleneck in manpower development, namely the lack of
people with adequate education levels to take up
training opportunities. Hence, the project supports
the expansion and upgrading of secondary education.
It will also strengthen planning within the education
and training system. Specifically the project will:
(a) finance a National Scholarship Program of about
171 study-years of overseas fellowships for higher
level training; (b) upgrade the quality of upper
secondary education at the Science Education Center
(grades 11-12) through the provision of 28 study-years
of fellowships, equipment and learning materials;
(c) create secondary education opportunities (grades
8-10) in the atolls through the establishment of a
regional secondary school in Hithadoo with 440 places;
and (d) finaace fellowships (5.7 study years) and
experts (1 staff-year) to strengthen the planning
capacity of the Ministry of Education, improve labor
market information and undertake studies relating to
both long-term teacher issues and to improving the
functioning of the labor market. Expatriate advisors
(4.4 staff-years) and fellowships (2 study-years)
would be financed to assist project implementation.



v 
Benefits and Risks:      rhe project would raise the quality and increase the
output of skilled and educated manpower thereby
alleviating the severe manpower shortages in the
Maldives. Equity of access to secondary education
would be improved by the establishment of a first
secondary school in the atolls outside Male' it. which
girls would have equal enrollments with boys. This
would raise the enrollment capacity for girls in the
secondary educaLion system by 50X. The project would
also lead to improved planning and management of the
education system and better information on the labor
market. In the long run, there would be greater
responsiveness of education and training to labor
market needs. The major risk concerns the ability of
the Government to implement the project efficiently.
Project activities will need to be coordinated between
two agencies which have had little or no experience
with IDA projects. To reduce this risk, a senior-
level Project Coordinating Committee will be
established to provide overall policy guidance and
coordination. Expert advice wouid also be provided in
procurement and accounting to the PIU and an
implementation advisor would be employed.



- vi -
Project Cost:                                  Local       Foreign      Total
------- (US$ million)--------
Training:
National Scholarship Program                            3.47        3.47
S.condary education:
Science Education Center                   0.21         0.66        0.87
Regional secondary school                  0.56         2.10        2.66
Subtotal                                0.77         2.76       3.53
Institutional development:
Improved planning capacity                 0.11         0.69        0.80
Studies                                    0.01         0.05        0.06
Subtotal                                0.12         0.74       0.86
Baseline cost                           0.89         6.97        7.86
Contingencies:
Physical                                   0.06         0.38        0.44
Price increase                             0.20         0.84        1.04
Total project cost /a                   1.15         8.19        9.34
Financing Plan:                                Local       Foreign      Total
-------'US$ million)--------
Covernment                                     1.15         -          1.15
IDA                                            -           8.19        8.19
Total                                      1.15         8.19        9.34
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY         1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995    1996
-------- … (US$ million)-----                   -    --------…
Annual          0.10    0.55    1.69    1.73    1.53    1.24    0.95    0.40
Cumulative      0.10    0.65    2.34    4.07    5.60    6.84    7.79    8.19
Economic Rate of Return:  Not applicable
Kap:                       IBRD No. 21059
/a   -o taxes are included in the total project cost, as all building
materials and equipment, books and educational materials imported for use
in the project are exempt from import duties and taxes.



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN MALDIVES
A. Introduction
1.1       The Republic of Maldives is an archipelago of about 1,200 smeA
coral islands in the Indian Ocean, grouped into 26 atolls and forming a long
narrow chain, 750 km from north to souih and 120 km from east to west. The
total land area is estimated at 298 km spread over 90,000 km2 of ocean. Few
of the islands are more than 2 km in length and only about 200 are permanently
inhabited. The country is administered as 19 atolls and 202 island communities.
The scattered nature of the country makes communications difficult and the
provision of even minimal levels of social and economic infrastructure costly.
However, despite these structural handicaps, the Maldivian economy has per-
formed remarkably well in tc.ent years. Propelled by the rapid expansion of
fisheries and tcurlsm, GDP has grown at the high rate of 10.3% p.a. since
1982. This growth was achieved with substantial inputs of foreign resources--
capital, direct investments and a wide range of expatriate managerial, skilled
and semiskilled manpower. However, growth has been concentrated largely in
the Male atoll which has received a major share of recent investments in
infrastructure and services. Thus, development has been skewed in favor of
Male and this has led to a significant migration from the other atolls. To
address this imbalance and curb migration to Male, the Government has recently
designated eight "growth poles" as regional centers of economic development.
1.2       The population of Maldives at t'ie 1985 census was estimated at
180,000, growing at an annual rate of 2.9%. Male had a population of about
46,000 or 25Z of the total, growing at 5.6% p.a. Males comprise 52% of the
population and females 48%, the disparity being due largely to the continuing
high rates of maternal mortality. The age structure of the population shows a
charactaristical!y young population with about 45% under age 15. Literacy in
the local language (Dhivehi) is estimated at 91%, reflecting widespread access
to the traditional school system (para. 1.4). However, the level of formal
education in the adult population is very low, with only 34% having completed
primary schooling and 2% secondary or higher.
B. The Education and Training System
1.3       Education in Maldives remains predominantly private, although the
role of government is expanding with the development of modern primary schools
in the atolls and the upgrading of traditional island community schools.
Private schools accounted for 65% of total enrollments in 1986 compared with



- 2 -
82Z in 1978.11 The education system comprises five years of primary education
(following informal preschooling in the "kiyavaage") in grades 1-5, two years
of middle school in grades 6-7,_/ lower secondary in grades 8-10 and upper
secondary in grades 11-12. The London University General Certificate of
Education "0" level examination is taken after grade 10 and the "A" level
after grade 12. Postsecondary education is pursued overseas for those holding
"0" and "A" level certificates.  Some formal training does exist in Malt in
the Vocational Training Center (VTC) (skilled and semiskilled craftsmen), the
Allied Health Service TraLning Center (AHSTC) (health assistants, family
health workers, midwifery nurses) and the Institute of Teacher Education (ITE)
(primary school teachers). The Hotel Training Center (HTC) has recently been
established to serve the formal training needs of the tourist industry. Rural
Youth Vocational Training Centers have been established on four atolls to
train semiskilled craftsmen. The structure of the system is given in Annex 1.
1.4       Primary education has been pursued in a dual system in the Maldives-
-a traditional system of community schools in the islands using Dhivehi as the
medium of instruction and an English-medium system introduced in 1960 and
restricted to Male. The traditional community system comprises makthabs and
madhrasas. Both schools are formal in nature, the main differences between
them bC'ng their size ard curriculum content. Makthabs provide teaching of
the Qur'an, combined with readi.g and writing in Dhivehi and simple arithme-
tic.  Madhrasas have a wider curriculum, and generally are larger and better
staffed.  All madhrasas are required to teach the new cuiculum and makthabs
will convert to it as trained teachers become availa l'   An Atoll Primary
School (APS) and an Atoll Education Center (AEC) have been established on each
of the 19 atolls.  Their running costs are financed entirely by the Government
and they are staffed by fully trained ;eachers.  They cover the first seven
grades of education (primary plus middle).  The AEC will also develop as a
focus for inservice teacher training and community activities.  There are six
primary schools in Ma14 teaching in English.
1/   In Maldives, "private" schools include the non-government fee-paying
schools in Male and community supported schools in the atolls.
2/   By 1995 it is planned to have a seven-year primary cycle (grades 1-7) by
combining the primary and middle grades and to provide full enrollment to
the 6-12 years age group.
3/   The new curriculum was introduced in 1980 and revised in 1984.  It
comprises seven subjects--Environmental Studies, Islam, Dhivehi, English,
Mathematics, Practical Arts and Physical Education. In the past the
makthabs, which were island schools, sent their outstanding students to
the madhrasa which served the p-rticular atoll. Here the students
received further functional education to fit them for administrative and
leadership roles in the islands. The Government's policy of developing a
unified modern primary education system is resulting in the makthabs and
ma' .rasas losing their traditional differences by becoming standard
prin.ary schools teaching the new curriculum in grades 1-5.



- 3 -
1.5       Secondary education is restricted entirely to Male and is taught in
English. There are five lower secondary schools (grades 8-10) with a total
enrollment of 1,094 on Mal4, two of which are private and account for nearly
50% of enrollments. The curriculum follows the traditional arts and science
streams, but in an attempt to adapt the curriculum to economic needs, courses
in commerce and fisheries science have rezently been added. Upper secondary
education (grades 11-12) is offered in a single institution, the Science
Education Center (SEC), which aims at producing graduates qualified to enter
higher education institutions overseas. Current enrollment is 117. The
curriculum comprises co-e subjects (Dhivehi, English and Islamic Studies) and
clusters of electives within the arts and science streams. Higher education
overseas is the responsibility of the National Scholarship Board (NSB) in the
Office of the President which implements the National Scholarship Program
(NSP).
C. Issues and Constraints
Quality
1.6       rhe traditional primary education system in Maldives has given the
country a high level of literacy in Dhivehi, but the quality of edacation in
modern terms is low. This is recognized by the Government and priority is
being given to upgrading the traditional community schools in the islands. In
the traditional system, there was little teaching beyond basic literacy and
n-,meracy and as the curriculum has expanded in recent years, there has been a
critical shortage of teachers trained in the modern curriculum. In the island
community schools, it is estimated that nearly 85% of teachers are untrained.
Furthermore, nearly 45Z of teachers are part-time only and pursue other jobs
or activities in addition to teaching. It is clear that the teaching cadre in
the island schools is ill-equipped to handle the new curriculum. A start has
been made on upgrading training, hut only about 10% of untrained teachers have
been reached to date.
1.7       Reinforcing the impact on quality by untrained teachers is the lack
of textbooks, teachers' guides and learning materials to support the new
curriculum. Some progress has been made and textbooks and teachers' guides
have started to reach the primary schools. But progress has been retarded by
the lack of specialist personnel ir. the Ministry of Education (MOE) to handle
the writing and production of pedagogical materials. The rapid expansion of
enrollments has also diluted efforts to extend the curriculum throughout the
island schools and supply the necessary pedagogical materials. Thus, quanti-
tative expansion, which has improved educational access in many atolls, has
not been accompanied by a significant improvement in the quality of primary
education.
1.8       Issues of curriculum and teaching standards also affect quality at
the secondary level and, in addition, language becomes an issue. The London
external examinations are felt to be necessary in Maldives because they give
Maldivians an internationally recognized qualification required for postsec-
ondary training which, of necessity, must be undertaken overseas.  The curric-
ula are rigorous and are not adequately supported by relevant pedagogical
materials or properly equipped laboratories for science courses. Furthermore,



the teaching language is English and this requires Lhat secondary teachers be
recruited from abroad.  "hey come mainly from Sri Lanka and are not of partic-
ularly high quality.  Their standard of English is generally quite low and
this makes communication difficult, especially when the studenta themselves do
not have a firm grasp of the language. Turnover rates are high as many teach-
ers stay only long enough to add "overseas experience" to their resumes before
seeking more remunerative employment elsewhere. The result is sLen in the "A"
level pass rates which have been extremely low, In recent years only about
one-fifth of tLe entering class has passed the examination two years later.
Access and Equity
1.9       Maldivian children enjoy a high level of access to primary education
with a gross enrollment ratio of nearly 90Z.  However, the primary schools
enroll many overage children who are being phased out under current education
policies (para. 1.27). Beyond the primary level, gross enrollment ratios fall
rapidly to around 34% and 9% at the middle and secondary levels, respectively.
Unlike the situation in many neighboring countries, females have long enjoyed
equal access to education in the Maldives. This is reflected in the high
female literacy rate which is slightly above that of males. C'>Crent enroll-
ment data confirm the situation. In the pre-primary grades, girls comprise
nearly 52% of enrollments; in primary and middle schools, thz rates are around
491. However, at the secondary level, the female enrollment rate falls to 40X
and at the SEC it is only 31%. Historically, this has always been the pattern
at the upper secondary level and has clearly restricted the opportunities for
women to pursue higher education overseas. The result is the preponderance of
males at the higher skill levels of the labor force.
1.10      Although equitable access to education by sex has been achieved in
Maldives through the middle school level, the introduction of English-medium
education in Male in 1960 created another inequity based on access to modern-
sector jobs. As the economy has developee, the work force has become more
sophisticated and the demand for higher-level skills, whici require higher
levels of education, has increased accordingly. Since English-medium
secor.dary education is confined to Male, the children of the atolls have been
deprived of educational opportunities beyond the primary (or in a few
;nstances middle school) level. They are thus deprived of opportunities to
pt.rsue higher skill training and entry into the most lucrative jobs in the
l.bor market. This situation has contributed to the high level of migration
.o Male as families have sought to overcome the limited educational oppor-
tunities in the atoll:.  The Government has recognized the equity problem and
is responding by developing grades 6 and 7 in the APSs and AECs and proposing
a new secondary school outside MalA. The inclusion of Englisn in the new pri-
mary curriculum will also enhance the prospects for the entry of island school
children to secondary education and also into employpent in the high-wage sec-
tors such as tourism which;require a knowledge of English.
Teacher Training and Deployment
1.11      Preservice teacher training was introduced in 1977 and is provided
only for primary teachers in the Institute of Teacher Education. The ITE has



-5-
two programs, a two-year course for island primary school teachers in Dhivehi
with a first year enrollment of 75 trainees in 1987 and a one-year English-
medium course for Male primary school teachers with 19 trainees. ITE's
enrollment capacity is planned to double by 1991 and will be adequate to meet
the needs of expanding primary education to provide full enrollment of the
6-12 years age group by 1995. The major problem lies in the quality of the
trainees. Although the formal entry level to ITE's two programs is the
Junior School Certificate (grade 7), the severe shortage of people at this
level and the competition from other sectors have deprived the ITE of
adequately qualified trainees. Thus, the majority of trainees have been
recruited as primary school graduates (grade 5) and the first year of the
two-year course has of necessity been devoted to remedial education. This
situation is starting to improve as the supply of people with middle or some
secondary educatien increases. Inservice training is available for both
trained and untrained teachers. The latter group poses a particular problem
because it is concentrated mainly in the island community schools (para. 1.6)
and greater effort is needed to expand training opportunities. Secondary
teachers must be trained overseas and consequently few Maldivians have gained
the necessary qualifications. Thus, the secondary teaching cadre is about 75%
expatriate and suffers from high turnover and generally poor quality
(para. 1.8).
1.12      It seems that there are no major problems in deploying primary
teachers to the islands.  The teachers show little reluctance to being posted
to rural areas (in contrast to common experience elsewhere) and the rate of
dep'.oyment is constrained only by the supply of trained teachers. The Govern-
ment is committed to providing each community school with one or two trained
teachers, and paying their salaries. These teachers are bonded for four years
following completion of their training.  Part-time teachers, who comprise
nearly 45% of the total (para. 1.6), are recruited locally. There is no
evidence of significant migration of island teachers to Male and it is
reported that female teachers in particular prefer to stay within a familiar
environment, even as less well-paid community teachers. The high turnover of
expatriate teachers has not been met with offers of extra incentives. The
Government recognizes that the high turnover rate has a negative effect on the
quality of education but to offer extra incentives to a particular group would
be an expensive precedent in an economy which depends heavily on expatriates
in a number of sectors. The question of incentives should be carefully
considered but in any case the Government should make gretter efforts to
recruit higher-quality, more reliable staff in the main market, Sri Lanka, and
to broaden the market to other sources of potential recruitment.
Management and Planning
1.13      The management and planning of education is the responsibility of
the Ministry of Education. However, given the widely dispersed nature of the
education system, communications are difficult and education management out-
side Male has of necessity devolved to atoll administrations and headmasters.
The Government has recognized the importance of decentralized management and
plans to give the AECs a broader role as education, training and community
centers with the headmaster acting in a supervisory role. This will require
special training for headmasters a need which has been identified in the ten-
year Education Plan (para. 1.24).



-6-
1.14      To date, management has been able to handle the rapid expansion of
enrollments (42% in 1980-86) but the management cadre is small. If quality
improvements and a more cost-effective use of resources are to be achieved
while the system continues to expand, more sophisticated management will be
required and the necessary tools put in place to permit management improve-
ments. The key to this is to improve the information base and develop a moni-
toring and evaluation capability to permit managers to assess continuously the
impact of education activities and the level of studenL achievement. Educa-
tion planners will have an important role in advising managers. Education
planning is undertaken by a small group within MOE which has relied on outside
assistance for major planning tasks such as formulation of the ten-year Educa-
tion Plan. This group needs strengthening. It must develop the skills not
merely to draft formal plans, but also to use the monitoring and evaluation
system to provide managers with the long-term implications of ongoing
educational activities.
Education Finance
1.15      The allocation of resources to education in the Maldives compares
favorably with neighboring countries. During the period 1979-86, the share of
education in total government expenditure increased from 6.7% to 7.7% and was
estimated to have reached 9.2% in 1987. Education's share of government
recurrent expenditure increased more significantly from 10.3% in 1979 to 14.1%
in 1986, although most of the jump occurred in 1983 as the result of a salary
increase for teachers. The distribution of MOE's recurrent expenditures
between subsectors in 1986 was: administration 17%, primary 26%, secondary
38%, vocational training 9%, teacher training and curriculum development 7%
and maintenance 3%. The high allocation to secondary relative to primary
education reflects in part the high cost of expatriate teachers, but also the
low unit costs of primary education (only 10% of the secondary figure)
resulting from low salaries for untrained community school teachers and the
contributions of the community to primary schooling. It is notable that
salaries and allowances account for only 65% of recurrent education
expenditures, leaving 35% for textbooks, learning materials, maintenance,
etc. Thus, Maldives, unlike its neighbors, has managed to avoid transforming
its education budget into a "payroll budget" in which salaries and supplements
account for 95-98% of recurrent outlays. Nevertheless, the figures are
distorted to some extent by Male secondary schools. In island community
schools, salaries and allowances account for 84% of recurrent expenditures,
thus limiting the funds available for supplying the education materials so
necessary to improving the quality of education.
1.16      The private sector (including community schools) plays an important
role in education in Maldives, although it is declining as the Government
steps up its efforts to improve the community schools through financing the
salaries of trained teachers (para. 1.24) and by establishing APSs and AECs.
Private schools still account for 65% of total enrollments, down from 82% in
1978. Private schools charge fees while Government schools charge only for
uniforms and textbooks. In addition to fees, community inputs to school
building and maintenance are substantial, and it has been estimated that the
total private contribution to education is equivalent to about 10% of
government outlays. Unit costs for community schools are less than half those



- 7-
for government primary schools in the atolls. In Mal4, unit costs for primary
schools are between two (private) and eight (public) times as high as the unit
costs in the most expensive atoll schools (the AECs). This reflects in large
part the much higher proportion of trained (and therefore better paid)
teachers in Male schools, especially in the public sector. At the secondary
level, the unit costs in public secondary schools are nearly twice those in
private schools, reflecting the preponderance of expatriate teachers in the
public sector.
Labor Market
1.17      The labor force is characterized by a moderate overall participation
rate (52%) reflecting widespread subsistence activities, a high level of
literacy (91X), extreme youthfulness (median age 17 years) and a low level of
formal education. Only about half the persons employed in modern, white-
collar occupations have received an education beyond the primary level.
Employment has expanded rapidly wth the number of paid employees increasing
2.5 times between 1977 and 1985.-  The major sectors of expansion were
community and social services, tourism and manufacturing. The public sector
accounted for about half the increase in paid employment in 1977-85 but the
increase was proportionately greater in the atolls than in Male. The latter's
share of public sector employment fell from 73% in 1977 to 53% in 1985
reflecting the Government's policy of decentralizing the provision of social
services. Although no accurate data exist, unemployment has been estimated at
about 4% in the atolls and somewhat higher in Male. Given the demand for male
workers in the construction and tourism sectors, and the relatively high male
participation rate (78%) in the labor force, unemployment in Male is likely to
be predominantly among females and reflects, in part at least, migration from
the islands in search of jobs and better education for children. Employment
data are given in Annex 2.
1.18      The labor market in Maldives is tight with excess demand for both
unskilled and skilled workers. There has been some difficulty in attracting
workers (especially males) to fill unskilled jobs because of the strong social
pull on individuals to remain in the home island where "affluent subsistence"
has provided an attractive traditional way of life. Workers entering paid
employment often stay only long enough to reach a savings target before
returning home. This increases labor turnover and creates an unreliable
supply of workers especially in labor intensive sectors such as tourism and
construction. There are significant shortages of skilled Maldivians at all
levels, largely because the secondary schools have not expanded rapidly enough
to supply people with enough education to take advantage of training
opportunities which, at the higher levels, are mainly overseas. Employment in
4/   The concept of "paid employees" is used here because it is unaffected by
a change in the definition of employment between the 1977 and 1985
censuses. This change substantially reduced the number of "own account
and family workers" (mainly females) in the labor force leading to a
smaller enumerated labor force in 1985 than 1977.



-8-
occupations requiring some degree of education and skills 2/ more than doubled
during 1977-85. This indicates that many workers are entering jobs for which
they are educationally and technically underqualified. itecourse has been made
to the recruitment of significant numbers of expatriates without which the
education system and several key sectors (tourism, fish processing, shipping
and garment manufacturing) would be unable to function. The result of these
distortions to the labo-- market has been upward pressure on wages and higher
levels of labor turnover.
1.19      A unique characteristic of the labor market is the bonding system,
whereby all school graduates at grade 7 and above are bonded for various
periods to serve in the public sector. If applied rigidly, this would guaran-
tee the supply of labor to the public sector regardless of the wage rate and
the ability of the public sector to absorb productively the additional labor.
Consequently, it would distort the flow of labor to the private sector, exa-
cerbate labor shortages and strengthen upward wage pressures. However, the
Government is applying the bonding system flexibly. It views the system as an
obligation for educated people to serve for minimum periods in the public
sector in jobs appropriate to their qualifications. However, there is no
guarantee of public-sector employment and if suitable jobs are not available,
individuals are free to seek employment in the open market. This applies par-
ticularly to school leavers without further training. For those with higher
training, the bonding system ensures a regular supply of skilled people to the
public sector who, in due course, are free to seek jobs in the private sector
according to market demand. It is noteworthy that this freedom has not
resulted in any significant out-migration of educated people. For skills
which are concentrated in the private sector (e.g., tourism), bonds are
regularly waived. Thus, trainees from the Hotel Training Center are permitted
direct entry to the private sector on graduation.
Manpower Development
1.20      The remarkable growth of the economy in recent years has resulted
from substantial investments over the past decade or so in infrastructure,
industry and services.  However this investment, which has brought rapid tech-
nological changes, has not been accompanied by a similar development of
education and training capacity to provide the skilled manpower necessary to
service the new investments. This has resulted in the import of skilled expa-
triate workers and in many instances the employment of Maldivians lacking
adequate educational and skill levels. The manpower constraint is serious and
muqt be alleviated if future growth prospects are not to be impaired.  The
edu.ation level of the labor force must be raised and Maldivians trained in
numbers not merely sufficient to meet the growth of the skilled labor force
but a so, in time, to replace the expatriates.
1.21      The basic bottleneck lies in the secondary education system which
has not expanded fast enough to provide trainable people with sufficient
5/   Professional, technical, administrative, clerical, sales and service
workers.



- 9 -
formal educatior to pursue higher-level training overseas. Overseas
fellowships are financed in significant numbers by external donors, but slots
often remain unfilled because of the lack of qualified candidates. In 1986
theae were only 1,211 students enrolled in grade 8 ang,above and only 35
candidates passed the "O" level and 25 the "A" level - examinations. The
Government is addressing the problem by expanding secondary schooling in the
atolls and and transferring primary sections from the secondary schools in
MalA to free up places for additional secondary students. To service this
expansion, enrollments in grades 6-7 have been expanding rapidly and totaled
2,950 in 1986--a nearly fourfold increase from 1980.
1.22      Because of the small numbers involved, higher-level training will
continue to be undertaken overseas. Maldivians study overseas under the
National Scholarship Program, under which qualified students ar- financed by
bilateral donors after approval by the National Scholarship Board. All
students are bonded to Government employment on return from ov rseas study.
At present 52 students are studying at universities overseas.-   Shorter
training courses overseas are also financed bilaterally. In the past, donors
have been relatively free to choose the courses they will support and the NSB
has been able to give little guidance on manpower priorities. However,
efforts are now being made to ensure that scholarship awards are made more
relevant to manpower priorities. A survey of high-level manpower requirements
in the public sector has been completed by the Ministry of Planning and
Development (MPD). These requirements will be reviewed in Le.ms of the
Government's overall development priorities and the manpower priorities of the
various departments. The NSB will then be able to develop criteria for the
award of scholarships which reflect the country's high-level manpower needs.
MPD will continue to keep manpower issues and priorities under review and
advise the NSB accordingly.
1.23      Within the Maldives, the several training institutions in MalA (VTC,
AHSTC, ITE, HTC) are performing creditably. They have also suffered from a
lack of adequately qualified entrants, but the situation is improving since
they are not dependent upon successful "O" or "A" level candidates but take
inp4ts at a lower level. The VTC, for example, is now able to attract
increasing numbers of grade 8 students although the entry standard is grade 7;
there is a high demand for VTC graduates. On-the-job training, both technical
and administrative, is carried out in several ministries. This is done
informally and has long been the method by which workers with little formal
6/   This was an abnormally high number of passes because the candidates in
that year received an extra six months tuition following a change of
examination date from June to January.
7/ Students are studying mainly in Britain (11), Australia (11), New Zealand
(5) and at the American University, Beirut (5) under USAID financing.
Ten students are enrolled at the University of the South Pacific, Fiji,
financed by Commonwealth Training Aid. Twenty-eight students are
enrolled in arts/social science courses, 17 in engineering and 7 in
science.



- 10 -
education have been trained to fill key middle-level posts in government. All
these efforts are admirable, but they have st.ll fallen well short of
providing the numbers of trained and educated Maldivians required to meet the
manpower needs of an increasingly complex and rapidly growing economy.
D. Government Policies and Plans
1.24      The Government's policies and plans for education and training up to
1995 are §Iscribea in the "Education and Human Resources Development Plan,
1985-95."_   The Plan indicates a clear understanding 'f the issues and con-
straints affecting education and training and proposes appropriate policies to
alleviate them. The major objectives are to provide for tniversal primary
education, make education more relevant to the local environment and train the
manpower necessary for national development. The Plan demonstrates realism in
recognizing that due caution should be exercised in planning an education sys-
tem under conditions of manpower scarcity. The Government is aware that man-
power deficits can turn relatively quickly into surpluses, especially for non-
technical categories as has been shown in many instances elsewhere. Secondary
enrollments will therefore be kept under regular review. The Government plans
to reduce the disparities in educational opportunities between Male and the
atolls and establish a uniform primary education system which teaches the full
primary curriculum in all schools. This process has already started with the
establishment of the APSs and AECs. Each community school will be supplied
with one or two trained teachers and supporting educational materials.
Untrained teachers will be upgraded. It is planned to extend primary
education to grades 1-7 to cover fully the 6-12 years age group by 1995.
Nonformal education will be stressed to ensure that the high literacy level is
retained in the population and to serve out-of-school youth.
1.25      Greater relevance of education to the local environment will be
pursued through the development of practical and work-oriented skills in
grades 6 and 7, recognizing that the latter will be the terminal point for
many students.  Environmental education will also be stressed in the curricu-
lum. In support of manpower development, the AEC will introduce rural voca-
tional training programs and become centers for inservice teacher training and
supervision. The ITE and VTC will be expanded to provide more trained teach-
ers and craftsmen. To provide the qualified inputs to expanded training
courses, secondary education will be expanded and dizersified to make it more
relevant to direct employment.  A nei seconeary school will be built in the
south, thus creating the first educational opportunities at this level outside
Male. A second school is planned for the future in the north. The SEC will
be upgraded with a view to raising the pass rate at "A" level. Diversifica-
tion of the curriculum has already commenced with the introduction of courses
in fisheries science and commerce. Improved labor market information will
8/   The overall plan is broken down into three-year plans which set physical
targets and resource requirements for the three-year periods. These sub-
plans are reviewed by MOE and MPD every six months to monitor progress in
implementation.



- 11 -
underpin manpower development to ensure relevance between the education and
training system and the economy's manpower requirements.
1.26      Although the Government is pursuing sound policies, their plans to
achieve them are ambitious. It is unlikely that they will achieve all their
goals by 1995, but it is also likely that progress towaros these goals will be
substantial by that year. According to the Government's own estimates, the
financial implication of mpeting planned targets by 1995 .s that education
could well claim around 2? of the Government's budget by 2000. This is more
than twice the current alLocation. Even if recent high levels of CDP growth
are maintained, the strong expatriate component of the economy (capital and
labor) results in large factor payments to the rest of the world, thus
substantially reducing the GDP growth increment available to Maldivians.
Given the many competing claims on scarce budgetary resources, it is unlikely
that the education sector would be able to double its present proportion even
by 2000. The other alternative is to seek greater contributions from private
sources, but this would be difficult in the Maldives where a significant part
of the education system is already supported by community resources and the
prospects of increasing them is limited. This is already apparent from the
increasing role Government has had to play in upgrading the quality of commu-
nity schools in the atolls. Nevertheless, introducing fees in government
schools especially at the secondary level would augment resources and improve
equity.:/
1.27      The institutional constraint will also be at work.  The planned
expansion of the ITE will give it the capacity to train the required teachers
to meet expanding enrollments, but a significant effort is needed to provide
upgrading training for the large numbers of untrained teachers in the atolls
and to provide inservice training to keep the stll1s of trained teachers up to
date. A large expansion of school facilities to meet expanding enrollments
will not be required. These already exist and as the many overage students in
primary schools are phased out, additional places will become available to the
primary age group. However, a supporting effort will be needed to handle the
overage students who are unable to enroll in a primary school.-   A good
start has been made in raising the quality of education in the atolls through
the establishment of APCs and AECs. But to raise standards in the 200 commu-
nity schools will require a major effort to integrate inputs to provide
trained teachers, textbooks and other educational materials to teach the new
curriculum. Close supervision from the AECs will be necessary. All this will
require a major managerial effort and the Ministry of Education will need to
be strengthened accordingly. Greater planning and evaluation capacity must be
9/   This is unlikely to happen in the foreseeable future.  In 1985 a
ministerial committee reviewed the question of inLroducing fees in
government schools. A decision was made against their introduction
partly for reasons of political sensitivity but also because the benefit
would be substantially reduced by the administrative cost of collection.
10/ The Condensed Education Program which covers grades 1-7 in three years
has been developed to service the needs of out-of-school youth.



- 12 -
built up as well as the supporting professional services in curriculum
development, textbook and materials production and statistics.
E. External Assistance to Education and Training
1.28      A number of donors have been active in supporting education and
training in Maldives.  The development of modern primary education has been
supported by Japan which financed 19 APSs (US$7.8 million) and UNICEF which
financed 19 AECs (US$0.3 million). Japan (US$4 million) and UNCDF (US$1.4 mil-
lion) are also financing two new primary schools at present under construction
in Male. UNICEF has also been active in upgrading island community schools
through the supply of building materials and the development of educational
broadcasting. Teacher education has been assisted by UNESCO through the
development of the ITE (US$0.9 million) and Australia which has supported the
professional development of teacher educators. UNICEF has assisted in
inservice training to upgrade teachers in the island community schools. The
Education Development Center which is responsible for curriculum, textbook and
educational materials development has been assisted by UNESCO (US$0.9 mil-
lion). UNICEF has also assisted in curriculum development. Skills training
has been given substantial assistance through UNDP support for the VTC and the
HTC. New courses in machining and the building trades have been established
at the VTC, workshops reequipped, teaching materials developed and overseas
training for instructors provided (US$0.5 million). The HTC has been
established as a fully equipped and staffed operational training center for
hotel and catering occupations (US$0.5 million). UNDP has also financed a
manpower advisor who has recently completed a draft study on manpower issues,
including long-term projections. External assistance has been generally
consistent with the Government's priorities but in some instances the impact
of the investments has been reduced by the lack of 3killed Maldivians to act
as counterparts to technical assistance experts.
F. IDA Strategy and Rationale for Involvement
1.29      IDA has reviewed the overall status of education and training in
Maldives and two major areas suitable for external financing are evident:
(a) raising the quality of primary education in the islands and the related
need to expand and improve primary teacher training; and (b) the need to
expand the supply of skilled manpower. Both areas have received donor
support, especially primary education and teacher training. Several donors
are assisting the development of preservice teacher training at the ITE and
inservice training to upgrade island teachers. At present, Government efforts
with donor assistance are addressing satisfactorily the problems in this
area. In its initial operation in the education sector, IDA has therefore
decided to focus on manpower development where further external assistance is
needed. The proposed project responds to the shortage of skilled manpower



- 13 -
which is posing a crucial constraint to the development of Maldives.U'1 The
project provides direct assistance to training to increase the supply of
highly skilled manpower through overseas fellowships, but also seeks to
alleviate the basic bottleneck in manpower development, namely the shorta3e of
people with adequate education levels to take up training opportunities.
Hence, the project supports the expansion and upgrading of secondary
education. The crucial role of the MOE in managing an expanding education
system will be strengthened under the project through reinforcing its planning
capacity. The proposed project is viewed as the first in a series of
operations to support the long-term development of human resources in
Maldives. Consequently, the project includes studies and technical assistance
to address long-term issues and provide the context for the development of
future projects.
G. Previous IDA Lending Experience
1.30      There has been no previous lending in the education sector.  The
only two projects financed in Maldives have been in the fisheries sector. The
First Fisheries Project (Credit 907-MAL) which closed in March 1983, after a
one-year delay, was implemented satisfactorily and met its objectives. The
fishermen's training component was particularly successful due to the use of
competent corsultants offering training which was highly relevant to the
target group. The reasons given in the PPAR (No. 5587 of April 5, 1985) for
the success of the project were strong government commitment to the project,
simple and flexible project design, frequent supervision with a strong
technical content and effective monitoring by the Project Coordinating
Committee. The Second Fisheries Project (Credit 1320-MAL) is being implemen-
ted satisfactorily.
11/ IBRD, "Maldives - Managing Rapid Economic Growth," December 15, 1986,
Chapter 2.



- 14 -
II.  THE PROJECT
A. Origin of the Project
2.1       The project originated in discussions between IDA and the Government
in January 1984.  A formal request to IDA for an education and traiaing fel-
lowship project was made in June 1984. This was followed by discussions on
the scope of the project, and it was agreed that the project should be broad-
ened beyond the financing of fellowships to address the basic constraints to
the development of education and training in the Maldives. A review of the
sector was undertaken as part of the economic mission in April 1986, and this
was followed by a preparation mission carried out by the UNESCO Cooperative
Program in May 1987. The preject was preappraised by IDA in January-February
1988 and appraised in May-June 1988.
B. Project Objectives and Scope
2.2       The project is designed to alleviate skilled manpower shortages
through expanding opportunities for higher level training overseas and by
increasing the capacity and improving the quality of secondary education in
Maldives.  The project would also strengthen planning capacity within the
education and training system and improve labor market information which would
lead in time to greater responsiveness of education and training to labor
market needs. Specifically the project would:
(a)  finance a program of overseas fellowships for higher-level training;
(b) upgrade the quality of upper secondary education at the Science
Education Center through provision of equipment, educational mate-
rials and staff development.
(c) expand secondary education opportunities in the atolls through the
construction, equipping and staffing of a new secondary school in
Hithadoo.
(d) improve the planning capacity of MOE, strengthen project management
capacity in MPD, finance a study to develop appropriate policies for
recruitment ana deployment of teachers, finance a study to develop
labor market strategies and establish a labor market information
system.
C. Project Description
2.3       The project would consist of the following components:
Training                            - National Scholarship Program
Secondary education                 - Science Education Center
- Regional secondary school
Institutional development           - Improved planning capacity
- Studies



- 15 -
National Scholarship Program  (Estimated baseline cost US$3.47 million)
2.4       The project would significantly enhance the supply of high-level
manpower through financing 171 study-years of overseas fellowship training. A
training needs survey of the public sector has been completed by MPi) and
requirements identified for the period 1988-95. These were reviewed by the
Government in terms of its overall development priorities and the manpower
-riorities of the various departments. A fellowship program was then
developed covering the 171 study-years which reflected these sectoral
priorities and also the appropriate locations, types and levels of training
courses. The program was discussed with IDA during negotiations and found to
be acceptable. The number of fellowships requiring candidates with "0" and
"tA" levels was assessed in terms of the number of school outputs likely to
become available with these qualifications during the project period. It is
estimated that the outputs will be adequate to service the fellowship needs of
the project, as well as other fellowships financed bilaterally during the
project period. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
the fellowship program would be implemented in accordance with administrative
pro'-edures which are satisfactory to IDA (para. 5.1(a)).
Science Educatior. Center (Estimated baseline cost US$0.87 million)
2.5       This institution is the country's only upper secondary school offer-
ing grades 11 and 12 and as such plays a vital role in producing candidates
for entry to higher education overseas. Its total capacity is 120 and current
enrollments are 117, with 56 in grade 12. There is a teaching staff of 10.
The SEC has suffered from poor quality and high turnover among its expatriate
staff (80Z of total), many of whom have inadequate English and insufficient
grasp of their subjects to teach at the "A' level. The SEC has also suffered
from inadequate facilities and out-of-date equipment. The result has been
very low pass rates which average only about 202 of the entering class. The
grade 12 output capacity of 60 is adequate to service the long-term needs for
university entrants if added to the approximately 30 private students enrolled
annually in "A" level courses overseas. The priority need is to raise the
pass rate at the SEC by improving the quality of teaching and facilities. The
Government is constructing additional buiidings to alleviate overcrowded
conditions and the project will finance bcoks, teaching materials and
laboratory equipment. The long-term solution to the teacher problem is the
recruitment of qualified Maldivians to replace expatriates and the project
will finance 28 study-years of overseas fellowships for seven Maldivians to
train as teachers. In the meantime, the Government must impreve its efforts
to recruit and retain better-quality expatriate teachers by more intensive
efforts in the major market (Sri Lanka), extending the search to other
Anglophone countries and by increased recruitment from voluntary organiza-
tions   In addition, improved monetary incentives should be considered.  In
response to these problems, the Government has prepared a draft strategy for
improving the recruitment and retention of expatriate secondary teachers. It
was discussed during negotiations and found to be satisfactory. The result,
in due course, would be better qualitv teaching in all the secondary schools
in Maldives.



- 16 -
Regional Secondary School (Estimated baseline cost US$2.66 million)
2.6       Secondary ed-ucation is restricted to Male, where five schools
enroll 1,094 students in grades 8-10. In support of the Government's policy
of extending opportunities for secondary schooling beyond Male and also its
priority for expanding the supply of secondary graduates, the project would
finance the establishment of a regional secondary school (RSS) for grades
8-10 in Hithadoo on Addu Atoll, the major population center outside Male. The
school would have an enrollment of 440 divided equally between boys and
girls. Students would be drawn from the atolls to the south of Mal4 and
adequate numbers tf grade 7 graduates will be available to fill the entry
year. Where required, students would board in private homes - a tradition
widespread in the Maldives. The "O" level syllabus will be followed but an
initial remedial year will be added to the three-year program to make up for
the deficiency in English among children coming from Dhivehi-medium schools.
This "bridge" class has been successfully introduced for some students in Male
secondary schools who have had a poor preparation in English. Staffing
requirements would include a principal and 20 teachers plus ancillary staff.
Adequate rental housing is available locally for staff. Due to the lack of
trained Maldivian teachers, the principal and 17 teachers would initially be
expatriates financed by the Government. An overseas fellowship program of 68
study-years to train 17 Maldivians to replace expatriates would be financed
under the project. The project would also finance civil works, furniture,
equipment and teaching materiale for the new school.
I_eroved PlanniLg Capacity. (Estimated baseline cost US$0.80 million)
2.7       The project would support the strengthening of several functions
through the appointment of specialist staff, which would lead to improved
planning of the education and training system and improved functioning of the
labor market. The Education Planning Section of MOE will recruit an education
planner/economist to analyse the important issues of resource allocation
within the education system, analyse financial constraints and, in conjunction
with MPD, analyse the relationships between education and manpower
requirements. An education evaluator would also be recruited to monitor and
evaluate education programs, periodically review testing and examination
systems, and keep management inforaed of the impact of programs and the
achievement of students. The recruitment of a labor market information
specialist to the Department of Public Works and Labor (DPWL) would strengthen
and extend the work already started on the collection of labor statistics.
The project would finance an expatriate specialist for six months to work with
the local specialist in setting up and implementing a labor market information
system which would provide data on work force, employment, wages, etc. to the
manpower analysts in NPD. These data would strengthen policy making in the
labor market. Terms of reference for the specialist have been prepared and
az-e acceptable to the Association. The project would finance overseas
fellowships for the three local specialists. Duting negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that the three local specialists would oe
recruited by May 31, 1989 and that the labor market information system would
become operational by March 31, 1991 (para. 5.1(b) and (c)). To strengther
project management in MPD, a project implementation unit (PIU) has been
established under the project to be staffed by a project manager, procurement



- 17 -
officer, accountant and assistant accountant. The project would finance
overseas training for PIU staff and also finance three expatriate experts to
act respectively as advisors on overall project implementation, procurement
and accounting.
Studies (Estimated baseline cost US$0.06 million)
2.8       Two studies would be financed under the project which would guide
future policy in two important areas. They are:
(a) Labor Strategy. In recent years, a number of studies have been
carried out relating to labor administration, labor legislation,
industrial manpower and training, labor market surveys, and medium-
and long-term manpower requirements. It is now timely for the
Government to assess the usefulness of these studies in contributing
to policy development. The proposed review would draw together the
results of the various studies and produce a strategy and plan of
action for the Government to develop a consistent approach to such
major issues as employment conditions, wages, labor migration, etc.
(b) Teacher Recruitment, Training and Deployment. Teacher issues will
continue to be crucial in the foreseeable future.  Progress is being
made in training and deploying teachers to the atolls but many other
problems exist, Large numbers of untrained teachers remain in the
atolls, the continued payment of significant numbers of atoll teach-
ers by the community is problematic, middle-school teacher training
has to be developed, the role of different modes of teacher training
has to be defined, the training of secondary teachers and the ulti-
mate replacement of expatriates needs to be carefully planned given
the shortage of secondary-school leavers available for teacher
training. All these issues are .inked and should be viewed as a
systemic problem. The proposed study would provide a strategy and
plan of action which would guide the Government in allocating
resources efficiently to recruit, train and deploy teachers at all
levels equitably throughout the counzry.
The project would finance 3 staff-months of expatriate experts to undertake
each of the studies--a total of 6 staff-months. Study outlines have been
prepared and are acceptable to the Association (Annex 3).
D. Technical Assistance Summary
2.9       The project would finance 275 study-years of fellowships aimed at
providing nigh-level training for Maldiviane overseas.  The fellowships would
include a national component (171 study-years), concentratei in priority areas
as determined by the Government (para. 2.4). Emphasis would also be given to
education fellowships (96 study-years) which would train secondary teachers
for the SEC and the regional secondary school wit} a view to replacing
expatriates in due course.  The remaining fellowships (7.7 study-years) would
strengthen planning capacity and project management.  Expatriate experts (5.4
staff-years) would also strengthen project management and upgrade planning
capacity.  Details of the program are to be found in Annex 4.



- 18 -
III. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING AND IMPLEMENTATION
A. Costs
3.1       The total cost of the project is estimated at US$9.34 million
equivalent. The estimated cost by project component is summaliized in
Table 3.1 and by category of expenditure in Table 3.2. (Detailed costs by
component and category are given in Annex 5 and project expenditure by year
and purpose in Annex 6).
Table 3.1: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENT
Foreign
Rf million             US$ million         as Z of
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Total  Total
Training:
National Scholarship
Program                 -      31.52   31.52      -       3.47    3.47    100
Secondary education:
Science Education
Center                 1.99    5.96    7.95    0.21    0.66    0.87          75
Regional secondary
school                 5.08   19.10   24.18    0.56    2,10    2.66         79
Subtotal             7.07   25.06   32.13    0.77    2.76    3.53         78
Institutioval development:
Improved planning
capacity               0.98    6.25    7.23    0.11    0.69    0.80         86
Studies                  0.06    0.49    0.55    0.01    0.05    0.06          89
Subtotal             1.04    6.74    7.78    0.12    0.74    0.86         87
Baseline cost        8.11   63.32   71.43    0.89    6.97    7.86         89
Contingencies:
Physical                 0.48    3.54    4.02    0.06    0.28    0.44          88
Price increase            1.84    7.66    9.50    0.20    0.84    1.04         81
Subtotal             2.32   11.20   13.52    0.26    1.22    1.48         83
Total project cost 10.43   74.52   84.95    1.15    8.19    9.34           88



- 19 -
Table 3.2: SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Foreigr
Rf million             US$ million        as X of
Local Foreign   Total   Local Foreign   Total  total
Investment costs:
Civil works              1.20    4.55    5.75    0.13    0.50    0.63        80
Furniture                0.27    0.26    0.53    0.03    0.03    0.06        50
Equipment, books and
educational materials 0.14    2.61    2.75    0.01    0.29    0.30         95
Technical assistance:
Specialists            0.60    5.37    5.97    0.07    0.59    0.66        90
Fellowships            --     50.53   50.53    --        5.56    5.56    100
Subtotal               0.60   55.90   56.50    0.07    6.15    6.22        99
Recurrent costs:
Staff payments           5.54    --       5.54    0.61    --       0.61       0
Operations and           0.36    --       0.36    0.04    --        0.04      0
maintenance
Subtotal               5.90    --       5.90    0.65    --       0.65       0
Baseline cost          8.11   63.32   71.43    0.89    6.97    7.86        89
Contingencies:
Physical                 0.48    3.54    4.02    0.06    0.38    0.44        88
Price increase           1.84    7.66    9.50    0.20    0.84    1.04        81
Subtotal               2.32   11.20   13.52    0.26    1.22    1.48        83
Total project cost   10.43   74.52   84.95    1.15    8.19    9.34         88
3.2       Baseline costs are estimated at December 1988 prices.  Construction
costs are based on contract awards for similar facilities in Maldives.
Furniture costs for the RSS are estimated at about 10% of construction costs.
Equipment costs are estimated on the basis of master lists already drawn up
and recent catalague prices a.d include transportation and installation
costs. Unit area and capital costs per student place are reasonable compared
with Bank-wide averages (Annex 7). The initial supply of consumables for all
institutions has been estimated at 10 of equipment costs. Building materials
and equipment, books and educational materials imported for use in the project
are all exempt from import duties and taxes. Consultant costs include
salaries, allowances and airfare. Unit costs for fellowships are based on
actual unit costs of fellows currently studying overseas and average about
US$1,700 per month.



- 20 -
3.3       The contingency allowance of US$1.48 million (about 19% of baseline
costs) includes contingencies for unforeseen physical conditions and for
estimated price increases. Physical contingencies were estimated at 10% of
baseline costs for civil works, furniture and equipment, books and educational
materials and 5% for all other categories. Price increase contingencies were
calculated for both local and foreign costs in accordance with the following
expected average annual price increase percentages:
FY 89     90     91      92     93      94     95
Foreign                  3       3       3      4       4      4      4
Local:
Civil works        18      18     14      14      9       9      9
Other               5       5       5      5      5       5      5
Accordingly, aggregated price increases are estimated at about 13% of baseline
costs plus physical contingencies.
3.4       The foreign exchange component of US$8.19 million (about 88% of
total estimated project costs) has been calculated on the basis of the
following foreign exchange percentages: civil works - 80%, furniture - 50%,
equipment, books and educational materials - 95%, specialists - 90%,
fellowships - 100% and recurrent costs - 0% (Table 3.2).
B. Financing
3.5       The proposed IDA Credit of US$8.19 million equivalent would finance
about 88Z of the total estimated project cost. The Government would be
responsible for the remaining 12% of project costs or about US$1.15 million
equivalent, equal to the local cost of the project (Table 3.3). The IDA
Credit would cover the full estimated foreign exchange cost of the project.
Retroactive financing, amounting to US$0.2 million would be provided under the
Credit for expenditures after June 18, 1988 including fellowships beginning in
1988, the implementation advisor's fees and procurement of SEC equipment by
UNESCO starting in mid-1988.



- 21 -
Table 3.3: FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Government           IDA           Total
Amount   X      Amount    X         amount
Investment costs:
Civil works                           0.16    20       0.52      80        0.68
Furniture                             0.04    50       0.03     50         0.07
Equipment, books and educational
materials                           0.02      5      0.30      95        0.32
Technical assistance:
Specialists                         0.07    10       0.63     90         0.70
Fellowships                         0.00      0      6.33    100         6.33
Recurrent costs:
Staff payments                        0.75   100       0.00       0        0.75
Operations and maintenance            0.05   100       0.00       0        0.05
Unallocated                             0.06    15       0.38      85        0.44
Total                           1.15    12       8.19     88         9.34
Recurrent Expenditures
3.6       The project will generate additional recurrent expenditures for
salaries and operations and maintenance resulting mainly from the
establishment of the RSS and additional staffing in the MOE and DPWL. The
employment of expatriate secondary teachers in the initial stage will require
additional recurrent expenditures but these will lapse as Maldivians return
from fellowship training to replace the expatriates. Savings in recurrent
expenditures will also be derived from the localization, in due course, of the
seven teaching posts currently held by expatriates in the SEC. When the
project is fully operational and localization is complete, the long term
impact on recurrent expenditures will be an additional Rf 1.2 million p.a. in
current terms. This represents the equivalent of about 3.1Z of the estimated
recurrent budget expenditures of MOE in 1988. The additional expenditures can
be accommodated without undue difficulty by the Government.
C. Project Management and Implementation
3.7       Project management and implementation would be the responsibility of
the MPD where a PIU has been established and already staffed with a project
manager, a procurement officer and an accountant (para. 2.7). An assistant
accountant will be selected from among existing MPD accounting staff or from
outside. Fellowships would be provided for training all PIU staff, and a
project implementation advisor and specialists in accounting and procurement
would be financed under the project (Annex 4).



- 22 -
3.8       The PIU would be responsible for procuring the services of the
experts under the technical assistance programs. The fellowship program would
be implemented according to existing administrative procedures of the National
Scholarship Program, which are satisfactory to IDA, with the PIU playing a
monitoring and coordinating role. The PIU would also be responsible for the
procurement of equipment, books and educational materials and furniture for
the project institutions. MOE would draw up lists and specifications for the
required items. The PIU would prepare the bid documents, carry out the
bidding and award contracts for the RSS's equipment and furniture, and oversee
delivery and installation. Similarly, the Office for Physical Planning and
Design (OPPD), in conjunction with MOE, would prepare designs, working
drawings and bid documents for construction of the RSS. On the basis of
these, the PIU would conduct the bidding exercise under ICB procedures (para.
3.11) and, with the help of the OPPD, manage the construction contract.
Following completion of construction and installation of equipment, the MOE
would assume responsibility for running the RSS. The labor strategy study and
the teacher issues study would be implemented by the MPD and MOE respectively
and coordinated by the PIU. The PIU would also submit withdrawal applications
to the Association, maintain the project accounts, arrange for the annual audit
of these accounts, fulfill the Association's reporting requirements (para. 3.14)
and liaise officially with the Association. A Project Coordinating Committee
(PCC) has been established to assist in overall coordination and management. It
is chaired by MPD and includes senior representatives of MOE, OPPD, the Ministry
of Foreign Affairs, the Maldives Monetary Authority, DPWL and the Ministry of
Atolls Administration. The Committee would meet periodically to provide
guidance in policy matters and to advise the PIU as necessary. Terms of
reference for the PCC have been agreed. During negotiations the Government
agreed to maintain the PIU in the MPD and the PCC (para. 5.1(d).
3.9       The project would be implemented over a period of about seven years,
starting in mid-1988. All project components are expected to be completed by
June 30, 1995. The Closing Date would be December 31, 1995. (The implementa-
tion schedule is shown in Annex 8.)
Status of Project Preparation
3.10      The MPD has prepared the draft National Scholarship Program which
reflects the Government's development priorities and includes a suitable mix
of courses to meet priority needs for trained manpower in the participating
departments. The draft is acceptable to IDA. The site for the new RSS has
been acquired by MOE and the Government has allocated funds in its current
budget to commence site works. Sketch plans for construction of the new
buildings have been prepared, based on standard school designs and agreed
schedules of accommodation. SEC equipment lists and specifications have been
finalized. Preliminary equipment lists have also been prepared for the RSS.
Outlines for the project studies have been prepared and terms of reference for
the PIU staff and experts have been agreed.



- 23 -
Procurement
3.11      Procurement arrangements are shown in Table 3.4 below.
Table 3.4: PROJECT EXPENDITURE BY PROCUREMENT CATEGORY
(US$ million)
Procurement Method              Total cost
including
Category of expenditure      ICB    LCB   Other /a   N/A         contingencies
Civil works                  0.74    -        -         -             0.74
(0.57)                                   (0.57)
Furniture                           0.07      -         -             0.07
(0.03)                           (0.03)
Equipment, books and         0.17           0.18        -             0.35
educational materials    (0.16)          (0.17)                    (0.33)
Technical assistance:
Specialists                        -      0.73        -             0.73
(0.65)                   (0.65)
Fellowships                               6;61        -             6.61
-     (6.61)                   (6.61)
Recurrent costs               -      -        -        0.84           0.84
(0.00)        (0.00)
Total                   0.91   0.07    7.52       0.84           9.34
(0.73) (0.03)  (7.43)    (0.00)          (8.1i)
/a   Includes international shopping, direct purchase, procurement by UNESCO,
consultant selection procedures and existing administrative procedures
for the selection of fellows.
Note: Figures in parentheses are the amounts financed by the Credit.
The contract for construction of the RSS would be awarded on the basis of ICB
procedures in accordance with Association Guidelines. SEC equipment (esti-
mated to cost about US$80,000) would be procured through UNESCO under
Association procedures. RSS equipment (estimated to cost about US$170,000)
would be awarded in one package under ICB procedures with furniture awarded
under LCB procedures. Minor items in both categories estimated to cost less
than US$5,000 each and aggregating to less than US$50,000 equivalent would be
purchased by international shopping on the basis of quotations from a minimum
of three suppliers. Books and instructional materials (estimated to cost



- 24 -
about US$50,000) would be procured through direct purchase. Prior Association
review of bidding documents and proposed contract awards would be required for
all contracts to be awarded on the basis of ICB. Specialists would be
selected in accordance with Association Cuidelines for the Use of Consultants.
Disbursements
3.12      The proposed Credit of US$8.19 million equivalent would be disbursed
over a period of seven years (Annex 9).  No disbursement profile has yet
evolved for Maldives. Disbursements would be made as follows: (a) civil
works--80Z of total expenditures; (b) furniture, equipment, books and
educational materials--100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local experidi-
tures (ex-factory cost) and 80% of local expenditures for other items procured
locally; (c) specialists--100Z of foreign expenditures; and (d) fellowships--
100% of total expenditures.
3.13      Unde_±r the proposed Credit, a special account of US$420,000
(equivalent to SDR 310,000) to finance project expenditures for the next four
months would be set up and maintained in US dollars at a bank in Maldives
acceptable to the Association. Applications for replenishment of the special
account would be submitted to the Association quarterly, or more frequently if
necessary, in amounts of not less than US$100,000. As prior review by the
Association of bidding documents and proposed contract awards for all pro-
curement on the basis of ICB procedures is required (para. 3.11), this review
should have taken place, the Association's no objection received by the PIU,
and copies of signed contracts forwarded before any payments are made from the
special account for these expenditures. Replenishment of the special account
for all other types of expenditures eligible for payment from the Credit would
be made against statements of expenditure for which relevant documents would
be retained and made available for review, as requested, by visiting
Association missions.
Accounts, Audits and Reporting
3.14      The PIU would establish and maintain a separate account for all
project expenditures. The account would be maintained in accordance with
sound accounting practices. Auditing of the account would be performed
annually in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association and an
audit repert submitted to the Association within nine months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year. The PIU would also monitor progress in project
implementation and report to the Association each semester. Within six months
after the completion of disbursements, the PIU would submit a project
completion report to the Association.
D. Environmental Impact
3.15      The project will not have any negative impact on the environment.
The RSS is to be constructed on a site in the village of Hithadoo on Addu
Atoll and will therefore have no impact on agricultural activities. Standard
school designs are to be used for the RSS which are visually attractive and
fit in well with existing buildings in Hithadoo. Wall materials will be
largely changed, however, from coral to concrete block or clay brick to avoid



- 25 -
further damage to coral reefs in the area. Careful attention will also be
paid to waste disposal to avoid contamination of the sea water surrounding the
island. To instill an understanding of environmental issues in students, a
course in environmental studies is included in the curriculum for grades 1-7.
E. Impact on Women
3.16      The main impact on the status of women will be derived from the
establishment of the RSS in which half the enrollment (220) will be female.
This represents an increase of 50% over the current female enrollment (442) in
grades 8-10.  The 220 new places for males represent a 34% increase in current
enrollments. Women will also benefit from quality improvement in the SEC
which will lead in time to higher "A" level pass rates and result in more
female students qualifying for higher education overseas.
IV. BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. Benefits
4.1       The major benefits of the proposed project would be:
(a) Alleviation of the shortages of skilled and educated manpower
through increasing the supply of highly trained manpower from
overseas institutions.
(b) Increased availability of people with adequate education levels to
take up training opportunities through expanding and improving the
quality of secondary education. In the longer term an increased
number of higher quality secondary school. graduates would f:ow
through to the training system and enhance the supply of skilled
manpower.
(c)  Access for the first time to secondary education opportunities
outside Malt through the establishment of the regional secondary
school with 440 places.  The 220 places for girls would increase
female enrollment capacity in the secondary school system by 50%.
(d) Improved planning of education through strengthening the planning
capacity of MOE and improved labor market information.  In the long
run, there would be greater responsiveness of education and training
to labor market needs.
B. Risks
4.2       The major risk concerns the ability of the Government to implement
the project efficiently. Project authorities lack experience in project
management and familiarity with Association procedures and requirements. To
reduce this risk, an experienced implementation advisor will be employed and
expert advice will be provided in procurement and accounting. These experts
will work with local counterparts who will receive appropriate training



- 26 -
overseas. Project activities will also need to be coordinated between two
main agencies (MOE and MPD) with support from OPPD on civil works design and
procurement. To facilitate this, a senior-level Project Coordinating
Committee would be established to provide overall policy guida-ce and
cocrdination.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.1       During negodiations the Government agreed to the following:
(a) The fellowship program would be implemented in accordance with
administrative procedures satisfactory to the Association
(para. 2.4).
(b) The three local specialists (education planner, education evaluator,
and labor market information specialist) would be recruited by
May 31, 1989 (para. 2.7).
(c) A labor market information system would be developed and become
operational by March 31, 1991 (para. 2.7).
(d) The PIU would be maintained in the MPD and a Project Coordinating
Committee would assist overall coordination and management of the
project (para. 3.8).
5.2       Subject to the above conditions, the project would constitute a
suitable basis for an IDA credit of SDR 6.00 million (US$8.19 million
equivalent) to the Republic of Maldives on standard IDA terms with 40 years
maturity.



REPUBUC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
The Educton System In Repubik of alsidives
4     5      6     7      8      9     10    11    12    13    14    15    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23
AGE
HIGHER
KNDERGARTEN               PRIMARY                       SEOONDARY             SECONDARY                  UNIVERSITY
I                                             
GRADES  O-                                                a           A | 
JSG exam          nedonal                           degree
Teec_  . hssc exam                HSCi
I     .                                      I          nT*n:                                   LocoorIein
l                               l      Tr           -l~~~~~~~~~voau  training cuw 
Headsh
|           R~~FRST LEVEL                     Gwnm|           SECOND LEVEL                        THIRD LEVEL (ABROAD) 
I                                                 I 
A     lbeIaIn:  JSC  . JwtIr&hod Cedlat
GCE - Graiiat CertIficate E,ianduoon
LKG *Lo"wer Iadaln
UKG * Lper Wndsrgut
8SC * S@omndery School Cerhffloate  odsteA
HSC . Hir St hod Ceaflsg4



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION UND TRAINING PROJECT
Employed Population by Industry and MaJa Occupation in 1977 and 1985 /a
Administrative,
Professional,      executive, cler-           Agriculture,            Craftsmen,
technical and      ical, sales and            fishing and            laborers and
related workers    services workers         related workers           other workers           Not stated               Total
1977       1985      1977        1985        1977        1985        1977        1985       1977       1985       1977      1985
Agriculture and forestry                   7        40         35           12      6,24L       2,912           64          42         -          3       6,347    3,009
Fishing                                   14        37        131         225      26,881      12,013          125          58         2        101      27,173   12,434
Quarrying /b                              -          9          -           10           -           4           -         616         -          4           -       643
Manufacturing                             18        83          57         155          23          22      13,753      10,468         -        831      13,851   11,599
Electricity, gas and water               78         55         39           10           1           8          89          26         2        405         209       504
Construction                              10         10        42           17           5           5       1,826       A,462         2         69       1,885    2,563   X
Wholesale and retail trade /c              4        116     1,951       4,147            5          22         305       1,110        36         39       2,301    5,434
Transport, storage and
communications                         93      1,343        384         594           I5          85       2,771       1,277        47         28       3,30:    3,327
Pinancial services /d                     -        168          -         217            -           2           -          18         -         13           -       418
Comumnity, social and personal
services                              757      1,875      3,465       5,227           fS          49         533       3,09:5       {2        185       4,823   10,431
Not stated                                 1     1,002         36           39                       9          25          48       307          9         369    1,107
Total                              982      4,738      6,140      10,653      33,1613     15,131      19,511      19,220       458      1,687      60,259   51,429/e
La  Employed population in 1977 is aged 5 years and over, and in 1985 is aged 12 vears and over.
/b Included under construction tn 1977.
Ic Includes tourism.
/d  Not identified as a separate category in 1977 Census.
/e For an explanation of the decline in employment, aee para. 1.17 and footnote 4, page 7.



- 29 -                            ANNEX 3
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Study Outlives
Development of a Labor Strategy for the Maldives
1.       The objective of the proposed study would be to produce a strategy
and plan of action for the Government to develop a consistent approach to
labor and manpower issues. The study would:
(a)  Review available reports on labor and manpower issues and relevant
statistical information.
(b)  Analyze the conclusions of the reports and identify those which have
policy and operational significance.
(c)  On the basis of (b), develoi, & long-term strategy which would gui'a
the Government in developi.lg and implementing policies in major
fields such as wages, employment, labor legislation, labor migration,
labor statistics, working conditions, etc.
(d)  Propose a plan of action which would define the activit'es necessary
to achieve stated policies including the organization and staffing of
relevant units, delineation of responsibilities for each activity,
coordination, etc.
Teacher Recruitment, Training and Deployment
2.       The objective of the proposed study would be to review all aspects of
teacher recruitment, training and deployment in Maldives and to propose a
strategy and plan of action which would guide the Government in developing a
competent, high-quality teaching cadre to service the long-term expansion of
the education system. The study would:
(a) Analyze the supply and demand for primary and secondary teachers and
address such issues as:
Ci) the reduction of the number or proportion of untrained teachers,
especially at primary level;
(ii) the replacement of foreign teachers with trained national
teachers;
(iii) the dearth of middle school and secondary teachers for whom
there is little or no in-country training; and
(iv) the unsatisfactory levels of repeater, dropout and examination
failure rates at all levels in the education system and the
potential for reducing these through improved teaching quality.



30 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 2
(b) Examine the role of different methods of training which are currently
available for primary and middle school teachers at the Institute of
Teacher Education and organized by the Non-formal Unit and prepare a
plan for the adequate supply of teachers and their training (both
preservice and inservice) over the next ten years.
(c) Critically review present policies on teacher recruitment, posting,
promotion, and incentives and propose imiprovements as appropriate.
(d) Develop a strategy and plan of action for the long-term development
of the teaching service.



- 31 -                                  ANNEX 4
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Techvical Assistance
Foreign                 Fellowships
consultants    Number of    Duration of    Study-
(staff-months)   candidates   fellowship       months
National Scholarship Program:
Degree level                                                 24        24-48 months      972
Diploma level                                                28         6-24 months      516
Certificate level                                            32         2-12 months      164
Technical/managerial training                                 -        Mixed             408
Subtotal                                                  84                        2,060
Science Education Center:
Staff fellowships                                             7        48 months         336
Regional secondary schvol:
Staff fellowships                                            17        48 months         816
Improved planning capacity:
Fellowships:
MOE:
Education planner/economist                               1        48 months          48
Education evaluator                                       i        10 months          10
DPWL - labor market information
officer                                                   i        10 months          10
MPD project management:
Project manager                                           1         3 months           3
Procurement officer                                       1        8 months            8
Accountant                                                1        10 months          10
Assistant accountant                                      1         3 months           3
Specialistsz
DPWL-labor market
information specialist                    6
MPD project management:
Implementation advisor                   36
Procurement advisor                       8
Accounting advisor                        9
Studies:
Labor issues                                3
Teacher issues                              3
Subtotal                                  65               7                           92
Total                                     65             115                        3,304



REPUBLIC OF WALDIVES
RDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Detailed Project Costs
(Rf w000)
Investment costs
Equipment,       Technical
books and       assistance                    Recurrent costs
Student  Civil  Furni-  educational  Special-  Fellow-   Staff    Operations 6  Other operational            Total coot
places   works   ture    materials       lats      ships   paymeuts  maintenance         expenses          low   us5N5
Training:
National Scholarship Program        -               -            -           -    31.520          -           -                 _          31,520   3,470
Secondary education:
Science Education Center            -         -     -          860           -      5,140    1,860           40                50           7,950     870
Regional secondary sebool         440    5,750   530         1,890           -    12,490    3,240            70               210          24,180   2,660
Subtotal secondary
education                      -    5,750   530         2.750           -    17,630    S,100           110              260          32.130   3,S30
lIstitutional development:
Improved planning capacity          -         -     -            -       5,420      1,370      440            -                 -           7,230     800
Studies                             -         -     -            -         550          -         -           -                 -             550       60
Subtotal Institutional
development                    _        _      _            -       5,970     1.370       440            -                 -           7.780     860
Total Baseline Cost          _        5,750   530         2,750       5,970    50,520    5,540           110               260         71.430   7.860
Contingencles:
Physlcal                            -       580    50          270         300      2,530      280            -                10           4,020      440
Price increase                      -       490    80          ISO         370      7,020    1,290           40                60           9,500   1,040
Subtotal contingencies           -    1,070   130           420         670     9,550    1,570            40                70          13,520   1,480
Total PoetCs
Bf'00s                         -    6 820   660         3 170       6 640    60 070    7 110           150               330         84,950         -
Us$ooo                                                   6' 61                                          2                 30               -   9.341



- 33-                                  ANNEX 6
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Project Expenditure by Year and Purpose
Total cost
Base costs (Rf million)                  Rf     US$
88/89  89/90  90/91  91/92  92/93  93/94  94/95        mln    mln
Training:
National Scholarship
Program                    -      2.93   5.49   7.28   6.82   4.96   4.04    31.52  3.47
Secondary education:
Science Education
Center                    0.70   1.00   1.10   1.50   1.57   1.27   0.81        7.95  0.87
Regional secondary
school                    1.44   4.44   5.21   3.60   3.91   3.23   2.35    24.18  2.66
Subtotal                 2.14   5.44   6.31   5.10   5.48   4.50   3.16    32.13  3.53
Institutional
development:
Improved planning
capacity                  0.41   3.32   1.97   1.08   0.26   0.11   0.08        7.23  0.80
Studies                      -       -     0.55    -       -      -       -       0.55  0.06
Subtotal                 0.41   3.32   2.52   1.08   0.26   0.11   0.08        7.78  0.86
Total Baseline
Cost                   2.55  11.69  14.32  13.46  12.56   9.57   7.28    71.43  7.86
Contingencies:
Physical                    0.22   0.79   0.87   0.67   0.63   0.48   0.36        4.02  0.44
Price increase              0.05   0.59   1.21   1.54   2.05   2.07   1.99        9.50  1.04
Total Project
Cost                   2.82  13.07  16.40  15.67  15.24  12.12   9.63    84.95  9.34
Foreign exchange            2.11  11.44  14.58  14.34  13.76  10.43   7.86    74.52  8.19



RBPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Area and Unit Capital Costs for New Regional Secondary School
Q--------              --- -- --           ------------------=…-- -           ===__==__======__==
Gross area per student
place                          Estimated cost per student place /a
_  _   _ _ _~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~__________________ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
- --This project------
FY81-83    Buildings                                   FY81-83                    i
This     projects    and site                                    projects
project   Bank-wide     works  Furniture  Equipment  Total       Bank-wide
- -  -  - - -(sq m)               ----------- (US$)----
Academic and communal    6.2      5.9-8.6        1,440    130         470      2.040    3.580-4,700
-   ---- - ------------------------------------__=         === ==== ===  === ==== =__ _===--=   _==
/a Unit costs exclude contingency allowances
I0



REPUBUC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Implementation Schedule
CY    lm8    t9B          MO     IS9   loo t91 1 112    1    93     1 19    1 19 
FY     we9"                            r IM           OW                                  Om=   9
NATIONAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM                       _ _ T     T    _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _   _ _ _ _ _ _
24 Degree level fellowships                              I _ _ _      - _ _   - _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
28 Diploma level fellowships                                  a I  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
32 Certifcate level fellowships                               * I    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Technicalmanagerlai training
SCIENCE EDUCATION CENTER
Provision of equipment, books &
educational materials
Staff fellowships
REGIONAL SECONDARY SCHOOL
CMI Works and Fumiture:
Preparaton of bid documents
Bidding
Constnuction
Provision of equipmen books &
educational materias
Staf fllowships                                            f
IMPROVING PLANNING CAPACITY
Fellkwships:
MOE:
Educalon planner/economist                   1        I I                         - -    -
Education evaluator
DPWL:
Labor maket Information officer
MPD project management.
Prjed manage
Procurement offier
Accountant
Assistant accountant
DPWL lMbor market
informa ion specialist
Accountant      
STUDIES
Labor Issues
Teacher Isses



-36 -                                 ANNEX 9
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursements
Amount per            Cumulative
IDA fiscal year           semester        Amount         X        Disbursement profile /a
and semester           -   (US$ million) -                                  (M)
1989
~~~1~~~~          0.00           0.00         0                     0
2                     0.10 /b        0.10         1                     2
1990
1                     0.25           0.35        4                      4
2                     0.30           0.65        8                     10
1991
1                     0.80           1.45       18                     18
2                     0.89           2.34       29                     28
1992
_~~1~~                0.90           3.24       40                     38
2                     0.83           4.07       50                     46
1993
0.80           4.87       59                    54
2                     0.73           5.60       68                     64
1994
1                     0.70           6.30       77                     73
2                     0.54           6.84       84                     80
1995
0.50           7.34       90                    88
2                     0.45           7.79       95                     94
1996
0.40           8.19      100                    100
/a   Median for education projects in Asia.
7T   Initial deposit of US$100,000 out of a maximum of US$420,000 allowable under the
Special Account (para. 3.13).



37 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Selected Documents Available in the Project File
A.   Reports and Studies Related to the Sector/Subsector
A-1  Educ3tional and Human Resource Development Plan 1985-1995, Republic of
Maldives, MOE, January 1985.
A-2  Maldives - Managing Rapid Economic Growth, IBRD, Report No. 6342-MAL,
December 15, 1986.
A-3  Manpower Planning for the Industrial Sector, Republic of Maldives, UNIDO,
October 31, 1986 (Draft).
A-4  National Development Plan 1985-87, Republic of Maldives, Two Volumes,
MPD, Undated.
A-5  Population and Housing Census 1985, Republic of Maldives, MPD, April
1985.
A-6  Statistical Yearbook of Maldives 1986, MPD, October, 1986.
A-7  Plan of Operations 1988-1992, Unicef, November, 1986.
A-8  Republic of Maldives - Development of Education and Training, Unesco,
May, 1982.
A-9  Survey of Educational Developments in the Maldives, Unicef, January,
1986.
A-10 Analysis of Situation of Children in the Maldives, Unicef, August, 1986.
A-li National Skill Development Project - Republic of Maldives, UNDP, Draft
Terminal Report, May, 1985.
A-12 Manpower Development, Education and Training Working Papers, Unesco/EFD,
June 5, 1986.
B.   Reports and Studies Related to the Project
B-1  Maldives - Human Resources Development Project, Unesco/EFD, Undated.
B-2  Recommendations - Vocational Training Center, M.F.P. Hogan, ILO, March,
1987.



- 38 -                              ANNEX 10
Page 2
B-3 Projection of Primary and Secondary School Enrollments, J.K. Lubbock,
February 25, 1988.
B-4 Projection of Grade X and Grade XII Graduates, Lubbock, February 24,
1988.
B-5 The Science Education Center, Lubbock, February 25, 1988.
8-6 Cohort Analysis for Primary and Middle School Grades 1985, Lubbock,
February 7, 1988.
B-7 Age Group Tables by Atoll, Lubbock, February 23, 1988.
B-8 General Certificate of Education Pass Rates, Lubbock, Februaxy 23, 1988.
C.   Selected Wlorking Papers
C-1 Vocational Training Center - Upgrading of Courses.
C-2 Working Papers (Population, Labor Force, Manpower, Education Finance)
Education Financing Division, Unesco, March 1988.
C-3 IDA Working Papers (Civil Works and Equipment).



i
I
M-AP SECTION
i
I



IBRD 21059
,                                   ~~~~~~~~7!20               730                        740
eombgy 0
INDIA
Nuva°afud  *, UIigh wv
0M*dras                                       *          sivNberatnfMu
S     KuthucDkufushi
Maim  Kur*udh'oo        Miu -oo
.Sf, IRIANKA I                                   *1    It      s MukWffoo0oo
CdIInho °                  "    S Fwruk dhu
Colombo 0
a-,                                                      AJ~Aushh h
.      . 'Mana*iho
MALDIVES                                        Hudhudhoo    ;
~~~ .          ,          ~~~~~Ugoofff;z'"t"                 ."lu.o, /,'
yd~~~~~~~V
ThuIhaJdhoo  Goidu       . Kaubidhoo
Thodoo.'
.MALE
-40                                                     A  ir                                                                                40*
M adhoo
Me01ndu     .-
'Fulidhoo
IKOVoO  VAA VU
d4AkJ                   RAkirdlioo
Msgoodhoo                   D .higinu
_30                                                             WIIIihoe                  ;2
.'Mu-
f*M(&MU
AMALDIVES                                     KOluv uii0in
EDUCATION AND                                       Kandoodhoo
TRAINING PROJECT                                            __44 Vey
20                                                               - ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lsdhco
20~~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
Science Eduvatlon Center                                   4.;Fodhoroo
^       Regional Secondary School                                   - -
*0      National Capital
Mula     Administrative Capitals
Gmnu      Other Islands
t°             +         Airfields
Admilnstrftive Atolls                               *       IiiI.
t 44A PU.4  ,If LI
Naddila
O         iiO        I 0        1ii                       0D,,,
KILOMETERS                                                IAVA ,A                _ I
O                iD                110 i                             EuoMubaku c.
________________                                                                                      O  _
MILES                      SF Et      A
S4ith
H    Lr .-                            ru        r



