Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15759
INPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
June 18, 1996
Population and Human Resources Division
Country Department I
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 1996)
Currency Unit = Rufiyaa (RI)
US$1.00= Rf 11.52
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
January 1 - December 31
Academic Year
February 1 to January 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
1 METER = 3.28 FEET (ft)
1 KILOMETER (KM) = 0.62 MILES (mi.)
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
DCA         Development Credit Agreement
IDA         International Development Association (World Bank)
MCMA        Maldives Center for Management and Administration
MOE         Ministry of Education
MPHRE       Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment
NSB          National Scholarship Board
NSP         National Scholarship Program
PCC         Project Coordinating Committee
PIU          Project Implementation Unit
SEC         Science Education Center
SSS          Southern Secondary School



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TABLE OF CONTENT
PREFACE                                                                   PAGE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction                                                       i
Project Objectives                                                 i
Implementation Experiences and Results                             l
Sustainability of the Project and Future Operations                iv
Summary of Findings                                                iv
Part I - Proiect Implementation Assessment
A.    Background                                                          1
B.    Project Objectives and Description                                  2
Project Components                                                 2
C.    Achievement of Objectives and Factors Affecting the Project         3
Scholarship Programs                                        3
Strengthening of the Science Education Center               4
Development of the Southern Secondary School                5
Strengthening of the MOE Planning Capacity and of MPHRE Staff 5
Studies                                                     6
D.    Project Sustainability                                              6
E.    Bank Performance                                                    7
F.    Borrower Performance                                                8
G.    Assessment of Outcome                                               9
H.    Future Operations                                                   10
I.    Key Lessons Learned                                                 10
J.    Evaluation of Program Objectives                                    12
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of theLr
Iofricial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.



Part U - Statistical and DataTables
Table 1      Summary of Assessment
Table 2      IDA Credits Relevant to the Project
Table 3      Project Timetable
Table 4      Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5      Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6      Implementation Indicator
Table 7      Studies Included in the Project
Table 8-A    Project Costs
Table 8-B    Project Financing
Table 9      Status of Legal Covenants
Table 10     Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 11     Bank Resources: Missions
Table 12     Summary of Technical Assistance and Consultants Used
Annexes
1.    Mission's Aide-Memoire (with operation Plan)
2.    Borrower's Contribution to ICR
Miscellaneous Attachments
A.    SEC - Results (Examinations)
B.    Enrollment at SSS
C.    Scholarship Program
D.    Employment Record of Trained Fellows



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of Maldives
Education and Traininu Project
(Credit 1981-MAL)
PREFACE
This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Education and Training
Project in the Republic of Maldives for which a Credit in the amount of SDR 6.0 million
(US$8.19 million equivalent) was approved on January 26, 1989 and made effective on
June 20, 1989.
The Credit was closed on December 31,1995 without any extension of the project closing
date with SDR 5.8 million (US$8.12 million equivalent) disbursed. The final disbursement
was approved on November 14, 1995 and the undisbursed balance of SDR 200,069.43
(US$ 288,980.28 equivalent) will be canceled.
The ICR was prepared by Mr. A. Aime and Ms. S. Vedamuthu with the assistance from
Ms. R. Serrano (SAIPH) of the South Asia Region and reviewed by Ms. B. Herz,
Division Chief, and Mr. F. Ahmed, Project Advisor. The borrower provided comments on
the draft ICR and its own assessment of the project is included as Annex 2 of the ICR.
The preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision mission in
November 1995 and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal Report (Report No. 7367-
MAL), the Credit Agreement, supervision reports, correspondence between IDA and the
Borrower, and internal IDA memorandum.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Republic of Maldives
Education and Trainine Project
(Credit 1981-MAL)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    This was the first International Development Association (IDA) project in the
Education sector in the Republic of Maldives. The aims of the project were to: (i) raise the
quality of education and increase the output of secondary students in view of reducing the
shortages of trainable candidates to diminish the national skill shortages; (ii) increase
equity of access by establishing the first atoll secondary school with the specific goal of
increasing the girls' participation; (iii) improve the labor market information in order to
better respond to the serious national skill shortages through focused training; and (iv)
develop a national teacher strategy. The main risks and concerns identified related to the
Government's capacity to implement such a project.
Project Obiectives
2.    Project Objectives were to:
(i) finance a program of overseas fellowships for post-secondary training;
(ii) upgrade the quality of upper secondary education at the Science Education
Center through the provision of equipment, educational materials and staff
development;
(iii) expand secondary education opportunities in the atolls through the
construction, equipping and staffing of a new secondary school in Hitahdoo;
(iv) improve the planning capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE) and
strengthen project management capacity in the Ministry of Planning and
Development (now the Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment -
MPHRE); and
(v) undertake studies to develop labor market strategies and establish a labor
market information system and to develop appropriate policies for the recruitment
and deployment of teachers.
Implementation Exwerience and Results
3.    The project objectives were in line with the sector's needs and implementation was
good and timely for a first operation in the sector. The allocation of a six-and-a-half years
i



implementation period allowed sufficient time for staff strengthening and achievement of
all the project targets without an extension of the project closing date. For a first
operation in the education sector, the Government performed very well. Specific results
for each project component follow:
*   The fellowship program supported a reduction of national skill shortages
through the allocation of 284 fellowships abroad, achieving 247 percent of the
planned trainee number and an overall 136 percent of proposed study months
(4,481.5 versus 3,304 planned or about 373 years of training versus 275
planned). All trainees have returned by March 1996 and are having a very
positive impact on the operation of the Government (para. 8). As a result of
this program the number of post-secondary graduates in the country increased
by about 200 percent (from less than 200 graduates in 1989 to almost 500 in
1996). Most importantly this project component assisted the country to
develop recruitment and training criteria which will assist to better match
future training activities with the economic needs. As a result of the project,
all fellowships have been centralized under the management of the National
Scholarship Program (NSP) and are managed by a single centralized unit
located within MPHRE. All scholarships are now awarded through the
National Scholarship Board (NSB) on the basis of advertisement allowing
both public and private applicants, and resulting in the selection of the best
candidates. This process has greatly increased the quality of candidates and
responsiveness to national needs.
-   The goal of strengthening the quality of education at the Science Education
Center (SEC), the only upper secondary school in the country (para. 11) was
filly achieved through the supply of science equipment and educational
materials and staff training. At project closing, the school had for the first
time a Maldivian principal and over 20 national teachers versus less than 10 at
the start of the project. The availability of better trained teachers, the
increased accessibility of suitable educational materials and equipment, and the
addition of new facilities (laboratories and computer room built by the
Government) have influenced impressive improvements in examination scores.
The overseas GCE results have improved from about 50 percent pass rate to
about 70 percent. Most important the higher 70 percent level of pass rate has
been sustained since 1994. In addition, the A level output has doubled,
increasing the number of candidates that can be trained to address acute skill
shortages.
*   The construction of the first atoll based secondary school has demonstrated
the feasibility of operating secondary schools, at affordable cost level, in the
atolls and has led to the next IDA project supporting the construction of five
additional atoll secondary schools (para. 12). It also increased equity because
prior to the opening of the Southern Secondary School (SSS) all secondary
schools were located in the capital Male' where only 30 percent of the
ii



population resided. The SSS opened in 1992 and enrolled about 488 students
in 1996, slightly exceeding appraisal estimates of 440. It has enabled female
participation to increase substantially (60 percent of SS S enrollment are girls)
and has increased opportunities for atoll students to continue their education.
It has also led to the introduction of a transition year which will facilitate
access to secondary education for students from small islands (who study in
Dhiveli and continue secondary education in English), thereby increasing their
education opportunities. In 1995 over 20 students (expected to increase in
1996) obtained entry in the Vocational Training Center, Institute of Health
and the Maldives Center for Management and Administration. Another
important feature was the parental involvement in school activities which
assisted the pilot atoll school to resolve issues. The above pilot has become a
good model for further needed secondary education expansion in the atolls
increasing equity of access.
* The capacity strengthening of the MOE planning staff and MEHRE staffs in
project implementation unit (PIU) were both achieved (para. 14). Two
Ministry of Education (MOE) planning officers were trained by the project
and one by bilateral funding. Upon their return, important progress in data
collection, preparation of statistical analysis, publication of annual statistics
and use of data for policy purposes resulted. However, that progress was
slowed by the promotion of these planners, and transition to their successors.
Continued strengthening of the planning office is included in the IDA Second
Education and Training Project. The MEHRE staff assigned to the project
implementation unit (PIU -director, procurement officer, accountant and
assistant accountant and support staff) received, through a combination of
short-term external programs and in-country training from international
consultants, suitable skills to effectively implement the project. The trained
staff is continuing to manage the ongoing IDA project.
The studies were both completed and recommendations are largely
implemented (para. 15). The labor study was completed and it assisted with
the identification of key skill shortages (to better link training to economic
needs) and has greatly improved the data base for the allocation of training
and fellowships. However, due to staff capacity the follow-up data collection
and maintenance is not progressing as rapidly as planned. Shortages of staff
are expected to be overcome with the return of trainees in 1996, and the
shortage of adequate equipment needed for the data base (computers) has
been resolved. The teacher study was the first national review of teacher
demand and supply and assisted with the development of a more responsive
teacher training strategy. The study has led to important teacher training and
teacher deployment policy changes being implemented in the follow-up IDA
project.
iii



* Other important features of this first sector project worth noting are: (i) all
project activities, except the fellowship program and training activities were
completed by December 1993; (ii) PIU staff and consultants employed had
relative training and skills facilitating the organization of a suitable and well
balanced implementation unit. It should be noted that not all were available at
the start of the project and three were trained and upgraded during the first
two years greatly reducing the main risk envisaged at the time of appraisal;
(iii) institutional capacity of the MOE and MPHRE were improved by focused
training; (iv) the application of the recommendations of the studies exceeded
expectations; (v) the availability of counterpart funds was timely; (vi) the use
of project implementation advisor's short-term visits of four months the first
year, reduced to three months the second year and to two the third year and
finally to one month per annum was a successful use of technical support. It
enabled the staff to take-up the tasks during the intervals, thus greatly
assisting with capacity building. The arrangement of a part-time
implementation advisor familiar with the Bank was a very good investment;
and (vii) the project duration (length) enabled the Bank to undertake a serious
policy dialogue which resulted in a second operation in the sector. The level
of policy progress would not have been possible within a shorter project
period. Thus, the slightly longer implementation period allocated for this first
project was a sound decision.
Sustainability of the Proiect and Future Operations
4.    Due to the Government's willingness to address shortcomings and to gradually
adjust the project activities, particularly the scholarship program and the staffing and
funding of schools, the sustainability of the project components is largely ensured. The
important improvements in fellowship selection criteria and management are being
continued, including the application of important cost recovery mechanisms and private
sector participation. The improvement of SEC quality (based on the improved
examination results) has now been sustained for three years and the SSS increased
secondary access by about 10 percent. The SSS is being well sustained, resource and
staff-wise. The trained project implementation staff are having a positive impact on the
ongoing Government performance and the studies' recommendations are continuing to be
applied. The follow-up IDA project has been designed to support and increase the
sustainability of this project. However, the strengthening of the MOE planning office
needs to be continued. Project sustainability is very remarkable for a first project in the
sector.
Summary of Findinss
5.    The main lessons learned are:
* a responsive national training and fellowship program should be better linked to
economic priorities and should include private sector opportunities;
iv



*  that private and public scholarship opportunities should include cost-recovery
measures and be undertaken largely in lower cost regional institutions (Asia Region) to
increase opportunities and better respond to the increasing demand for further training;
*  the project has positively influenced a reduction on expatriate staff employed within
the public sector;
* the Government's decision to focus on certificate, diploma and first degree fellowship
allocations was sound. The application of clear selection and performance criteria and
conditions to the trainees resulted in few fellowships requiring extensions and in all,
but two, candidates (as of 03/96) completing the designated programs. Also, the
allocation of fellowships on the basis of national needs and competition had resulted in
the selection of the best candidates and influenced secondary students to improve their
performance based on only the best being selected;
*  access to schools in the atolls needs to be closely related to clear entry criteria to retain
education standards and that a transition program is necessary to increase the atoll
student access and learning opportunities particularly for those coming from the small
island schools;
*  the students completing lower secondary education can qualify for access to training in
Male' and are already assisting to increase the availability of candidates at the national
institutions. Their availability are facilitating the upgrading of entry standards (from
grade 7 to 10);
-  community involvement in the planning and operation of a new atoll school increases
commitment and assists with the resolution of arising problems;
* Government concluded that the preparation of detailed and clearly outlined TORs for
the studies increased the use of the studies' recommendations;
*  investment in timely staff training (focused or related to the work activities) does in
fact assist Government improve its performance; and
*  the formula of using periodic implementation consultants was more economical and a
good approach for the on the-job training of project implementation unit (PIU) staff.
v






Republic of Maldives
Education and Trainine Proiect
(Credit 1981-MAL)
ILLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART I:                  Proiect Implementation Assessment
Project Identity
Name:       Education and Training Project
Credit:      1981-MAL
RVP Unit:  South Asia
Country:    Republic of Maldives
Sector:     Education
A.   Backeround:
1.    Education and training activities in the Maldives remain a shared activity between
the private sector and Government (each supporting about 50 percent of enrollments).
Government assumes greater responsibilities for secondary education, while post-
secondary education is mainly pursued overseas for those holding "O and A level
certificates". In view of recent remarkable increase in primary education access (less than
30 percent during the 1970s reaching over 80 percent in 1989 and mid-90 percent in
1994), demand for lower secondary school was high. The rapid expansion of access is
largely attributed to the joint public and private efforts with large parental participation.
Until the project supported the establishment of the Southern Secondary School (SSS),
post-primary education was only available in Male, the capital (where about 30 percent of
the population resides, leaving about 70 percent without easy access). Increased equity of
access was a priority. In addition, with less than two hundred Maldivians (less 1 percent
of labor force) having acquired some type of post-secondary technical or university
qualifications, the Maldives were experiencing development difficulties due to serious skill
shortages. Reliance on donor assistance for post-secondary fellowships was not satisfying
the needs and the Government through the project determined to tackle the predominant
issues of access to education and the acute skill shortages.
2.    Based on high demand and need for secondary education, the initial project design
included two secondary schools, one in the South and one in the North (largest
catchments of population). However, Government in its first operation in the sector was
reluctant to borrow such a large amount of funds and retained only one atoll (regional)
lower secondary school. In that context, Government decided to improve the quality of
the only existing upper secondary school and to focus on the acute post secondary skill
shortages without which development could not occur.
I



3.           Policy Context and Linkages to Sector Policies: The project's direct links
and response to the national policies were very strong. The national policies stressed
were: increasing equitable educational opportunities for all children; strengthening the
existing institutions; increasing the cost-effectiveness of the only senior secondary school;
and, in the context of the skill shortages, establishing a National Scholarship Program
(NSP) which would enable the country to better respond to skill shortages. The project's
conceptual foundation was shared and understood by the Government and IDA and was
appropriate as a first operation. The roles and responsibilities of PIU and the
implementing Ministries' (MOE and MPHRE) were reasonably defined at the start of the
project and were flexible enough to allow adjustments during implementation . The project
had been developed with inputs from IDA staff, by participating institutions and ministries
staffs over a three-year period (2/86 - 01/89). This first sector project was well prepared
and the timing and scope realistic. Details on the impact of these policies are outlined
below.
B.           Project Objectives and Description
4.           The project aims were to alleviate the serious shortages of skilled
manpower which was constraining development in the Maldives. The immediate goals of
the project were to: (i) finance a National Scholarship Program (NSP) of about 275 study
years of fellowships primarily at the post-secondary level; (ii) upgrade the quality of the
upper secondary education offered at the only senior secondary school, the Science
Education Center (SEC), through the supply of educational equipment and materials and
staff training; (iii) increase equitable access to secondary education by establishing the first
atoll secondary school accommodating about 440 students. This involved the
construction of the Southern Secondary School (SSS) and supplying it with equipment
and learning materials and fellowships to train staff; (iv) finance fellowships and expert
assistance to strengthen the planning capacity of the Ministry of Education (MOE); (v)
improve labor market information by undertaking key studies (4.4 staff-years) and
fellowship training in labor market (2 study-years).
5.    The project components were;
* financing a program of overseas fellowships for higher education training;
* upgrading the quality of senior secondary education at the SEC;
* expanding lower secondary access and educational opportunities for the first time
in the atolls in the Southern region (Hithadoo Atoll) and staff development;
* improving the planning capacity of the MOE and strengthening the PIU staff
through staff training; and
undertaking key studies to assess the labor market needs and assess teacher
recruitment and deployment needs.
C.    Achievement of Obiectives and Factors Affecting the Proiect
6.    Other than needed management and structural adjustments to national scholarship
program (NSP) there were no variances to the composition of the project. There was one
2



amendment to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA), in January 16, 1992, which
adjusted the Special Account allocation from US$420,000 to US$800,000 to facilitate
timely disbursements of the civil works and nationally managed scholarship program. In
1994 and 1995 there were reallocations of funds within Schedule 1 of the DCA.
7.     The Droject results exceeded expectations with all project goals having been
achieved or exceeded within the time frame. Outlined below are the implementation
records and the main factors affecting the project.
Component 1 - Scholarshii Proeram
8.     Managed by the National Scholarship Board (NSB) the foa  of this component
was to finance about 115 fellowships totaling about 3,304 study months (about 275
student years) of training to reduce the serious skill shortages being experienced which
were slowing down the country's development. The following chart summarizes the
targets and results:
Fellwship Category     Origia Programe (01/89)    Achkeved (03/96) 1/  % Achieved
No.   Study Moitn(SM)  No.         SM        No.   SM
National Scholarships
Degree level   2//     24          972        55         1,592      229   164
Diploma level  3/      28           516       41           753      146    146
Certificate level 4/  32            164       29          27S        91    170
Tech/Managerial       not specified    408    125         715        N/A   175
Subtotal               84          2,060      250        3,338      298    162
MOE Tewhen
SEC                    7            336        8          312        114    93
SSS                    17           S16       17          726        100    100
Subtotal               24          1152       25         1,0S3      104    94
Improved Plan Capacety
MOE                    2            58         3           28        150    48
Mustryof Public Works   1           10         1           46        100   460
PIU                    4            24         5           32        100    133
Subtotal               7            92         9          129       167   270
Total                  115+        3,304      284         4,481.5    247    136
1 / All the candidates will have retumed to the Maldives by March 1996.
2/ Includes 72 degrees, 16 masters and 1 Ph.D.
3/ Includes 22 diplomas and 21 associate diplomas.
4/ Includes 19 certificates and 10 advanced certificates.
5/ Supplemented by about 24 months of bilateral training resulting in about 96 percent of goal.
9.     Fellowships were awarded in all the Government ministries and in most
administrative units as outlined in Attachment C. The objective of increasing the supply
of teachers for the MOE was met. However, during implementation it was noted that only
a few candidates had been selected for the strengthening of the Ministry of Finance and
the Ministry of Fisheries. This observation influenced the integration of fellowship
program within one unit located in MPHRE. That action increased the linkages between
the fellowship allocations to the sectors which play an important role in the country's
economy. To date all the trainees have returned to the country and by January 1996 all
but two were assigned in the area of training, demonstrating a clear response to skill
shortages. Of the returnees in 1996, two are ministers, another the manager of the
Monetary Authority's Research Bank and International Organization Division, and one
Managing Director of the Maldives Electricity Board. In addition, about 40 of the
3



returnees hold senior management posts, and about 30 ( 25 as planned plus 5 from the
national program) have joined the teaching service. A detailed summary of the fellowships
allocated by area of specialization is listed in Attachment C and the employment status
of the trainees (as of August 1995) is listed in Attachment D. The program was very
successful and is having a positive impact on the management of the Government offices.
The country increased its availability of post-secondary trained staff by about 200 percent
(from less 200 than to almost 500 ).
10.   The main features of the NSP worth noting are: (i) that most of the funds were
directed towards certificates, diplomas, and first degrees increasing the scope of response
to the skill shortages; (ii) the shorter course duration and use of regional institutions in
turn reduced costs and allowed an increase in the number of recipients thereby positively
expanding response to national skill shortages; (iii) the fellowship program also benefited
from the Government's readiness to gradually adjust the program structure and selection
criteria to better fit the economic needs of the country; (iv) all the students obtaining
fellowships or training assistance of a duration beyond one month had to serve a bond
with varying period directly linked to the length of support and costs. This bonding is
strictly applied by the Government; and (v) the Government's strict application of its rule
of no extension of the duration of fellowships time granted. This administrative measure
forced the students to work very hard with all but a few exceptions completing their
studies ahead of or within the time allocated. Students who did not perform were forced
to repay part of the costs or obtain private sources of funding for their extended period of
study. This strict but skillful administration has resulted in all the trainees, except two (as
of January 1996), completing their full credentials.
Component 2 - Strengthening of the Science Education Center:
11.   The goals were to supply science equipment, books, journals, educational
materials and staff training. Results: All the activities were implemented as planned and
have resulted in important improvements in the examination results of SEC (about 50
percent passing at the start of the project - reaching over 70 percent after the project
inputs). Most impressive was the individual candidate improvement in examination
results. Candidates which averaged a 20 percent pass of two exams in 1989 (pre-requisite
to pass and not fail) were able to increase that percent to 100 percent in 1995. Ten
national staff were added and the post of headmaster was nationalized. Female
participation also increased substantially reaching almost 50 percent of the enrollment.
Minor ordering delays of science equipment and chemicals were experienced and costly
low student staff ratios are gradually being dealt with as part of a MOE determination to
increase the equitable allocation of staff and resources to all schools. Graduates from SEC
do very well in overseas programs and by year 2,000 the upper secondary output is
expected to double. The Government using its own funds built at SEC four laboratories,
about six classrooms, and improved the SEC site and administrative offices. The project
supplied and equipped these new physical facilities. The supply of equipment and
educational materials were of good quality and were well coordinated with the completion
of the physical facilities. This component is having a positive impact on education quality
while increasing the number of trainable candidates at the post-secondary level.
4



Component 3 - Development of the Southern Secondary School
12.   The goal was to establish, on a pilot basis, the first secondary school in an atoll
aiming to increase equity and participation of girls. The results were that physical
facilities were completed in late 1992 with utilization starting the academic year of 1993.
At project closing the school was about to begin its third year of operation. The SSS
enrolled in 1995 about 488 students, meeting the project goals. After an assessment of the
first year atoll student intake from island schools, where students are taught in Dhiveli, it
was determined that there was a need for a transition year for most students to enable
them to succeed at the secondary level taught in English. A language, mathematics and
basic skill transition year was initiated. The SSS now includes the transition programs and
teaches grades 8, 9, and 10. The initial management and funding problems were gradually
overcome. The SSS outputs in 1994 and 1995 each enabled about 20 students (who
would not have had previous further education opportunities) to continue their education
in Male' at the Vocational Training Center, the Institute of Health Sciences, and the
Maldives Center for Management and Administration (MCMA). This new infusion of
atoll students is allowing these institutions to gradually upgrade their entry standard from
grade seven to grade ten. The establishment of the SSS has increased secondary access by
over 10 percent and served as a good model for future expansion of secondary education
in the atolls. At the end of the project one issue still required attention, which was the
quality of furniture produced by the national contractors. This matter is now being
addressed by the Ministry of Works and Public Works as part of the IDA follow-up
project.
13.   A main feature of the first atoll-based secondary school was that it allowed girls,
who would normally not have continued their education away from home, to remain
enrolled. In 1994 and 1995 SSS enrollment was about 60 percent girls. The school also
facilitated parental involvement and thus has become a good example for future
secondary education response at the atoll level. The pilot was very successful and the
experience is scheduled to be repeated in five atolls with financing from IDA in the
follow-up project. The entry requirements to SSS have been tightened and initial
administrative problems (budgetary and staffing problems) are being suitably addressed by
the MOE.
Component 4 - Strenftheninf of the MOE Plannina Capacity and Project
Manaeement
14.   The goal was to provide staff training to strengthen the education planning and
project management. Results: Two planning officers were trained to assist the MOE to
greatly improve planning. However, their services were lost at mid project due to
promotions. Fortunately, the MOE was able to benefit from other returning fellows
sponsored by bilateral fellowships, but this area could still benefit from continued
strengthening. The MOE planning unit is now producing good enrollment data but still
needs to improve data on promotions, repetition, and exam results and their linkages to
policy decisions. Such efforts have been included as part of the follow-up project.
Training, in accounting, procurement and project implementation were also given to the
5



staff of the project implementation unit (PIU) and again in spite of staff losses other
trained returnees were assigned to the positions. These inputs greatly assisted these units
and the Government increase their efficiency and output.
Component 5 - Studies
15.    The gfal was to undertake two key studies to develop a teacher strategy and to
review the labor market issues. The results were that the teacher study entitled " Report
on Teacher Demand, Supply and Training" dealing with recruitment, training and
deployment matters, was completed in 1993. The study was very comprehensive and it
led to important policy adjustments and formed the basis of the teacher training
component in the follow-up project. It enabled the MOE to develop an effective supply-
and-demand strategy for the next ten years. The second study entitled "Labor Market
Issues and Problems" was completed in February 1992. The study was quite
comprehensive, identifying key issues and particularly areas where serious skill shortages
existed. This information was later utilized, during the final two years of the project to
increase the fellowship response to training needs. However, the setting up of a
sustainable data collection planned at the time of appraisal has been slow to materialize
largely due to a lack of staff and resources to carry on with the work done by the
consultants. The MPHRE, which took over the labor section in 1995 is continuing to
collect data and plans to maintain the data base about every two years. The studies were
of good quality and had important impact. The Labor Study on the allocation of training
fellowships and the initiation of a national manpower data base. The teacher study
enabled the MOE to develop a more responsive teacher training policy.
D.    Project Sustainabilitv
16.    Important sustainable impact/benefits have resulted from the project. These are:
0   Government continually and gradually (following review missions) took
management adjustments, consolidated all fellowship activities within MPHRE
under one unit, and revised the selection I and performance criteria. This
willingness to adapt greatly influenced the successful implementation of this
component. The fellowship criteria, gradually put in place during project
implementation, will facilitate the administration of future fellowship
allocations. It has also led Government to accept that lower cost regional
training options had to be used if equitable allocations were to continue.
Finally, because of the high demand for fellowships, government also realized
that unless it introduced some element of cost recovery it would not be able to
sustain the NSP for the increasing number of secondary completers. The clear
Based on various Ministry priorities reviewed by the NSB to ensure that national priorities are addressed, all
fellowship awards are advertised by the individual ministry or unit. The awards are advertised to ensure that
only the most able and qualified candidates are recruited. These candidates are recruited to undertake studies
in response to the identified need. The applicants are selected by the various ministries and units and
reviewed by the NSB prior to the final award. All students receiving awards then have to agree to the bonding
terms and since 1996 to cost recovery measures, before their departure.
6



policy positions that have been enacted will enable the NSB to sustain a
fellowship program better responding to national economic needs.
*   The project inputs have influenced quality improvements at SEC and increased
access to secondary education. The important improvements in exam results
which have occurred at SEC have been sustained the last three years, speaking
well for the project inputs. The increased equitable access, particularly of girls,
is continuing. Thus, sustainability is occurring since the SEC results continue
to be good and Government is funding and staffing the SSS (almost all
nationals) at a satisfactory level. The SSS atoll school has also become a
good model for increased access in other parts of the country. Increased
proximity of schools has allowed more parental involvement which is assisting
with the achievement of educational goals.
*   The external training of the planners has been positive and improved planning
in the MOE is expected to be continued through ongoing support to that unit.
The training of PIU staff, through a combination short-term external courses
and timely in-country technical inputs or on-the-job training, has resulted in a
good transfer of knowledge and skills. These skills will enable PIU to
implement the next IDA project. Basically, project sustainability is being
demonstrated by the good start-up of the follow-up project. Government
should be congratulated on these important efforts.
E.     Bank Performance
17.   Strengths and weaknesses: Bank staff contributed to the success of the project
through supportive working relationships and professional advice. The overall the project
benefited, during project preparation and appraisal, from detailed and upfront review of
the sector issues and of the implementation steps required. This effective dialogue
facilitated consensus, resulted in the scope of the first project being adjusted to what was,
at that time, considered feasible to implement and later sustain. IDA's performance was
satisfactory and it assisted to set the framework for the successful implementation that
followed. The time devoted to the supervision of this project, in contrast with other
projects in the region, has been quite low (only about 54 days in the field) with mission
visits ranging from three to nine days (latter allocated for the mid-term review). More
lengthy and regular missions during the first two years could have further reduced the
implementation period for the civil works and resolved at an earlier stage some of the
minor management problems of the scholarship program. Maldive's administrative
location within East Asia Region made travel to the country out of the way and costly.2
The Maldives also suffered from the phenomenon that small states are usually given less
attention than large ones. Thus, an important factor to note is the implementation of this
successful first sector project with low supervision coefficient. Such low coefficients were
in part influenced by the continuity of the task managers (only two and who overlapped
2 Maldives was transferred to the South Asia Region in 1993 overcoming that problem.
7



effectively) and especially the effective employment of an implementation advisor (former
Bank staff in the sector). The advisor greatly assisted Government satisfy the IDA
guidelines and procedures (i.e. using sample bidding documentation and doing such work
to enable IDA to approve at first submission the equipment bidding documentation). IDA
also responded in a very timely way to facilitate rapid resolution of arising issues. In
addition, the Bank used its visits to pursue its policy dialogue and to maintain a good
relationship with the country. The proximity of government offices in Male' allowed
timely organization of meetings, with all the concerned authorities, enabling the missions
to deal jointly with ongoing and future activities. This combination enabled the missions
to efficiently combine supervision and project preparation activities.
F.     Borrower Performance
18.   Strengths and weaknesses: All in all, the Government's performance was
praiseworthy, especially for a first project in the sector. The active participation in the
determination of the project scope and obtaining a clear view of its responsibilities during
project preparation paid dividends and assisted the Government effectively implement this
project. Government made sure it did not embark in a project it could not sustain. This
participatory approach also assisted set-up a good relationship and working framework
which continued during project implementation. Except for the initial delays in the start-
up of civil works (getting adjusted to the IDA tendering procedures), some harmonization
of the fellowship programs and building-up the skills of the PIU, the Government's
performance was very good and timely. The civil works activities, the procurement of
equipment, goods and educational materials, technical assistance, and studies were well
managed and efficiently implemented. Government particularly PIU, organized good
mission agenda, reduced the duplication of meetings and facilitated the combination of the
ongoing project reviews with discussions of future needs. This approach assisted the
Bank missions prepare the follow-up project. Overall Government facilitated throughout
the project constructive dialogue and undertook timely communications with IDA.
Government's performance was highly satisfactory during all project stages.
G.   Assessment of Outcomes
19.   Other important outcomes of the project are:
(a)   Project Relationship: The success of this project was the result of good
relationships between the Bank and the Borrower, and between the various participating
groups. Another contributing factor was the high level of professionalism of all parties
involved and the important overview role played by the national coordination committee.
(b)          Technical Assistance and Consulting Services The success of the project
could not have been obtained without the high level and quality of the technical assistance,
particularly of the project implementation advisor who guided the Government and PIU
throughout the project. The timing of the implementation advisor's visits was good, costs
reduced from those estimated at appraisal (about 10 months versus 36) and the practice is
being continued during the follow-up project. Only about one and half months of the
8



planned eight months were used for a procurement advisor. A local expatriate consultant
accountant was employed for 27 months (while national accountant was being trained)
versus the nine estimated at appraisal. The performance of the consultants employed for
the studies was also of good quality with the labor study using about eight consultant
months versus seven planned (longer period needed for collection of data in the scattered
islands/atolls). Finally, the teacher study used four months rather the three months
estimated.
(c)   Project Implementation Data: The original appraisal report and supporting
Working Papers were generally adequate. The project would have benefited from an
implementation plan but the review mission and PIU developed a good data base which
facilitated the effective supervision of the project. Communication between the
Government and IDA was timely and focused. The latter, complemented by the
Government's ability to make decisions, resulted in a reasonable flow of correspondence
which was generally dealt with rapidly by both parties. PIU kept good records on civil
works, procurement, fellowships, disbursements, and other matters greatly facilitating
communication and supervision missions (part of the reason visits could be so short), and
generally the operation of the project was good. Government assisted the ICR team with
the collection of the necessary data for this report.
(d)   Reporting: Following inception delays during the first two years of project
implementation, good quality semester reports were prepared during the project period.
The audit reports were received by the scheduled dates and correspondence was handled
in a timely manner. All project covenants were met on schedule.
(e)   Compliance with Operational Manual: All operational manual conditions were
complied with in a satisfactory manner during project implementation.
H.    Future ODerations
20.   The effective dialogue undertaken during the project supervision enabled IDA
missions to link-up with other donors (UNESCO, ODA- UK, ADB, IDB and AusAid).
UNESCO prepared a sector report, and ODA piloted an atoll teacher in-service program
which assisted with the preparation of the IDA follow-up Second Education and Training
Project. As a result of the appraisal team's efforts to attract the support of other donors,
BDB is assisting with the construction of the Northern Regional Secondary School (as part
of the second IDA project), while AusAid is assisting with the secondary teacher training
program. ADB has also prepared an Education Master Plan reviewing the sector policies
(November 1995). It is hoped that a coordinated and potentially joint ADB and IDA
social sector input project will be prepared during 1996/97. Following the effectiveness of
the ongoing project, other donors, mainly the EEC and Commonwealth Secretariat have
expressed interest in participating in the fellowship program. IDA's catalyst role has
assisted the Maldives address key sector policies and has generated interest from other
donors. As stated in the executive summary and paragraph 16 abpve, project
sustainability is expected to be high. The scholarship program has established clear
selection and management criteria which continue to be used and as a result of the
9



introduction of cost recovery mechanism the sustainability of the scholarship program will
be ensured. In respect to SEC and SSS their sustainability have already been proven by
the Government's support of these institutions during the last three years. The whole time
adequate operation and maintenance funding was granted to SEC and SSS with such
funding expected to continue. Sustainability of the programs introduced and the facilities
supplied by the project is expected.
L.    Key Lessons Learned:
21.   The final IDA mission discussed the project lessons with the Government and
arrived at the following:
*  Government realized that unless increased linkages existed between economic
priorities and the fellowship allocations, the reduction of national skill
shortages would be more difficult. It also noted that unless the private sector
was able to obtain some access to training and fellowships the country's
economic growth would remain slower;
*  Government noted that the establishment of a permanent scholarship office
coordinating all fellowships increased the efficient use of credit or bilateral
funds. It also reduced the bi-partisan demands and allowed a more effective
response to actual skill shortages;
* Government noted that the focused training had a positive impact in reducing
the need for expatriate employees within the public service;
*  Government and IDA realized that unless some method of cost recovery for
fellowships was established, Government would not be able to respond to the
increasing demand. In that context it was accepted that training in lower cost
regional institutions should become part of the national fellowship selection
criteria. In addition, for sustainability purposes, a budget line item will be
added to ensure future national focus on training and fellowship needs;
*  Government realized that students (due to country conditions) lacked
information for effective selection of training and fellowships. It thus
concluded that the establishment of a career guidance service in the secondary
schools and for young adults was necessary to facilitate improved student
selection of training programs (undertaken by the follow-up IDA project);
*  Government and IDA became aware, as a result of the important contributions
of the returned fellows/trainees, that the decision to focus fellowships at
certificate, diploma and first-degree levels had been sound, economical and
responsive. The National Coordination Committee (made-up of
representatives from all the Ministries) concluded that such a policy should be
made permanent;
10



*   IDA realized that the Government's strict implementation of time limits to
fellows made the fellowship program one of the most efficient ones ever
managed by a small state (almost 100 percent success rate). It also indicated
that the Maldives adopting the formula of training abroad versus trying to run
costly and inefficient small national institutions (as done by most of the Pacific
countries) is a more economical, responsive and a faster way to reduce key
skill shortages;
*   Government soon realized that in spite of its desire to allow the maximum
number of students from the small island primary schools access to secondary
education, it still had to set entry criteria. After a too generous first year entry
it became aware that marginal educational gains were being obtained and costs
would exceed its capacity. It also realized that unless a catch-up program
(language/mathematics transition - Dhivehi to English) was established a high
percentage of the atoll students would not be able to gain equitable access to
secondary education. A transition year to facilitate rural children
opportunities was thus established;
*   It was noted that the involvement of the community with implementation
decisions regarding SSS facilitates and educational programs increased
acceptance and gave the school and the Government a good avenue to keep
the parents informed;
*  Government's and IDA's careful review of the studies' TORs and inclusion of
follow-up measures increased the subsequent actions;
*   IDA and Government noted that for studies the time and related costs
involved with the collection of data in a scattered society need to be taken into
consideration and included as part of the costs. Also, the need to design
systems to ensure sustainability of post project data collection;
*   Government and IDA realized that the use of a periodic implementation
advisor (particularly knowledgeable in Bank operations) can greatly assist
with timely implementation and setting-up of effective monitoring mechanisms
which assist the project meet its goals; and
*   Government and IDA noted that the readiness to address immediately arising
issues (scholarships, financing and staffing) increased responsiveness.
J.    Evaluation of Program Obiectives
22.   The project objectives were considered suitable for a first operation in the country
and were all successfully achieved or exceeded appraisal estimates. These objectives fell in
the following categories:
11



Category                     Component/Activity           Result
Development of Policies      Scholarship, Access, Equity  Good progress was made with
Supply and Demand of        all policy matters being
Teachers.                   implemented.
Reduction of Skill Shortages   Pilot national scholarship  Very successful response in all
program was to increase     the sectors achieving 247
response to skill shortages  percent of candidate numbers
targeting economic priorities of and 136 percent of study
the country                 months/years. For the first
time the country could control
its post-secondary scholarship
allocations to meet economic
needs. The number of
graduates increased by over
200 percent and greatly
assisted Government improve
its services.
Physical and Material Inputs    Construction of pilot atoll  SSS was a successful pilot
secondary school and supply of with positive impact
equipment and educational   particularly on girls'
materials.                  participation and demonstrated
the feasibility of atoll
secondary schools. All
equipment and material goals
_______________________      were  reached.
Quality Improvements         Inputs of educational materials  Exam passing results went
and equipment to improve    from about 50 percent to about
quality of education at SEC.    70 percent and about 20 atoll
Construction of SSS increasing  students gained access to
secondary school access by  further education per annum.
about 10 percent for the atoll   Most important was the
students.                   impressive increase in female
participation at the SSS.
Management and Staff         Training of educational      These have had very positive
Development Strengthening    planners and PIU staff.      impact in improving the
efficiency of the Government
services.
12



Part II Statistical and Data Tables
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        &h9w1wr           Partia         Negligibi       Not Mplicable
(/)            (V)               (V)               (/)
Macro Policies                      O               O                                  0
Sector Policies                     0               E                EEl
Financial Objectives                                                                   E] 0  0  E
Institutional Development           0               E                El                E
Physical Objectives                                i:                E                 El
Poverty Reduction                  []               Q                Q                 0
Gender Issues                       0                 l              E                 E
Other Social Objectives                             ri 0                               El
Environmental Objectives            E               a                E                 0
Public Sector Management           I                0                E                 E
Private Sector Development          E                                E
Other (specify)                     E               E                E                 E
(Continued)
B. Ejiect Sustainabilit                LiLU1y                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
(/)                       (/()                      (/)
0                        Ol                        El
13



Higl
C. BaSc Performance                      satisfactory          Satisfacory                 Deficienlt
(/)                      (1)                        (1)
Identification                                                                           ri:
Preparation Assistance               I                                                   El
Appraisal
Supervision                           ]                                                  I:!
Hgly
D. Borrower Performance                        satisfactory    Satisfacor        Deficient
(/)             (V)             (v')
Preparation
Implementation                                                i:i
Covenant Compliance                                            El
Operation (if applicable)                     El
Highl                                               Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome               satisfactory    Satisfactor   Unsaifact=r        unatsaco
El              0                 El                El
1 4



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 2: IDA Credit Relevant to the Project
Credit Number          Purpose of         Year of
Project Title           Project          Approval      Status       Comments
Support policy-based
investments in basic                           Implementation
education and skills                           proceeding on
Cr. 2701-MAL          development.               1995     Good       schedule.
Relevant Activities by Other Donors
Organization            Activity        Period/Year    Status        Comments
Asian Development     Prepare an education    Nov. 1995   Completed  Deals with sector
Bank (ADB)            master plan.                        Issued     policies and identified
Feb. 1996  management goals.
Lending to social
sector credit to be
prepared 1996/97 as
joint ADB-IDA
effort.
Islamic Development    Fund as part            1995-99    Contracted/ Regional Northern
Bank (IDB)            Cr. 2701-MAL                        Underway  Secondary School
Northern Regional                             jointly financed by
Secondary School.                             IDB and IDA
ODA (UK)              Supply in-service        1996-99    On-going   Complement IDA
consultants for                               efforts.
Cr. 2701-MAL
to upgrade atoll
primary teachers
.15



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 3: Project Timetable
Date actual/
Steps in project cycle            Date planned    |_latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                              03/24/87
Preparation                                           09/01/87         05/02/87
Appraisal                                             03/01/88          05/18/88
Negotiations                                          09/01/88          12/05/88
Letter of development policy (if applicable)              NA                NA
Board presentation                                    11/24/88          01/26/89
Signing                                                     -           03/23/89
Effectiveness                                                           06/20/89
First tranche release (if applicable)                     NA                NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                          Year 3          07/28/92
Project completion                                    06/30/95          06/30/95
Loan closing                                          12/31/95          12/31/95
Comments on Timetable:
The timetable was realistic in view of the time required for the large fellowship component.
However, based on the fact that most project activities were completed by the mid-term review
in August 1992, the six and a half year period could have been reduced to six (needed for completion
of training cycle). As a first project, the timetable was realistic and enabled Government to
achieve the project goals within the allocated time frame. Future project has been allocated
a shorter implementation period of 5 years.
16



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY89  FY90  FY91   FY92  FY93  FY94  FY95   FY96
Appraisal estimate           100    650  2,340  4,070  5,600  6,840  7,790  8,190
Actual                         0    690  1,550  4,020  5,730  6,820  7,580   8,121
Actual as % of estimate       0%   106%    66%    99%   102%   100%    97%    99%
Date of final disbursement                                                     Nov-95
Disbursement Pattern: Estimate/Actual
9,000
8,000  - Appraisai estimate ---
7,000  - *Actual      -                _
') 6,000                         .       *
.~5,000 - 
' 4,000  -_ --
MO 3,000 -- ---
2,000    -
1,000   - --          --                 -     _  
0
0) CD    CD                'TCD C  CD  CD
L     u     LL    LL    LL    Li    Li   UL
17



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981 -MLD
Table 5: Key Indicators for Prolect Implementatian Results
Shortall (SY1
Met (My
Indicators/Und             Projects Estimated Target            ActuaVStatus Proeded            Exceeded (E)
Traninr
National Sdiholatnhp Prgram
Overses fellowship training    115 study-years               Goal Exceeded 176 achieved                      E
Long-term                     84                            140 Completed Dec. 31, 1995                     E
Short-term                    408 study-months              488 CDmpleted Dec. 31, 1995                     E
Secondary Educabon
a Science Education Center
Staff fellowship               7 (28 study-years)            8 Accomplished by January 1994                  E
Finance-books                                                Received 1990-92, All Subjects                  M
leaching materials      Not specf'ied                 Received 1990-94, All SAets                     M
laboratory equipment   (All science subjects)                                                         M
b. Regional Secondary School:
Establish in Hthadoo           To accommodate 440 students    Opened Jan. 92. Accommodated 488 in 98         E
Staff fellowshi                17 (68-sudy years-overseas)    17 Completed January 1993                      M
Finance-civil works                                          Completed July 1992                             M
fumiture                                              Received 1992/93                                M
equipment                                             Received 1992-93                                M
teaching materialAlibrary   As per lists agreed to    Received 1992-93                                M
books
Institutional Develomeant
a  Recrui
Education planner/economist    1                             Recruited September 30,1991                     M
Educabon evaluator             1                             Recruited July 15, 1992                         M
Labor market infomnation sperialist  1                       Recruited May 30. 1992                          M
Project manager                1                             Recruited June 1989                             M
Procurement officer            1                              Racoifed October 1989                          M
Accountant                     1                              Recruited September 1989                       M
Assistant accountant           1                              Recruied August 1990                           M
b. Fellowship:
Education planner/economist    1(48 study-months)            2 Completed 1992 + 2 Bilateral                  E
Education evaluator            1(10 study-months)             1 Completed 1993                               M
Labor market informabon specialist  1(10 study-months)       2 Being Met 1996                                M
Protect manager                1(3 study-months)             1 Completed 1989                                M
Procurement Officer            1(8 study-months)             2 Completed 1989                                M
Accountant                     1 (10 study-months)            1 Completed 1991                               M
Assistant Accountant           1(3 study-months)              1 Completed 1992                               M
c. Expatriates:
Labor market information specialist  1(6 staff-months)       8 Contracted 1992 for 4 Staff Months (SMa)
Implementation advisor         1(62 staff-months)            7 Contracted in Sap. 1989-July 1994 for 18 SMS
Procurement advisor            1(8 staff-months)             1.5 Contracted 1991 for 3 SMs
Accounting Advisor             1 (9 staff-months)             1.5 Contracted 1989 tor 6 SMa
d. Labor markel information system    Operational by March 31 1991    Partially Met                             S
Studies to Guide Future Policies on
a. Labor Strategy                 Draw together results of various   Completed 1993. largely Strategy applied.  S
studies and produce a strategy
Expatriate Expert              1(3 staff-months)             Completed 1993.
b. Teacher Recruitment, Training  Develop middle-school teacher    Study submitted to govemment on 7/14/93      M
and Development                training                      with teacher strategy.
Define role of different modes of  Teacher training strategy covered by                             18
teacher training             the follow-up project.
Secondary teachers training



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES                                                             Table 6
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT                                                            I of 3
Iiiplencnitationi Indicators
Key: - planned
XX actual
CY 1988        1989            1990           1991           1992           1993          1994           1995           1996
FY       88/89          89/90          90/91          91/92          92/93          93194          94195          95196
National Scholarship Program
Degree level fellowships__
Diploma level fellewships
Certificate level fellowships_
XXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX XXXX X-
Technical/managerial training                                                                                                    _
XX X X XXX X XXX XXXX X XXX X XXX X
SCIENCE EDUCATION CENTER
Provision of equipment, books &
educational materials                             X  X  X    X  X  X  X    X  X  X  X
X                                                 _____ __
Staff fellowships                                        X  X X XX   X X X X   X X XX   X X                                            _
XX X X X X X X X X  X X X X X
REGIONAL SECONDARY SCHOOL
Civil Working and Furniture:
Preparations of bid documents
X X X
Bidding
X X X
Construciton
X X X XX  X X X X  X
Provision of equipment, books &                                                                                           _
educational materials                                                       XX X X    X X X X  X
Staff fellowships                                                                                  _
___________  X XXXX ' XXXX XXXX  XXXX XXXX X
19



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES                                                              Table 6
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT                                                             2 of3
Imnplementation Indicators
CY 1988         1989           1990       I   1991       1   1992            1993           1994           1 995          1996
FY       88i89          89190           90/91          91192          92/93          93/94          94/95          95/96
IMPROVING PLANNING CAPACITY
Fellowships:
XX XXXX XXXX XXXX xXXX XXXX
MOE:
Education Planner/Economist                                   X  X  X  X     X  X  X  X    X
Education Evaluator
DPWL:
Labor market information officer                         X    X X  X  X
MPD project management:
Project manager
Procurement officer
Accountant
X
Assistant accountant
XX
Specialists:
DPWL labor market                                                    X X    X X X
information specialist
XXX  X
MPD project management:
Implementation advisor
x x X xX X                     X Xx            X X  X X xX  X X X X  X X
Procurement
XX      X_
20



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES                                                                   Table 6
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT                                                                  3 of 3
Implemnentationi Indicators
CY  1988         1989            1990        I   1991        |   1992             1993            1994            1995            1996
FY        88189           89190           90191           91192           92193           93/94           94/95            95/96
Accountant
x  x x x x  x x
Assistant Accountant
STUDIES
Labor Issues                                                              X X XXXX
Teahcer Issues                                                                        X         X
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                 X     X
m:\aime\mal\1 981 mal\impl2.xis
21



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Purpose as defined
Study                  at appraisal                Status             Impact of Study
Labor Strategy and   Draw together results of      Completed in 1993.    Updated the census,
Survey of Skill Avail-   various studies and produce a  Dissemination and  identified skill needs for
ability and Shortages   strategy and plan of action for    follow-up still  each ministry, established
in the Labor Market    Government to deal with issues,   needed.         annual survey to maintain
such as employment conditions,                      up-to-date information
wages, labor migration, etc.                        which would aid in
prioritizing the country's
training needs.
Teacher Deployment   Provide a strategy and plan of    Study submitted to  Strengthened
action which would guide the  Government on         primary education pre
Government in allocating      July 14, 1993. Some    and in-service programs
resources efficiently to recruit,    of the key recommenda- and introduced
train and deploy teachers at all   tions are being  in-country junior
levels equitable throughout the    implemented.     secondary teacher
country.                                           training.
22



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$M)         Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign              Local   Foreign
Item             Costs    Costs    Total    Costs    Costs    Total
Training:
National Scholarship
Program                        0      3.47      3.47      0.05     4.28      4.33
Secondary education:
Science education
Center                       0.21     0.66      0.87      0.01      0.56     0.56
Regional secondary
school                       0.56       2.1     2.66      0.22      2.16     2.39
Subtotal                    0.77     2.76      3.53      0.23      2.72     2.95
Institutional development:
Improved planning
capacity                     0.11      0.69      0.8      0.03      0.97     1.00
Studies                       0.01      0.05     0.06      0.00      0.14     0.14
Subtotal                    0.12     0.74      0.86      0.03      1.11     1.14
Other Operational Expenses                                  0.00      0.00     0.00
Baseline cost               0.89     6.97      7.86      0.31      8.10     8.42
Contingencies:
Physical                      0.06     0.38      0.44                         0.00
Price increase                 0.2     0.84      1.04                         0.00
Subtotal                    0.26      1.22     1.48      0.00      0.00     0.00
Total project cost          1.15      8.19     9.34      0.31      8.10     8.42
23



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estmate (US$M)           Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign              Local       Foreign
Source                Costs    Costs    Total       Costs       Costs     Total
IDA:
Civil Works                                    0.57      0.57       0.56        0.10      0.66
Furniture                                      0.03      0.03)      0.09        0.58      0.67
Equipment, books and                                        0)
educational materials                         0.33      0.33)
Technical assistance:
Specialists                                   0.65      0.65                   0.60      0.60
Fellowships                                   6.61      6.61                   6.19      6.19
Subtotal                                     8.19      8.19       0.65        7.47      8.12
Domestic: Government of Maldives'
Civil Works                           0.17               0.17       0.15                  0.15
Furniture                             0.04               0.04)      0.02                  0.02
Equipment, books and                                         )
educational materials                0.02               0.02)
Technical assistance:
Specialists                          0.08               0.08       0.12                  0.12
Recurrent costs                       0.84               0.84       0.01 *                0.01
Subtotal                            1.15               1.15       0.30                  0.30
Total project financing             1.15      8.19     9.34       0.95         7.47     8.42
'Government figures not obtained.
**Does not include civil works actvities at SEC (estimated at US$0.7 million) and SSS recurrent costs
of about US$100,000 p.a. and additional recurrent costs of about US$80,000 p.a. for SEC operation
resulting in a total p.a. recurrent cost of about US$200,000 for the last 3 years of operabon. Including
these expenditures the total project and related costs would total US$9.1 million with only capital
investments (civil works) at SEC and US$9.6 million if all the recurrent costs generated by the project
are included. This compares well with the financing plan and total project cost estimated at
US$9.34 million at the tme of appraisal.
24



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 9: Status of Legal Covenants
Original  Revised
Covenant  Present Fulfillment Fulfillment
Agreement Section    Type      Status    Date      Date       Description of Covenant     Comments
Credit    3.03 (A) Project        C      05/31/89  09/30/91 Recruit local specialists  In compliance.
Implement-                            (education planner, educa-
ation                                 tion evaluator, and labor
arrange-                               market specialist).
ments
3.03 (B) Project       C      03/31/91  12/31/92 Prepare labor market        In compliance.
Implement-                            information, data on work
ation                                 force, employment and
arrange-                               wages, and undertake a
ments                                 teacher analysis.
3.04    Project        C                        Implement Fellowship program  In compliance.
Implement-                            in accordance with administra-  Progressive
ation                                 tive procedures satisfactory  management
arrange-                               to the Association.          adjustment
ments                                                               during
implementation.
3.05 (A) Project       C                        Retain PIU with project     In compliance.
Implement-                             manager, procurement officer,  Staffing criteria
ation                                  accountant, and assistant    was satisfied.
arrange-                               accountant.
ments
3.05 (B) Project       C    Annually            Establish project coordinating   In compliance.
Implement-         by 9/30.            committee to coordinate      Met when
ation                                  project.                     needed.
arrange-
ments
4.01     Financial     C    Annually            Prepare annual audit.        In compliance.
Well-prepared
audit reports
were received
on time yearly.
25



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 10: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
[        Stage of            Planned             Revised             Actual
Project Cycle     Weeks   US$000   Weeks   US$000   Weeks   US$000
Through appraisal         63.0    147.1       63.0    147.1      63.0    147.1
Appraisal--Board          15.0      42.0      13.0      36.4     12.7      35.4
Board--effectiveness       4.0      12.8       4.0      12.8      1.8       3.8
Supervision               49.0    164.5       38.3    125.6      37.6    123.1
Completion                 3.0       8.5       2.0       7.0       1.6      6.0
TOTAL                   134.0    374.9    120.3    328.9    116.7    315.4
Board date: 1/26/89
Effectiveness: 6/20/89
FY89 SPN: 1.8
*Note low cost of this operation.
26



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
CREDIT 1981-MLD
Table 11: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating
Number             Specialized  Implemen- Develop-
Stage of         Month/       of      Days in   staff skills   tation  ment   Types of
project cycle       year     persons    field   represented   status  objectives problems
Identification      Mar/87           1        8    Educator
Preappraisal        Feb/88          4         22    Economist
TechNoc.Ed.
Gen.Educator
Architect
Appraisal           May/88           2        15    Economist
Architect
Postappraisal      Jul/88            1        3    Ed. Specialist
Start-up            Mar/89           1        3    Architect
Supervision I       Sep-Oct/89       1        4    Architect         1         1    CW
Contract
Supervision II      Jul/90           1        4    Architect         1         1    None
Supervision IlIl    Feb/91           1        7    Architect         1         1    None
Supervision IV      Dec/91           1        4    Ed.Specialist     1         1    None
Supervision V       Jul-Aug/92       2        9    Sr. Ed.Planner    1         1    None
Mid-Term Review                                     Architect
Supervision VI 1    Aug/93           3        6    Sr.Ed.Planner    1          1    None
Architect
Supervision VIl     Feb/94           2        2    Sr.Ed.Planner    1          1    None
Architect
Supervision Vil 1/   May-Jun/94     2        8    Sr.Ed.Planner   HS         HS    None
Architect
Supervision IX 1/   Oct/94           1        3    Sr.Ed.Planner   HS         HS    None
Supervision X       Jan-Feb/95       1        2    Sr.Ed.Planner   HS         HS    None
Supervision XI      Oct/95           1        5    Sr.Ed.Planner   HS         HS    None
According to FEPS, there was a preparation mission in July 1987, but TOR and BTO - on a preparation mission
could not be located in the files.
1/ Mission was combined with new lending operation with limited time given to supervision of the
on-going project.
27



Table 12
Page 1 of3
Education and Training Project
Summary of Technical Assistance and Consultants Used
CONSULTANCY              CONSULTANT             PERIOD    CONTRACT  AMOUNT                           OUTPUT OF                REMARKS
USED                              AMOUNT    DISBURSED                 CONSULTANCY
(in US$)
Implementation Advisor   Dr. Bernard Masters    Oct '89 - Sept '92  200,500.00      204,023.07  Provided advice to PIU on all  Satisfactory
matters related to the
implementation of the project.
Prepared and submitted reports
on the project for each visit.
Assisted PIU in the identification,
selection and supervision of
consultants.
Procurement Advisor      Mrs. June Bsaies       Dec '89 - Dec '90     33,400.00      33,400.00  Visited Maldives three times   Satisfactory
during the period, and provided
advice on procurement of works
MQ                                                                                                    and goods. Assisted in the
co                                                                                                    preparation and establishment of
necessary plans and procedures
for smooth and efficient
procurement.
Accounting Advisor       Mr. David Jones        Dec '89 - Mar '91     37,390.00      37,390.00  Designed and installed an      Satisfactory
accounting and financial
reporting system for the project.
Assisted the Project Accountant
in the take over of the accounting
and financial management system
prior to the departure of the
expatriate Accountant.
Provided initial training to four
staff on the use of the project
accounting program and in basic
accounting principles.
Equipment Specialist     Mr. John Cadigan       Dec '89 - Jul '90     33,170.00      33.170.00  Reviewed the equipment list for   Satisfactory
the Science Education Center and
assisted in the preparation of the



Table 12
Page 2 of 3
CONSULTANCY             CONSULTANT              PERIOD    CONTRACT   AMOUNT                         OUTPUT OF               REMARKS
USED                              AMOUNT   DISBURSED                 CONSULTANCY
(in US$)
bid advertisement, the
appropriate bid documents and
forms and procedures for bidding
____ ___ ____ ___ process.
Project Accountant      Mr. Jagath C. Perera    Jan '90 - Feb '92    50,684.00      50,684.00  Maintained all project         Satisfactory
expenditures using sound
accounting practice. Arranged
for payment of all projects costs,
prepared withdrawal applications
for replenishment of the Special
Account, arranged for annual
audits and prepared the annual
budget.
Labor Market Information  SAGRIC International   Apr '92 - Feb '92   97,843.00      97,843.00  Prepared two reports: "Labor   Satisfactory
- Bernard Hanslow                                                     Market Information Stage I
- Elizabeth Hanslow                                                   Report" and "Population Survey
- Allan John Collopy                                                  Republic of Maldives 1992".
Includes labor market
information to establish the
parameters, train national
personnel, design surveys, collect
and analyze data.
Advise MPWL on establishing a
Labor Market Information
System.
Labor Issues Study      SAGRIC International   Apr '91 - Feb '92     57,561.00      57,562.00  Prepared a report "The Maldivian  Satisfactory
-Mark Wooden                                                          Labor Market: Issues &
Problems" including review &
analysis of reports & statistical
data with case-studies & long
term strategies to guide the
government in developing the
implementing policies in labor-
related fields.
Clerk of Works, RSS     Mr. Hassan             Dec '90 - Feb '92     35,000.00      22,053.06  Supervised and inspected the   Satisfactory



Table 12
Page 3 of 3
CONSULTANCY             CONSULTANT              PERIOD    CONTRACT  AMOUNT                          OUTPUT OF               REMARKS
USED                              AMOUNT  DISBURSED                  CONSULTANCY
(in USS)
Santabaccus                                                           construction of the Southern
Secondary School on behalf of
the government. Informed PIU
and the Architect of all the
deviations by the contractor,
verified the quality and quantity
of materials and advised on the
scheduling of work and the
procurement of materials.
Maintained records and reported
to PIU the progress, conditions,
events, deviations and
information necessary for proper
evaluation.
Teacher Study           Rawlinson              Nov '92 - Jun '93     59,350.00      5^7,350.00  Prepared a report: "Teacher   Satisfactory
Consultancy Services                                                  Demand Supply and Training".
Pty Ltd.                                                              Reviewed all aspects of teacher
0                             - Dr. Ralph Rawlinson                                                 recruitments, training and
- Dr. Bernard Masters                                                 deployment; Analyzed secondary
enrollments and possible
expansion through the year 2000.
Proposed appropriate strategies,
cost implications and a plan of
action progressively to address
both secondary enrollments and
teacher needs.



Annex 1
MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT (Cr.1981-MAL)
OCTOBER 1995 VISIT
and
AIDE-MEMOIRE
1.     A World Bank review mission consisting of Mr. A. Aime, Sr. Education Planner, visited the
Maldives from October 21 to 28, 1995 to review the progress of the above-captioned project and the
Second Education and Training Project (Cr. 2701-MAL). The Mission would like to express its
appreciation for the assistance received during this brief visit. It would like to especially thank the staff
from the Project Implementation Unit within the MPHRE for their assistance. The conclusions of this
aide-memoire will be reviewed by the World Bank and Government managements.
2.     There are no problems and all the project activities have been or are in the process of being
completed with all activities expected to be completed by the project Closing Date of December 31, 1995.
All the project objectives, of this first education sector project, have been met or exceeded. The provision
of fellowships has already reached over 100 percent of its targets; the construction of the Southern
Secondary School (SSS) was completed in 1992 and has been in use since then slightly exceeding the
enrollment target of 440 students; all the studies and technical assistance activities have been completed in
a timely manner and are having positive impact; however, the strengthening of the education planning
office is still experiencing some problems due to the transfer of the trained staff (who had started very good
work); and project implementation, project reporting, submission of audit and progress reports have been
timely with project implementation having proceeded well. This project can be considered a successful
operation having met its goals and all indications are that the necessary staff, financial and policy have
been put in place to ensure the sustainability of this project.
3.     A list of all the scholarship programs indicating the completed training by candidates, sponsoring
Ministry, Institutions of training, courses taken, awards obtained, length of training, actual and anticipated
total estimated costs is found in Attachment C of this ICR (updated). All the project goals have been met
with about 176 scholarship awarded with an anticipated cost of over US$6.2 million. The Mission also
reviewed the employment record of trained fellows (as 8/95) and it showed that almost all the trainees were
employed (Attachment D of ICR). Other than two recent returnees not yet fully employed and nine who
were continuing their studies all the trainees were gainfully employed in the areas of their training. As
elaborated in previous aide-memoires the trainees were generating the largest skill infusion ever
experienced by the country and improving Government their services.
4.     As of November 1995, US$8.1 million had been spent and total project expenditures were
expected to reach $8.4 million (including both credit and Government expenditures) by December 31,
1995. At this stage, serious efforts need to be made by all the concerned authorities to ensure maximum
utilization of the remaining funds (including those in the Special Account). The funds remaining as of
October 25, 1995 are: Special Account US$327,000 and about SDR or about US$290,000 still available
from IDA (it should be pointed out that the SDR value has accrued during the project period resulting in
more funds available than expected at the time of credit signing). Committed and planned expenditures
include about US$55,000 to $60,000 for the final payment of ongoing fellowships, about US$125,000 for
additional equipment procurements outlined below, about US$15,000 for the auxiliary nurse training and
about US$15,000 for the balance of the accountancy course. Additional estimated costs are: US$5,000 for
construction supervision training at ICTAD in Sri Lanka (planned 11/95), and about US$25,000 for
regional institutions visits to assess fellowship opportunities (planned in 11 and 12/95) and potential
expenditures for MOE educational equipment (yet to be finalized). However, the above listed
expenditures only total about US$240,000 of the remaining funds in the Special Account, leaving a balance
31



of about US$87,000 unlikely to be spent. When combining the Special Account balance and about
US$268,000 of IDA funds remaining, a total of about US$300,000 is likely to be un-spent and could
potentially be canceled. It should also be noted that all the Special Account funds not spent would have to
be returned. Efforts to fully utilize the Special Account funds should be a priority. In the latter context, it
is quite evident that the period remaining to process the identified procurement activities is very brief since
the use of the credit funds needs to be completed before or at the latest by December 31, 1995. It should
also be noted that the processing of the final withdrawal applications for IDA funds and the use or
accounting of the funds from the Special Account need to be completed and received by IDA before March
31, 1995.
5.     The Mission reviewed the technical assistance and consultants used during the project and the
output of these consultancies and PIU is preparing a detailed summary (Annex 12 of ICR). Government
was able to benefit from good consultant assistance during the project. The approach of utilizing primarily
short-term focused visits from the various consultants was cost effective and gave good results.
6.     The planned schedule for the final processing of activities for Cr. 1981- MAL is as follows:
*  All funds should be expended by the beginning of December 1995;
*  Project closes December 31, 1995, the deadline for project expenditures;
*  Preparation of the ICR was discussed and a first draft ICR Parts I and Part III being prepared, by the
Bank, were discussed and reviewed with the Government. Government promised to send IDA part II
of the ICR and comments on the draft they received;
- Government prepares the final audit including the Special Account before June 1996;
*  March 31, 1996 is the final day for receipt of withdrawal applications and project books are closed.
7.     The Mission wishes to express for the Bank management its congratulations to the Government
for having executed in such a timely manner this first project in the education and training sector. It is
expected that many of the lessons learned from this project (listed in thedraft ICR given to PIU) will
benefit the implementation of the Second Education and Training Project which became effective during
June 1995. However, at this stage it is time to tackle during the last few months of implementation, the
final actions, to ensure maximum utilization of low cost credit funds available till December 31, 1995.
8.     Operational Plan: The Mission discussed an operational plan or follow-up to the project to
ensure its sustainability. The following suggestions/plans were elaborated and would become part of the
operational plan and Government would:
*  continue to review annually the NSP mechanisms and criteria to improve the scholarship response to
national needs and ensure the suitability of the national fellowship program;
*  assess how the private sector could be included in the scholarship awards in the future;
*  undertake to develop a national strategy based on the positive experience of the SSS which would
increase equitable access to secondary schools in all the atolls where numbers justify such expansion;
*  undertake to develop an education master plan to increase the focus and priorities upon which
resources should be directed to improve the quality and access to education throughout the country;
*  continue to strengthen the education planning unit and address the equity issues observed in the
financing of education services;
*  continue the partnership with the communities and private sector in developing of more equitable
education access, particularly at the secondary level;
*  continue the use of part-time and short visit approach of an implementation advisor for future projects
in the sector;
* staff the scholarship unit and the PIU with suitably qualified and full-time staff; and
*  continue to maintain the labor data to enhance the match between the training needs and the economic
priorities of the contry.
32



Annex 2
Page I of 6
Republic of Maldives
Education and Training Project
(Credit 1981-MAL)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PART II: Project Review From Government's Perspective
A:   Development Objectives:  The main objective of the project was to alleviate the
shortage of skilled manpower by providing higher education and training overseas and by
increasing the capacity and improving the quality of secondary education in the country. This
objective had been met and exceeded.
B:   Project Components:       The project consisted of the following components:
National Scholarship Program:  The project had made provision for 171 study years of
overseas fellowships for the public sector. However, by the end of the project 3784 study month
or 315.3 study years had been utilized. A total of 176 fellowships were awarded (Attachment
C). With the exception of a few (4) who had opted to continue further education under other
funding arrangements, 8 who are scheduled to complete in first half of 1996 and four people
whose studies will continue under the Second Education and Trained Project, all trained fellows
have returned and have been employed in the public sector. Indeed, more persons benefited from
overseas training than originally planned.
Science Education Center:  To upgrade the quality of higher secondary education at the SEC,
appropriate laboratory equipment books and educational materials were provided. In addition,
eight teachers were trained overseas. During the last few years there has been a significant
improvement in the GCE Advance Level pass rate of SEC graduates (Attachment A).
Regional Secondary School: A Regional Secondary School was constructed at Hithadhoo, Addu
Atoll. This was the first secondary school outside Male'. Construction occurred within 17
months in comparison to 11 months estimated at appraisal. The total cost of construction was
US$813,053.68 whereas the appraisal estimate was US$700,000. The school named Southern
Secondary School (SSS) was officially opened on 17 February 1992, by His Excellency
Maumoon Abdul Gayyoom, the President of Maldives. At appraisal this school was planned for
a total enrollment of 450 students for a session. However, enrollments surpassed this figure by
1995 (Attachment B) when the school had a total student population of 468. The percentage of
girls has been higher than that of boys.
Books, equipment, and educational materials were provided and the school was fully equipped
by the beginning of the school year. Initially, Government employed expatriate teaching staff. By
the end of the project 17 teachers had been trained overseas and the majority of the expatriate
staff had been replaced.
33



Annex 2
Page 2 of 6
Improved Planning Capacity: To strengthen the planning capacity within the MOE, an education
planner/economist and an education evaluator were identified and trained overseas. However, the
education Planner was later transferred to another sector.
To strengthen the project management capacity within the PIU the PIU staff (project manager,
project accountant, procurement officer) were trained overseas.
A labor market officer in the Ministry of Public Works and Labor was identified. This specialist
worked with the consultants for the Labor Study and was also trained overseas. As a result of the
restructuring of the Government in November 1993, the labor functions of the MPWL and the
related staff were transferred to the Ministry of Planning, Human Resources and Environment.
Studies:     Two studies were financed under the project which had assisted the Government
policy makers in two important areas. They are:
(a) Labor Strategy:  SAGRIC International of Australia was contracted to undertake a study of
the labor market issues and problems and to advise the Government on establishing a labor
market information system.
(b) Teacher Study:  Rawlinson Consulting Services PTY Ltd. of Australia was contracted to
undertake this study which subsequently formed the basis of a major component in the
Second Education and Training Project (Credit 2701-MAL).
Most of the recommendations in these reports are being implemented by the Government. The
establishment of the labor market information system had been slow as the local specialist was
away for studies till end 1994.
C.   Project Implementation
As agreed, a Project Implementation Unit was established within Ministry of Planning &
Development (present MPHRE) and a Project Manager appointed. At the beginning, the
function of the PIU and its staff were not clearly separated from the Planning Section of the
Ministry. However, as this created difficulties for the project staff, gradually the PIU and its staff
were separated. This has proved to be essential for ensuring continuing attention that need to be
given to the many aspects required in implementing a project of this nature.
A senior-level Project Coordinating Committee was established as a condition of the Credit to
provide overall policy guidance and coordination. This has been useful especially at the start-up
period to establish guidelines and give policy advice.
The timely implementation of activities from other agencies involved in the Project is essential to
smooth implementation of the Project. PIU had made tremendous effort to ensure that all the
agencies are kept informed of the critical events and deadlines. However, their full cooperation
has not been received. Often, it has been found that the project work is not assigned to any one
staff. With changes in staff, work is not handed over to anyone else, resulting in delays and
confusion. Other agencies do not respect deadlines strictly.
During project implementation, PIU was not able to accurately account for the local cost of the
Project. All local costs related to the project which were spent from the Government budget of
34



Annex 2
Page 3 of 6
other agencies have not been reported. Due to the cumbersome way of recording Government
expenditures the agencies have not been able to inform PIU of the specific expenditures related
to Project. The local cost accounted has mainly been kept by MPHRE and PIU. Attachment I
which gives a summary of the project costs by component and year of expenditures.
To ensure an adequate flow of currency to finance the Bank's share of eligible expenditures with
a minimum of administrative delay, a special deposit account (SA) was maintained at the
Maldives Monetary Authority. World Bank had initially advanced US$450,000 to the Special
Account. As the number of transactions increased, specially to students who are studying under
the project, the amount advanced to the Special Account had to be increased to US$ 800,000.
The operation of a Special Account was new to Maldives. Hence, all regulations regarding the
operation of a Special Account had to be learned by the PIU staff. Our experience in operating a
special account shows that this has a number of advantages, namely:
* ready access to foreign exchange and local currency to cover eligible expenditures without
having to rely on the government's resources to pre-finance the Bank's share;
* payments are processed quickly, facilitating speedy disbursement;
* greater opportunity for using statements of expenditure for payments against small contracts,
resulting in a reduction in the number of withdrawal applications and other documents sent to
the Bank; and
* greater control and easier access to payment information.
During the implementation of the project the following expatriates were recruited to advise/
assist with project implementation.
I. Dr. Bernard L Masters - Implementation Advisor
2. Mrs. June M P Bsaies - Procurement Adviser
3. Mr. David Jones - Accounting Advisor
4. Mr. John Cadigan - Equipment Specialist
5. Mr. Haassan Suntbaccus - Clerk of Works
6. Mr. Jagath Perera - Project Accountant
These specialists' services were of high quality and proved to be very beneficial for the smooth
implementation of the project and provided on-the-job experience for the PIU staff. All
specialists, except 5 & 6 were contracted for short visits (average 2 visits during project, except
the Implementation Advisor who visited 3 times a year) of about 10-14 days per trip, during
critical periods when their advice was required. This method of using consultants was found to
be more effective and minimized the cost of the consultancies. A comparison of total appraisal
estimates and the actual time and the costs incurred is given in Table I attached.
Three local specialists (education planner, education evaluator and labor market information
specialist) were recruited and trained under the project. There were some slight delays in
recruiting these specialists. The effectiveness of these trained specialists has not been as fully
beneficial either to the project or to the long term impact since they have been subsequently
transferred to other posts. Indeed, the project would have benefited directly if they had been in
more frequent consultation with the PIU staff.
35



Annex 2
Page 4 of 6
D.   Project Impact
As a result of the fellowship program a considerable amount of skilled, technically qualified
Maldivians have been added to the labor force. The training of Maldivian teachers (17 for SSS
and 8 for SEC) for secondary schools had resulted in considerable savings of foreign currency for
the education sector alone since they replaced costly expatriate teachers.
The Government's scholarship approval/selection procedure was cumbersome and not very
transparent. However, the fellowship scheme financed by the project was by far the largest
infusion (about US$6.2 million) into the national program and therefore government had to
devise different mechanisms for processing and monitoring for fellowships and performance. A
more efficient and transparent mechanism was established as a result of the National Scholarship
Program of the Project. Presently, all long term fellowships are publicly announced, the
selection criteria are defined and the selection/allocation decisions are made by the National
Scholarship Board (NSB) which is now within MPHRE. This procedure ensures the best
qualified candidate to be awarded scholarships.
Policy guidelines on failure, extensions and other matters related to fellowships evolved
gradually.
To formulate the National Scholarship Program (NSP), an initial training requirement survey of
the government agencies was undertaken. The lists received were excessive and not targeted.
This was the first of this type of exercise. However, through project implementation, this
exercise was repeated for revisions of the NSP resulting in offices being able to more accurately
define their training requirements. Present scholarship regulations require all offices to plan their
training for each year in advance and submit the training requirements to MPHRE. NSB's
allocations of fellowships to sectoral agencies are based on the training needs identified.
With the establishment of the Southern Secondary School (SSS) in Hithadhoo, Addu Atoll,
secondary education became more accessible to the student population in this region, especially
to girls. Presently 272 girls (out of a total of 488) are enrolled in the SSS in the four year
program which includes an orientation year in English & Math which was found essential for
island students not previously taught in English
With the supply of books, laboratory equipment and the training of teachers for SEC, the quality
of higher secondary education has improved significantly. The physical facilities have been
expanded at government expense, outside the scope of this project, resulting in larger number of
students (299 in 1996) being granted admission to SEC. There has been an impressive
improvement in the academic achievement of the SEC graduates over the last 5 years.
Local contractors are now aware of the international bidding requirements which have led to
development of construction management skills among Maldivians. Also it has led to skill
development of the concerned architects and engineers in the physical planning sections of the
government with regard to designing, preparing bid documents, BOQs and familiarity with
international bidding procedures and bid evaluation. The Ministry of Construction and Public
36



Annex 2
Page 5 of 6
Works has now adopted the World Bank's bidding document, with the necessary modifications,
for local competitive bidding.
At Project appraisal, the main risk associated with this project was the unavailability of qualified
staff to implement the Project. However, this has been overcome with the training and experience
of the PIU staff. As a result, trained and skilled officers are now available in the areas of project
management, financial management and procurement. PIU staff are now well versed with the
World Bank procedures on procurement for civil works, goods and consultancy services and the
reporting requirements of the project. Trained staff in accounting are available in PIU to handle
all accounting requirements of projects of this magnitude. These skills were not at all available
when this project started. Trained full time project staff were crucial for the efficient and timely
implementation of the project.
E.   Lessons Learned
The PIU needs to have a strong, trained, full-time staff whose manager needs sufficient seniority
to be accepted by the line ministries and external agencies. At the start of the Project, the PIU
staff were not full time Project staff. They were part of the Planning/Projects Section staff with
other responsibilities as well as project work. This created difficulties as Project work was quite
heavy and due to other work they were being overburdened. Also it was impossible to work as a
team because of many different assignments. The physical separation of the PIU from the
Planning/Projects Section and full time Project staff was essential to the smooth implementation
of the project.
ICB for civil works and equipment provided greater response to bid advertisements and usually
resulted in better quality, but more attention could be given to preparing prospective local
bidders (civil works, furniture, equipment) to present responsive bids. The time constraints
imposed by ICB need to be clearly programmed from the start.
Detailed planning, designated responsibility and a weekly work plan for each PIU officer needs
to be established early in the project and monitored and updated regularly.
The achievements of this first project are considerable and should not be minimized. Greater
effort should be made to publicize the good points of the project. The opportunity to bring about
positive change has been considerable, but politicians and public both need to be prepared
(influenced) to accept such changes.
The scholarship program achieved remarkable success. However, despite the desirable changes
which have recently been introduced, procedural problems remain to be more fully addressed if
scholarships are to be identified and awarded in a timely fashion. The respective roles of the PIU
and the scholarships unit still need to be more clearly defined and more regular contact
maintained.
Civil works and furniture designs left much to be desired. This does not seem to be solved. Much
greater and earlier collaboration between the architect and MOE is needed. It would not be
advisable to simply try to replicate the Southern Secondary School, but MOE should draw up a
new and more detailed education brief for the architect with instructions for a simplified and less
37



Annex 2
Page 6 of 6
costly structure. Furniture procurement needs considerable discussion and review before
appraisal to consider the potential merits or drawbacks of international procurement rather than
local manufacture, as was largely followed in this project.
Greater effort needs to be given to explaining to line ministries the role of the PIU as the
implementing agency for the project, while relying on the technical expertise of the line
ministries, who were not as open in their dealings with each other as they could have been, to
avoid frustrating and embarrassing situations.
PIU needs to be more transparent in its overall work plan and procedures so that both PCC and
the line ministries' personnel are aware of the time, budgetary and reporting constraints within
which PIU must operate.
F.    Sustainability
The PIU established for the project continued to operate with qualified and experienced staff.
The technical expertise and experience have benfitted the ministry and would facilitate efficient
implementation of projects. Recurrent costs have been met by government and is conunitted to
do so in future.
Almost all the trained people have been employed in the government in related fields of training
and provisions have been made to maintain them in the project institutions and government
agencies.
Government continues to make maximum use of the equipment and materials procured and
recurrent expenses for the maintenance of these are being met by the government. The Southern
Secondary School established under the project is operating with full contingent of trained staff
and the operational costs are met by the government.
G. World Bank's Role
The government had benefited from the technical advice of the experts and the resultant
procedures established. The scheduling of visits by the Implementation Adviser at critical time
periods and his contact with World Bank staff reduced the frequency of World Bank
supervisory visits without adversely affecting project implementation.
PIU staff had benefited from attending World Bank seminars and visiting the Bank.
Having to deal with only two Task Managers from the Bank, throughout the life of the project,
had helped to ensure continuity and consistency in effective implementation of the project.
Direct communications with the Task Manager and the prompt response has facilitated smooth
implementation.
38



Attachment 1
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF PROJECT COSTS BY COMPONENTS
(in USS)
AS AT 31 MARCH 1996
Appraisal    Actual   Actual   Actual      Actual       Actual       Actual     Actual     Actual      Actual            Estimated
Estimates     1989     1990      1990       1991         1992         1993       1993       1994      1995/96         Final position
(in million)                                                                                                             at 31.03.96
Training:
National Scholarship Program      3.4   67,494   297,526   365,020    596,297    1,119,466      868,052   2,948,836    683,115     693,609            4,325,559
Secondary Education:
Science Education Center          0.7    7,777   131,808   139,585    124,284      128,575      130,951    523,395     45,627      -4,063               564,959
Regional Secondary School         2.2   17.199  217.459   234.659     527.258      866,530      323.776   1,952.222    248,223     183.198            2.383.643
2.9   24,976   349.267   374,244    651,542     995,105       454,726   2,475,617    293,850    179,135             2,948,602
Institutional Development:
Improved Planning Capacity        0.7   67,561   206,540   274,102    221,650       59,094       85,623    640,469     56,021     279,108              975,598
Studies                           0.1        0         0        0      28.781       84.136       23.975    136,892         72           0               136.964
0.8   67.561   206.540   274.102    250.431      143.230      109.598    777.361     56.093     279.108             1.112.562
Other Operational Expenses        0.7    2,608     5,462    8,070       5,628        2,759          167     16,623      5,729       8,925                31,277
Contingencies                      1.4
Total project cost                 9.2  162.639  858.796 1.021.436   1,503,898    2.260.561     1,432,542   6,21B.437   1,038.786    1.160.777         8.418.001
Financed By:
IDA Contribution                    8    65,704   810,248   875,952   1,540,793    2,120,377   1,405,095   5,942,217   1,025,165    1,137,420          8,104,802
Govemment Contribution             1.2    5,744   47,222    52,966      55,623      140,184       27,447    276,220     13,621      23,357              313,199
Payable to UNDP                           91.192    1.326   92.518    -92.518            0
9.2   162.639  858.796 1.021.436   1.503.898    2.260.561   1.432.542   6.218.437   1.038.786    1.160.777          8.418.001
0
39



Attachment A
Science Education Centre, Male'
Results
1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994  1995
___  ___                                                                               3g~~~~~~~~-i - - -     -----L ---      -4L- I 'I  --]--   -    
No of students entered                             301   19j  2721             -  401  21   240          36   451  45   64    88    135
No. of students passed in at least 2 subjects       3     1  _4       1         24           11   20    17   13   33_54    62    100
% passed                                      I   10.0  5.3  14.8  4.81        60.01 66.7i 45.81 50.0j 47.2  28.9j 73.3! 84.41 70.5   74.1
10 x LNo of students entered                          -
41    ~  120-
O               MiNo.of students passed in at least 2 subjects
80  ---                                                                    --                     -    ----
20
0
1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1987    1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Source. Ministry of Education, Male' Maldives



Attachment B
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
Southem Secondary School, Hithadhoo, Addu Atoll
Student Enrolment
1992      1993     11994     11995      1996
Male                143       176       196       214       216
Female    _    _   196        240       250       254       272
Total               339       416       446       468       488
300
200            -                     -MaIe
1501_
2 ) l  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   r~~~emaleI
1992      1993       1994      1995       1996
Source: Ministry of Education, Male,' Maldives
41



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT                                                  Attachment C
MARCH 1989 TO MARCH 1996
Scholarship Program - Completed/Terminated
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry            Name of Fellow                         Institution                              Course                     Sought      Course    Total Cost       as at     Remarks
(months)     us $        31.03.9-6
National Scholarship Program
ATOLLS         Aishath Shihama                Royal Institute, Sri Lanka               Computing                              Certificate          12         6,800      13,004.00 Continuing on own funds
CUSTOMS        Khadeela Moosa                 Compute Point, India                     Adv. Programming in FoxPro             Certificate           2           500         489.61 Completed
CUSTOMS        Vizad Ali                      Computer Point, India                    Adv. Training in FoxPro                Certificate           2           500         489.61 Completed
DCA            Dr.Mohamed Waheed              RAF Institute of Aviation Medicine, UK.  Aviation Medicine                      Diploma               6       27,255       27,254.72 Completed
DCA            Mahamood Razee                 Cranfield Institute                      Airtransport                           Masters              12       31,348       31,348.19 Completed
DCA            Murthala Mohamed Didi          Adelaide College of Tafe S.Australia     Associate Diploma in Computing         Adv. Cert.           24       35,482       34,322.41 Completed
DPT            Ahmed Mujuthaba                University College of Swansea            Development Policy and Planning        Diploma               9        19,620      19,620.72 Completed
DPT            Mohamed Amir                   Anglia Higher Educ. College              Telecom.SystemlDesign & Mgt.l          Bachelors            24       48,497       48,497.08 Completed
FPID           Ahmed Zahir                    Regency College of TAFE, South Australia   Assoc. Dip. in Refrigeration Engineering    Assc. Diploma  30       33,000      53,316.89 Completed
FPID           Seema Ali                      University of Western Sydney, Australia  Assoc. Dip. in Food Technology         Assc. Diploma        24       60,000       41,619.84 Completed
IHS            Aishath Ahmed Didi             Institute of Education, UK               Primary Health Care Educ & Dev.        Adv. Diploma         12       22,000       21,338.68 Completed
IHS            Auxilliary Nurse Midwife Course  IHS                                                                                                          13,600      13,546.08
IHS            Nurse Practicum - India         Christian Medical College & Hospital, Vellore Clinical Experience for Diploma in General Nursing             30,000       12,738.80
MAA            Abdulla Sabah Ibrahim          Launceston College, Tasmania             Assoc. Dip. in Electrical Engineering  Assc. Diploma        36       46,434       48,421.58 Completed
MAA            Ahmed Janah                    Civil Aviation Training Centre, Sri Lanka  Aerodrome Control                    Certificate           4         3,900       3,093.63 Completed
MAA            Ahmed Mohamed                  Civil Aviation Training Centre, Sri Lanka  Aerodrome Control                    Certificate           4         3,900       3,093.63 Completed
MAA            Ali Saleem                     Civil Aviation Training Centre, Sri Lanka  Aerodrome Control                    Certificate           4         3,900       3,093.63 Completed
MAA            Hussain Mohamed Didi           Civil Aviation Training Centre, Sri Lanka  Aerodrome Control                    Certificate           4         3,900       3,093.63 Completed
MAA            Ibrahim Shahid                 Civil Aviation Training Centre, Sri Lanka  Aerodrome Control                    Certificate           4         3,900       3,093.63 Completed
MAA            lmran Abdul Gadir              Sydney Technical College of TAFE         Assoc. Dip. in Architectural Drafting  Assc. Diploma        24       37,475       35,960.48 Completed
MAA            Mohamed Athuhar                Civil Aviation Training Centre, Sri Lanka  Aerodrome Control                    Certificate           4         3,900       3,093.63 Completed
MAA            Mohamed Sobah                  Civil Aviation Training Centre, Sri Lanka  Aerodrome Control                    Certificate           4         3,900       3,093.63 Completed
MAA            Moosa Shahid Hussain           Civil Aviation Training Centre, Sri Lanka  Aerodrome Control                    Certificate           4         3,900       3,093.63 Completed
MCPW           Abdul Rasheed Nafiz            Adelaide Institute of TAFE, Australia    Management                             Certificate          12       18,800       16,949.84 Completed
MEB            Adnan Ibrahim                  Hu" Valley Polytechnic, New Zealand      National Cert. in Business Studies     Certificate          28       49,000       31,713.51 Completed
MEB            Ahmed Iqbal                    Adelaide College of TAFE                 Assoc. Dip. in Electrical Engineering  Assc. Diploma        30       42,500       47,321.49 Completed
MEB            Idrees Badeeu                  University of Surrey                     Mechanical Engineering                 B.Eng/Masters        48       82,615       87,741.62 Completed
MFA            Abdulla Shahid                 The Fletcher School of Law & Diplomacy    International Relations jM.A)         Masters              10       28,073       25,871.81 Completed
MFA            Abdulla Maseeh                 Plymouth Polytechnic Southwest           Political Science                      Bachelors             4         1,978       1,978.16 Transferred
MFAA           Aminath Zahira                 University of Leicester, UK.             Mathematical Statistics                B.Sc.                36       71,797       84,365.49 Continuing on own funds
MFAA           Mohamed Naseem                 Harper Adams Agricultural College, UK    Agriculture                            Nat. Dip.            36       46,700       40,453.53 Completed
MHW            Asim Mohamed                   University of Western Australia          Psychology                             Bachelors            36       53,218       52,553.91 Completed
MHW            Dr.Abdul A.Yoosuf              University of London                     Tropical Medicine & Hygiene            PG/ Diploma           3         9,886       9,886.34 Continuing on own funds
MHW            Fathimeth Nasheeda             Chester College, UK                      Health and Community Studies           BA IHon)             24       41,800       36,916.17 Completed
MHW            Husna Ibrahim                  Curtin University of Technology, W Australia Applied Science (Nursing)          B.Sc                 24       23,400       23,029.13 Completed
MHW            Maimoona Aboobakur             Polytechnic of East London,London.       New Tech,gyllnterdisciplinary Stdies)  BSc.Hons             48       87,669       55,486.74 Completed
MHW            Razeena T.Didi                 Royal College of Nursing U.K.            Health Services Mgt.                   Diploma              12       22,542       22,541.51 Completed
MHW            Sham Ali                       Colombo Central Hospital, Sri Lanka      Diploma in Radiography                 Diploma              24         5,600       5,137.09 Completed
MHW            Shareefa Manike                University of New South Wales, Australia   Microbiology and Immunology          PG/Diploma           30        67200       63,638.12 Completed
MMA            Ahmed A.Rasheed                Lithgow College of Tafe N.S.W. Australia    Business Accounting                 Assc. Diploma        24       35,589       25,597.01 Completed
MMA            Arif Hilmy                     University of Manchester, UK.            M.A.IEconomics)                        Masters              12       22,464       22,463.98 Completed
MMA            Mariyam Khalida                Birmingham Polytechnic, UK.              Economics                              B.A.iHons)           36       59,531       49,087.75 Completed
MMA            Maryam H.Didi                  Adelaide College of Tafe S.Australia     Associate Dip.in Banking & Finance     Assc. Diploma        24       32,205       34,150.47 Completed
MMA            Mohamed Giyas                  Northern Territory University, Australia  Business Studies                      Bachelors            36       56,093       45,065.24 Completed
MMA            Mohamed Jaleel                 University of Essex                      Economics                              Masters              24       40,745       40,745.40 Completed
MOE            Aamaal Ali                     Institute of Education, University of London Education and Development          Masters              12       24,110       21,358.00 Completed
MOE            Aishath I.Manik                University of Newcastle, Australia       B.Ed.- Biology                         Bachelors            48       82,185       73,869.72 Completed
MOE            Aishath Mohamed Didi           Institute of Education. University of London  Education Development             M.A.                 12       23,891       23,890.62 Completed
MOE            Aishath Shohenaz               University of Newcastle, Australia       B.Ed. (Mathematics)                    Bachelorr            48       82,398       65,857.14 Completed
42



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
MARCH 1989 TO MARCH 1996
Scholarship Program - Completed/Terminated
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry            Name of Fellow                         Institution                              Course                     Sought       Course    Total Cost       as at     Remarks
(months)     US $        31.03.96
MOE            Aminath Mufeed                  National Institute of Education, Sri Lanka    School Management/Supervision     Certificate           3        1,300        1,842.45 Completed
MOE            Arifa Ibrahim                   TAFE, Western Australia                 Electronic Engineering                  Assc. Diploma       24        17,900       15,636.43 Completed
MOE            Ashiya Leela Ahmed              University of Newcastle, Australia      B.Ed. (English)                         Bachelors           48        82,398      64,620.20 Completed
MOE            Fathimath Sobira               National Institute of Education, Sri Lanka    School Management/Supervision      Certificate           3        1,300        1,842.45 Completed
MOE            Fauziyya Ali                    National Institute of Education, Sri Lanka    School Management/Supervision     Certificate           3        1,300        1,842.45 Completed
MOE            Hamida A. Ghafoor               National Institute of Education, Sri Lanka    School Management/Supervision     Certificate           3        1,300        1,842.45 Completed
MOE            Ibrahim Kaleem                  University of South Australia, Australia  B.Ed Physics                          Bachelor            48        67,700      81,533.33 Completed
MOE            Ismail Wajeeh                   National Institute of Education, Singapore    Educational Administration        Diploma              10       14,400       19,443.97 Completed
MOE            Mariyam Saeeda                  National Institute of Education. Singapore    Educational Administration        Diploma              10       14,400       19,443.97 Completed
MOE            Mohamed Fahmee Hassan           University of Bath, UK                  Educational Management                  M.Ed                 12       18,597       18,657.05 Completed
MOE            Mohamed Waheed                  University of Newcastle, Australia      B.Ed. -Social Sc.(Econ & History)       Bachelors           48        79,296      74,545.04 Completed
MOE            Nisreen Yoosuf                 National Institute of Education, Sri Lanka    School Management/Supervision      Certificate           3        1,300        1,842.45 Completed
MOE            Surayya Ibrahim                National Institute of Education, Sri Lanka    School Management/Supervision      Certificate           3        1,300        1,842.45 Completed
MOE (EDC)    Mohamed Latheef                   University of Wales, Cardiff            Education Planning & Admn.              Ph.D.               21        29,464      29,463.70 Completed
MOFA           Adam Manik                      University of Hull, UK                  Post Harvest Tech. & Qlty Assurance     Diploma              12       28,900       29,172.37 Completed
MOFA           Mohamed Shareef                 Kasetsart University, Thailand          Agronomy and Plant Protection           Certificate          12       18,000       17,795.00 Completed
MOT            Abdulla Nasif                   Schiller Intn'l University, France      B.B.A. Hotel Management                 Bachelor            48        62,192     102,462.99 Completed
MOT            Ali Saleem                     Institute of Technology, Australia       Business in Hospitality                 Diploma              12       19,800       19,074.41 Completed
MOT            Fathimath Nadiya Hussain        Compu College School of Business        Travel and Tourism                      Diploma              10        7,075        7,075.00 Completed
MPA            Ahmed Shafeeq I.Moosa           University of Glasgow, UK               Mechanical Engineering                  B.Engg.             48        93,509      87,610.47 Completed
MPA            Ahmed Shihan                    University of Glasgow, UK.              Civil Engineering                       B.Engg.             48        98,568      86,616.22 Completed
MPA            Hussain Naeem                  Liverpool Polytechnic, UK.               Mechanical Engineering                  B.Eng.               12       20,032      20,031.64 Completed
MPE            Ahmed Mohamed                   University of Hull                       Eng.Design & Manufacture               Bachelors           48        82,170      81,966.44 Completed
MPE            Ahmed Nasheed                  Adelaide College of Tafe                 Computing                               Assc. Diploma        24       42,541      42,540.56 Completed
MPE            Ahmed Shareef Yoosuf           Center for Dev.Studies University of Wales  Development Economics                Bachelors           36        52,000      55,198.73 Completed
MPE            Amathulla Moosa                Adelaide College of Tafe S.Australia     Associate Diploma in Accounting         Assc. Diploma       24        32,875       34,195.46 Completed
MPE            Asim Ahmed                      University of Sussex                    Development Studies                     Masters             24        40,002      40,001.54 Completed
MPE            Jeehan Hassan Didi             Adelaide College of TAFE                 Computing                               Assc. Diploma       24        26,218      36,520.39 Completed
MPE            Mohamed Imad                   International Statistical Programs Center, US Dip.in computer processing & I.S.  Diploma              12       36,831      36,831.17 Completed
MPE            Mohamed Khaleel                 Hull College & Humberside Polytechnic   Administrative Management               B.A.                48        88,142      35,054.10 Terminated
MPE            Mohamed Mamdhuh Waheed         Hull College & Humberside Polytechnic    Business Studies                        B.A.                 12       14,530       14,441.03 Terminated
MPE            Mohamed Saseed                  Loughborough Uni'sity of Technology     Airport planning & Mgt.                 Masters              12       18,829       18,829.66 Completed
MPE            Mohamed Shareef                 Brighton Polytechnic, UK.               Civil Engineering                       B.Engg.             48        92,282      71,812.78 Completed
MPE            Mohamed Zuhair                 Bath College of Higher Education, UK.    Environment Biology                     B.SC.               36        66,183      58,160.91 Completed
MPE            Simad Saeed                     University of Southampton               Environmental Sc.                       Bachelors           36        60,346      62,736.54 Completed
MPHRE          Shaheema Easa                  SAARC Documentation Centre, India        Library Training                        Certificate           3        1,200        1,1 50.00 Completed
MPWL           Abdulla Shakeeb                Adelaide College of Tafe S.Australia     Associate Diploma in Accounting         Assc. Diploma       24        35,589      33,315.04 Completed
MPWL           Abdullah Naushad               Nottingham Polytechnic,UK.               Civil Engineering                       Bachelors           36        68,989      57,512.06 Completed
MPWL           Ibrahim Fareed                 Uverpool Polytechnic, UK                 Mechanical Engineering                  B. Eng              12        17,483      17,985.32 Completed
MPWL           Ibrahim Shakir                  Kinston College, S.Australia            Associate Diploma in Surveying          Assc. Diploma       24        44,832      34,386.32 Completed
MTC            Mohamed Amir                   Cable and Wireless College, UK           Operational Telecommunications          M.Sc                12         2,064        2,065.53 Completed
MTC            Mohamed Latheef                Hanseatic Maritine Training School, Cyprus  Seaman Training                      Certificate          12       14,200      17,086.00 Completed
MTI            Abdulla Thawfeeq                University of Keele, UK.                Economics & Geology                     Bachelors           48        81,752      72,881.57 Completed
NSS            Ahmed Athif                     TAFE International Education, Tasmania  Office Administration                   Adv.Cert.            12       18,690       18,492.17 Completed
NSS            Ahmed Shahid                   AST College,UK.                          Aircraft Maintance Eng. Licence         Licence             36        74,632      87,109.49 Completed
NSS            Aly Firaaq                     AST College,UK.                          Aircraft Maintance Eng. Licence         Licence             36        74,632      87,868.61 Completed
NSS            Mohamed Hassan                 AST College,UK.                          Aircraft Maintance Eng. Licence         Licence             27        74,632      64,720.99 Completed
OPPD           Adhuham Niyaz                   Queensland Uni'sity of Technology, Australia B.Sc.Applied Sc(Surveyingl         Bachelors           36        67,571       56,921.33 Completed
OPPO           Ibehim Ali                      Nana College,Northampton,UK.            BTEC National Dip.in Construction       Diploma              24       30,147       29,379.90 Completed
43



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
MARCH 1989 TO MARCH 1996
Scholarhip Program - Completed/Terminated
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry            Name of Fellow                        Institution                              Course                    Sought      Course    Total Cost       as at     Remarks
(months)     US $        31.03.96
OPPD          Mohamed Ishan                   Manchester Polytechnic                  Architecture                           Bachelors           12       18,517       18,516.67 Terminated
OPPD          Thoriq Ibrahim                  Loughborough University of Technology, UK  Building Services Engineering       B.Sc                36       74,200       63,365.26 Completed
PO            Abdul Qayoom                    Regency College TAFE, South Australia   Associate Diploma in Accounting       Assc. Dip.           30       44,700       50,296.61 Completed
PO            Ahmed Hussain Didi              University of Tasmania                  B.A. Public Administration             Bachelor            36       53,113       53,604.99 Completed
PO             Hala Hameed                    University of East Anglia               Environmental Economics                Masters             24       46,571       46,601.41 Completed
PO             Hala Hameed                    University of Canberra, Australia       Professional Writing                   G. Diploma          12       21,300        8,066.75 Terminated
PO             Hussain Shahid                 Adelaide College of Tafe S.Australia    Associate Diploma in Accounting        Assc. Diploma       24       33,315       34,289.68 Completed
PO             Mohamed Asim                   University of Pittsburg, USA            Management                             Certificate          1       11,400       12,050.29 Completed
SIDU           Ibrahim Maniku                 University College Londom               Urban Management & Planning            PG Diploma          12        22400       23,068.79 Completed
STO           Ahmed Shahid                    Australian Maritime College, Australia  Ship Masters                           Diploma             18       21,000       30,093.60 Completed
STO           Ahmed Zubair                    Australian Maritime College, Australia  Ship Master                            Diploma             18       21,000       32,549.03 Completed
STO            Sana Mansoor                   BMC Commercial Training Center, Singapore Accounting                           Diploma             12        15,500      13,461.38 Completed
STO/FPID      Adam Shaheeb                    Adelaide College of Tafe                Accounting                             Assc. Diploma       24       34,062       32,055.22 Completed
TOURISM       Ibrahim Mohamed                 University of Strathclyde               Tourism                                Masters             12        19,035      19,035.21 Completed
TRADE         Idham Muizz Adnan               Coventry Polythenic                     Business law                           Bachelors           36       51,082       51,082.30 Completed
In-country Accounting Course   MCMAIAAT of Sri Lanka                   Accounting                             Diploma                     173,000       74,551.36
2,401    4,154,286   3,872,476.21
44



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
MARCH 1989 TO MARCH 1996
Scholarship Program - CompletedfTerminated
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry           Name of Fellow                        Institution                             Course                    Sought      Course   Total Cost       as at     Remarks
(months)     US $       31.03.96
Teacher Training Program
MOE (RSS)    Abdulla Didi                    College of St.Mark & St. John Foundation   English                           Bachelors            24       33,743      33,743.24 Completed
MOE (RSS)    Abulla Zameer                   University of Newcastle, Australia      Education Management & Admin.        M.Ed                 18       29,549      30,913.04 Completed
MOE (RSS)    Aishath Nisreen                 College of St.Mark & St.John Plymouth   Mathematics                          Bachelors            36       51,166      51,165.75 Completed
MOE (RSS)     Fathimath Naseer               University of Reading                  Economics                             B.Ed                48        93,374      73,647.58 Completed
MOE (RSS)    Fathimath Sadiq                 University of Reading                  Biology                               B.Ed                48        99,774      86,862.73 Completed
MOE (RSS)    Ibrahim Shathir                 University of Reading                  Mathematics                           M.Ed                48        91,020      85,625.26 Completed
MOE (RSS)     Mohamed Bushree                University of Newcastle-upon-tyne      Computer Science                      Bachelors           36        55,927      63,393.62 Deferred
MOE (SEC)    Ahmed Fayaz                     King's College. University of London   Physics                               Bachelors           36        63,082      87,978.08 Completed
MOE (SEC)    Faruhana Abdulla                King's College London, UK              Biomedical Research                   M.Sc                12        28,000      25,938.07 Completed
MOE (SEC)    Fathimath Shougee               University of Newcastle, Australia     Social Science-Geography              B.Ed                48        82,398      64,805.31 Completed
MOE (SEC)    Ibrahim Hassan                  University of Glasgow                  Mathematics                           B.Ed                60        55,926      92,242.47 Completed
MOE (SEC)    Khadeeja Mohamed                University of Sussex                   Mathematics with Statistics           B.Ed                48        73,885      73,125.56 Completed
MOE (SEC)     Latheefa Usman                 University of Newcastle, Australia     Biology                               B.Ed                48        82,398      66,548.13 Completed
MOE ISEC)    Mariyam A.A.Raheem              University of Sussex                   Chemistry                             B.Ed                48        59,162      81,911.68 Completed
MOE (SEC)     Mukhshiya Ahmed Didi           University of Wales, UK                Post-graduate Education               Cart                 12       25,400      15,531.85 Completed
MOE(RSS)      Abdulla Nazear                 University of Newcastle, Australia     Social Sc.(Geography)                 Bachelors           48        79,296      71,821.65 Completed
MOE(ISS)      Abdulla Sadiq                  University of South Australia           Chemistry                            Bachelors           48        66,900      74,588.83 Completed
MOE(RSS)      Ahmed Yoosuf                   University of Newcastle, Australia     Accounting                            Bachelors           48        76,797      71,196.31 Completed
MOEIRSS)      Fareasha Abdulla               Flinders University, South Australia   English Utereture                     Bachelors           48        64,200      73,324.16 Completed
MOEIRSS)      Gulfishan Shafeeu              Flinders University, South Australia    Marine Biology                       Bachelors           48        64,200      74,462.26 Completed
MOE(RSS)      Mariyam Rasheeda               Flinders University, South Australia    English Language                     Bachelors           48        64,200      74,462.26 Completed
MOE(RSS)      Mohamed Aslam                  University of South Australia           Business                             Bachelors           48        68,600      70,875.53 Completed
MOE(RSS)      Mohamed Didi                   University of South Australia           Liberal Studies - History             Bachelora           48       78,274      75.939.47 Completed
MOE(RSS)      Niuma Wadji                    University of South Australia           B.A. (Art! Deasgn)                    Bachelors           36       57,234      77,134.13 Completed
990    1,544,506   1,597,236.97
45



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATIOH AND TRAIliG PROECT
MARCH  iM  TO MARCH 199f
- -m - C-Td
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry           Name of Fellow                       Institution                            Course                    Sought     Course   Total Cost      a- at      Remarks
(montlul     US*       31.03.96
MOE           Ibrahim Waheed                University of Cambridge                Examination Administration           Certificate          3       11,100       9,689.65 Completed
MOE           ksmath R Bustwee              International Training Centre of the ILO  Works - Procurement               Certificate          1        8,080       8,586.00 Completed
MOE           Mohamed Latheef               Inst. of Education, University of London  Education Mlanning & Admin        PG/Diploma          24       36,388      36,388.30 Completed
MPE           Fathimath M.Didi              Adelaide College of Taf a              Accounting                           Asc. Diploma        22       28,014      28,007.57 Completed
MPE           Fathimath M.Didi              World Bank                             Procurement                          Certificate          1        3,887       3,886.97 Completed
MPE           Mohemed Riza                  Crown Agents,London                    Procurement                          Certificate          1        8,416       8,415.60 Completed
MPE           Mohamed Shareef               Adv.Training & Vocational Tra ing Centre-htal Procurement                   Certificate          2        8,957       8,957.00 Completed
MPE           Rasheeda Ali                  World Bank                             Procurement                          Certificate          0        7,180       7,180.07 Completed
MPE           Rasheoda Ali                  Royal Institute of Public Admn.        Project Mgt.                         Certificate          3        4,633       4,633.20 Completed
MPHRE         Usamth Ismail                 International Training Centre of the ILO  Goods - Procurement               Certificate       0.75         7030       7,046.21 Completed
MPHRE         Usamth Ismail                 UIC Education Center, Singapore        Novell Netware                       Certificate       0.75         7500       7,238.66 Completed
MPHRE         Usamth Ismail                 Intemational Training Centre of the ILO  Works - Procurement                Certificate          1        8,080       8,588.00 Completed
MPWL          Ali Rasheed                   Flinders University                    BA. (Economics)                      Bachelors           36       51,954      51,410.69 Completed
MPWL          Ali Rashed                    Flinders University of South Australia  Labor Market Studies                Assc. Diploma       10       23,222      25,211.14 Completed
Regional Visits               Singapore, Malaysia, Phillipines                                                                                     8,849.67
105     214,441    222,088.73
Tota                                                                                                                       3,496    5,913,233  5,691,801.92
Scholarai Prorm - hI Progr
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry           Name of Fallow                       Institution                            Course                    Sought     Course   Total Cost       as at     Remarks
(months)     US $       31.03.96
National Scholaship Program
DER           Mohamed Mihad                 Singapore Institute of Management      Accounting                           Diploma             12       15,800      23,517.76 to be completed in 6/96
MHW           Ferzana Shougee               Manchester Metropolitan University     Speech Pathology and Therapy         Bachelors           36       53,900      37,213.98 continuing under ETP2
MMA           Abdulla Ahmed                 BMC Commercial Training centre, Singapore Accounting                        Diploma             12       15,800      23,517.76 to be completed in 6/96
MMA           Hawwa Naseera                 Malaysia                               Accounting                           Diploma             12       15,800      13,046.30 to be completed in 6/96
MOF           Saamee Ageel                  BMC Commercial Training contre, Singapore Accounting                        Diploma             12       15,800      23,517.76 to be completed in 6/96
MOFT          Aminath Lizzie                BMC Commercial Training centre, Singapore Accounting                        Diploma             12       15,800      23,517.76 to be completed in 6/96
MOT           Mohamed Adam                  Malaysia                               Accounting                           Diploma             12       15,800      12,074.19 to be completed in 6/96
MPHRE         Mohamed Sobah Shareef         Inverness College, UK                  Computing/Business Administration    B.Sc                12       30,200      14,553.89 continuing under ETP2
MPWL          Ahmed Shahid                   University of South Australia, Australia  Quantity Surveying               Assc. Diploma       36       46,834      74,906.82 continuing on own funds
MTI           Nasrunnisa Abdulla            BMC Commercial Training centre, Singapore Accounting                        Diploma             12       15,800      23,517.76 to be completed in 6/96
MYWS          Hussain Haleem                Australian College of Physical Education  Physical Education                B.A                 12       12,700      18,275.90 continuing under ETP2
PO            Ameen Ibrahim                 Adelaide Institute of TAFE             Accounting                           Diploma             12       13,700      20,420.82 to be completed in 6/96
PO            Mohamed Mufeed                Adelaide College of TAFE               Management                           Certificate         12       13,700      20,420.82 to be completed in 6/96
PO            Mohamed Nazim                 Curtin University of Technology, W Australia Commerce                       B.A.                36       57,800      56,659.12 continuing under ETP2
240     339,434    385,160.65
Teacher Treining Program
MOEIRSS)      Mohamed Jameel                University of Reading                  Physics                              B.Sc.               48       97,000      74,313.97 to be completed in 1996
48       97,000     74.31397
46



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
MARCH 1989 TO MARCH 1996
SdhiasNp Progam - Completed/Terminated
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry          Name of Fellow                     Institution                           Course                  Sought    Course   Total Cost      as at     Remarks
(months)    US $      31.03.96
48      97,000     74,313.97
Total                                                                                                                 288      436,434    459,474.62
47



REPUBLIC OF MALDIVES
EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROJECT
MARCH 1989 TO MARCH 1996
Scholhip ProWrm - Completed/Tsrmkited
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry            Name of Fellow                       Institution                               Course                    Sought      Course    Total Cost       as at     Remarks
(months)     US          31.03.96
Scholship Progam - Processed & Canceled
Awards    Length of Anticipitated    Total Cost
Ministry            Name of Fellow                        Institution                              Course                    Sought      Course    Total Cost       as at     Remarks
(months)     US $        31.03.96
National Scholarship Program
MOE           Aishath Vidhad                                                                                                                      0                        11.89
MOE           Aminath Nashiya                                                                                                                     0                        11.90
MOE           Ismail Hameed                                                                                                                       0                        11.90
MOE           Mohamed Shareef                                                                                                                     0                        11.90
MOE           Muaz Ahmed                                                                                                                          0                        11.90
0            0          59.49
Teacher TraWng Program
Improved Planning Capacity
Total                                                                                                                              0             0          59.49
Add :- Cost of Tel/Tix/Fax Charges
on Fellowships                                                                                                                     0                          338
Total (Processed & Canceled)                                                                                                       0             0         397.49
Total (Scholaship Program)
3.784    6,349,667      6.151,336
m:\aime\mal\fellow.xIs
48



Attachment D
EMPLOYMENT RECORD OF TRAINED FELLOWS (as at August 31,1995)
Education and Training Project
Related
Sponsor                    Type of Training                Awarded                        Employment                      Training
Candidate Name          Office        Area                          Level         Yes      No   Office             IJob                          Yes  No
Aamal Ali               MOE           Education & Dev.              MA                               continuing further education - self financed
Abdulla Didi            MOE  (SSS)   Englsh                         B.Ed        _         _      SSS                Assistant Supervisor
Abdulla Maseeh          MFA           Political Science             B A        |                 MFA                Asst. Undersecretary
Abdulla Naushad         MPWL          Civil Engineering             H.ND                                              s MCPW  Assistant Engineer  V
Executive Secretary,
Abdulla Shahid          MFA           International Relations       M.A            /             MFA                President's Office
Abdulla Shakeeb         MPWL          Accounting                    Certificate    /             MCPW               Assistant Undersecretary      /
Associate
Abdulla Sobah Ibrahim    MAA          Electrical Engineering        Diploma        /            MM                  Assistant Electrical Engineer     .
Trade &
Abdulla Thowfeeq        Industries    Econ & Human Resources        B.A            /            President's Office    Research Officer
Education Management &
Abdulla Zameer          MOE (SSS)   Administration                  B. Ed          /            SSS                 Sr. Assistant principal       V
Associate                   MIFCO (former       Sr. Accounts Officer, Felivaru
Adam Shaheeb            FPID          Accountancy                   Diploma        /            FPID)               Cannery                       /
Adhuham Niyaz           OPPD          Applied Science (Surveying)    B.Sc -                     MCPW                Senior surveyor           -
Adnan Ibrahim           MEB           Business Studies             Certificate             /   MEB                  Assistant Computer Operator   /
Ahmed Asim Rasheed    MMA             Accountancy                   Diploma       _       ___ Theemuge              Administrative Officer      _
Ahmed Fayaz             MOE (SEC)   Physics                        B.Sc         _               SEC                 Physics Teacher             _
Ahmed Hassan Didi       PO            Public Administration         - B.A    --    /            PO                  Research Officer            _
Associate
Ahmed lqbal             MEB           Electrical Engineering       Diploma         /            MEB                 Assistant Electrical Engineer    /
Ahmed Janah M_                        Aerodrome Control            Certificate                  MA                  Air Traffic Control Officer GrA _
Ahmed Mohamed           MAA           Aerodrome Control            Certificate     /            MM                  Air Traffic Control Officer Gr.2   /
Engineering, Manufacture &
Ahmed Mohamed           MPE           Design                       B. Eng          /            MPHRE               Assistant Project Analyst  _
49



EMPLOYMENT RECORD OF TRAINED FELLOWS (as at August 31,1995)
Education and Training Project
Related
Sponsor                    Type of Training                Awarded                        Employment                      Training
Candidate Name          Office        Area                          Level         Yes      No   Office              Job                          Yes  No
Environmental                M.A/
Hala Hameed             PO            Economics/Professional Writing Certificate   V        V   PO                  Asst. Director                      V
Hamida A. Ghafoor       MoE           School Mngmt/ Supervision    Certificate  |               Ameeru Ahmed        Pre-school Teacher                  _
Husna Ibrahim           MHW           Nursing                       B.Sc       _                                    Staff Nurse Grade -2
Hussain Mohamed Didi   MAA            Aerodrome Control            Certificate                  MM                  Air Traffic Control Officer Gr.2   V
Hussein Naeem           MPA        _ Mechanical Engineering        B Eng       |                MPA                 Mechanical Engineer               _
Associate
Hussein Shahid          PO            Computing                    Diploma         V            PO                  Computer Programmer           V
National
Ibrahim Ali             OPPD          Construction                 Diploma         V            MCPW                Assistant Engineer            V
Ibrahim Fareed          MPWL          Mechanical Engineering       B.Eng           /            i\MCPW              Mechanical Engineer                    l
Ibrahim Hassan          MOE (SEC)   Mathematics                    B.Ed        l                iTE                 Teacher Instructor                     l
Ibrahim Maniku          SIDU          Urban Management & Planning Diploma          /            Not employed
Ibrahim Mohamed         MOT           Tourism                      M.Sc            /            Finance             Director                            V
Ibrahim Shahid          MAA           Aerodrome Control            Certificate                  MAA                 Air Traffic Control Officer Gr.2   V
Associate
Ibrahim Shakir          MPWL          Surveying                    Diploma                      MAA                 Assistant Architect           V
Ibrahim Shathir         MoE           Mathematics                  B.Ed            V            Not employed              _         __     _
Dept. of
Ibrahim Waheed          MOE           Educational Assesment        Certificate     V            Examinations        Director                      v
idham Muizz Adnan       MTI         -Business Law                  LLB          _               MTI                 Assistant Director                _
Idrees Badheeu          MEB           Mechanical Engineering       BEng                         N a _  NSS          Lieutenant
-.___ _____ -  -  Associate                                                                   _ _
Imran Abdul Gadir       MAA           Architectural Drafting       Diploma                      MMA                  Assistant Architect          V
Ismail Wajeeh     --MoE               Educational Admin            Diploma                      K _ alaafanu        Asst. Principal            l
Assista't Cz,. :ruction Officer
Ismath Rizwee Bushree   MOE           Procurement                  Certificate     X            MOE                 Gr.2                      _
50



EMPLOYMENT RECORD OF TRAINED FELLOWS (as at August 31,1995)
Education and Training Project
Related
Sponsor                    Type of Training                 Awarded                         Employment                      Training
Candidate Name          Office        Area                           Level         Yes      No   Office               Job                          Yes  No
Ahmed Mujthaba          DPT            Development Policy & Planning Diploma    . _               DPT                 Sr. Administrative Officer    V
Advance
Ahmed Nasheed           MTCC           Computing                     Certificate   _       ____  MTCC                 Data Processing Manager       /
Ahmed Shafeeq Ibrahim
Moosa                   MPWL           Mechanical Engineer           B.Eng        ___            | (continuing further studies -self financed)          _
Aircraft Maintenance
Ahmed Shahid            NSS            Engineering                   Certificate    /             Air Maldives        Engineer       _
Ahmed Shareef Yoosuf   MPHRE           Development Economics         B.A         _                MPHRE               Assistant Program Analyst
Primary Health Care Educ &    Adv
Aishath A. Didi         IHS            Dev                           Diploma    _                 IHS                 Tutor Gr. 1
Aishath Mohamed Didi    MOE        _  Curriculum Development        M.A             I   __._    ITE/Addu Atoll        Teacher_Educaor -_ / _
Aishath Nisreen         MOE (SSS)   Teaching - Maths                 B.Ed           V             SSS                 Maths Teacher
Aishath Shehenaz        MOE           Mathematics                   B.Ed         _                SEC                 Maths Teacher
Aircraft Maintenance
Ali Firaq               NSS            Engineering                        e         I             Air Maldives        Engineer
Labour Market                Diplomal
Ali Rasheed      _       MPWL          Studies/Economics            B.A       _                   MPHRE               Sr. Labour Officer                  _
Ali Saleem              MAA           Aerodrome Control             Cretificate                   MAA                 Air Traffic Control Officer Gr.2   V
Associate                                        Sr. Accounts Officer/Asst.
Amathulla Moosa         MPHRE         Accountancy                   Diploma      _                MPHRE/PIU           Accountant, ETP               /
Aminath Mufeed          MoE            School Mngmt/ Supervision    Certificate   -               Ahmadiyya           Pre-school Teacher            _
Fisheries &
Aminath Zahira          Agriculture    Mathematics/Stats            B.Sc                _                                                               .-
51



EMPLOYMENT RECORD OF TRAINED FELLOWS (as at August 31,1995)
Education and Training Project
Related
Sponsor                    Type of Training                Awarded                        Employment                      Training
Candidate Name          Office        Area                          Level         Yes      No   Office              Job                          Yes  No
Maths with Statistics &
Kahdeeja Mohamed        MOE (SEC)   Computing                       B.Ed           /             SEC                Mathematics Teacher           /
Latheefa Usman          MOE (SEC)   Biology                 --      B.Ed           /             SEC     =          Biology Teacher  _
Mahamood Razee          Civil Aviation  Air transport Engineering   M.Sc           /             Civil Aviation     Director, Air Safety          V
Maimoona Aboobakuru   MHW             New Technology                B.Sc                         D -PH           =  Information Officer           _
Mariyam Azra Abdul
Raheem                  MOE (SEC)   Chemistry                       B.Ed           /             SEC                Chemistry Teacher
Associate
Mariyam Hussein Didi    MMA           Banking & Finance             Diploma        V             MMA                Assistant Manager, FES        /
Mariyam khalida         MMA                                                                                         0fiEconomics  eEB.A  _  _  MMAO r-in Charge, ERSD  ..
MaryamSaeeda            MoE   ==EducationalAdmin  =__               Diploma  _ =     -0          Thajuddeen     -   Asst. Principal     __    _
Telecom System Management
Mohamed Amir            DPT           & Design                      B.Eng          /             DPT                Engineer                      V
Mohamed Asim            P0            Adv. Management               Certificate                  P                  Director                      _
Mohamed Athuhar         MAA           Aerodrome Control             Certificate                 MAA                 Air Traffic Control Officer Gr.2  _
MoE (Planning
Mohamed Bushree         MOE (RSS)   Computer Science                B.Sc           V            Section)            Planning Officer
Mohamed Fahmee
Hassan                  MOE           Educational Management        M.Ed           V            Jamaaluddin School Assistant principal            /
Mohamed Giyas           MMA           Business Studies              B.A                         MMA                 Assistant Manager          |
Moharned Hassan         NSS           Aircraft Maintenance Eng      Licence     .               Air Maldives                  Engineer
___    __  _._ _    __    __Management Information
Mohamed Imad            MPHRE         System           __ _        Diploma      _ /             MPHRE               Sr. Computer Programmer       V
Mohamed Ishan           OPPD          Architecture                 B.A                     V   MCPW                        Asst. Architect        V
Mohamed Jaleel          MMA           Economics                    M.A                          | MMA               Manager                     _
Mohamed Khaleel         MPHRE         Administrative Management    B.A                                            Not employed
Education Planning &
Mohamed Latheef (EDC) MOE             Management                   Ph.D            V            MOE                 Minister                        _
52



t
EMPLOYMENT RECORD OF TRAINED FELLOWS (as at August 31,1995)
Education and Training Project
Related
Sponsor                   Type of Training                 Awarded                       Employment                     Training
Candidate Name         Office        Area                          Level         Yes      No  Office               Job                         Yes  No
Minister of State for Finance &
Arif Hilmy              MMA           Economics & Statistcs        M.A           _      ___   Finance              Treasury                     I
Associate
Arifa Ibrahim           MOE           Electronic Engineering       Diploma                     |     continuing studies under AIDAB funding
Ashiya Leela Ahmed      MOE           English                      B.Ed           I            SEC                 English Teacher              _
Assistant Director,
Asim Ahmed              MPHRE         Development Studies          M.A                 .       MPHRE               Programmes                   /
Asim Mohamed            MHW           Psychology                   B.Sc                 I                       Not employed
Dr. Abdul Azeez Yoosuf  MHW          Tropical Medicine             PG Diploma    I                (continuing further studies in UK- self financed)
IGM HospitalCivil   Consultant in ENT/Approved
Dr. Mohamed Waheed    Civil Aviation  Aviation Medicine            PG Diploma ,                Aviabon            Aviation Medical Examiner     I
Faruhana Abdulla        MOE  (SEC)   Biomedical Research           M.Sc       __      ._   SEC _                         _ Biology Teacher      I_
Associate                                       Project Officer/Project
Fathimath Mohamed Didi MPHRE/PIU   Accountancy                     Diploma        I            MPHRE/PIU          Accountant ETP                    .
Fathimath Nadiya Hussein MOT         Travel & Tourism              Diploma        /            lskandhar School   Asst. Supervisor
Fathimath Naseer        MOE (RSS)   Economics                      B.A                         SSS                 Economics Teacher                 =
Fathimath Nasheeda     MHW           Health and Community Studies B Sc            I            MHW                       Planning Officer       I
Fathimath Sadiq        MoE (RSS)   Biology                       _ B.Sc                   _                     Not employed
Fathimath Shougee       MOE (SEC)   Social Science_ __             B.Ed_               ._   SEC   __              Geography Teacher _
Fathimath Sobira        MoE          School MngmtV Supervision     Certificate    /            Aliya              Pre-school Teacher            I
Fauziyya Ali            MoE          School MngmtU Supervision    Certificate     /            Maafannu           Pre-school Teacher            _
53



EMPLOYMENT RECORD OF TRAINED FELLOWS (as at August 31,1995)
Education and Training Project
Related
Sponsor                   Type of Training                Awarded                        Employment                     Training
Candidate Name         Office        Area                          Level         Yes      No  Office             |Job                          Yes  No
Educational Planning &
Mohamed Latheef(MOE)  MOE            Administration                PG Diploma             V   MCMA                 Asst. Director                     V
Mohamed Mamduh
Waheed                  MPE          Administrative Management    B.A   _                                       Not employed
Mohamed Naseem         MF&A          Agriculture                   Diploma        _  _  _      MF&A                Agronomist               __
Mohamed Riza           MPHRE/PIU   Procurement                     Certificate _UNDP                               Administrative Assistant       _
Airport Planning and
Mohamed Saeed          MPHRE         Management                    M.Sc       ____|_MEB                            Managing Director
Certificate/
Mohamed Shareef         MPHRE/PIU   Procurementl Civil Engineering  B.Eng         /            MPHRE               Asst. Prog Analyst                 _
Mohamed Sobah          MAA           Aerodrome Control             Certificate                 MAA                 Air Traffic Control Officer Gr.2   V
Mohamed Zuhair         MPHRE         Environmental Biology         B.Sc           V            MPHRE               Assistant Environment Analyst  /
Moosa Shahid Hussain    MAA          Aerodrome Control             Certificate                 MAA                Air Traffic Control Officer Gr.2   /
Mukhshiya Ahmed Didi   MOE (SEC)   PGC in Education                Certificate          _      SEC                 Physics Teacher             .
Advanced                    lmmigration &
Muruthala Mohamed Didi Civil Aviation  Computing                   Certificate    V            Emigration          Sr. Analyst Programmer       /
Nisreen Yoosuf          MoE          School MngmtV Supervision     Certificate    V            Galolhu             Pre-school Teacher                 =
Director, HRDP/
Rasheeda Ali            MPHRE/PIU   Project Management             Certificate    V            MPHRE/PIU          Project Manager ETP           V
Razeena T. Didi        MHW           Health Services Management  Diploma       =               MHW                Director, Welfare             _
Sana Mansoor            STO          Accounting                    Diploma    _                STO                Senior Accounts Officer       V
Associate                   FPID/Felivaru       Head Supervisor, Quality
Seema Ali               FPID          Food Technology              Diploma        V            Cannery            Control Dept.                 V
Shaheema Easa           MPHRE         Library Training             Certificate    V            MPHRE               Librarian Trainee           _
Sham Ali                MHW          Radiography                   Diploma        V            IGM Hospital       Radiographer                 _
54



EMPLOYMENT RECORD OF TRAINED FELLOWS (as at August 31,1995)
Education and Training Project
Related
Sponsor                    Type of Training                Awarded                        Employment                      Training
Candidate Name          Office        Area                          Level         Yes      No  Office               Job                          Yes  No
Health &
Shareefa Manike         Welfare       Microbiology & Immunology     M.Sc           /             IGMH               Laboratory Supervisor         V
(continuing further studies in UK under British
Simad Saeed             MPHRE         Environmental Science         B.Sc                                         Council funding)
Surayya Ibrahim         MoE           School MngmtV Supervision     Certificate  .              Fallah              Pre-school Teacher          |
Thoriq ibrahim          MCPW          Building Services Engg.       B.Sc        _                MCPW               Building Service Engineer    _/
Assistant Project Officer/
Usamth Ismail           MPHRE         Procurement                   Certificate                 MPHRE/PIU           Procurement Officer ETP       _
55






MAP SECTION






IBRD 21059R
|oiy n   72                           73           7'4
INDIA                                   -fAA  ALIFFU          Uhigamu
Huvarafushi -
I *Ohd,dhdhoo
-  Madras                                         * ,        Noilgrgaraniar
HAA LJHAALU           '   eKulhudhuffush,
rJ 0/         |               Marma Kunudhoo            _M_aaihtoo
LANKA FLANK                                                           SHA  'IYAN!
,          S~~~RI LAK                                            , :>    akrdoodttoo
Ccdombo                                                              Farukolhu
Al,tushl                   OG ;NO I                                              6
RAA                           'Manadhoo
MALDIVES                                            Hulhudhoo                ,,
ugoouasw            )   ,
_                                             _ ~~~~~ Nailaru .~~~~~~~ L E<AVI YA h l
8A4            EypsJtuushi
ThuIhaadho    Goidu          Kaash,dhoo
Gaafaru
Thodoo,
-  Dh,ilushi
Mash 'vet' -          'Ilu~~~~lule
0 MALE    KAAF;!
40                                                           A.'L i i      **i                                                                           40
Mahibadhoo
Mandu
Fel,dhoo
-  Kero'4hoo VAA VU
FAA FU           '        R akeedhoo
Magoodhoo                     Ohiggaru
30                                                                  Nflandhoo
, -  :           * 'Mula
DHAALU                ;e mFFu
Kudahustidthoo
MALDIVES                                               Othugir'
EDUCATION AND                               Kandoodhoo
TRAINING   PROJECT                          THAA  Veymand'o  Tho marftsshhm  Isdh
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT                                                               GAu                                                     20
*        Science Education Center                                        Hithadhoo
A        Regional Secondary School
O        National Capital
M2I      Administrative Capitals
Gam-       Other Islands
10                         Airfields                                                                                                                     X
Administrative Atolls                                         Viligl.
.  GAAFU   L IFU
Thltnadhoo,     ,'
CAAFI 'JH4AL V
Nadlla           ;   GadWRdhoo
-oo                                                                                                                                                  0 s  10  10 
                          KILOMETERS                                                    GNA VI YANI                Th. daoa nds-
o                  60                 *0 Fua Mulaku 1                                               on ther *farmoud shdm.,
MILES                         SEENU                                                iT:'/W,0-; ':0r5- .,%.
Ml~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n LE5gment an; the eh od(oQGro!
-00 Ce h!n .atuc
H i _hact oo                                          T    de"hund a
710                         720                          730                        740                            75
MAY 1 0YI









IMAGING
Report No:       15759
Type: ICCR



