Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9521
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 880-YAR)
APRIL 26, 1991
Ag-iculture Operations Division
Country Department III
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official dutieé. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
1 US $ - YRs
1981 -                4.56
1982 ------           4.56
1983 --------------  4.58
1984 --------------  5.35
1985 --------------  7.36
1986 --------------  9.64
1987 -------------- 10.34
1988 --------------  9.77
1989 --------------  9.76
1990 ------------- 11.75
Weights and Measures
1 millimeter (mm)        -      0.039 inches
1 meter (m)              -      3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)      =      10.76 square feet
1 kilometer (km)         -      0.62 mile
1 hectare (ha)           =      10,000 square meters (2.47 acres)
1 metric ton (ton)       -      2,205 pounds
1 liter (1)              -      0.264 gallon
1 1/s                    -      one liter per second
1 m3/s                   -      one cubic meter per second
1 Mm3                    -      one million cubic meters
Abbreviations and Acronyms Used
CACB   -   Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank
DM     -   Deutsche Mark
EEC    =   European Economic Community
ERR    =   Economic Rate of Return
IDA    -   International Development Association
IFAD   -   International Fund for Agricultural Development
KD      e  Kuwaiti Dinar
KFAED  -   Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
KfW    -   Kreditanstau fur Wiederaufbau
LCCD   -   Local Councils for Cooperative Develkment
M&E    -   Monitoring and Evaluation
NESPAK -   National Engineering Services, Pakistan
O&M    =   Operation and Maintenance
ROY    -   Republic of Yemen
RVP    -   Regional Vice President
SAR    -   Staff Appraisal Report
SDR    -   Special Drawing Rights
TDA    -   Tihama Development Authority
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31



THE WORLD BANK
Washington. DC 20433
USA
Offiec of Dite tW.GqeAeaI
Opetatrns V I t,uimon
April 26, 1991
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:    Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen Tihama III
Agricultural DeveloRment Project (Credit 880-YAR)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on the Project Completion Report on Republic of Yemen Tihama
III Agricultural Development Project (Credit 880-YAR)" prepared by the Europe,
Middle East and North Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report
contributed by the Borrower.   No audit of this project has been made by the
Operations Eval",ation Department at this time.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance  I
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CR. e0O-YAR)
Table of Contents
PREFACE      .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .    .i
EVALUATION SUMMARY          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .ii
PART I  PROJECT XEVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE                  . . . . . . . .1
A.   Project Identity          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1
B. Background. 
C.   Project Objectives and Description              . . . . . . . . . . . .                   2
D.   Project Design         ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  2
E.   Organization        ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  4
F.   Project Implementation Results             ...........................                    4
G.   Project Cost and Financing            ...  .       .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  6
H.   Project Impact         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        6
I. Economic Rate of Return.                                                                    7
J. Project Sustainability.                                                                     8
K. IDA Performance.                                                                            8
L. Borrower Performance .8
M. Consultants.                                                                                9
N.   Project Relationships    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                            9
0. Lessons Learned.. ...............                                                           9
PR    II  PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE    . . . . . .                           11
Introduction        ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Objectives        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         12
Implementation         ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  12
Results    .....  .           .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
Production Goals         ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .  13
Project Cost        . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         14
Rate of Return         . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        14
Findings and Lessons          ....  .        .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .     .  14
PART  III  SUMMARY STATISTICAL DATA             . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                   16
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CREDIT 880 - YAR)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Tihama III
(Wadi Mawr) Project in ROY, for which Credit 880 - YAR in the amount of US$
15.0 million was approved on March 6, 1979. The Credit was co-financed in
several currencies by different donors: IFAD (SDR 9.3 million); KFAED (KD 3.6
million); KfW (DM 9.1 million); and the EEC (US$3.0 million equivalent). The
Credit was closed on September 30, 1988, three years behind schedule; however,
the project accounts were kept open to iNovember 30, 1989, to allow settlement
of an outstanding item in the Special Account. IDA served as the executing
agency for the IFAD and EEC loans. Of the IDA Credit, US$14,370,188.95 was
disbursed and the balance amount of US$629,811.05 was cancelled. While the
IFAD and EEC loans were fully disbursed, the project had an undisbursed
balance of KD 0.3 million from the KFAED loan, and DM 0.9 million from KfW.
Part II of this document was prepared by the Borrower. The rest of
the PCR (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III) has been prepared by
the Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department III of the Europe,
Middle East, and North Africa Region, and is based on the Staff Appraisal
Report, the Legal Documents, other project documents, and visits to the
project area.
Preparation of this PCR was started during the Bank's final super-
vision mission of the project, and is based, inter alia, on the Staff Appraisal
Report; the Loan, Guarantee, and Project Agreements; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC QF YEMEN
TIHAM4 III AGRICUTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 880-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
OBJECTIVES
The main objective of the project was to increase agricultural
production ir. Wadi Mawr by: (a) making efficient use of spate flows and
helping recharge the aquifer; (b) strengthening agricultural support services
such as extension, research, and credit; and (c) facilitating the movement of
agricultural produce and farm inputs through the construction of feeder roads.
The project also aimed at improving the health of the rural poor by providing
potable water supply.
IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
Project implementation was delayed by four years due to delays ir.
recruitment of key project staff, finalization of technical designs, and
cumbersome procurement procedures.
The project provided technical assistance tb ough a consulting
firm for assisting TDA in the design, procurement, anL construction
supervision of works under the project. For reasons of economy and to
incorporate lessons learned from other wadis, the cons,-ltants recommended
design changes, which were approved by cofinanciers. The main changes in
design were: building one diversion structure instead of two; the addition of
an inverted syphon; revised sediment control measures; and the ^limination of
the gabion dike. 'However, these designs did not take into account adequately
the traditional water use pattern prior to the project; and this was one of
the factors responsible for the project being unable to implement the water
allocation plan agreed upon in project design and contributing to inequitable
distribution of water.
The provision of credit for farm inputs and machinery through the
Cooperative and Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB) was limited by the lack of
adequate collateral by tenants who form the majority of farmers. An
initiative was jointly undertaken by CACB and TDA to alleviate the collateral
issue by borrowing through farmers' organizations, but this effort was
unsuccessful. Adoption of technical recommendations disseminated by the
extension service was slow.   The research program was successful in improving
the yield of local wheat varieties, and research is on-going on crop
protection and improvement of fruit and vegetable varieties. Further
strengthening of extension and research is underway through the ongoing Tihama
V Project, and would continue as part of the proposed National Agriculture



- iii -
Sector Management Project. Tralning was in general effective in providing new
skills to local staff, although additional training, particularly in hydrology
and financial controls, is still needed.
The project had a positive impact on regional development through
the provision of sociai infrastructure, particularly village water supply
schemes, rural roads, and a veterinary center. Also, project organization on
the whole proved to be effective. Although TDA has an M&E unit, its function
was mainly the collection of data rather than detecting issues at an early
stage to recommend changes in project scope or design when needed.
Economic analysis in TDA's PCR was optimistic: (a) it assumed that
all incremental benefits from well irrigation can be attributei to the
project; (b) cropned area under spate was assumed to increase from 14000 ha in
1989 to over 17000 ha in 1993: spate area actually decreased during project
implementation due to changed cropping patterns and more diversions in the
upper part of the wadi; (c) future without project benefits were not
considered; (d) downstream production loss was assumed to be negligible
despite a significant decline in flow; and (e) the impact of trade
restrictions on the importation of fruits and vegetables was not taken into
consideration. On the other hand, contribution to aquifer recharge and water
quality were excluded because they are difficult to quantify. The SAR's ERR
was 16X, ,while TDA calculated the ERR to be 12.3%. Under more plausible
assumptions, the ERR varies between 4.5% and 9.5%, and was estimated to be
around 6X under the most likely scenario.
SUSTAINAMILIIY
TDA is well managed and staffed, and despite some areas which need
strengthening, it is considered one of the most competent regional development
authorities in agriculture in ROY. The continuation of TDA as a competent
authority depends upon: (a) its ability to retain its present staff and
recruit competent staff in areas that need to be beefed up; and (b) adequate
funding of recurrent expenditures.
Due to the shortage of local staff, several positions were filled
by expatriate staff. The training of counterparts has partially alleviated
this problem, but progress in the recruitment/retention of competent staff is
slow due to competition from the private sector. Also, the perennial shortage
of O&M funding of public spate irrigation schemes endangers the long-run
sustainability of the project.
Moreover, unless adequate foreign exchange is made available by
Government for the importation of inputs, machinery, and equipment, the
benefits from agricultural development would not be fully achieved.
TLESSONS LEARNED
The key findin&of the project is that public spate schemes should
be undertaken only after a very careful assessment of the social, technical,
and financial aspects. The main lessons are elabor&ted below.
(a) Preparation and Design:  Project preparation and design must
be sufficiently thorough to minimize the need for major changes later. The
preparation must be advanced enough to allow award of first year contracts



iv
immediately after project effectiveness, and these designs must take irto
consideration the exDerience of completed projects.
(b) ZEqit: In a society where traditional water rights are an
accepted norm and political commitment to equitable distribution of irrigation
water is difficult to ensure, it is important that these factors are fully
considered at the design stage. This can be achieved at two levels:
technical design based or. a confirmed assessment of traditional water rights
before the project and offtake structures designed to permit water
distribution with minimum controls; and political commitment to enforce the
water allocation plan agreed upon in project design. This approach is now
being followed in the ongoing Tihama V Project.
(c) Prolect Concept: A simplified and less costly design could be
effective in achieving the main objective of improving water use efficiency
and aquifer recharge. The diversion structures and irrigation network in Wadi
Mawr were too sophisticated for this objective. The experience gained in Wadi
Mawr has been used in Wadi Siham (Tihama V Project); designs have been
simplified, unit costs reduced by about 50%, and the scheme would be easier to
operate and maintain.
(d) Cost Recoverv: In countries like ROY where socio-political
and cultural factors are not conducive to cost recovery, efforts to improve
cost recovery should be viewed in a long-term perspective and within the
context of the process to improve tax collection as a whole. Also, when
Government commitment to cost recovery is lacking, the project design should
focus on approaches with less taxing fiscal impact.
(e) Aguifer Sustainabilit :  The current rates of groundwater
abstraction are not sustainable. The conjunctive use of surface and
groundwater approach that was adopted in earlier projects is being emphasized
even more in the Tihama V Project, so that these sources of water would not
only supplement each other for irrigation directly, but also improve aquifer
recharge through spate irrigation.
(f) In multi-component area development projects, an effective
Monitoring and Evaluation system should be able to track project
implementation, detect problems and issues as they arise, and, if needed,
recommend changes in project design or scope.



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ftEPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPHENT PROJECT (CREDIT 880-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMAY
pART I
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A.    PROJECT IDENTITY
Project Name:            Tihama Development Project III (Wadi Mawr)
Credit Number:           880 - YAR
RVP Unit:                EMENA Region
Country:                 Republic of Yemen
Sector:                  Agriculture
Subsecto_r:              Irrigation and Agriculture
B.    BACKGRQUND
1.    The feasibility study of Tihama III (Wadi Mawr) Project was carried out
by Tipton and Kalmbach Inc. of the United States, and completed in April 1978.
The project was appraised in February 1979, and became effective in February
1980. The original closing date of September 30, 1985 was officially extended
three times to September 30, 1988. However, the project accounts were kept open
to November 30, 1989, to allow the settlement of an outstanding payment in the
Special Account. An undisbursed balance of US$629,811.05, out of the original
credit amount of US$15.0 million, was cancelled. The project was co-financed
by KFAED, IFAD, KfW, and the EEC.
2.    This overview is based on a Project Completion Report prepared by the
implementing agency, the Tihama Development Authority (TDA), the Staff Appraisal
Report, Legal Documents, visits to the project area, and other project documents.
However, it differs from TDA's report on several important issues, particularly
economic analysis and equity, the level of design sophistication of irrigation
works, and lessons learned.
3.    The project was estimated to cost US$ 87.6 million at appraisal; however,
due to the rapid depreciation of the local currency and savings arising from
modifications of irrigation designs, the Actual cost of the project was estimated
to be about US$ 68.2 million.
4.    The objective of this overview iL  lo evaluate where the project achieved
its targets and where it did not or made limited progress only. No attempt is
made to present a detailed account of project implementation which is documented
in the PCR submitted by TDA.



-2-
C.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
5.    The main objectives of the project were the following:  (a) increase
agricultural production and farm income in the project area, qadi Mawr, by (i)
providing irrigation works for the efficient use of spate flows and recharging
the aquifer for irrigated agriculture on about 17,000 ha; and (ii) facilitating
the use of farm ..puts; (b) link the mein population centers and agricultural
areas to facilitate the move.ment of agricultural produce and inputs, through
the construction of feeder :oads; (c) improve the health of the rural poor by
providing potable water suppiy- , nd (d) assist the Government to aevelop a
regional applied agricultural research station and a model production farm at
Surdud.
6.     The project included: (i) irrigation works comprising (a) construction
of a diversion d'ke and two diversion weirs and related facilities; (b)
construction of feeder canals; (c) remodelling of existing irrigation canals;
and (d) installation of about 20 experimental tubewells; (ii) agricultural
support services for extension, plant protection, and animal health; (iii) short
and medium term agricultural credit; (iv) establishment of the Surdud regional
agricultural research station and crop production farm; (v) construction of
project headquarters; (vi) construction of about 148 kms of gravel feeder roads;
(vii) installation of water supply schemes for about 103 villages; and (viii)
providing technical assistance in managerial, engineering, and agricultural
fields.
D.    PROJECT DESIGN
7.    The Tihama III Project was a continuation of earlier wadi development
projects in the Tihama plain, the most important feature of which was harnessing
spate flow.  One of the main issues in project design concerned the economic
justificatio. of large investments in permanent diversion structures with fairly
sophisticated irrigation works for improving the efficiency of spate flows of
kn ephemeral nature. Proponents claimed that public spate schemes have a major
impact not only on improving surface irrigation efficiency, but also on the
recharge of aquifers, and would therefore render both surface and well irrigation
more sustainable in the long run.   Critics argued that traditional spate
irrigation or simple designs are as effective and less expensive for improving
recharge. It appears that project design did not fully investigate the latter
optiS.n. It would have been useful to undertake a more comprehensive study of
regional water resources development before finalizing the project concept.
8.     IDA missions observed that construction of a permanent wadi diversion
scheme has not helped in ensuring an equitable distribution of water.   Because
of their fragility, dikes and bunds in traditional spate irrigation schemes are
washed out by high floods and allow more irrigation by downstream farmers. The
PCR submitted by TDA estimates that flows reaching downstream of the project area
have decreased from 48 Mma to 28 Mm3 (para 5.8), and claims that most of the
water would otherwise have escaped to the Red Sea, and that annual downstream
losses are about YRls 22,300 only.  These estimates are unrealistically low.
A 1990 study funded by co-financiers on the equity of water distribution in Wadi
Mawr revealed that the inequity increased following project implementation,
particularly the distribution of base flow. The upjer reach Daraaniah secondary
canal with a service area of 950 ha used 100 percent of the available base flow
in 1988 and 1989, whereas according to the water allocation plan prepared by
project consultants base flow was expected to be distributed among ten secondary



-3-
canals serving about 4800 ha. Similarly 35 percent of total flow (base & spate)
was diverted by the upper reach Daraaniah secondary canal which is about slix
times of its shere allocated under the water allocation plan. Moreover, due to
some difficulties during construction, TDA %ith participation of the Ministry
of Agriculture and the Covernor of Hedeidah, signed an agreement with the
Daraaniah Canal farmers that they would have full control of the offtake to
their secondary canal.   This signed agreement makes it difficult for TDA to
effectively carry out any water allocation plan. The study on water regular-on
provided in the project and carried out by TDA with the help of consultants
to serve as the basis for the equitable water allocation plan agreed upon in
project design. This plan did not consider water use prior to the project at
each offtake point and its implementation was based on strict measurement of
flow, using gates and devices most of which never worked.   The plan was not
enforced due to failure of measuring devices, the signed agreement between TDA
and Daraaniah secondary canal farmers, the complex nature of designed structures
which require frequent operation and control of gates to avoid tampering by the
farmers, and most important, the politicel consideration given to some of the
influential beneficiaries.
9.    Cost recovery could to some extent be considered an issue of project
design. Under traditional spate irrigation, Government had no fiscal obligation;
beneficiaries built and maintained main and secondary canals, dikes and bunds,
and hired "water masters" to resolve disputes relating to water rights and to
supervise the rehabilitation or rebuilding of damaged canals. Designs of public
spate schemes in the Tihama plain, aiming at better water management, envisaged
levying a water charge, in addition to zakat (a religious ti'the), equiva]nt to
2% of the gross value of agricultural production, to cover investment and O&M
costs without interest over a period of 50 years.   At IDA's insistence,
Government enacted regulations for cost recovery as agreed' at appraisal, but
these regulations were not effective as the recovery of the basic zakat tax, on
which the water charge is a surcharge, is low. Although data are not available
for Wadi Mawr, tentative data for Wadi Zabeed and Wadi Rima indicate that cost
recovery is low and falling (from 14% of loans due in 1985 to 5% in 1988).
Similar results are expected in Wadi Mawr. The sociopolitical aspects and lack
of commitment related to levying water charges resulted in ineffective collection
(para 40(d)].
10.   The technical designs of the irrigation scheme in Wadi Mawr are in line
with those applied to perennial schemes and are sophisticated for a spate
irrigation system.   Experience  in other countries has shown that simpler
structures of masonry construction and low cost weirs, coupled with fuse plugs
to ensure safety during high floods, could have been equally effective.
11.   Issues relating to water rights and cost recovery were raised in the Issues
Paper and later addressed in the Staff Appraisal Report. Solutions proposed in
the SAR were meant to resolve these issues: the water allocation plan, if
implemented, would have distributed water equitably; similarly, enforcement of
enacted regulations would have recovered investment and O&M costs. Unfortunately,
and following project implementation, the equity issue became worsa and the cost
recovery issue remained unresolved (paras 8 and 9). With hindsight, it appears
that project preparation and appraisal did not pay adequate attention to the
above issues.



-4-
E.    ORGANI7ATION
12.   TDA, a semi-aui:L.nomous oody established as a developmental agency for the
Tihama plain, was responsible for project implementation. Like other projects
under TDA, the Wadi Mawr project was headed by a project manager who was directly
responsible te the chairman.
13.   On the whole, project organization proved effective. The main constraints
which faced the project related to the shortage of local staff, particularly'for
the   operation   of   irrigation    facilities,    hydrologists,    financial
management/controls, and "he M&E unit.
F.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND RESULTS
14.     Conditions of effectiveness,  in addition to official  ratification,
includ_d meeting conditions of effectiveness of the IFAD loan and signing co.
financiers' agreements; as a result, the credit agreement was signed in April
1979, but the project only became effective in February 1980. Project completion
was delayed by four years.  Initial project start-up was delayed by two years
on account of delays in the selection of a consulting firm and the recruitment
of key project staff.  Delays in the execution of c Ivil works were caused by
delays in finalizing detailed designs and protracted procurement procedures.
15.   Irrigation Works.  TDA appointed Sir M. MacDonald and Partners (MMP), for
the design of irrigation works. MMP's recommendations made in their inception
report, and refined further during detailed designs, namely, the elimination of
the gabion dike, building one diversion structure instead of two, sediment
sluicing and desilting basins, and the addition of one inverted syphon, were
accepted by TDA and approved by co-financiers.   Design changes were made
following appraisal -o reduce costs and to incorporate technical lessons learned
from the recent expei. ,nce in other wadis in the region where similar projects
were already undertaken; this, however, should have been considered during
project preparation or initially by MMP consultants.
16.   Training.  The project provided funding for 128 man-months of short term
overseas training of extension agents in Arab countries (80 mm) and counterparts
to experts (48 mm). Five scholarships in agriculture were offered for overseas
training. In addition, 35 staff were trained in extension (14), agronomy (6),
engineering (5), technicians (8), and other areas (2). Training was, in general,
effective in providing new skills to local staff, although additional training,
particularly in hydrology and financial controls, is needed.
17.   Technical  Assistance.    The project  provided for  the services  of a
consulting firm (about 460 man-months) to assist TDA in the design, procurement,
and construction supervision of works under the project.  The firm selected,
MMP consultants, also prepared the Operations and Maintenance Manual, and crained
counterparts. As pointed out earlier, the designs of irrigation works prepared
by the consultants were too sophisticated for the spate diversion scheme and most
of the measuring devices failed to function within 3 or 4 months of operation.
The training of counterparts for the O&M of the scheme was partially successful.
In addition, TDA signed an agreement with O.I.Farming Co. for the management of
the production farm at Surdud for two years. The consultants carried out the
farm machinery rehabilitation program, and initiated the model production farm;



-5-
but due to consultants' staffing and management problems, Government terminated
the consultancy contract and assumed supervision of the production component
through local staff, with modest results.
18.   Reseach.   The seed multiplication program at Surdud farm has been
successful in improving the yield of iocal wheat varieties. However, farmers
have been slow to adopt these varieties due to taste, color, and input and water
requirements.   Research at the farm is ongoing in other areas under the
supervision of the national research authority, particularly for improved
varieties of fruits and vegetables and plant disease control. It is premature
to assess its effectiveness.
19.   Extension.  The dissemination of technical information by the extension
service in the project area has introduced farmers to new practices and inputs
for raising yields.  Extension agents received on-the-job training by subject
matter specialists. They trained 82 village leaders, who in turn reached over
2,000 farmtars; but adoption by farmers has been slow. Extension service being
new in the area should have had extensive demonstrations to convince farmers of
the benefits of improved packages and practices.   This was lacking and the
service was only partially effective.   Demonstration farms are now being
established and further strengthening of the extension service, along with
research, has been undertaken as part of the ongoing Tihama V Project (Credit
1667 - YAR), and would continue as part of the proposed National Agriculture
Sector Management Project.
20. Agricultural Credit. The Cooperative a.ad Agricultural Credit Bank (CACB)
provided short- and medium-term credit for the purchase of inputs (part5-ularly
fertilizer), and farm machinery and equipment. The use of inputs and, to some
extent machinery, has been limited by the shortage of foreign exchange, since
the project was not designed to meet the input needs of the entire project area.
This became critical following ROY's deteriorating economic condition.   An
important problem encountered in the extension of credit is the inadequate
collateral available to the majority of borrowers who are tenants; a joint but
weak effort by TDA and CAGB is currently underway to overcome this obstacle,
possibly by borrowing through farmers' cooperatives or other organizations which
would guarantee members' loans.
21.   Other Infrastructure.  Thirty-five houses, three dormitories, an office
building and a veterinary center were built at the project headquarters in Zuhra,
in addition to eight housing units at the Surdud farm.  In all, 10 extension
centers were built to serve over 50,000 beneficiaries in the project area. Of
the 103 village water supply schemes planned at appraisal, 71 were built; also,
111 kms of the planned 148 kms of gravel access roads were built.   These
reductions reflect further assessment of project needs, including the type and
size of water supply schemes and the improved quality of roads, and to some
extenz inadequate project preparation.   Some of the water supply schemes had
hand-operated pumps which were accepted by. '..llagers only after the communities
concerned, through Local Councils for Cooperative Development (LCCDs), were
allowed to install power-operated pumps for fiiling storage tanks. The project
objectives were met with the revised scope. A comparison f the main project
components as envisaged at appraisal and those actually implemented is given in
Part III, Table 4.
22.   Stdies.  The project provided for two studies to be carried out:  (a) A
study on water regulation, with a view to ensuring an equitable distribution of



-6-
spate and base flows in the project area.  As indicated earlier (para 8), in
the absence of information on area served and flow withdrawn at each offtake,
failure of measuring devices, and socio-political reasons, the water allocation
plan was not carried out.  (b) A study on land tenure and crop/cost sharing
arrangements, with a view to ensure a more equitable crop and cost sharing
system.   The study was completed,  but has not been distributed and its
recommendations concerning changes in the tenancy system have not been
implemented due to their social and political implications.
23.   Monitoring and Evaluation.  The project's monitoring and evaluation unit
was established after a slow project start. However, this unit was more involved
in collecting statistical data than identifying issues of project or irrigation
design,  and  trying  to modify project  scope when needed;  therefore,  its
ef2ectiveness was limited.
G.    PROJECT COST AND FINANCING
24.   Project cost was estimated at appraisal to be US$ 87.6 million, about 40X
of which was expected to be local financing.  However, actual cost has been
estimated at US$ 68.2 million due to currency depreciation and savings from
modification of irrigation designs.   The project was co-financed in several
currencies by different donors: IDA (US$ 15.0 million), IFAD (SDR 9.3 million),
X'FAED (KD 3.6 million), KfW (DM 9.1 million), and the EEC (various currencies
equivalent to US$ 3.0 million). While the IFAD and EEC loans were fully
disbursed, the project had an undisbursed balance of US$0.6 million from the IDA
credit, DH 0.9 million from KNW, and KD 0.3 million from the KFAED loan, which
had to be cancelled.
H.    PROJZCT IMPACT
25.   The project had a positive impact on regional development through the
provision of social infrastructure, particularly the installation of urgently
needed village water supply systems and the construction of rural roads. Rural
roads have contributed to increased economic activity such as the establishment
of workshops, improved market accessibility and reduced spoilage, and the
replacement of animal transportation by vehicles. The project also provided
considerable direct and indirect employment opportunities in the project area
in ancillary activities as a result of a more robust regional economic climate.
26.   Records kept by TDA indicate that the cropped area under spate irrigation
fell from 15,000 ha before the proJect, to 14,100 ha in 1988, though TDA is
projecting this to increase to 17.200 ha at full development; this compares with
SAR projections of 18,000 ha at full development. Areas under well irrigation
increased in the same period from 2,500 ha to over 4,600 ha (compared with the
SAR target of 4,000 ha).
27.   Available data indicates that SAR yield projections were somewhat over-
estimated, particularly for cereals and cotton in spate irrigated areas, but
also for some vegetables under well irrigation. This is partly due to the lack
of foreign exchange and farmer resistance to use inputs for cereals. However,
the yield of melons exceeded SAR targets. Sorghum and millet remain the major
crops, while maize production has not increased as expected, possibly due to
competition from melons, which are increasingly being cropped (area increased
from 150 ha to over 1,400 ha - projected to increase further at full development
- and yields doubled). The production of fruits and vegetables in well irrigated



7-
areas increased considerably - the bulk of the increase appears to be due to
private initiative and the import ban in effect against these crops. The
livestock population increased significantly due to improved vaccination, but
also as a result of import restrictiois on meat.
I.    ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
28.   The economic rate ef return (ERR) was estimated by the SAR (excluding
benefits of village wate;   :pply schemes, veterinary iervice, applied research
and sead multiplication    Surdud farm, and the impact of extension and credit
on rainfed areas), to l'  _.,. The PCR prepared by TDA, using similar assumptions
but including veterin..- c-.sts and benefits, estimated the ERR to be 12.3Z for
the project as a wholh,  -lid 11 9% when the Surdud farm is excluded from the
analysis.
29.   The economic analysis i.n tei PCR submitted by TDA, however, is optimistic:
(a) it assumes that spate ivrigated area would increase from 14,100 ha in 1988
to 17,200 ha at full development (1993) even though cropped area under spate
irrigation actually decreased following implementation due to changing cropping
pattern and increased diversion of water in the upper reaches of the wadi; (b)
future without project benefits are not considered; (c) estimated livestock
benefits arising from the vaccination and veterinary program, which represent
10-16X of incremental project benefits, are high; (d) downstream production loss
is assumed to be nesligible; and (e) all benefits from ground water irrigation
are attributed to the project, thus assuming all well irrigation development
would take place only because of the project. On the other hand, the analysis
did not include as benefits the contribution to aquifer recharge, which is
difficult to quantify.
30.    Economic  analysis  based  on  TDA's  PCR,  but  using  more  plausible
assumptions, indicates that the project ERR, including the Surdud farm, would
fall within the range of 4.5 -9.5%, depending on the assumptions used (Part III,
Table 9). It is believed that under the most likely scenario', the ERR would be
around 6X.
31.   These results indicate that sophisticated permanent diversion structures
of the type built in Wadi Mawr are not economically viable by themselves, even
though agricultural development projects as a whole may be economic.   Public
spate irrigation schemes should be undertaken only if: the volume cf incremental
water diversion and the size of the cropped area are significant (as in Wadi
Siham, where incremental water diverted would otherwise be lost in adjacent sand
'The following proportion of benefits in TDA's PCR were assumed to be
attributed to the project:  spate areas:  0.50; well areas:  0.25; and
veterinary costs and benefits were excluded from the analysis. These are
based on the following considerations. Spate: assumed area unlikely to
be achieved; economiz prices of melons should be lower than financial due
to trade restrictions.   Wells:   this is primarily private initiative
encouraged by restrictive trade policy, but it is also aided to some extent
by rural roads, extension and research; economic prices should be used.
Veterinary: benefits of veterinarian and support staff assumed to be 5X
of financial value of animals increasing by 5X annually are overestimated;
therefore, both incremental costs and benefits were excluded from the
analysis.



dunes); beneficiaries downstream of the diversion structures will not be deprived
of their existing traditional water rights; such diversions would make a
significant contribution to the recharge of the aquifer; equity issues are
resolved through irrigation designs and enforcement of water allocation plans
by authorities; designs are considerably simplified to reduce cost and ensure
ease of operation; and a credible cost recovery mechanism is ensured.
J.    PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
32.    TDA is well managed and staffed,  and despite some areas which need
strengthening, it is considered one of the most competent regional authorities
in agriculture in ROY. The continuation of TDA as a competent authority depends
upon its ability to retain and recruit competent staff, and adequate funding of
recurrent expenditures.
33.   Due to the shortage of local staff, several positions in engineering and
agriculture were filled by expatriates. The training of local counterparts has
partially alleviated this problem, but is proceeding slowly. Competition from
the private sector in the employment/retention of competent staff could weaken
the performance of the project at its current level.   Also, the perennial
shortage of O&M funding of public spate irrigation schemes endangers the long-
run sustainability of the project.
34.   Unless more forei~gn exchange for agricultural credit is made available by
Government to import agricultural inputs, the benefits from inputs and farm
machinery and equipment would be considerably less than expected at full
development.
K.    IDA PERFORMANCE
35.   IDA maintained continuous contact with the project authorities through
regular supervision missions; during the 1980-88 project implementation period,
12 missions supervised the project.   IDA assisted in project implementation,
particularly the technical aspects relating to irrigation designs. IDA also
assisted in the identification of expatriate staff recruited by the project, and
helped in expediting procurement. It can, however, be argued that: (a) appraisal
and supervision missions should have paid more attention to the issues of equity,
and cost recovery; and (b) IDA should have been more involved in the preparation
of a practical water allocation plan and taken a stronger position with ROY
authorities regarding its enforcement.
L.    BORROWER PERFORMANCE
36.   From a technical point of view, the project was satisfactorily managed
through the appointment of a qualified project manager and expatriate and local
staff.    The  physical  implementation  of  irrigation  and  civil  works  was
satisfactory, but experienced delays due to a late start, changing irrigation
designs, and procurement procedures. The Borrower met IDA credit covenants on
audits and progress reports and studies on a water allocation plan and land
tenure, albeit with delays; however, the recommendations of the studies were
not enforced.
37.   For socio-political reasons, the Borrower gave up control of a crucial
part of the water delivery system to influential farmers and did not enforce the
allocation plan to bring about equity in water distribution. Also, the Borrower



-9
did not show a strong commitment to the principle of cost recovery.
M.    CONSULTANTS
38.   The consultant engaged for project design and supervision of implementation
was a well-known international firm with experienced engineers on its team.
However, the consultant failed to take into account: (a) the experience of
completed projects regarding the feasibility of enforcing the water allocation
plan without determining areas under irrigation before the project; and (b) the
incorporation of such a plan in the technical designs of various structures.
Also, project designs were too sophisticated for a spate irrigation system. The
performance of the consulting firm hired to manage the Surdud model farm was not
satisfactory due to its staffing and management problems; therefore, the
consultancy contract was terminated by Government.
N.    PROJECT RELATIONSHIPS
39.   IDA, TDA, and the co-financiers maintained a very cordial relationship.
Even when disagreements regarding policies or technical designs arose, these
were discussed in an open and frank atmosphere. Also, TDA cooperated closely
with supervision missions, and provided data requested in a timely manner.
0.    LESSONS LEARNED
40.   The main findings and lessons learned are the following:
(a)    Preparation and Design:   Project preparation and design must be
sufficiently thorough to minimize the need for major changes later.
The preparation must be advanced enough to allow award of first year
contracts immediataly after project effectiveness, and these designs
must take into consideration the experience of completed projects.
(b)   Equity:  Project design should preserve established water rights.
This can be achieved at two levels: incorporate in technical designs
features that regulate the volume of water that can be diverted at
offtakes; and political commitment to enforce the watet allocation
plan agreed upon in project design.    Political  commitment to
equitable distribution of irrigation water in Yemen is difficult;
therefore, appropriate technical designs preserving traditional water
rights with minimum control should be applied. This approach is now
being followed in the ongoing Tihama V Project.
(c)   Proiect Concegt:   A simplified and less costly design could be
effective in achieving the main objective of improving water use
efficiency and aquifer recharge..  The diversion structures and
irrigation network in Wadi Mawr were too sophisticated for this
objective. The experience gained in Wadi Mawr has been used in Wadi
Siham (Tihama V Project): designs of diversion and irrigation
facilities have been simplified, costs reduced by about 50%, and
the scheme would be easier to operate and maintain.
(d)   Cost Recovery:   In countries like ROY where socio-political and
cultural factors are not conducive to cost recovery, efforts to
improve cost recovery should be viewed in a long-term perspective



- 10 -
and within the context of the process to improve tax collection as
a whole.   Also, where Government commitment to cost recovery is
lacking, the project design should focus on approaches whose fiscal
impact is less taxing.
(e)   Aquifer Sustainability: The current rates of groundwater abstraction
are not sustainable. The conjunctive use of surface and groundwater
approach that ' s adopted in earlier projects is appropriate, and
would be emphasized even more in the Tihama V Project, so that these
sources of water would not only supplement each other for irrigation
directly, but also improve aquifer recharge through spate irrigation.
(f)   In multi-component area development projects, an effective Monitoring
and Evaluation system should be established at an early stage to
track project implementation, detect problems and issues as they
arise, and, if needed, recommend changes in project design or scope.



- 11 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 880-YAR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PART II
PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
The Tihama Development Authority (TDA), the implem.ting agency, prepared
a Project Completion Report. following considerable delays and modifications,
the PCR was submitted to IDA in February, 1990. The summary of the Borrower PCR
is included herein on Part II. The full text of the Borrower PCR is available
upon request from OED or the Region.



- 12 -
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
TIBAKA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT - III
(WADI MAWR)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUMMARY
INTRODUCTION
Feasibility study of Wadi Mawr Project carried out by M/S Tipton
and Kalmbach Inc., was completed in January, 1979. Staff
Appraisal Report was, later, prepared in 1979 by International
Development Association (IDA)to evaluate the viability of the
project. Based on the Mission's Report IDA, KFAED and several
other co-financers agreed to finance the project and IDA loan
became effective in February, 1980.
OBJECTIVES
The project concept evolved from a feasibility study of Wadi
Zabid which was later expanded to include a reconnaissance study
of Wadi Mawr.  The objectives of the Wadi Mawr development was
to: (i) provide appropriate irrigation works and infrastructure
for the development area to substantially increase the
agriculture production, (ii) provide roads to important centers
of population and agriculture, (iii) improve the health and
nutrition of rural population by providing potable water supply
and a wide range of crops, (iv) assist the Government to develop
a regional applied agricultural research station of Surdud, and
(v) establish administrative authority for operating and
maintaining the irrigation works,
The project consists of agricultural development of about 17,000
hectares in Wadi Mawr by irrigation improvement, infrastructure
development and agricultural services.  The completed irrigation
works consist of 1 diversion structure, 1 bifurcation structure,
1 flushing sluice structure including sediment removal works, 4.2
km long combined head reach canal, 19.37 km long North Supply
Canal, 24.5 km long South Supply Canal with a network of primary
canals, structures, and farm turnouts.  Other Wadi Mawr project
works consist of about 59 km long access and farm roads, 71
village water supply schemes, project headquarter Az-Zahra,
Surdud Farm, agriculture extension centres, offices, Ware houses
and Veterinary Centres.
IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
The implementation of the project was impeded by 4 years
including 2 years delay in start-up and 2 years in completion.



- 13 -
The delay initially was due to the disagreement of the Donar
Agency (KFAED) with the conclusions and recommendations of TDA's
Evaluation Report for  selection of Consultants,   and then re-
invitation of the proposals on the basis of the revised terms of
reference. Eventually the selected Consultants (MMP) became
operative in February,  1982.   The first civil contract was
awarded in April, 1983. The execution of civil works was delayed
by non-availability of the technical and professional staff,
delays in procurement of material due to import policies,
shipment, port and custom clearance; and because of policies on
immigration, land acquisition etc.
Several design aspects of the Project were changed during the
course of the design as well as during construction phase.  TDA
set up a Design Review Panel in April, 1985 to review the design
floods, sediment entering the canal system, sediment removal
works and design of the canal system. The major changes affected
in the design were: (i) replacement of Sediment Removal Works
with Flushing Sluice Structure, (ii) addition of Vortex Tubes to
eject gravel and coarse sand, (iii) addition of settling basins
and changes in the bed slopes of the main North and South Canals.
RESULTS
The project has made substantial efforts to utilize and optimize
the spate flows through the intake structures  and canal
distribution system and thus increase crop production.   The
positive impact on production has been unequivocally acknowledged
by farmers and other observers. To the extent possible, the PCR
team collected additional information from farmers in the project
area.
PRODUCTION GOALS
The production goals of the project in the Appraisal report were
to increase the production of grains from 19,760 tons to 37,230,
industrial crops from 1,660 tons to 7,760 tons, fruits and
;egetables from 3,610 tons to 41,140 tons. The status at present
and at full development is shown overleaf:



- 14 -
At Present             At Full Development
Without      With                With
Project      Project             Project
(Tons)       (Tons)             (Tons)
Grains             19,760     25,421                  47,669
Industrial Crops   1,660       2,475                   3,182
Fruits &            3,610     26,494                  40,180
vegetables
PROJECT COST
The project cost is approximately 610 Million Yemeni Riyals (63
million US Dollars) as against provision of 394 million Riyals
(87.6 million US Dollars) in Appraisal Report.
The actual cost in terms of US dollars decreased by about i8%,
however in terms of Yemeni Rials it increased by about 55%. The
Variation in cost is due to price fluctuations, changes in
exchange rates and delay in implementacion.
RATE OF RETURN
The Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR) has been worked out
as 12.27 percent
with a benefit cost ratio of 1.03 at 12 percent discount rate.
Economic Rate of Return for the project was calculated as 17
percent in SAR against presently calculated figure of 12.27
percent.
FINDINGS AND LESSONS
Lessoi.s learned from Wadi Mawr Project must guide the design of
cther similar Projects to be undertaken subsequently. IDA
involvement is rightly recommended so as to provide opportunity
to consolidate gains achieved under earlier projects, and to make
necessary changes in the program. to efficiently translate the
previous experience into increased agriculture production and to
improve maintenance of channels and structures.   Following is
recommended for future projects;
1)   Water Distribution Associations need to be established for
equitable distribution of water throughout the command area,



- 15 -
for maintenance of fields by farmers through land levelling
and, for. magement. of field ditches and. to ensure equitable
distribution of water.
2)   Monitoring and evaluation of the project be carried out
vigorously.
3)   The emphasis on agriculture, research and extension services
must continue to provide research information,
demonstrations and assistance in the availability of
agricultural inputs.
4)   The operation and regular maintenance of irrigation net work
and other infrastructures is imperative for the success of
the Project.
5)   Part of the operation and maintenance cost of the Project is
recommended to be recovered from  the farmers according to
the share of water received by them.
6)   Extension services need to assume an expanded role.
7)   Infrastrucure for spate irrigation be developed, preferably
at the lower end of Wadi for avoiding water right issues and
for equitable water distribution.
8)   There is need for intensive demonstration work in spate
areas as the farmers are not yet familiar with the modern
technology and input application.  Fertilizer used by the
farmers of spate area is only a small fraction of the total
need.



- 16 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
TIHAMA III AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT 880-YAR)
EVALUATION S Y
PART III
STATISTICAL DATA
Table 1.    Relatec  Sank Loans anogor Credits
Loan/Credit            TitLe                                   IDA Cr./Loan Amt.    ApprovaL Year    Status
(USS in miltion)
1. CR  376           Tihama Development 1                            21.2                 1973           CLosed
2. CR  545           SUROP I                                          10.0                1976           Closed
3: CR  805            Tihama Development 11 (Wadi Rima)               10.5                1978           CLosed
4. CR  978            Tihama Development IV (Wadi Rima II)            10.0                 1979          Closed
5. CR 1067           SURDP II                                         17.0                1981           Closed
6. CR 1453           Central Highland Agriculture Development   8.0                       1984           On-going
7. CR 1584           Wadi Al Jawf Agriculture DeveLopment             10.0                1985           On-going
8. CR 1667            Tihama V                                        10.0                1986           Cm-going
9. CR 1772            SRADP                                           12.3                1987           On-going
10. CR 1886           Agriculture Development (Northern Region) 17.6                       1988           On-going
11. CR 1983           Agriculture Development (Eastern Region)  15.0                       1989           On-going
SURDP: Southern Upland Rural Development Project.
SRADP: Southern Rural Agriculture DeveLopment Project.
1Not Yet Effective.



- 17 -
able 2.      PROJECT TINETABL
Itm                          Date Ptanned               Date Revised       I      Date Actumt
Identification 
-Fo Lows-up
(Executive Project Sunmmry)    I
Prep4ration                                                                       I         04/1978
- Preapprsisal
Appraisel Mission                                                                        M Mrt, ∂978  |  ay-June 19781/
- Credit Negotiations             |   Dec. 11, 1978                                      Ja:.. 9-15, 1979
I.I                                 I
Board Approval                  |   Feb. 22, 1979                                j      March 06, 1979
- Credit Signature                       March, 1979                                         April, 1979r
Credit Effectiveness                    July, 1979                                      February, 1980
Project Coapletion                   Sep. 30, 1984            Sep. 30, 1988      |    September, 1988
- Credit Closing                       Sep. 30, 1984            Sep  30, 1988      I   September 30, 1988
Last Disbursement   Nov. 3, 19891   (USS35,308.61)
1/  Appraisat Mission Members:  1. Khouri
M. Fairtess
M. S. Fukuda-Parr
N. Eisa
M. A. Mien



- 18 -
Tablo 3.      Cululative Estimated and Actual Disbu*somennt
(US$ million)
Financial    Appraisal          Rovisod                 Actual Disbursements
Yoar        Estimtos          Estimtes                                                   Porcent Disbursed
Us $           Actt%al 2 of              ug total
Approisal          Allocatod IDA credit
1980             1.0               _                    _
1981             4.5              0.11                 0.16               3.62                      1.02
1982             9.0              0.50                 1.36              15.12                      9.02
1983            13.4              4.00           .    2.55               26.42                    17.0o
1984            15.0             10.00                 4.36              32.52                    29.02
1985              -              13.50                 7.06              47.02                    47.02
1986                             15.00                 9.15              81.02                    61.02
1987                               _                  12.44              82.9X                    82.09
1988              _                                   13.78              91.92                    91.92
1989              _                _                  14.37              958X.                    95.86



- 19 -                     Page I of 2
Table 4.     PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
Appraisal           Actual (or
Indicators                     Estimate            PCR Estimate)
Irrigation Work
- Diversion structure                      2                      1
- Bifurcation structure                                           1
- Gabion Dike for Daraaniah Canal          1                      -
- Syphon Underpass                         - 
-Flushing slice structure                                         1
- Trash By-pass                            -
Canals
- Combined Head Reach Supply Canal         -                    4.84 Km
- North Supply Canal                    56 Km                  37.77 Km
- South Supply Canal                    44 Kt                  41.99 Km
Total length  1020 K                  84.60 Km
Canal structures *
- Cross Regulators'                                              32
- Fali Structure         -                                      36
- Primarv Canal offtakes H.A.                                   36
- Pipe orftakes S.P.                                            34
- Box culverts                                                   4
- Canal crossing for vechicles                                  15
- Canal crossing for predestrain                                55
Area commanded fNet) served by:
- Combined Head Reach Supply Canal       95(. ha     -     .     950 ha
- North Supply Canal                   8,400 ha                5,170 ha
- South Supply Canal                   9,500 ha               10,740 ha
Access and Farm Roads:
- 7.0 meter wide roads                    -                      58.8 Km
- 6.0 meter wide roads                   28 Km                    10.6 Km
- 4.5 meter wide roads                  116 Km                   41.8 Km
- 3.5 meter wide roads                    4 Km                      -
Total length   148 Km                  111.2 Km
* Designs modified following appraisal.                 . Cont. on next page



- 20-                       Page 2 of 2
Cont. project implementation
Anpraisal          Actual (or
Indicators                     Estimate            PCR Estimate)
Village water suoplv schemes:
- Level A                                 13                        1
- Level B                                  10                      11
- Level C                                  29                      15
- Level D                                  51                      44
Total:          10
Pit Latrines:                               -                      63
Buildings:
- Project Headquarters (Al-Zuhra)
- Two Bedroom House              20                      20
- Three Bedroom house            14                      14
- Six Bedroom house               l                       1
- Domitories                      3                       3
- Offices                         1                       1
- Veterinary Center
(Office and clinic)           1+1                       1
(combined)
* General Building                1                       1
- Extension Center                         9                       10
- Surdud Farm
- Two Bedroom House               6                       5
- Three Bedroom House             6                       2
- Six Bedroom House               2                       1
Comments:
Level A  -     Well equipped with pump of 4 L/sec capacity *1th 100 cu.m
Elevated Tank, 6 points and 4 pit latrines.
Level B  -     Well equipped with pump of 4 L/sec capacity with 50 cu.m
Elevated Tank, 3 point and 2 pit latrines.
Level C  -     Well equipped with pump of 1.2 L/sec capacity with 16 cu.m
low level Tank, l point and 2 pit latrines.
Level D  -     Well with well Head Structure, one hand pump of 1.2 L/sec-
capacity, one ground level storage tank of 4 cu.m capacity,
1 point and 4 pit latiines.



.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Proiect Costs and Financing
Table 5 (a).     PROJECT COSTS
(USS in million)
APMRAISAL ESTIPATES                     ACTUAL
ITEMS                                                                     Local   Foreign        TOTAL      Local    Foreign      TOTAL
Exchang                           Exchange
- Project Management and Engineering                                               2.5        5.1         7.6        6.3       9.0         15.31'
- Extension and Veterinary Services.                                               1.2        1.2         2.4        1.5       1.1          2.6
- Agricultural Credit                                                              0.8        2.2         3.0        1.5.      1.5          3.0 est.
-  Irrigation Work                                                                 7.2       17.0        24.2        5;0      21.8         26.8
- Project Keadquarters        *                                                    1.5        2.3         3.8        1.0       1.6          2.6
- Access Roads                                                                     3.4        4.1         7.5        1.6       4.9          6.>
- Viltage water Supply                                                             0.8        2.4         3.2        0.2       4.0          4.2
- Sur&ad Farm                                                                      3.8        4.0         7.8        3.7       3.5          7.2
- Contingencies   n    Physical                                                    1.5        3.0         4.5         . C
E    Price                                                    17.3        6.3        23.6                     _
TOTAL ESTINAT- AND ACTUAL COST:                                                40.0       47.6        87.6       20.8      47.4        68.2
I/    Significant Increase in cost is due to project delays which resulted In higher contingencies  particularly for consultants.



- 22 -
Tablg .tb..        PROJECT FINANCING
(US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal
Report        Actual
Source           Estimates
IDA              15.0          14.4
- Co-Financing
Inscitutions
- IFAD               12.0          11.0
- ECC                  3.0          3.0
- KFAED                             6.0
- Other              21.6
- Other External
Source
- UK
- KfW                    .          4.0
-Domestic
- Government         35.0          28.8
- CACB & Bene- .      1.0           1.0
ficiaries
87.6         68.2
TOTAL



- 23 -
PROJECT RES=TS
Table Va).    DIRECT BENEFITS
SAR                                     TDA
Estimated at       Est. at full             Closing        Full
Indicators                         closing date       development.              Date           Dev.
Cropped Area
(hectares)                    N.A.                 22,000                 18,740         22,000
Production (Tons)
Sorghum                        N.A.                  24,860                 16,640         21,530
Maize                          N.A.                  11,470                    250            360
Melons                         N.A.                  21,340                 21,800         32,100
Onions & Vegetables            N.A.                  12,360                  3,220.         5,420
Fruits                         N.A.                   3,310                  3,000          2,640
Number of Beneficiaries            N.A.               53,000                    50,000         50,000
Water Schemes                      103 schemes        103 schemes                   71             71
Access & Farm Roads                148 Km  .          148 Km                       111            111
Canals (length).  *   .   .        100 Km              85 Km                        85             85
Employment
Cmanyear)
- Family Farm Labor              N.A.               1300                        1000          1300
- Hired Labor                    F.A.               2300                        1500          2300



- 24 -
Table 6(b).     ECONOMIC/FINANCIAL IMPACT
(Full Developrient)
Indicative                        .SAR                TDA                  .  IDA
Rate of Return
Economic Rate of Return
- Without Surdud Farm            16 percent          12.3
- With Surdud Farm               17 percent          11.9                     6.0



-25-
Tablg 6(c).      STUDIES
Purpose as defined at                     Impact of
Studies                       Appraisal                 Status       Study
Water Regulation         To ensure an equitable                      Agreed
Study        distribution of the Wadi's                  recomme-
annual flows to the various                dations
canals in the system.          Complied   were not
enforced.
Land Tenure Study        Improve equity in crop          Complied   Study shelved
and cost sharing                           due to
social,
political
implications



- 26 -
Tablg 6(d)..                     2ICREASE In CROPPED AREAS
SsAff AngrAisal ReDort                          TDA
PreProject   Full Dev.               Closing Date  Full Devt.
(1988)
SPATE IRRIGATION
Sorghum White                     7400         8400                       9090        10326
Sorghum Red                      4000          1100                        800          950
Sesame                           1500         1700                       1021         1205
Millet                            1600         1200                       1271          1499
Cocton                             200         1600                        241          284
Maize                              150         2500                        127           149
Water Melon                         90          450                        545          643
Sweet Melon                         70          550                        878         1036
Onion & Vegecables                   0          500                         93          132
Fruits                               0            0                        46            60
TOTAL                            15000        18000                      14112        17234
WELL IRRIGATION
Sorghum 'White                    1400         1250                     2400          2460
Sorghum Red                        650            0                       260        . 267
Sesame                             200          600                       729          747
Millet                               0            0                   _    0
Cotton                              20          200                       242          248
Maize                               50         1200                        10           10
Water Melon                         60          200                       458          469
SweeE Melor.                        50          200                   .  356           364
Onio;i                              20          150                         6            6
Tomatoes & ocher.Vegs.              40          150                       143          147
Papaya & other Fruits              .10           50                        20           21
Tobacco                              0            0                         6            6
TOTAL                             2500         4000                     4630          4745
Source:  SAR, TDA (NESPAK)



- 27 -
jfBL 6 (e)
YIELD LEVELS PROJECTED AND ACHIEVED  -Kgs./ha.
Crop                      Base          SAR Projection           Actual1
Year         Without
SPATE IRRIGATION
Sorghum white                     973          973          1529         1300
Sorghum white ratoon              487          487           765          650
Sorghum red                       626          626          1390         1100
Millet                            584          584          1112          650
Maize                             973          973          2691         1800
Cotton                            973          973          2363         1100
Sesame                            695          695          1168         1100
Onion                                           -          15290        11000
Wacer Melon                      5560         5560         13066        11000
Sweet Melon                      5004         5004         12510        11000
WELL IRRIGATION
Sorghum white .                  1112         1112          1807         1500
Sorghum white ratoon              556          556           904          650
Sorghum red                       834          834            -          1300
.Maize                           1112         1112          3197         2200
Cotton                           1251         1251          2710         1600
Sesame                            695          695          1251         1100
Tomato                          11815        11815         24742        15000
Onion                            8340         8340         18070        10000
Water Melon                      6950         6950         14455         9000
Sweet Melon                      5560         5560         13900         8000
Source: TDA's PCR.
L/ At full development after 15 years.



Page 1 of .2
Table 7.     TABLE OF COVENANTS
Covenant           Description                                           Status                    Remarks
Sec. 3.02 (a)(i)   Appointment of Engineering consultant in
order to assist borrower in carrying out
the civil work under the project.                    Complied      Consultants appointed on 12/5/81.
(ii)   Appointment of Agricultural experts in
order to assist the borrower in carrying
out Parts 8 (1) and (2) and G (1) of the
project.                                             Complied      Agriculture experts appoipted in 1981.
Sec. 3.03          The borrower shalt ensure that the consultants
and experts referred to in the preceding                            The project was delayed at start-up. due to setection of consult-
section (3.02) shalt be appointed not later                        ants with adequate qualifications.
than Septenber 30, 1979 (or such other date          Complied,
agreed upon).                                        with delay.                                                                              co
Sec. 3.07 (b)      Prepare and furnish to the Association and the
Fund, not later than December 30. 1980. a            Complied,     The training program was prepared and iaplemented with the other
detailed report for overseas training.               with delay.   Tihama projects. Late compliance due to delay ir. start-up of the
project.
Sec. 4.01 (b)      The borrower shall cause TOA to have its              Cooplied,
project accounts audited, furnish audited re'port   with delay.
no later than four months after the end of
9             the year.
Sec. 4.03          Provide Quarterly report during Project
Implementation period and thereafter annually        Complied,
for the next five year.                              with delay.
Sec. 4.05 (a)(b)   TDA, with assistance of the engineering               Complied,      The study was conducted but reconiendations were not enforced.
consultants, carry out a study on water regula-    with delay.
tion with a view to ensure equitable distribu-
tion of the wadi's annual flow. Complete the
study and furnish a copy to ID  by 12/31/1980.
Cont. on next page



Page 2 of 2
Covenant           Description                                          Status                       Remrks
Sec. 4.07 ti)tiii) Provide , not later than September 30. 1979.
copy of study on farming through cost and
crop sharing arrangements between tenants and       Complied        Study conducted did not pro   e      tonclusive agreements.
landlords. Implement recoimendations through                       hence not implemented.
suitable legislative and governuentat actions.
Sec. 4.08         Iplementation of cost recovery. Government                          Regulations enacted but not enforced.
to take such actions so as to enable TOA,
imuediately after completion of irrigation work,   Not
to charge a 2X surcharge on gross agriculture       Complied
production.
.I
_,.                                                                                                  



Table 8.                                                         Usk Ov BANK Nt:cSO         (MISSIONSI
Stage of Project Cycle               Monith/Year          No. of Persons             Days in Field          Specialization                      Performance status rating
ThrouKh Apprdisal   Mdy/Jtuie  19)18
Appraisal Mission            06/78                              5                        28               Engineer. Livestock So
Horticulturist. Economist.
Financial Analyst.
Boar.. Approval - Mjrckl Ob. 19)9
Credit EffectLiveneb   lebiudLy 1960
Suvervision - FY 1980
Mission 1                             06/80                     3                          2              R.Engineer. Economist.                               i
Agric Extensionist.
Mission 2                             02/81                     5                        27              Agriculturist, Cr. Specialist,                        2
V                                                                                                   Engineer. Training Specialist.
Forestry Specialist.
Mission 3                             12/81                     2                          5              Horticulturist. Irria.Enaineer                       2
Mission 4                             08/82                     3                        21               Irrig.Engineer. Economist.                           2                  O
Agriculturist CFAO/CP)
Mission 5                             04/83                     3                        24               Irrig.Engineer. Horticulturist.                      2
MSE consuitant.
Mission 6                             10/83                     3                         16              Irrig.Engineer. Agriculturist.                       2
Agriculture Ct,dit Consultant.
Mission 7                             11/84                     4                        21               Horticulturist, Irrig.Engineer.                      2
Credit Spec., Sociologist.
Mission 8                             11/85                     1                          4              Irrigation Eng1ineer.                                2
Mission 9                             10/86                     2                         17              Irrig.Eiagineer. A4riculturist.                      2
Mission 10                            04/87                     4                          5              Irrig.Engineer. A4ric. Economist.                    2
Financial Analyst (2).
Mission 11                            11/87                     2                         10              Irrig.EnSineer, Fin. Analyst.                        2
Mission 12                            04/88                     3                          5              Irrig. Engineer. Fin. Analyst.                       2
ApSr. Economist.
Cominent:   Prefereice St4tub Rating: '   Problem Free or Milor Problegn.
2 - Moderate Problem
3   Major Problem



- 31 -
T:able 9.   PROJECT ERR UNDER VARIOUS SCENARIOS
l           2            3            4        S
Space Benefits'          0 85         0.50        0.85         0.50      0.30
Well Benefits'           0.30         0.50         0.30        0.25      0.20
Veterinary Benefits'     1.00         0.50        0.002        0.002     0.002
ERR                      9.5X         7.4X        8.21         6.0%      4.5X
j~/    Proportion of incremental benefits in TDA's PCR assumed co be attributed
to the project.
2/    Excludes both vecerinary costs and benefits.



