Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY            FILE   G
Report No. 21448-YAR
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
February 14, 1979
Projects Department
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00        = Yemeni Rials (YRls) 4.50
YR1 1.00       = US$0.22
YRls 1 million = US$222,222
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
(Metric System)
1 meter (m)                  = 3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)             = 0.62 miles
1 hectare (ha)               = 2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)           = 2,205 pounds
ABBREVIATIONS
YAR      =  Yemen Arab Republic
ACB      =  Agricultural Credit Bank
ARS      =  Agricultural Research Station
CB       =  Central Bank
CPO      =  Central Planning Organization
ECWA     =  Economic Commission for West Asia
EEC      =  European Economic Community
GCC      =  General Cotton Company
GDP      =  Gross Domestic Product
IFAD     =  International Fund for Agricultural Development
KFAED    =  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
LDA's    =  Local Development Associations
0DM      =  British Ministry of Overseas Development
SURDU    =  Southern Upland Rural Development Unit
TDA      =  Tihama Development Authority
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    BACKGROUND  ............................................                      1
A.    Project Background  ...............................                    1
B.    The Agricultural Sector ..........................                     1
II.    THE PROJECT AREA .......         ................                             9
A.    Location .........................................                     9
B.    Resources  ........................................                   10
C.    Farm Size and Land Tenure ........................                    13
D.    Infrastructure  ...................................                   14
III. THE PROJECT .15
A.    Design Features  ..................................                   15
B.    Costs and Financing Arrangements  ....               .............    20
C.    Procurement and Disbursement  .....................                   24
D.    Accounting  .......................................                   25
E.   Environmental Impact .............................                     26
IV.   ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...........................                     27
A.    Organization and Staffing  ........................                   27
B.   Agricultural Services  ............................                    27
C.    Operation and Maintenance  ........................                   31
D.    Monitoring and Evaluation ........................                    32
V.    AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION  ...............................                    33
A.    Present Land Use and Crop Distribution ....               .......     33
B.    Development Constraints  ..........................                   34
C.    Present and Future Area and Yields  ....               ...........    36
VI.    PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES, INCOMES
AND COST RECOVERY  .....................................                    39
A.    Projected Volume of Production ...................                    39
B.    Markets and Prices  ...............................                   40
C.    Farm Incomes  .....................................                   42
D.    Taxes and Cost Recovery  ..........................                   44
This report was prepared by Messrs. M. Mian (Engineer), H. Eisa (Agriculturist)
S. Fukuda-Parr (Economist), R. Khouri (Live-Stock) and M. Fairless (Y.P.)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
VII.   BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATION AND RISKS ....     ................  47
A.   Benefits and Beneficiaries ......................      47
B.  Rate  of  Return   ..................................   48
C.   Project  Risks   ...................................   49
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ........             50
ANNEXES
1.  Description of Project Works
2.  Water Availability and Requirements
3.   Cost Estimate Details
4.   Supporting Tables and Charts
5.   Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
LIST OF TABLES IN THE MAIN TEXT
1.1  Indices of Area Planted and Value of Agricultural Production at
Constant Prices
1.2  Resources Allocated to Agriculture in the First Five-Years Plan
in Public Sector
2.1  Cropsharing in Wadi Mawr
3.1  Project Costs
3.2  Financing Plan
3.3  Estimated Schedule of Disbursement
5.1  Present and Projected Crop Area
5.2  Present and Future Yield Levels
5.3  Present and Projected Crop Area and Yield Levels at Surdud Farms
6.1  Project Production
6.2  Present and Future Grain Requirements of YAR
6.3  Farmgate Prices Used for Financial and Economic Analysis
6.4  Present and Projected Farm Income Levels Derived from Farm Models
6.5  Incremental Taxes Due to the Project
6.6  Rent and Cost Recovery - Spate Area
6.7  Rent and Cost Recovery - Well Area
7.1. Sensitivity Analysis of Economic Rate of Return



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
LIST OF SUPPORTING TABLES AND CHARTS (ANNEX NO. 4)
TABLE NO.
1.   Present and Planned Gross Domestic Product and
Employment by Sector
2.   Total and Agricultural Trade
3.   Availability and Use of Modern Inputs and Equipment
4.   Production Targets During the First Five Year Plan
5.   Agricultural Input Requirements During the First
Five Year Plan
6.   Distribution of Farm Sizes (Areas Cultivated and Fallow)
7.   Distribution of Farm Sizes (Areas Cultivated Only)
8.   Distribution of Landownership
9.   Distribution of Farms and Farmers by Type of Exploitation
and Location
10. Projected Area in Crops Produced by Modern Techniques
(Spate area)
11. Projected Area in Crops Produced by Modern Techniques
(Well Area)
12. Cash Flow Projection of Agricultural Credit Component
13. Rent and Cost Recovery Analysis
14. Economic Rate of Return Calculations
CHART NO.
1.   Organization Chart
2.   Implementation Schedule
3.   Crop Calendar
MAP
IBRD Number 13809 Project Area.






YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
I. BACKGROUND
A. Project Background
1.01      The Government of Yemen Arab Republic (YAR) has requested the Inter-
national Development Association (IDA) to help finance an agricultural develop-
ment project, namely, Tihama Development Project III comprising: (i) develop-
ment of the surface and ground water resources of Wadi Mawr, (ii) provision of
agricultural extension, plant protection and livestock health and nutrition
services, (iii) operation of Surdud regional research and production farm,
(iv) construction of about 148 km of gravel access roads and (v) provision of
water supply to rural population inhabiting about 103 villages and groups of
villages. The objective of this project is the development of the country's
agricultural sector in general and the Tihama coastal plain in particular.
1.02      The project is based on a feasibility study prepared by Tipton
and Kalmbach Inc., Consultants engaged by Tihama Development Authority (TDA)
for the implementation of Tihama Development Project I, which included the
feasibility study of Wadi Mawr's agricultural development as a component.
B. The Agricultural Sector
Present and Future Role of Agriculture in the Economy
1.03      Agriculture is the single most important sector of the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR). It generates 45-50% of the country's GDP, employs 73% of
the resident labor force, and accounts for more than 90% of the total exports.
The role of agriculture is changing, however, due to the dynamics of other
sectors, emigration of rural labor, and the structural transformation of the
economy as a whole. During the short period of six years (1969/70-1975/76)
for which national accounts are available, the share of agriculture fell
from 53% of total GDP to about 48% (average 50%), and agricultural employment
was reduced by approximately 10%. Nevertheless, agricultural GDP at market
prices increased at an estimated average annual rate of 6.3% during 1970/71-
1975/76, which compares favorably with 8.2% for the economy as a whole.
1.04      Until the late 1969's, YAR's agriculture was largely for subsis-
tence. It was then estimated that the sector contributed 70-80% to GDP and
employed 80-90% of the economically active population. In recent years there
have been clear indications that agriculture is slowly changing from a sub-
sistence to a market orientation. Indications are that: (a) area planted
in major crops expanded from 1.1 to 1.4 million ha during 1969/70-1975/76;



-2-
(b) greater areas was planted in crops such as cotton, fruits and vegetables;
and (c) average yields of several crops have increased due to the introduction
of modern inputs and equipment, especially in the irrigated areas of the
Tihama coastal plains.
1.05      The years during which agriculture began to demonstrate its capacity
for growth have been too few to affect the pervasive rural poverty of YAR.
Because at least 90% of the country's resident population of 4.7 million in
February 1975 is rural, it is directly affected by the low productivity
of agriculture. In 1975/76, the last year for which data are available,
agricultural GDP per capita was estimated at YRls 545 (US$121) at 1975/76
prices or YRls 608 (US$135) at 1976/77 prices. This is less than one half of
the 1975/76 national average income of YRls 1,125 (US$250) and about one
third of 1976/77 average of YRls 1,755 (US$390). It is also less than the
annual subsistence requirement estimated in 1976/77 prices at YRls 750-780
(US$166-173) of which YRls 390 (US$87) was for a basic 1,390 calories/day
diet. The poverty of rural life has traditionally led a significant portion
of families to seek supplementary income from alternative employment. This
has increased substantially in the recent years with the rise in employment
opportunities in neighboring countries and remittances have risen from US$40
million in 1969/70 to US$530 million in 1976/77 and to over US$1 billion in
1976/77. On an average per capita basis remittances would be about US$96 in
1975/76 and US$180 in 1976/77. It is not known what portion of this accrues
to the rural sector but since most of the emigrants are from rural families
and as the impact of increase in remittances on rural life is observable,
remittances can be assumed to play a significant role in supplementing rural
incomes. Thus in the absence of income distribution and household budget
data, it is impossible to estimate the proportion of the rural population
actually above or below the subsistence and poverty income level, although
1978 Bank estimates indicated that 60% were below the poverty level.
1.06      The future role of agriculture is defined only in general terms
in the recently prepared Five-Year Development Plan for 1977-81. While GDP
of the economy as a whole is expected to grow at 8.2% annually, the growth
of agriculture is planned at 5.5% (Annex 4, Table 1). As a continuation of
past trends, these targets seem realistic and would reduce the share of
agriculture from the average of 50% of total GDP (at constant 1975/76 market
prices) during the last few years, to 39% in 1980/81, and agricultural employ-
ment would concurrently drop from 73 to 69% of the total. If the number of
persons employed in the sector rises, however, from 854,000 to 876,000 as
contemplated in the plan, agricultural GDP per worker would thereby decline
relative to the national average and all other sectors. This would have
undesirable effects as agriculture would find it more difficult to retain
labor than anticipated in the plan and real agricultural incomes could decline.
Consequently, it is necessary to accelerate the transformation of the agricul-
tural sector from a subsistence to a market orientation, based on the utiliza-
tion of modern inputs and equipment.
1.07      One aspect of agriculture which is of some concern to the authorities
is the growing imbalance in agricultural trade, due to YAR's small range of



- 3 -
agricultural exports and its growing dependence on agricultural imports, espe-
cially food. Although almost all (90%) of YAR's exports are of agricultural
origin, 80% of its modest export earnings, about US$12 million/year in recent
years, are generated by only three commodities--cotton and cottonseed, coffee
and hides.
1.08      While total exports doubled over the period 1971/72-1976/77 from
YRls 24.7 to 51 million during the period, total imports rose fifteenfold--
from YRls 204.4 to 3,035.3 million (Annex 4, Table 2). Imports of foodstuffs
alone rose from YRls 90.9 to 868.4 million, mainly as a result of higher
domestic incomes and workers' remittances from abroad. Approximately 85% of
the upsurge in demand for imported food has consisted of cereals, sugar and
sugar preparations, fruits and vegetables, edible fats and oils, which have a
relatively high income elasticity of demand due to the low income base at this
juncture of YAR's economic development. Unfortunately, however, the agricul-
tural sector is not yet equipped to respond to the increased effective demand
and the country is expected to continue to expand food imports well into the
1980's.
Trends in Agricultural Production and Resource Utilization
1.09      Although Yemen receives good rainfall compared to the rest of the
Arabian peninsula, its erratic occurrence can damage agricultural production
every two or three years. Consequently, agricultural output has fluctuated
sharply from one year to the next. Nevertheless, even with the short period
for which data is available, it appears that crop production is on an upward
trend. Livestock, fisheries and forestry subsectors, however, have failed to
keep up with crop production. Livestock performance is poor due to partial
starvation, insufficient protein and disease. Animals are kept at night
inside thorn kraals where they are fed almost exclusively on grain stover.
The available communal grazing is usually heavily overstocked. Outbreaks of
rinderpest, foot-and-mouth and prevalence of external and internal parasites
reduce numbers drastically.
Table 1.1: INDICES OF AREA PLANTED AND VALUE OF AGRICULTURAL
PRODUCTION AT CONSTANT PRICES
(1971/72 = 100)
1970/71   1971/72   1972/73   1973/74   1974/75   1975/76
Area Planted           104        100        188        106       128        122
Production Value
Crops                106        100        125       112        144        133
Livestock             79        100         72        66         83         81
Fisheries            103        100         97        94         91         88
Total Production      98        100        109        98        124        116
Source:  Central Planning Organization, National Accounts Report for 1969/70
to 1975/76.



-4-
1.10      The encouraging performance of crop output is also reflected in
indices of value of production relative to area planted. More than one
factor, however, explains the improvement in crop production: (a) cotton
cultivation was expanded in the early 1970's as a substitute for sorghum or
millet; (b) some land was shifted from coffee to higher value qat 1/; and (c)
with the stimulus of external assistance, the use of modern inputs and equip-
ment began to expand, especially in irrigated areas, for the cultivation of
cotton, maize, sorghum and vegetables (Annex 4, Table 3).
Prospects for Agricultural Development
The Land Base and Climate
1.11      Even though YAR extends over approximately 20 million ha, its
climate and ecology limit its agriculture to only about 1.5 million ha which
are regularly cultivated. An additional 2 million ha of marginal agricultural
land is infrequently cultivated during years of high rainfall. Sparsely
wooded areas cover about 1.6 million ha. About 15 million ha are mountainous,
desert, and semi-arid to arid range lands with very sparse vegetation. About
85% of the cultivated land depends solely on rainfall, 8% (120,000 ha) is
supplied with a single irrigation by spate flood flow and 7% (110,000 ha) is
perennially irrigated from wells streams and springs.
1.12      YAR has a well-marked rainy season corresponding to the monsoons
of India and East Africa. The monsoon rains, which occur in July-September,
supply the heaviest precipitation of the year. A second, lighter, rainy
season occurs in April and May. Precipitation, however, is by no means
uniform throughout the country and varies considerably from year to year.
The variable topography of the country results in an equally variable rainfall
pattern. In the Tihama along the coast of the Red Sea, the average annual
rainfall is in the range of only about 100-200 mm. Further inland precipi-
tation increases to about 300 mm annually and reaches to more than 800 mm
in upper catchments.
Agricultural Regions
1.13      In spite of the poor overall resource endowment in land and water
and unfavorable climatic conditions, which sharply limit the scope of agri-
culture, YAR has untapped agricultural resource potentials within three of
its four major natural regions:
(a) the Tihama plain, along the Red Sea, has the greatest
potential by virtue of its location, accessibility,
abundant land and reasonably good soils, surface and
groundwater irrigation, and incipiently diversified
production, including livestock. This is the only
area of YAR where planted area could be expanded,
assuming improved water management;
1/   No qat is grown in the project area.



-5-
(b) the western slopes, between the Tihama and the central
highlands, are characterized by intensive land use and
diversified production which ranges from sub-tropical
to temperate crops. Virtually all cultivated land is
terraced;
(c) the Highlands, which consist of several ecological sub-
zones, are the "breadbasket" of YAR, with wheat, barley
and other temperate zone crops with long-range potential
for improvement in productivity; and
(d) the Eastern slopes, which represent 40% of YAR's total area,
are poorly endowed in agricultural resources.
Land Distribution and Tenure
1.14      Yemen's agriculture is generally conducted on small family owned
or tenant operated farms. No official data are available on the number and
size distribution of holdings nor of operational units. The 1976 census
reports that some 800,000 households are engaged in agriculture, which would
mean that the average cultivated land per household is 2 ha.  Actual average
size of farm units may range from .25-1.5 ha in the Western slopes to 2-10
ha in the Tihama. The ownership of agricultural land by broad classes has
been roughly estimated as follows: state owned, 2-3%; Waqf (religious endow-
ment), 15-20%; and privately owned, 77-83%. It is generally acknowledged
that there is great concentration of ownersip of cultivable land and that
tenancy through sharecropping is widely practiced. Estimates of extent
of tenancy range from very low (15-25%) in the central highlands to up to
40-50% and even 90% in some areas.
1.15      Despite the absence of legal security of tenure under the tradi-
tional tenancy system, tenancy rights tended to be respected as permanent
within basic social groups such as sheikdoms. Although there is much varia-
tion throughout the country to meet special conditions of water supply,
soil quality, and supply demand of labor and land, the basic sharecropping
arrangement is the equal division of the crop after deduction of Zakat tax
(religious tax) and payment of hired labor for harvesting.
1.16      These traditional tenancy terms have become anachronistic with the
need to invest in modernization of agriculture because tenants would be
expected to bear the full burden and risks of higher operating costs and
capital expenditures, while sharing with landlords the returns from such
outlays on a 50-50 basis or less favorable one when irrigation is utilized.
Thus, while there are signs of change in the sharecropping arrangement with
the introduction of more intensive and profitable production and participation
of landowners in bearing the cost of modern inputs, the Government has stated
its intention to institute a tenancy system consistent with giving farmers
incentives to rise productivity. To this end, the Government has initiated a
nationwide study partly financed by IDA credit for Tihama Development II and,
pending the completion of this study, has issued a religious edict requiring



-6-
landowners to share in the cost of production in proportion to their share in
output.
Major Constraints on Future Development
1.17      In addition to the physical constraints (para  1.11) and those
imposed by land tenure (para 1.16) several obstacles stand in the way of
rapidly achieving agriculture's potential. The lack of complementary infra-
structure, especially rural roads, affects the transition of agriculture from
a subsistence to a market economy probably as much as the still low level of
use of modern inputs. The dynamic growth of the economy as well as increased
emigration have contributed to shortages of all types, especially skilled and
semi-skilled labor, with escalation in wages that outstrip inflation. Although
there has recently been major improvements, port congestion in Hodeidah delays
the arrival of vital equipment and inputs for agriculture and other sectors,
and hence add to their costs. The Ministry of Agriculture and other related
organizations which were only established a few years ago, are chronically
short of manpower with the requisite technical and managerial skills. Credit
and extension reach relatively few farmers in spite of the improvements
achieved in specific project areas such as Tihama I and Southern Uplands.
1.18      Under such constraints the traditional and relatively inefficient
agriculture in YAR's inflationary climate accentuates the difference between
high domestic market prices for agricultural products and the lower Hodeidah
cif price of similar imported products. Given the government's determination
to minimize its intervention in freely determined market prices, the sector
needs time and considerable external assistance to acquire the competitive
edge that modern techniques and inputs can give it. Multilateral and bilateral
external assistance is playing an important role in overcoming constraints in
the sector. In addition to five IDA credits for investment and institution-
building which have attracted co-financing from several sources (para 1.25),
assistance from the UNDP, United Kingdom, Federal Republic of Germany, The
Netherlands, United States, USSR and People's Republic of China, has intro-
duced YAR to diverse means. of agricultural modernization during the last few
years.
Government Institutions and Development Plans
1.19      Initiatives for the development of YAR's agriculture date back
only to the post-revolutionary years of the late 1960's and early 1970's.
The earliest efforts were confronted with very little tangible knowledge and
the limited absorptive capacity of the sector due to the constraints sum-
marized above. Comprehensive planning was deferred until government insti-
tutions, mainly the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and key economic and
social ministries, had the data and the basic manpower to tackle the tasks.
A three-year development program (1973/74-1975/76), however, was formulated,
with 15% of investment allocated to agriculture. For agriculture the main
emphasis was to enhance the absorptive capacity of the sectors' institutions,
acquire basic data, train manpower, establish needed organizations, conduct
resource surveys and undertake a few projects which would also contribute
to long term growth, e.g, Tihama Development I, Southern Uplands Rural
Development.



- 7 -
1.20      During the three-year program, external assistance enabled the
Government to reorganize and strengthen the Ministry of Agriculture, estab-
lish a central research station in Taiz (CARS) with a substation in Ibb, plus
several experimental stations and nurseries. A department of Fisheries was
established within the Ministry of Agriculture. The Agricultural Credit Fund
(ACF) and an Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) were created (now merged into a
single organization). Agricultural extension was introduced in both the
Southern Uplands and areas under the jurisdiction of the Tihama Development
Authority (TDA). The latter was recently assigned full responsibility for
land and water resources development for agriculture in the Tihama region.
Its survey of the development of irrigated agriculture in Wadi Mawr, financed
under the Tihama Development I Project, forms the basis for the proposed
project and others are underway in Wadi Surdud and Wadi Rima. With the help
of both the Kuwait and Abu Dhabi Funds for Arab Economic Development a feasi-
bility study of Wadi Shiham has begun. Studies of fisheries, financed with
the help of the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia and FAO will be the basis for a
future integrated fisheries project.
1.21      A First Five-Year Plan (1976/77-1980/81) was initiated in 1977.
It sets broader objectives for agriculture than the three-year program and
focusses on specific projects. Resources allocated to agriculture are set
at YRls 2.6 billion (U$587.4 million), or 14% of the total investment outlays
envisaged in the Plan, of which YRls 1.4 billion would be in the public
sector, YRls 1.0 billion in the private and YRls 0.2 billion in the mixed.
While allocation within the latter two sectors are not specified, YRls 1.4
billion (US$320 million) public sector investments are for some 55 projects
as follows:
Table 1.2: RESOURCES ALLOCATED TO AGRICULTURE IN FIRST
FIVE-YEAR PLAN IN PUBLIC SECTOR
Total Amount                     %
Subsector                         YRls Millions       US$ Millions        of Total
Irrigation                             710                  155              50
(Tihama)                              (480)                (110)            (34)
Livestock                               260                  60              18
Crops Research
and Training                         200                   45              14
Rural Development                       160                  35              11
Fisheries                               90                   20               6
Forestry                                20                    5               1
1,440                 320             100
1.22      To achieve the planned growth rate of 5.5%, the plan relies heavily
on irrigated agriculture and areas with adequate rainfall to raise yields,
diversify production and, to some extent, expand area planted (Annex 4,
Table 4). The basic inputs needed for reaching the plan targets have been
estimated and exhibited in Annex 4, Table 5. The demand for fertilizers would
increase by 290%, insecticides by 410%, veterinary supplies by 170% and
tractors by 215%.



-8-
1.23      For agriculture, implementation of the Plan will depend on consider-
able external financing. Approximately YRls 1.5 billion, 55% of total outlays,
would be financed from domestic sources, of which 18% (YRls 263 million) would
be from government, and the rest presumably by the private sector. External
financing on the order of YRls 1.2 billion (US$265 million) would be sought.
1.24      Due to the continuing acute shortage of skilled manpower and the
time needed to educate and train Yemeni technicians and administrators for
agriculture, the Government is aware that the staffing gaps to implement the
Plan will have to be filled with expatriates. About 85-90 high level expa-
triates will be needed in agriculture plus those needed to fill posts that
would normally be held by Yemeni counterparts. This situation is expected
to persist well into the 1980's. As a result of massive efforts in the
educational sector, however, manpower constraints in middle level skills such
as extension and credit should ease somewhat in the early 1980s. During
Plan period, other constraints such as port congestion, agricultural marketing
and those related to land tenure are expected to also ease.
Previous Bank assistance to the Agricultural Sector
1.25      The Bank's role in the development of YAR's agriculture has signifi-
cantly contributed to institution-building and filling the financial resource
gap. To date, IDA has committed about $52 million to help finance five proj-
ects in agriculture and agro-industries. It has helped introduce extension,
credit, improved crop varieties and farm inputs to increase productivity.
In addition to its financial support the Bank is acting as executing agency
for the UNDP-financed project under which substantial institutional support
is given to the Ministry of Agriculture (para 1.26). Furthermore, in view of
the increasing costs of projects and limited IDA funds available, the Associa-
tion has helped attract other donors--e.g., the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic
Development (KFAED), the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development, the
Netherlands, the U.K., the Saudi Fund for Development--to co-finance projects.
1.26      The first IDA agricultural project, the Tihama Development I, co-
financed with the Kuwait Fund, should be completed on schedule (December
31, 1978), in spite of start-up difficulties and cost overruns in its early
years. The original IDA credit for this project of US$10.9 million and the
Kuwait Fund loan of $6.4 million had to be supplemented by US$10.3 million and
US$9.6 million, respectively, because of cost overruns resulting from increased
inflation and designs revision. The second project is the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project, financed with an IDA credit of $10 million and
co-financed with $10 million from the Abu Dhabi Fund. After initial managerial
problems, its implementation is now satisfactory. The third project for Grain
Storage and Processing, financed with $5.2 million from IDA and $11 million
from the Saudi Fund, is progressing well. A fourth IDA credit of $5 million,
approved in 1976, for a Livestock Credit and Processing Project, is co-financed
by the Kuwait Fund, with $11.6 million, the Netherlands, $8.9 million, and the
United Kingdom, $2.4 million. Since overcoming start-up difficulties during
the first year, mainly due to cost overruns resulting from increased inflation,
delays in contracting consultants, securing land for farms and abattoirs, and
securing counterpart Yemeni staff, this project is now making progress. The



-9-
fifth project is the Tihama Development II (Wadi Rima) for which the IDA
credit for $10.5 million was recently approved and which is partly co-financed
by the EEC with $1.22 million and UNDP with $1.5 million. An agreement with
the third co-financier for $12.55 million is expected to be finalized shortly,
making the IDA credit effective. Under the latter project, two important
UNDP-financed projects (Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture
executed by the Bank Group and Central Agricultural Research and Training
Organization (CARS) at Taiz executed by FAO), which aimed at helping the
Government overcome the lack of an effective agricultural infrastructure and
the acute shortage of skilled agricultural manpower at all levels, have been
extended for five years as a combined UNDP project (Agricultural Research
(ARS) and Institutional Support to the Ministry of Agriculture.
1.27      The proposed project in Wadi Mawr builds upon the experience acquired
data collected under Tihama Development I. Wadi Mawr will benefit from the
administrative and technical capability of the TDA, developed under the first
Tihama project, especially the crop variety trials, agricultural training and
extension services, plant protection and agricultural credit. The project
will also benefit from the applied agricultural research conducted by CARS in
Taiz and by TDA in Zabid under Tihama Development Project I.
II. THE PROJECT AREA
A. Location
General
2.01      Tihama is the YAR's coastal plain, 30 to 60 km wide, paralleling
the Red Sea. It is crossed by seven major wadis which originate in the
western slopes of the country's highlands and flow westwards toward the sea.
The Tihama Development Project III would be concentrated in Wadi Mawr, one
of the largest wadis, which crosses the Tihama plain about 100 km north
of the main seaport city of Hodeida (Map IBRD 13809). The project area lies
between two smaller wadis, Wadi Juah to the north and Wadi Ayan to the south
with Wadi Mawr cutting the area into two almost equal parts. Along the
eastern boundary of the project area, a number of low bedrock hills protrude
through the alluvium to a height of over 40 meters, and at the western
extremity a salt dome rises about 70 meters above the surrounding plain. The
total project area is about 72,000 ha, of which about 26,000 ha is regularly
or periodically cultivated. It is inhabited by 53,000 people and has no known
natural resources other than a small salt mine on the western boundary being
worked by a commercial company. There is, however, ample scope for agricul-
tural development.
Climate
2.02      The climate of the project area, like that throughout the Tihama is
hot and arid with somewhat milder temperatures during the winter months of



- 10 -
November through March.  Monthly mean temperatures range from 26 0C to 34 0C.
Annual precipitation in the project area ranges from 300 mm to 25 mm, from
east to west, most of which occurs from April through October; while in the
catchment area, annual rainfall ranges from 902 mm to 221 mm.  Average rela-
tive humidity is 50 to 60% ranging from 80% in the morning to 25% in the
late afternoons. Annual free water evaporation is about 3,000 mm. Dust
storms occur from April to July.
B. Resources
Water Resources
2.03      Except for a small amount derived from the storms in the project
area, the surface water originates from the Wadi Mawr catchment which consists
of about 7,900 Km2 of a rugged mountain region rising to elevations of over
3,000 meters in its headwaters. Wadi flows have been monitored at the Shat Al
Erge gauging station which was established in 1975 and is located in a firm
rock canyon, a short distance upstream from where Wadi Mawr exits onto the
plains.  The annual runoffs calculated from the records collected at Shat Al
Erge for the years 1975, 1976 and 1977 are 162 Mm3, 184 Mm3 and 215 Mm3.
The estimate of long term average annual runoff volume, computed by synthetic
methods using rainfall runoff relationship is 237 Mm3. This equates to a
runoff of about 5.7% from the average rainfall of 520 mm in the catchment
area. During the dry season, from November to March, the base flow at Shat Al
Erge is generally below 5 m3/sec. The Wadi starts rising in April with
the main flood season occurring between June and September. The wadi's water
has very low salinity concentration with electric conductivity ranging between
500 and 800 micromhos/cm and is very suitable for irrigation. The wadi's
irrigation system comprises about 40 canals fed by rudimentary earthen dikes,
usually armored by brush. During large floods or periods of sustained flows,
the dikes are commonly destroyed and water escapes to the sea. The present
diversion and distribution system needs improvement to provide assured and
rotational supplies to farmers for optimum-utilization of available water for
irrigation.
2.04      Shallow groundwater occurs under unconfined or water table conditions
under most of the project area but, as deeper formations are penetrated, semi-
confined conditions are locally found. The water bearing beds, which can be
developed by wells, extend to a depth of more than 150 meters and consist
predominantly of unconsolidated sediments of alluvial origin. The depth of
water table from land surface ranges from 5 meters to 30 meters. The shal-
lower depths are in a band approximately six kilometers wide along the sea
coast. Natural discharge of ground water occurs throughout the year along
the seacoast with the most prominent area being the saltmarsh flats near Al-
Luyayyah. The known sources of aquifer recharge are the wadi and the deep
percolation losses from the canals and the irrigated fields. Detailed field
investigations and office studies have been made under Tihama Development
Project I to assess the acquifer's potential and the total annual recharge



- 11 -
under project conditions has been assessed as 49 Mm3. Prior to 1972, the
groundwater use was limited to drinking only. During the last six years,
rapid development has taken place in its use for irrigation. According to a
survey conducted in November 1977, 184 dug wells equipped with pumps with an
average capacity of 10 1/sec each were operating in the project area. These
wells are mostly concentrated in the south west of theproject area, which has
a shallower water table. These studies have also indicated that another good
area for tubewells installation is the west central part of the project. The
groundwater samples taken from this area have electric conductivities generally
ranging between 2,000 to 4,000 micromhos/cm and a sodium absorption ratio
generally lower than 10. The water quality is considered acceptable for
irrigated agriculture for the project soils (para 2.07) under proper water
management ensuring adequate leaching.
Land Resources
2.05      Except for a few isolated rocky hills which protrude above the
alluvium, the Tihama at Wadi Mawr is a gently sloping plain composed of
deltaic materials laid down by the wadi flowing from the mountains. The
total project area comprises about 72,000 hectares of land of which about
61,000 are arable. Of the arable land about 23,000 hectares are classified
as Class 1 lands that are highly suitable for irrigated farming with a high
sustained production capability for a variety of crops suitable to the area;
about 32,000 hectares are Class 2 and about 6,000 hectares Class 3 lands.
Class 2 lands are generally similar to Class 1 lands but with some soil or
land surface problems. The soils in this category may have a coarse texture
with lower moisture holding capacity or uneven surface of localized areas.
The areas of the land suitable for irrigation far exceeds that which can
be served with the available water supplies. Thus, water, and not land
determines the scope of agricultural development of the project area.
Geology
2.06      The Tihama is a sediment-filled portion of the Red Sea depression.
A fault zone trends north south along the eastern border of the project where
the streams emerge from the mountains onto the plains. The mountains forming
the eastern edge of the project area are largely a complex of pre-Cambrian
granites, diorites and andesites. A very young salt dome is found at Gebel
Al Milh in the western portion of the project. The remainder of the area is
underlain by alluvium of unknown depth, derived from the mountains of the
east. Presence of hot springs just east of the project area and the salt
domes and basaltic dikes at the western and eastern extremeties suggest a
complex subsurface.
Soils
2.07      Alluvial sands, sandy silts, sandy clays and silty sands deposited
by Wadi Mawr, form the parent material from which the soils of the area have
developed. The surface soils have no well defined profile, because of aridity,



- 12 -
the vegetative cover is sparse. Those areas which have been under spate
irrigation for many years exhibit the accumulation of silty surface deposits
yielding medium to fine textured, arid brown soils, with infiltration rates
from moderate to moderately slow. In general the soils are nonsodic with
low nitrogen (0.02 to 0.8%), low humus content (0.5 to 1.9%) and low soluble
salts. Because of the depth of groundwater, there has been no development
of saline conditions in the root zone.
Land Use
2.08      The project area comprises about 72,000 ha of land of which about
61,000 ha are classified as arable. About 23,000 ha of the arable land
receive annual or intermittent irrigation from the wadi. The areas actually
planted on spate irrigation during 1974, 1975 and 1976 were estimated as
10,700, 14,700 and 15,200 ha. In the years of subnormal flows, the area that
can be presently served by the spate irrigation system depends on the volume
of summer runoff in the wadi. In the years of medium and above normal runoff,
the existing irrigation system cannot control and divert the major floods and
a large part of the available flow is lost to the mud flats east of Al Luhayyah
town and to the sea. The higher discharges destroy the diversion dikes and
erode the channel beds leaving the canal's beds high and dry, and incapable
of extracting water in subsequent lower flows. In consequence,, the crops
are underwatered and yields low. About 2,500 ha are irrigated by pumping
from dug wells mostly located in the southwest of the project area. Cultiva-
tion intensity in this area is about 100%. About 17,000 ha of land are
under rainfed farming. Rainfed farming is practised throughout the project
area but more intensely in the foothills near the eastern boundary of the
project dryland farming mostly in the eastern part of the project area, where
the rainfall is relatively greater. The major crops grown in the irrigated
areas are sorghum, cotton, sesame and millet with vegetables cultivated in
smaller areas, while in the rainfed areas sorghum and millet are generally
grown.
Population
2.09      Population of the project area is estimated to be 53,000 comprising
7,600 households. 1/ Most people live in villages of 100-600 persons; and
Alzuhra, the administrative center, is the largest village with a population
of about 2,000. Like much of rural Yemen, the area has been relatively
isolated from the centers of technological, social and political change both
in Yemen and the outside world. Hence productivity and incomes have remained
low, living conditions poor and rudimentary, and the social structure basically
feudal. While the mainstay of the economy is agriculture with a subsistence
orientation, it has a limited but complex organization of specialized labor,
capitalization of land and livestock and exchange of commodities within the
area and with the outside. About 18% of the work force are full-time traders,
artisans, agents or in government and other services while the rest (82%) are
1/   Source:  1974 Agricultural Survey.



- 13 -
in agriculture. Most families rely on farming, supplementing their income in
varying degrees and combinations with livestock, farm wage labor and seasonal
or longer term migration. The latter has become increasingly important in
recent years and has made a significant impact on raising incomes both
directly and indirectly through the increase in wage rates caused by labor
shortages. Based on a household expenditure survey of 1973/74, average
incomes in 1978 could be estimated at about YRls 1,160 (US$260) which is
considerably less than the national average of YRls 1,1755 (US$390). It is
estimated that over half the area's population has incomes less than the
poverty level of US$130. Access to social services is negligible for the
majority of people. There are only 14 state run schools in the area including
only one primary school for girls, one intermediate school for boys and 12
primary schools for boys. Attendance is limited to about 10% of the school
age population; and 67% of the men and 99% of the women are illiterate. The
area has no health facilities, the nearest ones being the hospitals at Hodeidah
and Bajil, at least three and five hours away respectively along a difficult
road. Endemic diseases include malaria, bilharzia, tuberculosis and cholera.
C. Farm Size and Land Tenure
2.10      The land tenure system of Wadi Mawr is characterized by three
features: (i) small or medium-sized farm units; (ii) sharecropping as a
prevalent mode of exploitation; and (iii) concentration of land in the
hands of a small number of long-established families which have traditionally
provided political, social and sometimes religious leaderhsip. Unlike the
neighboring Wadis, almost all land in Wadi Mawr is privately owned (melk),
and holdings by the Government (miri) and by religious trust (waqf) are
limited to 270 ha and 420 ha respectively. No reliable data on land tenure
are available due to a lack of cadastral surveys and land registry. Moreover,
the complex pattern of families owning land in both the Wadi and rainfed
areas, of farmers working both their own and sharecropped land, make data
collection and presentation difficult. However, data collected from a sample
of 203 farmers in 1973/74 for the YAR feeder Road Study 1/ give some quantita-
tive indicators (Annex 4, Tables 6-9).
2.11      With respect to farm size, the mean is about 20 ha, and about half
are smaller than 7 ha. However, there are important differences between
farms entirely in the spate area which tend to be smaller on average than
those entirely in the rainfed area. Thus, in the spate area, the mean farm
size is 7 ha; however, the distribution of farms shows that about 80% are
less than 7 ha and the majority (over 60%) are less than 4 ha while the
largest farm in the sample was 140 ha (Annex 4, Tables 6 and 7). The survey
results also show a skewed distribution of land ownership (Annex 4, Table 8):
about 40% of the families are landless, 75% of the landowners have less than
12% of the land, and 4% of the owners control 68% of the land. These figures
1/   Regional Development Unit, Transportation Department, YAR Feeder Road
Study, A Baseline Socio-Economic Survey of the Wadi Mawr Region, May 1978,



- 14 -
may underestimate the concentration of land since most of the largest land-
owners were not in the sample. Field enquiries by the mission indicate that
about 80% of the land is in the hands of the larger landowners. At present
the Government does not propose to implement any land reforms affecting the
land ownership situation as it could stir up tribal rivalries and upset
the existing amity between village populations. The large landholdings are
split into family farms and worked by sharecroppers rather than operated as
estates. About half of the farms in the area as a whole and about 70% in the
spate area are sharecropped (Annex 4, Table 9). By tradition, tenancy rights
have been secure, often passing from father to son. The prevailing arrange-
ment is to divide the gross output, after deducting taxes and cost of thresh-
ing, with the tenant providing not only labor but bearing all other operating
expenses. The prevailing crop shares are as follows:
Table 2.1: CROPSHARING IN WADI MAWR
Tenant's      Landlord's   Well Owner's
Location                    Share         Share          Share
Rainfed area                 1/2           1/2
Wadi area                    1/2           1/2             -
Well irrigated area          1/3           1/3            1/3
While these rules have generally been followed, there is some flexibility to
meet varying conditions, and in recent years there has been pressure for
change in favor of the tenant due to the shortage of labor caused by increased
migration. The Government has also passed a religious edict requiring land-
owners to share production costs with their tenants in proportion of their
shares in the produce.
D. Infrastructure
Roads
2.12      Although the project area lies across the main route to Saudi
Arabia, only one all-weather gravel road, constructed by TDA under Tihama
Development Project I, to facilitate field investigations, provides access to
Al-Zuhra. This road is now freely used by heavy truck traffic between YAR and
Saudi Arabia, for which it was not designed, and is deteriorating. Apart from
this, a network of trails and unimproved dirt roads serve the area providing
access only for four-wheel drive vehicles. Even these have difficulty in
reaching much of the area during the irrigation season because of flooded
fields and flowing canals. Camels and donkeys are frequently used for hauling
merchandise from smaller villages to the market villages. A contract for a
new paved road from Saudi Arabia to Hodeidah, crossing the eastern portion of
the project area has been recently awarded. Its construction will be taken
up in the near future under a bilateral assistance from Saudi Arabia.
Water Supply
2.13      Domestic water is mostly obtained from communally owned open wells,
though, where available water is also taken from irrigation channels and wadi



- 15 -
flows. The water consumed is often inadequate in quantity and unhygenic in
quality. The existing dug wells for domestic consumption are generally unlined
and uncovered. Water collection is an arduous job. A typical family of six
spends about two man-hours a day queuing, drawing and transporting water for
themselves and their livestock.
Local Institutions
2.14      TDA is responsible for developing agriculture in Tihama.  Its
activities are currently concentrated in Wadi Zabid only although farmers
in other wadis have also indirectly gained from its experimental programs on
variety trials and improved agronomic practices. The only other institutions
working for the development of the project area are the Local Development
Associations (LDA's), one each for the subgovernorates of Al-Zuhra and Al-
Luhayya, with a limited program of building small schools, funding water
supplies and constructing minor access tracks. The LDA's receive 50% of the
Zakat money collected from the farmers plus 2.5% of the agricultural produce
of the area, either in cost or in kind, for their developmental activities.
These associations are in their infancy and are handicapped by the absence of
technical expertise on their staff.
III. THE PROJECT
A. Design Features
Objectives
3.01      Project objectives are to:  (i) increase agricultural production
and farm income in the Wadi Mawr area by providing appropriate irrigation
works, technical assistance and facilitating use of farm inputs and marketing
of the farm produce; (ii) provide access to important centers of population
and agriculture in the area to facilitate movement of agricultural inputs and
produce in and out of the area by constructing feeder roads; (iii) improve the
health and nutrition of rural poor by providing potable water supply and a
wider range of crops for local consumption to a population of about 53,000;
and (v) assist the Government to develop a regional applied agricultural
research station at Surdud coupled with a crop and seed production farm, the
latter would demonstrate the economic and financial viability of a well managed
production farm.
Description
3.02      The project includes:
(i) irrigation works comprising (a) construction of a diversion
dike and two diversion weirs with ancilliary works in Wadi
Mawr; (b) construction of left bank and right bank feeder
canals; (c) remodelling of existing irrigation canals; and
(d) installing about 20 tubewells;



- 16 -
(ii) agricultural services for extension, plant protection and
animal health;
(iii)  short and medium term agricultural credit;
(iv) equipping and operating Surdud regional Agricultural Research
Station and Crop Production farm;
(v) project headquarters;
(vi)  constructing 148 km of gravel access roads;
(vii)  constructing water supply installations for 103 villages or
groups of villages;
(viii)  providing technical assistance in managerial, engineering
and agricultural fields.
Detailed Features
Irrigation Works
3.03      An optimum utilization of the available surface and groundwater
resources of the project area is necessary to increase agricultural produc-
tion. Permanent diversion structures are therefore required to feed the Wadi
waters into the existing irrigation canals which will be remodelled to improve
their command and operational efficiency. The following works will be con-
structed: (a) a gabion diversion dike and canal regulator for Daraaniah
Canal; (b) two diversion weirs along with sluiceways and canal head regu-
lators; and (c) four feeder canals. Two feeder canals will offtake from each
weir to feed the Wadi's existing irrigation system except for the two tail
canals (Lawee and Najran) which will continue to be fed according to their
traditional arrangement. The salient design features of the proposed weirs
and the feeder canals and the names of the canals which they will command are
in Annex 1.
3.04      About 184 dugwells equipped with diesel-driven pumps, yielding about
10 liters per second each, are at present being used to irrigate approximately
2,500 ha within project area. Investigations were carried out under Tihama
Development Project I to assess the aquifer's potential for its optimum util-
ization. From the result of the investigations, it is concluded that the
aquifer cannot be used for any major groundwater development. However, an
additional 1,500 ha of land can be brought under groundwater irrigation without
mining the aquifer. About 20 of the test wells drilled during the investiga-
tions would be converted into production wells, each of average capacity of 30
liters per second. An additional 20 wells will be drilled under the project
to increase the groundwater irrigated area to about 4,000 ha.
Agricultural Services
3.05      Shortage of technical manpower and inadequate knowledge of the
productive effects of the agricultural inputs at the field level are major



-17 -
constraints to the development of agriculture in YAR. To alleviate this
constraint in the project area, the agricultural services would provide Ci)
services of an expatriate expert and two associate experts in the fields of
extension and plant protection and a veterinarian in animal health services;
for training a cadre of local workers in these disciplines and setting up an
effective extension, plant protection and animal health service in the area;
(ii) 128 man-months of training to extension agents and Yemeni counterparts;
(iii) nine extension centers; and (iv) operational equipment for extension,
plant protection and animal health services.
Agricultural Credit
3.06      Better tillage of land and the use of fertilizer, plant protection
chemicals and locally developed high yielding crop varieties would be the key
to productivity improvements in the project area. The project, through the
Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB), would provide to the farmers: (i) short term
credits for purchase of base requirements of fertilizer, chemicals, seeds and
small farm implements for the first year of development and the incremental
requirements for subsequent years; and (ii) medium term credit for purchase
of farm machinery and equipment. ACB would also ensure availability of the
required fertilizer and chemicals and other farm supplies by arranging their
import and selecting sale agents in the local markets. TDA, through its
extension service would provide information on their application techniques.
The Wadi Zabid unit of the ACB would be strengthened by an expatriate assis-
tant field manager, one loan officer, two credit supervisors and six other
staff members for accounting and secretarial services. The project would
also provide an office building and transport vehicles for the unit. This
unit of ACB, in addition to serving the project area, would also serve other
areas outside of the project. Only 50% of the cost of the building and
establishment would, therefore, be attributed to the project and the rest
to ACB's general administration costs.
Surdud Farm
3.07      With a view to enlarging the scope of the applied agricultural
research work, initiated in Tihama under Tihama Development Project I, and
as a part of its policy to set up regional research stations in the country
to work in coordination with and under technical guidance of the central
agricultural research station at Taiz, the Government has decided to set up a
regional applied research station at Surdud State Farm, located about 40 km to
the southeast of the project area. This state-owned farm covers a cultivable
area of about 900 ha and is supplied by spate irrigation from Wadi Surdud
for about eight months from April to October. It is also provided with 22
electrically operated tubewells which are used when spate water is insufficient.
The farm, however, lacks adequate agricultural machinery, technical personnel,
accommodation and storage facilities and labor force for its successful opera-
tion. The Government, therefore, has decided that the farm should be properly
equipped and transferred to TDA to be operated partly as a regional research
station (50 ha) and as a combined seed multiplication and production farm (850
ha) for producing improved cotton and cereal seed; and also, cereals, vege-
tables and fruit crops on a commercial basis. The farm will also be used as



- 18 -
an important center of training and demonstration for the Agricultural School
to be set up at Surdud under the third education project and for the farmers of
the area. The project would provide (i) the services of an experienced farm
superintendent and two experts, one in cereal crops and the other in livestock
forage crops, and five assistant experts and associate staff for the research
component and the services of a farm manager, an agronomist and a farm mechani-
zation engineer, along with four assistant experts and associated staff for
the production component of the farm; (ii) agricultural, transport, office,
laboratory and camp equipment; (iii) 14 residential and an office cum laboratory
buildings; (iv) storage sheds and platforms for agricultural machinery and
spare parts, fertilizers and plant protection chemicals, seeds, cereals, vege-
tables and cotton. Operational expenses for the research farm will be met
out of the project during implementation period, whereas working capital would
be provided for one year's operation of the production farm. The subsequent
operational expenses would be met from the farm revenue.
Project Headquarters
3.08      No suitable accommodation is available in the project area for
accommodating the field staff. The nucleus of a staff headquarters was con-
structed near Al Zuhra to provide bachelor status accommodation to the staff
engaged on the project's feasibility study financed under the Tihama Develop-
ment Project I. This nucleus would be enlarged to accommodate the project
consultants, the agricultural services experts and the other expatriate and
local staff engaged for the project's implementation. The extension would
comprise about 38 residential buildings, an office building, a veterinarian's
office and laboratory, and a warehouse for equipment spare parts. The exist-
ing utility systems would also be extended to provide services to the new
buildings. The buildings will either be cement block construction with timber
or concrete roofing or precast structures not susceptible to damage from
weather or termites.
Access Roads
3.09      Except for a gravel road connecting the project area with Surdud
Farm and through Surdud Farm to Bajil on the Hodeidah to Sanaa Road, there
is no other road in the project area, although several dirt tracks crisscross
the area. To provide access to the important centers of population and
agriculture in the area and facilitate the agricultural inputs and produce
into and out of the area, the project would provide 148 km of gravel access
roads connected to the existing Surdud Alzuhra road or the proposed Jizan
Hodeidah Macadam road, which will pass along the eastern boundary of the
project and connect it to the Hodeidah port (Map: IBRD 13809). The Surdud-
Alzuhra Road, built under the Tihama Development Project I to provide access
to the project area is also being used by traffic between YAR and Saudi Arabia
and is deteriorating under heavy traffic loads which it was not designed to
take. This road would be maintained by TDA, along with the other project
roads constructed under the project, until project completion, to ensure all
weather access to the project area. Description of the project roads is given
in Annex 1.



- 19 -
Village Water Supply
3.10      The provision of water for domestic use coincides with the Govern-
ment's objective of raising the welfare and living standards of the rural
population. At present domestic water is obtained from communally owned wells
or from irrigation channels and Wadi flows where available. Water pollution
is widespread. Wells are open-topped, generally unlined, of inadequate depth,
and liable to contamination causing such diseases as amoebi.c dysentry, cholera
and hepatitis. The water collection system is time-consuming. The project
will provide about 103 water installations to serve individual villages or
cluster of villages comprising a population of about 53,000 which are in need
of improved water supply. The installations would be designed to deliver
about 60 liters per capita per day, would be tailored to the individual needs
of the villages and drawn from seven model water supply schemes described in
Annex 1.
Technical Assistance
3.11      A consultant's firm (about 460 man-months) will be engaged under the
project for assisting TDA in the design, procurement and construction surveil-
lance of the works included in the project. Services of agricultural experts
as described in the preceding paragraphs and funds for 128 man-months of over-
seas training (80 man-months) for Yemeni extension agents in neighboring Arab
countries and (48 man-months) for Yemeni professional counterparts would also
be provided. The training will be of practical nature in project related
activities.
Engineering Status
3.12      The engineering requirements of the project involve the designs of
the diversion structures, the canals and their appurtenant works, the align-
ment and design of access roads and the design of the water supply installa-
tions and buildings to be constructed under the project. Feasibiity level
designs of the diversion structures and the canals were prepared by TDA's
consultants for Tihama Development Project I. Detailed designs would be
developed from these by the consultants to be engaged for the project.  The
roads will generally follow the alignments of the existing tracks and their
enbankments and culverts would be constructed to the same standards as the
Wadi Zabid roads under the Tihama Development Project I, for which the type
designs exist.  The residential buildings and the extension centers would
also follow the designs agreed by IDA for other similar projects in Tihama.
Detailed designs of water supply installations would be made by the project
consultants.
Water Demand and Supply
3.13      During an average year 18,000 hectare of crop would be raised in
the project area from surface irrigation and 4,000 hectares from ground water
irrigation. Their net water requirements would be about 121 Mm3 and 24 Mm3
respectively (Annex 2, Table 1). As described in Annex 2 sufficient surface
and ground water would be available to cater for the above requirements.



- 20 -
Riparian Issues
3.14      The entire catchment area and course of Wadi Mawr is located within
Yemen Arab Republic and hence no international riparian issues are involved.
Within the country however, the existing custom of water allocation gives
priority to the upper riparians, for the use of the Wadi flows. To achieve
the contemplated benefits from the project, even water distribution would
be required over the project area and excessive withdrawals by the upper
irrigators would not be in the interest of the project. An assurance was
therefore obtained during negotiations, that the Government would require
the project consultants to carry out a water regulation study to ensure an
equitable distribution of the Wadi's annual flows to the various canals in the
system, would furnish a copy of the study to IDA for its review by December
31, 1980; and, at the completion of the project, the Government would imple-
ment the agreed recommendations of the proposed study by controlling water
deliveries to the canals through its project implementing agency.
Implementation Schedule
3.15      The project would be implemented in about five years in accordance
with the schedule in Chart WB 19395.  Project activities would commence by
June 1979 and all the civil works and the procurement of equipment completed
by June 1982, while the agricultural services would continue till June 1984.
TDA would be responsible for implementing the project.
B. Costs and Financing Arrangements
Cost Estimates
3.16      The estimated cost of the project including contingencies, based
on mid-1978 prices, is YRls 394.3 million (US$87.6 million). Its foreign
exchange component is estimated to be YRls 214.5 million (US$47.6 million)
or 54% of project costs. The costs of imported equipment and material
reflect current international market prices. The costs of the irrigation
works, the access roads, the buildings construction, and the water supply
works involving civil construction are in accord with the current civil
works contract costs in the Tihama. The works of laying water supply mains
and tubewell drilling have been costed as force account works. Consultants,
including their travel and head office charges have been costed at about
US$60,000 per manyear. This excludes their local transportation and resi-
dential facilities costs, equivalent of about US$20,000 per manyear, which
are covered by projects operational and headquarters costs. Physical contin-
gencies have been taken as 10% on equipment and all civil works. This
allowance is considered to be adequate as the type designs for the civil works
are the same as for Tihama Development Project I and the topographic condi-
tions are uniform. Price contingencies allow for annual increase of 7.5%
during 1979 and 7% thereafter in the costs of equipment, foreign exchange
component of civil works and administration costs; also they allow for annual



- 21 -
increases of 43% (3% per month compounded) in the local cost component of the
civil wqrks. The higher rate of contingencies in the local cost of civil
works is due to high rate of inflation on the cost of labor and local com-
modities in Yemen, caused by labor demand in the affluent neighboring states
and higher consumption of local products within the country. Total contingen-
cies (physical and price) are about 47% of the base cost. Import duties,
taxes and other levies are not included in the project costs as they are not
charged on equipment imported by TDA for public projects. Project costs are
summarized in Table 3.1, while detailed costs of the project management,
irrigation works, agricultural services and equipment are given in Annex 3.



- 22 -
Table 3.1: PROJECT COSTS
Foreign
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total   Exchange
----YRls million -----   -----US$ million------    %
Project Management
and Engineering
Technical assistance
and local staff        4.8    18.9    23.7       1.1     4.2     5.3
Transport, camp and
office equipment         -      4.2     4.2       -      0.9     0.9
Operational costs        6.4      -      6.4      1.4      -      1.4
Subtotal                11.2    23.1    34.3     2.5      5.1     7.6      67
Irrigation Works
Diversion structures   19.9    46.6    66.5       4.4    10.4    14.8
Canals construction    11.7    27.5    39.2       2.6     6.1     8.7
Tubewells drilling /1   1.0      2.2     2.2      0.2     0.5     0.7
Subtotal               32.6    76.3   108.9       702    17.0    24.2      70
Project Headquarters    6.8    10.2    17.0       1.5     2.3     3.8      61
Access Roads            15.3    18.5    33.8      3.4     4.1     7.5      55
Village Water Supply    3.7    10.7    14.4       0.8     2.4     3.2      75
Extension and
Veterinary Services      5.2     5.5    10.7      1.2     1.2     2.4      50
Agricultural Credit      3.6    10.0    13.6      0.8     2.2     3.0      73
Surdud Farm             17.0    18.3    35.3     3.8      4.0     7.8     51
Total Base Cost         95.4   172.6  268.0    21.2    38.3    59.5       64
Contingencies:
Physical                 6.8    13.5    20.3      1.5     3.0     4.5
Price                   77.7    28.3   106.0    17.3      6.3    23.6
TOTAL                  179.9   214.4  394.3    40.0    47.6    87.6       54
/1   Existing machinery with TDA will be used for drilling.  Depreciation of
such machinery will not be charged to the project.



- 23 -
3.17      An IDA Credit of US$15.0 million on standard terms would finance
about 32% of the project's foreign costs or about 17% of the total costs. An
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) loan of US$12.0 million
equivalent would finance about 23% of project foreign costs or about 14% of
the total costs.  An EEC   Special Action Account credit of US$3.0 million
equivalent would finance about 3% of the total costs. About $1.0 million of
the IFAD loan and most of the EEC credit would finance local costs, in view of
the large local cost component and the strain this would otherwise place on
the Government. The Agricultural Credit Bank of Yemen (ACB) would provide
US$1.0 million equivalent of local cost to finance the credit component of the
project, or about 1% of the total costs. The Government of YAR would finance
US$35.0 million equivalent of the remaining local cost, or about 40% of the
total costs. The remaining foreign exchange cost of US$21.6 million or about
25% of the total costs would be provided by other cofinanciers. The Govern-
ment had informed the mission that the Kuwait Fund and the Federal Republic
of Germany had expressed interest in assisting to finance this project. The
British Ministry of Overseas Development is also expected to assist. The
financing plan is summarized below.
Table 3.2: FINANCING PLAN
Other
Government                              External
and EEC      ACB    IDA    IFAD       Financing
-------------------US$ million/  -------------
Project management and
engineering, tubewell
drilling, and canal
construction                        11.6               15.0
Diversion weirs                        9.6                                   12.7
Agricultural extension,
access roads and
Surdud farms                        11.8                        12.0 /2
Project headquarters                   3.0                                    2.8
Veterinary services                    0.3                                    0.4
Village water supply                   1.7                                    3.0
Credit                                           1.0                         2.7
Total                                 38.0       1.0   15.0    12.0 /2    21.6
/1   All figures rounded.
77   Includes local expenditure of US$1.0 million.
Conditions of effectiveness of the IDA Credit would be the meeting of condi-
tions of effectiveness of the IFAD loan, and the signing by the Government of
financing agreement(s), with other external source(s) of financing for the
balance of the required project finances.



- 24 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
3.18      The civil works included in the IDA-financed component of the proj-
ect would comprise tubewell drilling and canal construction and would cost
about US$17.4 million. The civil works included in IFAD-financed component
of the project would comprise buildings for extension centers and Surdud
Farm and the access roads. The tubewell drilling (US$1.0 million) would be
done through force account using machinery provided under Tihama Development
Project I and labor trained under the same project. The building works
(US$2.9 million) being small in size and scattered in nature and overtime
would not be suitable for international bidding and would thus be constructed
using Government's local procurement procedures which are competitive and
acceptable. The procurement for civil works of canals construction (US$16.4
million) and access roads (US$9.4 million) and all of the IDA and IFAD-
financed equipment (US$4.0 million) would be done through international
bidding in accordance with "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank
Loans and Credits" except for some minor equipment items, costing less than
US$50,000 each, required for immediate use whose aggregate value would not
exceed US$400,000 which would be procured through the Government's local
procurement procedures. A margin of preference as admissible under the
guidelines will be allowed for domestically manufactured goods when comparing
domestic bids with foreign bids. The consultants and the expatriate project
staff would be recruited internationally and during negotiations assurances
were obtained that their qualifications, experience and terms and conditions
of employment shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and IDA. All procurement
would be performed by TDA. For items financed by other external sources,
procurement will be in accordance with their rules.
IDA Disbursement
3.19      The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against IDA-financed
components of the project over five years as follows:
Civil Works
US$9.0 million                          50% of the cost of civil works.
Equipment and Goods                     100% of foreign expenditures of
US$1.0 million                          directly imported goods, 80% of
local expenditures for imported
items procured locally and 100%
of ex-factory cost for locally
manufactured items.
Consultants, Foreign Experts            100% of expenditures on consultants,
US$5.0 million                          foreign experts and training.
IFAD and EEC's Special Action Account Loan Disbursement
3.20      The proposed IFAD loan would be disbursed against IFAD-financed com-
ponents as follows:



- 25 -
Civil Works
US$6.0 million                          50% of the cost of civil works.
Equipment and Goods
US$3.0 million                          100% of foreign expenditures of
directly imported goods and 80%
of local expenditures for imported
items procured locally.
Experts and Overseas Training
US$2.0 million                          100% of expenditure.
Operational Expenses of
Surdud Research Farm
US$1.0 million                          100% of expenditure.
While the proceeds of the EEC Special Action Account Credit would be disbursed
against civil works at 50% of their cost procured in accordance with competi-
tive local procedures or awarded to eligible contractors following ICB.
3.21      Disbursement requests would be supported by full documentation
except for force account works, which would be disbursed against statement of
expenditures duly certified by TDA's internal auditors, the supporting docu-
ments of which would be retained by the executing agency and be available for
review by the supervision missions. TDA's audit and accounts organization,
which is assisted by an expert financial advisor, has sufficient institutional
capability to undertake procurement using certificate of expenditures proce-
dure. Estimated schedule of disbursement is in Table 3.3 and schedule of
annual expenditures in Annex 3, Table 2.
D. Accounting
Accounts and Audit
3.22      TDA would maintain separate accounts of the project which would be
subject to regular internal audits, and also annual audits carried out by
inde endent auditors acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, assurances
were obtained that: (a) separate accounts would be maintained for project
funds by the executing agency which would have regular internal audit and
would, in addition, be audited annually by independent auditors acceptable to
IDA; (b) a copy of such annual audit reports would be sent to IDA within four
months of the close of each fiscal year; and (c) such audit reports would
expressly include an opinion on the use of funds disbursed for works executed
by departmental forces.



- 26 -
E. Environmental Impact
3.23      The project will have no adverse effects on the physical environment.
On the other hand, the provision of improved water supply will reduce the pre-
sent health hazards from the existing inadequate and unwholesome water supply
system.  The road construction program would allow isolated villages easier
access to markets and medical facilities. Increased production of vegetables
and protein would help improve the nutrition and health of the population.
Although plant protection chemicals would be used, no adverse effects are
expected. Their use will be based on applied research recommendations and
extension demonstration trials. The extension agents would be trained by the
project experts on the safe handling and use of plant protection chemicals.
Table 3.3: ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENT
Cumulative Disbursement at End of Quarter
IDA Fiscal Year                         IDA        IFAD        EEC       Other Loan
and Quarter                           ----------------US$ Million--------------
1979/80
September 30, 1979                      0.2         0.2         -             -
December 31, 1979                       0.4         0.5        0.5           0.4
March 31, 1980                          0.7         1.2        1.0           1.0
June 30, 1980                           1.0         2.0        1.5           2.2
1980/81
September 30, 1980                      1.5         3.0        2.0           3.6
December 31, 1980                       2.5         4.2        2.5           5.2
March 31, 1981                          3.5         5.5        3.0           6.8
June 30, 1981                           4.5         7.0        3.0           8.5
1981/1982
September 30, 1981                      5.6         7.8       3.0           10.5
December 31, 1981                       6.7         8.6        3.0          12.5
March 31, 1982                          7.8         9.3        3.0          14.5
June 30, 1982                           9.0        10.0       3.0          16.5
1982/83
September 30, 1982                     10.1        10.4       3.0          17.5
December 31, 1982                      11.2        10.6       3.0          18.4
March 31, 1983                         12.3        10.8       3.0          19.2
June 30, 1983                                      11.0       3.0          20.0
1983/84
September 30, 1983                     14.0       11.2        3.0          20.4
December 31, 1983                      14.5        11.4       3.0          20.8
March 31, 1984                         14.8        11.7       3.0          21.2
June 30, 1984                          15.0       12.0        3.0          21.6



- 27 -
IV. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A. Organization and Staffing
4.01      The Tihama Development Authority (TDA), assisted by a firm of con-
sulting engineers and agricultural experts, would implement the project. TDA
was created by the Government of Yemen Arab Republic as a semi-autonomous body
through the enactment of Law No. 2 of 1973 to operate as a developmental
agency for the Tihama region with all necessary power for project implementa-
tion. TDA has a board of directors whose chairman and members are appointed
by the Government. The chairman of the board is also the general manager
of TDA. He is assisted by a management advisor and a financial expert.
Posts of three directors have been provided in the Authority to head the
engineering, agricultural and administrative departments. The engineering,
agricultural and administrative staff required for implementing the Wadi Mawr
project would be attached to the respective directorates (Chart WB 19394).
Because of paucity of trained personnel in YAR, it would not be possible in
the immediate future to fill the senior posts of the Wadi Mawr implementation
unit with experienced Yeneni personnel. Consequently such positions would be
filled, in the first instance, by expatriate staff who, in addition to imple-
menting the project, would train their counterparts as they become available
and, junior Yemeni staff in their respective fields. These latter would, on
completion of development, assume responsibility in their respective fields
for operation and maintenance of the project. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that appointment of senior personnel needed to implement
the project would be completed by September 30, 1979.
Engineering Services
4.02      A firm of consulting engineers would be employed by the Government
by September 30, 1979, to assist TDA in preparing detailed designs and speci-
fications, organizing procurement, checking layouts, supervising execution,
verifying the work performed and certifying payments due for all works
included in the project. They will also assist TDA in continuing the hydro-
meteorological observations of the weather and river gauging stations in Wadi
Mawr's catchment and in the procurement and maintenance of the equipment
required for the project. Manpower requirements of the engineering consul-
tants and the other staff are in Annex 3, Table 3.
B. Agri.cultural Services
4.03      Agricultural services to be established at Wadi Mawr include an
extension expert, two associates for extension and plant protection, and a
veterinarian for animal health control. Training of extension agents will
be undertaken using existing facilities in Wadi Zabid. About 30 trainees
will be selected from the Wadi Mawr area, each with at least 4 years of



- 28 -
schooling and enrolled during the first year of project implementation.. As
with the Tihama Development Project II, training will be coordinated with
ongoing training programs at Taiz for the Southern Uplands Projects and the
Ministry of Education's program at Ibb. About 27 agricultural extension
agents are expected to graduate and would be employed by TDA to undertake
extension activities in the project area under the supervision of the exten-
sion staff. Training, extension and transportation equipment have been
included in the project.
Extension Centers and Facilities
4.04      Nine extension centers will be established in the project area to
assure adequate coverage of extension activities in spate and well irrigated
areas. The centers would be located at Al-Marras, Namaan, Al-Zuhra, and Al-
Homasia in the northern section of the wadi, and at Bajielah, Al-Rafeie, Deir
Akhrash, Mawr and Al-Dowayrah in the southern one. Three extension agents will
be assigned to each center which will include a fertilizer and pesticide
store, office, and living quarters for the senior extension agent responsible
for the center. Locations for the centers were selected on their proximity
to market areas and the centers would provide a focal point for disseminating
extension activities. Each center would serve about 2,400 ha at full develop-
ment. The extension staff would train farmers in field preparation, water
application, fertilizer, herbicide and pesticide use and disseminate results
obtained in research trials through meetings, field days, demonstration trials
and other extension means. They would also assist farmers in preparation of
farm plans enabling them to apply for credit from the ACB. Coordination of
extension and credit activities is essential to insure the timely availability
of needed farm inputs at reasonable prices in the project area.
Veterinary Services
4.05      The main objectives of introducing veterinary services in Wadi Mawr
are: (a) to diagnose the incidence of rinderpest, parasites, and other infec-
tious diseases which are prevalent in the area; (b) organize vaccination
campaigns for livestock, train extension agents in helping farmers control
disease and parasites; (c) advise farmers on the importance and methods of
improved animal nutrition; and (d) train a counterpart to assume responsibility
for veterinary services before the end of the project. It will also assist
the livestock and forage expert based at Surdud regional agricultural research
station to collect data on livestock numbers and performances, assess the
feeding value of native pastures, crop residues and crop byproducts, conduct
feeding trials aimed at supplementing indigenous feedstuffs with protein con-
centrates and mineral salts and, study the technical and economic feasibility
of introducing forages and pastures into crop rotation. A veterinary center
will be established at the project's headquarters to serve the project area.
Funds have been included in the project for the services of seven livestock
assistants (trained at the existing veterinary school at Sanaa), laboratory
equipment, field equipment and expendable supplies required for the operation
of the service. Veterinary programs and activities would be coordinated with
other related Government projects and bilateral programs.



- 29 -
Surdud Farm
4.06      The regional agricultural research station at Surdud Farm (about 50
ha) will be staffed with three senior agronomists, one each in sorghum, maize
and millet; forage crops; and cotton and oil seed crops. The cotton agrono-
mist recruited under IDA/FAO supported ARS Program at Taiz (para 1.26) would
be stationed at Surdud Farm. The cereal agronomist would be the coordinator
for the station and would be assisted by a farm superintendent. Five asso-
ciate experts in soils, sorghum, maize and millet, horticulture and plant
pathoology, and agricultural economics will be stationed at Surdud also to
undertake agricultural research programs for the Tihama region. TDA's plant
protection expert, employed under the Tihama Development Project II (Wadi
Rima) will be responsible for entomology programs. The research program
will conform with the overall program for the country and will be formulated
and carried out in agreement with ARS at Taiz.
Crop and Seed Production
4.07      Crop and seed production activities at Surdud Farm would be managed
by three senior expatriates specialized in farm management, engineering and
farm machinery, and seed production. They will be assisted by six assistants
including a horticulturist. The expatriate staff would also be responsible
for training qualified Yemeni staff to operate the farm prior to terminating
the expatriate contracts. The seed production specialist would supervise seed
production, marketing and distribution. He would also initiate seed certif-
ication programs in YAR in cooperation with other agencies who would be
engaged in seed production activities. Improved cultivars being developed
under research programs implemented by aid donors, e.g., USAID sorghum improve-
ment program, would ultimately be included in the Surdud seed production
schemes as they become accepted by the farmers. Funds have been provided for
farm machinery including seed cleaning equipment, buildings and staff housing,
transportation equipment, and working capital. Cotton ginning for seed pro-
duction would be undertaken at the General Cotton Company's facilities in
Hodeidah. An agreement between TDA and the General Cotton Company (GCC) to
ensure satisfactory pricing, processing, and seed distribution of the cotton
cultivar "Coker 310" and other future recommended cotton cultivars in Tihama
would be required. Assurances were obtained during negotiations that such
agreement would be entered into and would be acceptable to IDA.
Training and Fellowships
4.08      For on-the-job training, available local training facilities and
resources in Taiz, Sanaa, Ibb and other areas in YAR would be utilized to
the maximum to develop a qualified cadre of agricultural extension workers
in the project. Funds have been provided for 128 man-months of short-term
overseas training for extension agents (80 man-months) in neighboring Arab
countries and the counterparts (48 man-months) in project related activities.
The overseas training would be of a practical nature enabling trainees to
observe actual demonstrations and field techniques for crops and livestock
under conditions similar to those of Wadi Mawr. The choice and coordination



- 30 -
of training programs and selection of candidates and their timing would be
made in a manner satisfactory to IDA. TDA would present to IDA a detailed
training program including qualification of candidates, by December 31, 1980.
Assurances to this effect were obtained during negotiations.
Agricultural Credit
Credit Requirements
4.09      Total project credit requirements, excluding contingenices, are
estimated at about YRls 11.1 million--around YRls 5.3 million for short-term
and YRls 5.8 million for medium-term credit. Estimates for short-term credit
needs are based on expected demand for the first year plus annual incremental
cost of inputs to the fifth year. Medium-term credit estimates are based
on projected farm machinery requirements of the area. The Government would
cause the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB) which has adequate funds to finance
the credits needs of the project area in a timely manner. An assurance to
this effect was obtained during negotiations.
Organization and Management
4.10      The ACB, which now is the credit channel for all four IDA agricultural
projects in YAR (para 1.26), would be responsible for the credit aspects of
the project. Specifically, the ACB office in Zabid would be directly involved.
This office is responsible for credit activities in the Tihama. Except for
some initial delays in starting the credit operations in Wadi Zabid, its
performance in loan processing and in time recovery of over 95% of the loans
has been very satisfactory. In view of its expected operations in the Wadi
Mawr project and the adjacent areas, a credit sub-office would be established
at the project's headquarters with an expatriate assistant manager as the
officer in charge assisted by a loan officer, two credit supervisors and five
members of accounts and secretarial staff.
Lending Policies and Procedures
4.11       Short-term credit would finance additional inputs such as seeds,
fertilizers, pesticides, as well as small, relatively inexpensive farm equip-
ment such as small sprayers, and parts for pumps and motors for existing
wells. Medium-term loans would be for tractors (limited between 40 to 65 hp)
and tractor implements, seed drills, and small harvesting and threshing
machines. As ACB would finance the credit, the interest rates to be charged
and the recovery periods would be governed by its regulations.
4.12      Lending procedures would follow current ACB procedures.  These
have been revised and improved through the years, and IDA have found them
progressive and highly satisfactory. For instance, short-term production
loans are given on the basis of assistance provided to farmers by extension
agents in preparing loan applications, and the certification by extension
workers as to the adequacy of the borrower's plans for the planting season
relative to updated estimates of costs of production and prices. As a result,



- 31 -
such loans take just one or two days to approve. Loans for inputs of no more
than YRls 350 (about US$78) are processed even faster. Upon certification by
extension agents as to the type and quantity of inputs required, distribution
agents (village merchants), contracted by ACB simply provide the farmer with
his supplies. In the case of medium-term loans, ACB procedures are decentral-
ized. Sub-project evaluation and loan approval and disbursement have been
given to various levels of field authority down to managers of ACB sub-
branches, resulting in overall efficiency and effectiveness. In the matter
of collateral, loans to tenant farmers are given directly without the inter-
cession of landlords, while loans to YRls 10,000 (about US$2,200) can be given
on the strength of two signatures. Likewise, the improvements being financed
are considered as collateral, thus increasing loan availability.
Procurement and Distribution of Inputs
4.13      TDA would assist ACB in procurement of the farm inputs which it
would provide to farmers through village agents at pre-determined prices.
Village agents would be contracted for this purpose, as in the Southern Up-
lands project. As custodians of the inputs they would be responsible for
their proper storage and would be accountable for all supplies. In addi-
tion they would collect for sales (short-term loans) made under the arrange-
ment described in para 4.12. For these responsibilities, distribution agents
would be paid an agreed margin of the price of input sold; this arrangement
has proven to be effective in SURDU, which now uses it. ACB closely monitors
these arrangements by twice-monthly cash collections and inventory control.
Regarding tractors and other long-term equipment, these are available in YAR.
The availability of spare parts and the adequacy of facilities for equipment
maintenance would be considered in selecting particular makes. An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that ACB would arrange procurement and
distribution in a timely manner through village merchants or agents of the
farm inputs required for the project.
C. Operation and Maintenance
4.14      The continued supply of fertilizers and plant protection chemicals
would be an important maintenance aspect of the project. Their requirements
would be determined from year to year and, in general, approximate the quanti-
ties consumed in the last year of project implementation. An assurance was
obtained during negotiations that after the implementation of the project,
the Government would ensure annual procurement and distribution of fertilizers
and plant protection chemicals in an amount equivalent to at least those
levels at which such inputs were applied in the last year of project imple-
mentation.
Irrigation Works
4.15      The irrigation works after their construction would be maintained
and operated by TDA. The consulting engineers would train TDA's local staff



- 32 -
in the maintenance techniques required, write the regulation rules for the
operation of the sluiceways, canal head requlators and the structures on the
canals and train the regulation staff in the manipulation of the spillway and
the regulator gates. A continuous record of the gauges and the hydrographs
of the Wadi and canal flows will be maintained by TDA to ensure equitable
distribution of the available flows to the project's irrigation system.
Soundings will be taken downstream of the weirs after each large flood to
locate any settlement of the protective aprons and the structures inspected
thoroughly after each flood season for any required repairs. An assurance
was obtained during negotiations that TDA will take periodic soundings
downstream of the structures and perform annual inspection immediately fol-
lowing the flood season and undertake repairs to any damage which may be
detected before the onset of the next flood season.
Access Roads
4.16      The Government would require TDA to maintain the access roads after
construction and until they are transferred to the Highway Department for
their regular maintenance. Equipment and funds for three years maintenance
of these roads are provided under the project. An assurance was obtained
during negotiations that TDA would adequately maintain these project roads
until such time as they are transferred to the Highway Department.
Village Water Supply
4.17      At present there is no suitably staffed local authority in Tihama
other than TDA, who could take over the operation and maintenance of the proj-
ect water supply installations immediately after their completion. TDA would,
therefore, operate and maintain the installed water supply systems until the
operators are fully trained by TDA and employed by the Local Development Asso-
ciations (LDAs) to take over the work. The communities, except those provided
with hand pumps only (hand pumps will be operated by the beneficiaries), bene-
fitting from the village water supply element of the project would be charged
the full costs of operation and maintenane of the installations which would
not be less than YRls 22 per capita per annum. The Local Development Associa-
tions would collect as service charge, with the local development tax, the
said operation and maintenance costs from the beneficiaries and deposit them
with TDA semi-annually. Agreements would be made by TDA with the concerned
LDAs in this respect before undertaking the construction and copies of the
said agreements would be supplied to IDA. An assurance to this effect was
obtained during negotiations.
D. Monitoring and Evaluation
4.18      During and following project implementation, TDA would maintain
records of all inputs furnished to the farmers, their production costs, prices
received and collected yield and other relevant data. TDA would also be
required to prepare quarterly reports in a format satisfactory to Government



- 33 -
and IDA. The progress reports would be submitted to the Government and copies
to IDA and IFAD quarterly during project implementation and annually there-
after for the next five years. In addition, TDA would prepare a completion
report and submit this report to IDA within six months of the closing date of
the project. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
4.19      In accordance with its charter TDA would also maintain a continuous
record of the hydrometeorological stations and the groundwater table in the
area to regulate withdrawals from wells or restrict or prohibit additional
installation of wells should the water table record indicate a continuous
mining of the aquifer. The water table data would be made available to IDA
annually for a period extending not less than five years after completion of
the project. An assurance to this effect was obtained during negotiations.
4.20      A special monitoring unit will be established within TDA to collect
data not routinely assembled by TDA management, to analyze all data and to
make recommendations based on its findings. The unit would be staffed with an
expatriate rural sociologist (24 man-months) and a full time monitoring
inspector. Special emphasis will be placed upon monitoring the distribution
of project benefits and changes in nutrition among the area population. The
rural sociologist would also study the working of LDA's and design institu-
tional arrangements for the liaison of LDA's activities with TDA's programs.
V. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
A. Present Land Use and Crop Distribution
5.01      The command area for Wadi Mawr spate irrigation is about 23,000 ha
of which an average of 15,000 ha are annually cultivated. Variation in spate
flow, timing, amount, and labor availability leads to fluctuation in the cul-
tivated area. Present well irrigated area is about 2,500 and well water
quality is acceptable for irrigation with an average of about 2,000 ppm total
soluble salts. Coarse grains (sorghum, maize and millet), sesame and cotton
are the predominant crops in spate and well irrigated areas. Horticultural
crops are limited to about 10% of the total cropped area. About 17,000 ha is
available for rainfed cultivation, of which on average, about 5,000 ha is
cropped annually, depending on the amount of rainfall, with sorghum and millet.
5.02      The Wadi Surdud Farm was established in 1964, with USSR's technical
assistance, mainly as a mechanized farm for cotton production in Tihama.
The total farm area is 1196 ha with 296 ha occupied by a village, roads,
irrigation canals and buildings, leaving 900 ha for crop production. The farm
is presently irrigated using spate water from Wadi Surdud in combination with
well water obtained by operating the required tubewells out of the existing 22
tubewells with electrically driven pumps. All of the tubewells are in good
condition, each equipped with electric pumps and, according to farm management,



- 34 -
will produce about 59,000 m3 of water/day at full capacity. The main irriga-
tion canals are concrete lined and the water distribution system serving 900
ha is adequate. The main crops grown are maize, sorghum, millet, cotton,
sesame, watermelons, sweetmelons, and small areas of fruit crops. The Russian
farm equipment is old, poorly maintained, and generally worn out. Moreover,
it is not suitable for efficient crop production. Labor shortage, lack of
sound agricultural production techniques, unavailability of trained manpower
to operate the farm, increase in insect and weed infestation, shortage of farm
inputs, and inadequate and unexperienced management have all contributed to a
decline in crop yields, especially cotton, resulting in the farm being an
economic liability rather than an asset.
B. Development Constraints
5.03      Although Wadi Mawr is the largest wadi in Tihama with marked develop-
ment potential, the major constraints to its agricultural development are:
(a)  isolation of Wadi Mawr due to poor internal and external road
connections;
(b)  limited irrigation water, lack of water conservation practices
and efficient utilization of spate flows;
(c)  development of water rights and water distribution systems in
the wadi are not as advanced as in Wadi Zabid due to the pre-
dominantly nomadic origin of the Wadi Mawr population;
(d)  present cost sharing arrangements between tenants and landlords,
whereby the production costs are mostly borne by the tenants,
are not conducive to the use of production increasing inputs;
(e)  shortage of both skilled and unskilled manpower due to migra-
tion;
(f)  lack of infrastructure conducive to introducing modern agri-
cultural crop production and animal husbandry practices,
including availability of farm inputs and trained extension
workers;
(g)  livestock disease outbreaks (rinderpest, foot-and-mouth,
endoparasites, etc.) as well as nutritional deficiencies,
mainly protein; the communal nature of most grazing areas
is a further complicatin; and
(h) poor health facilities.
5.04      Components of the proposed project are designed to overcome most of
the above-mentioned constraints as related to Wadi Mawr. Experts would be



- 35 -
employed to help in institution building and extension activities. Training
programs would be geared to building a qualified cadre of extension workers.
Rural roads and physical facilities, including extension centers, would improve
communication and dissemination of modern farming techniques. Farm inputs,
tractors, and small farm equipment supplied through the agricultural credit
program would have an impact on increasing yield levels and alleviating labor
shortages. Mechanization of land preparation, cultivation and harvest opera-
tions of coarse grains, which represent about 85% of cropped land in irrigated
areas, is essential in view of growing scarcity and high cost of seasonally
hired labor. Other crops (cotton, sesame, vegetables and fruits) offer limited
possibilities for mechanization of harvesting operations under YAR conditions.
These would, therefore, remain labor-intensive. The Government would cause
the consultants engaged for the project to undertake a water regulation study
of the wadi's flow to ensure its equitable distribution to the various canals
in the system and the agreed recommendation of the study would be implemented
by the Government by controlling water deliveries to the canals through its
project implementation agency to provide incentive to the tenants to use
production increasing inputs. Agreed recommendations of the cost and crop
sharing study to be undertaken for the Tihama Region under the Tihama Develop-
ment Project II would be implemented in the project area by June 1982 by which
time the weirs would have been constructed. An assurance in this respect
was obtained during negotiations.
5.05      It is very necessary to increase the emphasis on applied agricul-
tural research in Yemen to find economic solutions for pressing agricultural
development problems. To this end, the Government, IDA and aid donors have
cooperated in financing the second phase of the UNDP Agricultural Research
and Training Project (1978-1983), with headquarters in Taiz and regional sub-
stations representing the different ecological regions in YAR. The Surdud
Farm in Wadi Surdud is located in the center of Tihama and is already equipped
with much of the needed basic infrastructure to carry out applied agricultural
research programs, e.g., electricity, irrigation, internal roads and levelled
land. The proposed Surdud Regional Agricultural Research Station (about 50
ha) will be staffed with research workers specializing in the major crops of
Tihama. Complimentation of research resources in Taiz and other bilateral and
multilateral projects in YAR has been taken into consideration in designing
the station's research facilities and staff needs.
5.06      Applied research programs undertaken under Tihama Development I
(Wadi Zabid) have resulted in developing several improved cult ivars suitable
for Tihama conditions. Maize yields in Wadi Zabid have doubled using the com-
posites "Tihama I" and "Tihama II" and preliminary field trials in Wadi Surdud
Farm have produced similar results. The millet composite "Dokhn Tihama" and
the sunflower composite "Shams Tihama" offer great potential for improving
these crops. Cotton research results have shown that the present cultivar
"Acala 1517 B" should be replaced by "Coker 310". Experiments in improved
cultural practices and use of modern farm inputs were simultaneously incor-
porated with breeding efforts resulting in a sound package of agricultural
recommendations for extension workers in Wadi Zabid. This work needs to be
expanded and intensified to cater to the rapidly expanding development of
Tihama.



- 36 -
5.07      Seed production programs in YAR are limited to wheat production in
the Southern Uplands Project area. Lack of seed production facilities for
improved cultivars in the Tihama is limiting rapid expansion of these culti-
vars produced by the research effort. The Surdud Farm (850 ha) offers great
potential for the multiplication of improved Tihama cultivars starting with
maize composites and the cotton cultivar "Coker 310". As a result of labor
shortage, the use of farm machinery will be necessary in land preparation,
cultivation, fertilizer and pesticide application, threshing and harvesting
operations except cotton picking. Fruit and vegetable crops would be grown
on the farm to supply increasing local demand in urban areas of nearby Hodeidah
and Sanaa, and for possible export to Saudi Arabia and would serve as a useful
demonstration of the economics of this type of production. Seasonal differ-
ences between Tihama and upland areas (Sanaa, Southern Uplands) offer great
potential for these crops, providing adequate marketing and transportation
facilities are available. The project will provide refrigerated transporta-
tion facilities and results of the fruit and vegetable marketing study (Wadi
Rima Project) will be used in planning horticultural production on the farm.
C. Present and Future Area and Yields
5.08      Construction of diversion weirs and improvement of irrigation systems
in the Wadi will ultimately lead to increasing the average annual cultivated
area from 15,000 ha to 18,000 ha after project implementation. About 2,500 ha
of well irrigated land are presently cultivated with traditional crops. Twenty
more wells would be drilled (30 1/sec/well) under the project in addition to
the 20 production wells already drilled in the wadi under Tihama Development
I (Wadi Zabid) Project, thus increasing the irrigated area to about 4,000 ha
after project implementation. Better water management will result in making
more water available to grow maize and high value crops, e.g., melons and
onions. The following table indicates the projected areas under various crops
after project implementation.
Table 5.1:  PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROP AREA
Spate Irrigated                 Well Irrigated
Present and       With                Without      With
Crop                   Without Project  Project   Present    Project    Project
-h_____------------------ha---------------------------
Sorghum (white)              7,400          8,400    1,400       1,850       1,250
Sorghum (red)                4,000          1,100       650        770          --
Millet                       1,600          1,200        --          --         --
Maize                          150          2,500        50         100      1,200
Cotton (seed cotton)           200          1,600        20         35         200
Sesame                       1,500          1,700       200        250         600
Tomatoes                        --             --        40          50        150
Onions                          --            500        20          30        150
Watermelons                     80            450        60          80         200
Sweetmelons                     70            550        50          70        200
Papayas                         --             --        10          15         50
Total Cropped  Area       15,000         18,000    2,500       3,250       4,000



- 37 -
5.09      Results of applied research, supply of credit, improved management
of water resources, provision of farm inputs, and effective extension programs
will have an impact on altering crop distribution and yield levels. Introduc-
tion of high yielding maize cultivars "Tihama I" and "Tihama II" would substan-
tially increase maize production. The introduction of the improved cotton
cultivar "Coker 310", using high quality seed produced on Surdud Frm, would
undoubtedly increase the cultivated area and yield levels which have been
declining as a result of deterioration in seed quality of "Acala 1517 B",
heavy pest infestation, and increased cost of crop production. To encourage
farmers to plant more cotton, the Government in the last two year has increased
the official farmgate seed cotton prices (para. 6.05).
5.10      Watermelons and sweetmelons have been grown successfully under spate
irrigation in Wadi Mawr and onions could also be grown successfully under spate
irrigation. Papayas are also grown successfully in Tihama, and establishment
of windbreaks, especially in well irrigated areas, will be required. The con-
struction of a black topped road from Hodeidah to Saudi Arabia through Wadi
Mawr would improve marketing potential of these crops. In the meantime, the
Ministry of Overseas Development of the British Government is considering sup-
plying a marketing expert to the Ministry of Agriculture, who will coordinate
marketing activities in YAR.
5.11      Yield levels in well irrigated areas are generally higher than in
spate irrigated areas due to assured and adequate supply of water all the year
round. Although the water salinity level in some wells is above 2,000 ppm,
adoption of improved water management practices, coupled with the adequate
infiltration rates of the soils, would prevent salt buildup. The following
table shows present and future yield levels at full development (year 15).
Table 5.2: PRESENT AND FUTURE YIELD LEVELS /1 IN WADI MAWR
Spate Irrigated                   Well Irrigated
Present and       With           Present and       With
Crop                   Without Project  Project          Without Project   Project
-------------------------kg/ha--------------------------
Sorghum (white)               973          1,529              1,112            1,807
Ratoon Sorghum (white)        487            765                556              904
Sorghum (red)                 626          1,390                834               __
Millet                        584          1,112                  --              --
Maize                         973          2,691               1,112           3,197
Cotton (seed cotton)          973          2,363              1,251            2,710
Sesame                        695          1,168                695            1,251
Tomatoes                       --             --             11,815          24,742
Onions                         --         15,290              8,340           18,070
Watermelons                 5,560         13,066              6,950           14,456
Sweetmelons                 5,004         12,510              5,560           13,900
Papayas (lst year)             --             --             31,970          44,480
/1   Yields/ha are calculated from the local unit, the ma'ad, which is equiva-
lent to 0.36 ha.



- 38 -
5.12      Present yield levels in Surdud Farm are low and compare with the
present levels of spate irrigated areas in Wadi Mawr. Provision of efficient
farm machinery, timely availability of farm inputs, adequate water supply,
qualified farm management, and assured marketing channels will undoubtedly
increase yield and income levels. The following table shows present crop dis-
tribution and yield levels at the farm in comparison with the same at full
development.
Table 5.3: PRESENT AND PROJECTED CROP AREA
AND YIELD LEVELS AT SURDUD FARM
Crop Area                   Yield Levels
Without   With                 Without    With
Crop                   Present   Project  Project   Present   Project   Project
-------------ha-----------   -----------kg/ha-----------
Sorghum                     8        730       350        900       1,300      2,000
Millet                     12         --         20       700          --      1,200
Maize
(seed production)       --         --        100         --          --     4,500
(commercial
production)         169         20        100      1,100 /2   1,100      4,500
Cotton
(seed production)       --         --        100         --          --     3,500
(commercial
production)         366         10        100        505 /3   1,300      3,500
Sesame                    110         70        --        150         700         --
Tomatoes                   --         10         15        --      11,800    28,000
Onions                     --          5       100         --       8,300    20,000
Watermelons                 5         20       100      5,500       7,000    15,000
Sweetmelons                15         20       100      5,000       5,600    14,000
Bananas                     4          4        20      5,000       6,400      7,000
Papayas                     5          5        20      3,000      12,000    44,000
Other horticultural
crops including
citrus                    6         6         10      4,000      4,000      6,000
Total Cropped  Area   700         90,      1,135
(Crop Intensity)       0.77       1.0       1.33
/1   Farm management estimates for 1976-77 season.  Labor shortage especially
during harvesting is zne of the main reasons for low yields.
/2   Improved maize cultures "Tihama I" and "Tihama II" have been grown on
an experimental basis and produced about 2,500 kg/ha.
/3   Heavy insect and weed infestation resulted in low yields.
5.13      In the rainfed areas, limited annual rainfall (average of 140 mm)
and labor shortage are the main limiting factors in improving yield levels.
Therefore, the use of modern inputs is not economically justified.



- 39 -
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETS AND PRICES,
FARM INCOMES AND COST RECOVERY
A. Projected Volume of Production
6.01      The project is expected to generate a considerable volume of crop
production as shown below:
Table 6.1: PROJECT PRODUCTION /1
Incremental
Without      With       Production
Present      Project    Project  Due to Project
----------------------tons-------------------
Grains
Sorghum (white)                   13,340       14,920      23,330         8,410
Sorghum (red)                      3,140        3,390       1,530        -1,860
Millet                             1,230        1,170       1,350            180
Maize                                400          280      11,470 /2    11,190
Subtotal                      18,110       19,760      37,230         17,920
Industrial Crops
Sesame                             1,210        1,280       2,740         1,460
Cotton (lint & seed)                 410          380       5,020 /3      4,640
Subtotal                       1,620         1,660       7,760         6,100
Fruits and Vegetables
Watermelon                           900        1,140      10,280         9,140
Melon                                710          840      11,060        10,220
Onion                                170          300      12,360        12,060
Tomato                               470          720       4,130         3,410
Papaya                               370          560       3,110         2,550
Banana                                20           30         140           110
Other horticultural crops             20           20          60            40
Subtotal                       2,660        3,610      41,140        37,530
Fodder
Sorghum (white)                 197,070      221,600    306,150          84,550
Sorghum (red)                    54,230       58,580       19,880      -38,700
Millet                            20,300       19,470      17,510        -1,960
Maize                              2,820        3,880    105,920        102,040
Subtotal                     274,420      303,530    449,460        145,930
/1   Surdud farm and rainfed area included.
7T   Includes 450 tons seeds from Surdud farm.
/3   Includes 350 tons seeds from Surdud farm.



- 40 -
6.02      The increase in grain production is due to increase in yields and
replacing red sorghum and millet mainly with higher yielding white sorghum and
maize. The projected increase in production of horticultural crops has been
limited by conservative assumptions regarding the successful development of
marketing system and the responsiveness of the farmers to these highly profit-
able crops given their present subsistence orientation. Also anticipated is
an increase in livestock production resulting from the intervention of the
veterinary service and larger fodder production. However, they have not been
quantified due to the experimental nature of project activities and the
absence of data on livestock numbers and productivity.
B. Markets and Prices
Market Demand
6.03      With the exception of cotton, incremental output due to the project
would be domestically marketed contributing to meeting YAR's growing food
deficit (para. 1.08). Demand is expected to remain strong since YAR's per
capita level of food consuimption is still at a low level and income elastic-
ities of demand are relatively high. Table 6.2 below shows past and projected
future consumption of grains.
Table 6.2: PRESENT AND FUTURE GRAIN REQUIREMENTS OF YAR
Consumption
Year           Production  Imports    Total    Per Capita  Resident Population
------- 000 tons------------    ----kg----  ------millions-----
Average
1971/72-
76/77           982         164     1,146         250              4.584
Projected
1980/81        1,194         271     1,465         281               5.211
1985/86        1,523         354     1,877         326               5.754
1990/91        1,944         458     2,402         378               6.353
Demand for fruits and vegetables has increased at an annual rate of 12% between
1971/72 and 1975/76 and, while domestic production has grown at 10%, the volume
of imports quadrupled and by 1975/76 totaled 38,550 tons valued at YLls 70.4
million. The Tihama, with its favorable climatic conditions, is expected to
play a major role in increasing domestic production, planned to grow at 22%
over the 5-Year Plan period. Demand for sesame also exceeds domestic supply
and the shortfall is expected to increase further as consumption of edible oils
and oil cake is increasing by over 3.5% annually. Most of YAR's cotton produc-
tion is presently exported, however, with the investments in textile factories,



- 41 -
domestic demand will increase to 9,000 tons per annum by 1981. The present
(1976/77) domestic production is 5,300 tons and is projected by the Five Year
Plan to increase to 32,500 tons by 1980/81. For the purpose of the proposed
project, raw cotton has been assumed to be exported at the margin, in the
world market where demand outlook is favorable.
Market Organization
6.04      The project area is served by an impressive network of traditional
local markets through which most of the marketable surplus, except cotton,
will be sold both for local as well as the outside markets. There are several
small weekly village markets where farmers bring surplus crops, livestock and
handicrafts to sell to other local farmers and to traders from towns who bring
goods from other parts of the country and abroad. Thus, through these traders
the village markets are linked with the markets in larger towns and cities.
While this system is well developed, it has inefficiencies, evidenced in price
levels (para. 6.05), due to the lack of transport infrastructure and the sudden
increase in demand for all types of goods in the last few years. These diffi-
culties are expected to be eased in the future with the provision of access and
feeder roads under the project as well as the planned paved Hodeidah-Jizan road
passing through the east of the project area which would link Wadi Mawr with
YAR's largest city Hodeidah, and with the existing national road network. Seed
cotton is purchased by the Government-owned General Cotton Company (GCC) which
has a collection center in Alzuhra. There are three cotton ginneries in YAR,
two of which are in the Tihama at Hodeidah and Zabid which have sufficient
capacity to process the project output.
Prices
6.05      There are no price controls on agricultural commodities in YAR except
cotton and imported flour. The prevailing market prices for both consumers and
producers are strikingly higher than those in the world market. This can be
attributed to the inefficiencies in the market (para. 6.04) and scarcity of
domestic supply. The Government annually sets a producer price for seed
cotton. In the last two years, this was increased by 32% and 23% to provide
incentives to expand production. Until this year, official prices have been
below the corresponding economic values. The current price is above the eco-
nomic price; but, since the world market is presently depressed, the present
official price is in line with the projected future (1985) levels. Fertilizers
and improved seeds are distributed by Government agencies at cost price
and cotton seeds are provided by the GCC free of charge. For the financial
analysis, 1978 farmgate prices were used. For the economic analysis, border
prices were established for traded commodities taking account of projected
real changes in the world market price, based on data provided by the Bank
Group's Economic Analysis and Projections Department. For non-traded goods,
local free market prices were used. These prices are listed below.



- 42 -
Table 6.3: FARMGATE PRICES USED FOR FINANCIAL
AND ECONOMIC ANALYSES
Basis of
Product             Financial Price         Economic Price    Econoaiic Pricing
YRls/ton  US$/ton   YRls/ton    US$/ton
Sorghum, white       1,650      366         890         198    Border price
Sorghum, red         1,250      278         890         198
Millet                1,750     389         940          209
Maize                 1,630     362         980         218
Cotton
(seed cotton)       2,350      522    2,200-2,500  489-656  Border price (export)
Sesame seed          3,570      793       2,300         511    Border price oilseed
substitute
Tomato               2,000      444       2,000         444    Local market price
Onion                3,000      667       3,000         667       "       "      "
Watermelon            1,000      222       1,000         222      "       "      "
Sweetmelon           1,500      333       1,500         333       "       "     "
Papaya                3,000   1,111       3,000       1,111       "       "     "
Banana               4,000      888       1,460         324    Border price
Cotton seed          3,000      667       4,000         889       "       "
Maize seed            2,500      556      1,650          367      "       "
Stover-sorghum,
white           75       17          75          17    Local market price
sorghum,
red             50       11          50          11
millet           50       11          50          11
maize            40        9          40           9
C. Farm Incomes
6.06      Farm incomes at full development of the project, as derived from
the farm models, show high increases when compared to the estimated present
incomes as shown below.



- 43 -
Table 6.4: PRESENT AND PROJECTED FARM INCOME LEVELS
DERIVED FROM FARM MODELS
(1)            (2)               (3)             (4)
Present   Future Income at
Income    Full Development  (2) as % of (1)  Increase
(YRls)          (YRls)                            (YRls)
Model 1
3 hectare spate
irrigated
tenant's share   1,810             5,761              318%         3,951
owner's share    1,811             5,762              318%         3,951
Models 2
10 hectare spate
irrigated
tenant's share   5,809           16,629               286%        10,820
owners's share   5,810            16,629              286%        10,819
Model 3
10 hectare well
irrigated
tenant's share   8,136           28,829               354%        20,693
land & pump-
owner's share  16,272           57,659               354%        41,387
Model 4
10 hectare well
irrigated,
previously rain-
fed land
tenant's share   1,030           28,729             2,789%        27,699
land & pump-
owner's share   1,031           57,457             5,572%        56,426
6.07      The income increase in the spate irrigated area will be due to im-
proved cultural practices and a more reliable water supply enabling a modified
cropping pattern. Those farms that already possess a well shall increase
their incomes from the effects of the improved agricultural practices and
slight changes in the cropping pattern. The introduction of wells on pre-
viously rainfed land will allow a total change in crops that coupled to the
effects of the agricultural extension service explains the very large increases
on these farms. These farms show a financial rate of return of 52% on the
investment of a well. The costs of all farm expenditures were allocated among
the tenant, landowner and the pumpowner in proportion to their crop shares as
provided by the recently issued religious edict (see para. 1.16). However,
even if the tenant were to bear all the input cost by himself he would still
have some incentive to adopt new agricultural practices as his income would
at least double. The sharecropping arrangements assumed have been explained
in para. 2.01.



- 44 -
6.08      The Surdud farm production component would generate sufficient
income to finance all operations including the research component by year 3.
Surdud farm as a whole yields a financial rate of return of 36%.
D. Taxes and Cost Recovery
6.09      The project is expected to generate a considerable increase in Gov-
ernment revenues through the zakat and cooperation taxes. Zakat, originally
a religious tithe, is presently set at 10% of the gross value of crops pro-
duced in spate irrigated areas and 5% in the well irrigated areas. Special
rates apply to livestock which are treated as property rather than income.
The cooperation tax, which amounts to 2.5% of crop production, is levied to
finance the Local Development Association's (LDA) community and development
projects, mainly in social infrastructure. As a result of increased produc-
tion with the project, these tax revenues would be raised by amounts shown
below:
Table 6.5: INCREMENTAL TAXES DUE TO THE PROJECT
Spate Irrigated Area         Well Irrigated Area
Present Value of              Present Value of
Annual   Total Collected    Annual   Total Collected
Revenue    Over 50 Years       Revenue   Over 20 Years
-------------------(YRls millions)-------------------
Zakat                    8.26          48.70           1.68           10.09
Cooperation Tax          2.06          12.17           0.84           .3.78
Total                   10.32          60.87           2.52           13.87
6.10      The Government's policy on cost recovery for irrigation works has
been developed in cooperation with IDA, following a study by ECWA and TDA for
Wadi Zabid, YAR's only public irrigation scheme, under Tihama Development
Project I. This policy is to recover full capital costs in real terms with
no interest over 50 years as well as full 0 & M costs annually for the spate
irrigation development. With respect to well irrigation, the policy is to
sell the wells at cost to landowners at medium-term loan conditions. Col-
lection of recovery charges would be made from landowners along with Zakat.
For the Wadi Zabid development, incremental revenue due to increased produc-
tion and a surcharge of 2% of gross output in spate irrigated and 1% in the
well irrigated area were calculated as required to achieve recovery levels as
defined above. While the well area did not benefit from capital investment,
a surcharge was proposed to recover some general development costs and to make
the system more acceptable. This system, being in line with the centuries old
Zakat collection system, has the advantages of being simple and understand-
able for both the beneficiary and TDA. The disadvantages are that it is not
progressive by size of land holding and that since charges are not set by



- 45 -
volume of water used it does not encourage efficient allocation of water.
While clearly recognizing these disadvantages, the system was adopted since
alternatives could not be found which would meet the objectives of income
distribution and efficiency yet would still meet the test of user accept-
ability. The Government had considered the alternative of land tax or
betterment levy for cost recovery of irrigation works but decided that its
enforcement and administration would be impractical at the present time.
The income distribution aspects of the project are discussed in para 7.03.
6.11       By imposing the same surcharges in Wadi Mawr, similar levels of
recovery would be achieved. In the spate irrigated area, the total incre-
mental tax plus 2% surcharge would together recover 100% of 0 & M and full
capital costs in real terms over 20 years with no interest. Rent and cost
recovery analysis on farm models show the following results:
Table 6.6: RENT AND COST RECOVERY - SPATE AREA /1
3 ha    10 ha      50 ha      Spate Irrigated Area
Present value of
incremental net
cash income (YRls)          61,590   163,680   513,250
Rent (YRls)                  36,070    88,260   322,670
Incremental taxes (YRls)
(a) 2% surcharge             2,390      7,100    39,830         13.88 million
Rent recovery index
(%):  (a - rent)                 7          8         12             NA
Cost recovery index
(%): (a - public sector
outlay)                 10          9         10             10
/1   See Annex 4, Table 13.
6.12       In the well area, the tubewells and the pumps installed by the proj-
ect would be sold to the landowners at cost and subsequently the pumpowners
would be responsible for 0 & M. The landowners in the project area would be
required to sign an agreement to purchase prior to the works being undertaken.
As in Wadi Zabid, however, an additional tax of 1% would also be levied on
land owners in all well irrigated areas to recover the costs of development
administration. This would result in cost and rent recovery indices as shown
below:



- 46 -
Table 6.7: RENT AND COST RECOVERY ANALYSIS - WELL AREA /1
10 ha           35 ha       750 ha Developed
Owner-Operated    Landlord           by Project
Present value of
incremental net
cash income (YRls)               531,370         1,239,870
Rent (YRls)                         154,760          412,270
Incremental charges (YRls)
(a)  1% surcharge and
well purchase               47,620         166,670          5.48 million
Rent recovery index (%)
(a - rent)                            31              35                   -
Cost recovery index (%)
(a - public sector outlay)           102             102                 157
/1   See Annex 4, Table 13.
6.13      For the project area as a whole, revenues accruing to TDA over 50
years, discounted at 10%, would recover 32% of the total development costs of
the project at Wadi Mawr 1/. The annual revenue for TDA of about YRls 10.4
million would more than fully cover TDA's operating costs. The Surdud farm
would be entirely self-financing (para. 6.08), and would generate annual net
revenue of YRls 10.3 million to the Government. Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that in addition to zakat and cooperation tax currently
charged on production the Government would impose on the landowner a surcharge
on production of not less than 2% in the case of spate irrigated lands and not
less than 1% on well irrigated lands which, together with incremental zakat
generated, would recover 100% of capital costs of spate irrigation works over
20 years with no interest and 100% of 0 & M costs annually and that it shall
conduct, jointly with IDA, periodic reviews for the purpose of adjusting
the charges levied for said crops at intervals of not more than five years.
Assurances were also obtained that the wells drilled under the project would
be sold to landowners at full cost under medium-term loan conditions.
1/   Surdud farm excluded.



- 47 -
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
A. Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      The proposed project would not only increase national income, but
more importantly, would contribute to the structural transformation of the YAR
economy and to achieving a more balanced growth. The project would establish
in the Wadi Mawr essential public sector institutions and infrastructure,
namely, extension, animal health, applied agricultural research, seed produc-
tion, organized inputs supply, roads, and administrative authority for operat-
ing and maintaining irrigation works. The absence of government intervention
in these fields today represents a major constraint to exploiting to the full
the agricultural potential in the Tihama (para 5.03) and in YAR as a whole
(para 1.17). The project would be the first step in modernization of the
Wadi Mawr economy which is presently based on subsistence production of grains
but which has considerable potential, particularly for high-value hotricul-
tural crops and livestock products. The project would also contribute to
attaining the national objectives of economic independence. Increased pro-
duction and its reliability would enhance food security, which in the context
of the growing dependence on imports has become one of the priority concerns
of the Government. The project would also complement the Government's efforts
at industrialization, which are focussed on cotton-based industries and the
Tihama is the only raw-cotton producing area in YAR. The employment creation
impact of the project (para. 7.04) coupled with increased labor productivity,
would enable the project area population to work at home. Although unemploy-
ment is not a problem in YAR today, it had led many from Wadi Mawr, as in
other parts of the country, to seek work abroad (paras. 1.05 and 2.09). This
has increased rapidly in the last few years to the extent that the Government
has become concerned with the growing dependence on employment opportunities
abroad which cannot be relied on to increase indefinitely and with the grow-
ing shortage and cost of labor which have reduced incentives to increase
domestic investment and production.
7.02     The project would primarily benefit an estimated 43,500 people in
6,200 households resident in Wadi Mawr deriving their income directly from
agriculture. This includes almost 3,100 sharecropper families and 1,300
families of landless workers as well as 1,800 land owning families. An
additional 1,400 families not engaged in farming would benefit from roads,
water supply and the expected increase in general economic activity. Total
project beneficiaries are thus estimated to number about 53,000 comprising
7,600 households whose incomes would increase and whose standard of living
would improve in the following ways. With improved irrigation structures
farmers would no longer face the risk of large floods destroying diversion
weirs, and therefore would be assured of more reliable supply of water and
income. The increased production of cereals, oilseed, fresh fruit and vege-
tables and livestock products as well as the provision of potable water would
be expected to improve caloric intake, nutrition and health. Increased
productivity and employment would allow more of the labor force to remain in
the area, creating a more stable economy and community. Provision of roads



- 48 -
would improve access to all types of facilities not available in Wadi Mawr,
e.g. hospitals and clinics, and would also help break social isolation and
help accelerate technological and social change.
7.03      Of the 53,000 beneficiaries, about 55% are estimated to have incomes
less than YRls 585 ($130), YAR's relative poverty level. They are mainly
sharecroppers and farm workers and their income will treble. The larger
landowners will benefit equally or more. The outcome is unavoidable since a
radical change in the land tenure system cannot be expected. The Government
recognizes the problems posed by the system and, in cooperation with IDA, is
taking the first steps to study and overcome them. The recent religious edict
on cost sharing and the recently commissioned nationwide study (para. 1.16)
seek to raise income of the tenants. Yet a development project to exploit the
agricultural potential of Wadi Mawr is at present the only means of improving
productivity and living standards of the majority of the people, because
agriculture, particularly irrigated agriculture is the only economic resource
available. Thus the welfare of the people of Wadi Mawr could not be improved
at all if the Government were to adopt a policy of depriving the area of
development investments because they would benefit the wealthy. It must also
be recognized that tenants enjoy security of tenure enforced by existing
social institutions and therefore benefit more from land improvements than in
more fully market economies (para. 1.16). In order to ensure as much benefits
accrue to the poorer prople as possible, a special effort will be made to
monitor this aspect of project impact (para. 4.20).
Employment
7.04      The project will have considerable impact on employment within
the project area. The effects are estimated to be as follows: 1,800 man
years for the construction of civil works; 800 man years for project manage-
ment, agricultural extension, agricultural research and production on the
Surdud farm and veterinary services. At full development family farm labor
would be more profitably employed as 1,300 man years would be added; hired
labor would also increase by about 2,300 man years. While increasing emigra-
tion of rural labor had recently led to problems of labor shortage and high
costs for agriculture, this situation would not constrain achievement of
project benefits. There is evidence of emigration levelling off, increase in
labor productivity would encourage people to stay at home, and the Government's
policy is to permit civil works contractors to bring in foreign workers in
case Yemenis are not available. With population growth and reduced rate of
emigration, the total agricultural work force is expected to increase.
B. Rate of Return
7.05      The investments included in the project represent an integrated
package required to develop the agricultural potential of Wadi Mawr. One
exception is the Surdud farm which would play a vital role in developing and
disseminating improved agricultural technology but, since the estimates of
agricultural production were made without relying on success of the Surdud



- 49 -
farm, the Wadi Mawr development as projected could be achieved without this
component. The economic rate of return on the Wadi Mawr development is es-
timated at 16% and for the Surdud farm alone at 24%. The combined rate of
return including all investments would be 17% (Annex 4, Table 14).
7.06      Benefits quantified consist mainly of the incremental net value
of agricultural production amounting to YRls 51.9 million due to improved
agricultural practices, increase in higher value crops, increased reliability
of spate irrigation water, extension of area irrigated by 3,000 ha in the
spate area and by 750 ha by 20 new wells dug by the project. Net value
of production at the Surdud farm would be YRls 7 million. Road user savings
on the main access road to the project area were also calculated for the
through traffic towards Sana'a estimated to grow at 8% annually and for
the existing volume of local traffic. The access road would be improved
primarily to facilitate project implementation and marketing of project
output. These benefits have already been incorporated in estimating incre-
mental net value of agricultural production. However, the road improvement
would also save operating costs for both local and through traffic which
exist independently of the proposed project. The traffic volume was based
on traffic counts taken by TDA. Benefits which were not quantified include
those of the veterinary service, the potable water supply, the applied
research and seed multiplication at Surdud farm which would have consequences
for all of Tihama, and the impact of extension and credit on production in
rainfed areas. Quantification of these benefits were judged to be too diffi-
cult to obtain reliable estimates. The rate of return on the productive
components of the Wadi Mawr development alone excluding the costs of the
above-mentioned components would be 17%.
7.07      In the economic analysis, border prices were used for all traded
goods to the extent possible and were based on projected international prices
(para. 6.05). For non-traded goods, local prices were used. Adjustments were
made for taxes where appropriate.  Labor was priced at the present peak market
rate although the present labor shortage may be slightly eased in the future.
A shadow foreign exchange rate was not used; YAR's trading policies and pat-
tern would indicate that the shadow exchange rate would be near the market
rate, or that the standard conversion factor would be near 1.0.  The project's
viability is unlikely to be jeopardized even if this were not the case.  Sen-
sitivity tests showed that the economic rate of return would fall to 15% with
a 20% divergence between the market and shadow exchange rates. A sensitivity
test to evaluate the effect of a real increase in civil works local costs,
reflecting the higher price escalation assumed for this item compared to
others showed that the rate of return would be reduced to 14%.
C. Project Risks
7.08      The major risk associated with this project is that if the recent
edict on cost sharing is not successfully implemented the income of tenant
farmers, the target income group, would not be increased as much as projected.



- 50 -
However, even in this case, their incomes would double. There are no other
special risks associated with the project other than those normally expected
in agricultural development projects in YAR. Sensitivity analysis was carried
out on the economic rate of return using different assumptions on costs,
prices, yields, and managerial competence. The results are shown below:
Table 7.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS OF ECONOMIC RATE OF RETURN
Assumption                                                                  ROR
A.        Base case - total project                                         17%
(i)  All yields or prices down 20%                                    13%
(ii)  All costs up 20%                                                 14%
(iii)  One year delay in implementation                                  16%
(iv)  Increase in local civil works costs.
(Annual increase of 43% compared to 7%
for all other prices)                                            15%
(v)  Shadow exchange rate YRls 5.4 = $1                               14%
B.        Base case - Wadi Mawr development                                 16%
(i)  Irrigated works costs up 40%                                     14%
(ii)  Prices or yields down 20%                                        13%
(iii)  Addition to spate irrigated area down 30%                         16%
(iv)  Expansion of horticultural crops down 30%                        15%
(v)  Delay in construction by one year                                15%
(vi)  One year delay in utilization of water and
establishment of extension service                               14%
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement having been reached on the various issues referred to in
Chapters III-IV of this report, and subject to the condition of effectiveness
described in para. 3.17, the project is suitable for an IDA credit of US$15.0
million on standard terms, and for an EEC Special Action Account of US$3.0
million equivalent on standard terms to the Yemen Arab Republic.



- 51 -                            ANNEX 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIRAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Description of Project Works
General
1.        The civil works included in the Project are:  (a) wadi irrigation
improvement works; (b) tubewell drilling; (c) project headquarters; (d)
extension centers; (e) buildings for Surdud farm; (f) feeder roads; and (g)
village water supply schemes.  The other project elements include:  (a)
equipping the existing agricultural farm at Surdud to function as a regional
research and production farm; (b) providing technical assistance in the fields
of civil engineering and agricultural services; (c) setting up veterinary,
extension and plant protection services; and (d) providing short- and medium-
term agricultural credit.
2.        The wadi irrigation improvement works include:  (a) construction
of a gabion dike and two cement concrete diversion weirs with ancillary works
for diverting wadi flows into the irrigation canals; (b) construction of
feeder canals for feeding the existing inundation canals; and (c) remodelling
of the existing inundation canals for efficient irrigation of their commanded
areas.
3.        A gabion dike with a sluiceway and a head regulator will be con-
structed to feed Daraanian canal commanding about 950 ha of land. Two diver-
sion weirs will be constructed to feed the canals listed hereunder:
Diversion Weir No. 1
A.  South Canals                               B.  North Canals
1.  Badriah                                    1.  Madbalah
2.  Marzuqah                                   2.  Mawasich
3.  Basheeriah                                 3.  Al Naseriah
4.  Hamodiah                                   4.  Fath Al Bory
5.  Asmarah                                    5.  Barodiah al Geelafiga
6.  Sabakhiah                                  6.  Taharihal Gulafiga
7.  Al Hasonyyah                               7.  Bakeriah
8.  Al Bakryyah                                8.  Adam
9. Labadah
These canals serve a total irrigable area of about 8,400 ha.



ANNEX 1
- 52 -
Diversion Weir No. 2
A.  South Canals                              B.  North Canals
1.  Mastorah                                  1.  Hasheidiah
2.  Al Gazillyyah                             2.  Bakhashiah
3.  Al Jarbah                                 3.  Jumiah
4.  Al Wadiain                                4.  Markuzah
5.  Al Khalifah                               5.  Maickiah
6.  Al Haraji                                 6.  Maslyyah
7.  Moriah                                    7.  Seediah
8.  Berrah                                    8.  Makhawar
9. Al Jadidah
10. Masud
11. Jezan
12. Al Kidad
These canals serve a total irrigable area of about 9,500 ha.
4.        The diversion weirs and ancilliary works will be designed to pass
a hundred year flood, which, from the catchment area, rainfall runoff relation-
ship established for Wadi Mawr and the adjoining wadis in the peninsula is
estimated at 3,960 cu.m sec. The weirs will be conventional concrete struc-
tures requiring minimum maintenance after construction. The alternative of
using stone masonry was also considered by TDA but discarded as due to dearth
of both skilled and unskilled labor within the country the masonry structures
are not cheaper than concrete and take a longer time to construct. Preliminary
designs of these structures have already been made and are the basis of the
cost estimate using costs derived from on-going experience in concrete weir
construction under the Tihama Development I Project (Wadi Zabid).
5.        Two feeder canals will take off from each of the diversion weirs,
one for feeding the irrigation channels on the north side of the wadi and the
other for channels on the south side of the wadi. Drop structures and check
drop structures will be constructed in the feeder channels to maintain proper
longitudinal slope of the canals and feeding the secondary channels. The
criteria used to determine the capacity of the supply canals is to provide a
capacity of 2 liters per second per hectare of the area commanded downstream
of the point where the capacity is to be determined. Preliminary designs for
these canals, using recent costs for similar construction in the Tihama
Development I Project have been made, and are the basis of cost estimates.
6.        The existing canals will be remodelled for efficient conduction
of the irrigation supply. The alignments of the existing canals are sinuous
and their sections are wide and shallow. The remodelled canals will, there-
fore, normally be constructed as new canals adjacent to the alignment of the
existing canals except at locations where the existing alignment and sections
can be utilized.



-53 -                              ANNEX 1
Page 3
Ground Water Development
7.        The ground water development program in the project area entails
construction of about 40 wells, with an average discharge of about 30 liters/
sec each. About 20 of these tubewells would be installed under Tihama Develop-
ment Project I and the rest drilled under this project. Based on the investi-
gation carried out on the nature and extent of aquifer under Tihama Development
Project I, the best region to construct the wells under the project is the
west central part of the project area, towards the tail end of the existing
surface irrigation system. Further west of this area the quality of water
deteriorates due to presence of saltmounds while towards the east the trans-
missivity of the aquifer is very low.
Project Headquarters
8.        The project headquarters will comprise twenty two-bedroom houses,
fourteen three-bedroom houses, one six-bedroom house (for bachelor accom-
modation) and three dormitories (for drilling and survey crews and other
departmental skilled workers), offices and laboratories for engineering,
agricultural and veterinarian staff, and a warehouse for equipment spare
parts. Appropriate utilities and boundry wall will be constructed. This camp
will be added to the existing facilities at Al Zahara constructed for the Wadi
Mawr feasibility study under Tihama Development Project I.
Extension Centers
9.        Nine agricultural extension centers of design agreed by IDA for
Southern Upland and Tihama Development Project II will be constructed one each
at--Al-Marras, Namaan, Al-Zuhra, Al-Humosia, Bajielah, Al-Rafaie, Deir Akhrash,
Mawr and Al-Dowayrah.
Buildings for Surdud Farm
10.       Six 2-bedroom, six 3-bedroom houses and two 6-bedroom houses will
be constructed at Surdud for providing residential accommodation to the staff.
Of the two 6-bedroom houses one will be used as a guesthouse to accommodate
the visiting Research Station's (Taiz) experts and other concered officials,
and the other to provide bachelor accommodation. Office and laboratory
facilities and storage space for fertilizers, plant protection chemicals,
seeds and machinery spare parts, and drying and packing platforms for cereals,
cotton and vegetables will be provided.
11.       The project road system will comprise the following gravel surfaced
roads:



- 54 -                             ANNEX 1
Page 4
From                                To                   Width            Length
(m)             (km)
Al-Marras                         Qanemeh                    6.0              28
Qanemeh                           Gebel Al-Milh              4.5)
Qanemeh                           Mahal Qernein              4.5)
Gozan                             Deir Hayran                4.5)
Mahal Abad                        Deir Al-Shaikh             4.5)
Deir Al-Shaikh                    Al Luhayyah                4.5)
Wadi Mawr Access Road (WMAR)    Al Joberia-Al Zawiah         4.5)
WMAR                              Deir Doman                 4.5)            116
Namaan                            Al-Lejam                   4.5)
Al Kaffel                         Al-Merdaf                  4.5)
Zubayah                           Sheb Al Abeed              4.5)
Al Masanie                        Al Segiah                  4.5)
Mahal Al Futaini                  Al Da Wayrah               4.5)
Al-Hajjah Road                    Shat Al Erge               3.5               4
The roads' base material consisting of compacted embankment will be obtained
from borrow areas adjacent to the roadway. The gravel surfacing consisting of
15 cm of screened alluvial material which will be obtained from Wadi Mawr's
flood plain. Cross drainage culverts will be provided under the roads at
approximately 200 meter intervals in the irrigated areas and at about 600
meter spacing for the remainder of the alignments.  Other design criteria for
road curvatures and culvert loadings will be the same as for the gravel roads
constructed under Tihama Development Project I which have proved to be satis-
factory.
Village Water Supply
12.       The village water supply will comprise water installations in Wadi
Mawr to serve 103 villages or cluster of villages in need of improved domestic
water supplies, comprising a population of about 53,000. The installations
would be designed for supplying 60 liters per capita per day, and tailored to
the individual needs of the villages depending upon their population and
capacity to bear the maintenance and operation costs, but would be drawn from
seven model water supply systems given below:
(i) fitting one or two hand pumps on a newly constructed or improved
existing dug well;
(ii) fitting four hand pump on two newly constructed or improved
existing dug wells;
(iii) fitting a diesel driven pump on a newly constructed dug well,
with cement concrete or stone masonry reservoir founded on
ground and supplying through taps without reticulation;
(iv) fitting a diesel driven pump on a newly constructed dug well,
with overhead reservoir and reticulation to network and stand
pipes;



_ 55 -                            ANNEX 1
(v)  same as in (iv) above but with larger pumping set and extended
reticulation to serve market villages, or dispersed population
or a group of hamlets;
(vi)  same as in (v) but for larger population; and
(vii)  same as for (vi) but with a tubewell replacing the dug well.
The list of villages recommended water supply systems is given below while
the description of the estimated job items is in Table 5 of Annex 3.
Serial        Name of         Suggested      Serial      Name of        Suggested
Number        Village           System       Number      Village           System
1       Gebel Al Milh           5            36       Moslaybah            2
2       Mahal Mesawa            1            37       Rommanah             3
3       Al Nasheriah            6            38       Al Ghorzah           4
4       Al Rassas               1            39       Al Rakebah           1
5       Mahal Al Dawary         5            40       Thanab               2
6       Al Dawayrah             2            41       B. Al Najjar         2
7       Al Dawairah             2            42       Barsheih             1
8       Mislam                  1            43       B. Al Mahanah        1
9       Shieb Obshah            2            44       Al Zuhra             7
10       Al Thaher               6            45       Al Mutaredh          7
11       Al Abbasiah             1            46       M. Hashid            3
12       Kitf Abukaresh          1            47       M. Sweed             1
13       Mahal Agzal             2            48       Al Rafeie            2
14       Al Lobainiah            2            49       Al Kuffel            1
15       Al Halfiah              3            50       D. Duraib            3
16       Al Hamasiah             5            51       Namaan               5
17       Lawi                    1            52       Al Hakem            1
18       Al Dimna                7            53       Mahal Sulamoney    3
19       Deir Mansour            5            54       Al Hiteriah         3
20       Al Mazif                3            55       Al Haddad           3
21       Qanamah                 4            56       Hobaer              3
22       Alsakat                 2            57       Deir Yagob          7
23       Al Qaburiah             2            58       Suq Gadim           2
24       Deir Alsayed            4            59       M. Saleem           2
25       Al Hairah               2            60       B. Ismaiel          3
26       M. Qarnein              2            61       M. Sud              1
27       Bait Sheoff             2            62       Al Koffel           1
28       Mur                     7            63       M. Ghaddar          2
29       Al Maagad               7            64       Al Merdaf           2
30       Dir Akhrash             7            65       Al Marras           3
31       Al Joberia              4            66       Bounie              2
32       Deir Irrah              2            67      Al Lejam             3
33       Deir Shaikh             5            68       Al Aiedah           2
34       M Mohameidah            2            69       D. Al Bakierie      2
35       M. Surur                7            70       D. Rageb            3



ANNEX 1
-56 -
Serial        Name of         Suggested      Serial      Name of         Suggested
Number        Village           System       Number      Village           System
71       B. Mahrag               1            87       M. Aslam             1
72       Al Kharit               2            88       Al Haijah            3
73       Kitf A. Sweed           3            89       Al Nasery            3
74       B. Rabou                1            90       D. Goamus            3
75       Rusfah                  3            91       D. Hayran            3
76       Merdaf Abeed            2            92       D. Alodhabie         3
77       M. AlDahige             1            93       Diaimasakhary        2
78       Al Arajah               3            94       Gozan                7
79       Haj Derwish             1            95       Kedayshah            3
80       Bajielah                3            96       Deir Al Haijah       3
81       Deir Dokhanah           6             97      Al Kharashah         3
82       Deir Saied              1            98       Al Tiebah            2
83       K. Jubarah              3            99       Rashad               1
84       K. Manee                 1          100       K. A. Zagbee         7
85       K. Zahaer               2            101      K. Alwally           3
86       M. Abad                 2           102       D. Al Domah          3
103      Al Keofah            3



57                             ANNEX 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
APPRAISAL OF
TIRAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Water Availability and Requirements
Surface Water
1.        The surface water in the project area, except for a small amount
derived from local streams, originates from Wadi Mawr's catchment area con-
sisting of 7,912 km2 of a rugged mountain region rising to elevations of over
3000 meters in its headwaters. A gauging station was established in Wadi Mawr
in early 1975 at Shat Al Erge, in a firm rock canyon where Wadi Mawr exists
onto the Tihama plain. Based on the records collected in the last three
years, the surface supply of Wadi Mawr has varied from 162 Mm3 to 216 Mm3 per
year. In a typrical year, the mean daily flow during the winter months at the
gauging station varies between 2 to 5 m3/sec rising to values exceeding 10
m3/sec in early April. The flow decreases slightly in May and June and a
heavy runoff period occurs in late summer and early fall. The period of the
historic flow record of Wadi Mawr is not of sufficient length to accurately
estimate the peak discharge and runoff volume of individual streams and the
long term average runoff of the basin. These values have, therefore, been
assessed by synthetic methods by the Consultants (Tipton and Kalmbach, Inc.)
and the results obtained are summarized below.
Table   : SUMMARY OF FLOOD HYDROGRAPHS OF WADI MAWR
Antecedent Moisture
Return Period            Conditions             Peak Discharge      Flood Volume
(m3/sec)            (Ftm3)
10                   Average                     353               23.6
10                Saturated soil               1,617               99.9
50                   Average                   1,205               65.0
50                Saturated soil               3,280              181.4
100                   Average                   1,610               88.0
100                Saturated soil               3,960              220.4
Table      SUMMARY OF RAINFALL VOLUME AND RUNOFF VOLUME
Return Period          Probability           Rainfall Volume       Runoff Volume
%                     Mm3                   Mm3
1.11                  90                     2,927                  142
2                     50                     4,146                  237
2.33 (mean)           43                     4,360                  254
10                     10                     6,053                  388



- 58-                              ANNEX 2
Page 2
2.        From the above the 100 year flood for the design of the diversion
works is assessed as 3960 m3/sec and the average annual discharge as 237 Mm3
at the gauging site. The losses between the gauging site and the diversion
structures have been calculated as 12.7 Mm3 leaving the net flow of about 224
Mm3 at the diversion structures. About 10 percent (22.4 Mm3) of the water
will be lost in the supply canals and 40 percent (80.8 Mm3) in the fields
through evaporation and deep percolation leaving the net quantity of 121 Mm3
to meet the crops' demand. This will be adequate to meet the net crop demand
(Table 1) required to irrigate 18,000 hectares of crops proposed for the
project. December will be the month of critical demand for the winter crops.
The hydrographs of wadi flows indicate that sufficient water will be available
during December for raising about 9,000 ha of winter crops. Under spate irri-
gation practices in the project area, the irrigation is continued round the
clock subject to availability of flows.
3.        Wadi Mawr water is of excellent quality for irrigation use with
dissolved constituents ranging from between 500-600 mg/liter only.
Groundwater
4.        Groundwater occurs under water table conditions throughout the
project area. It is replenished by seepage from surface flows in Wadi Mawr
and irrigation canals and, the water applied on the irrigated fields. The
water bearing beds which can be developed by wells extend to a depth of more
than 150 meters and consist predominantly of unconsolidated sediments of
alluvial origin. The depth from land surface to water ranges from less than 5
meters to 30 meters, with the shallower depth occurring in a bank approximately
6 km wide along the seacoast and in some areas adjacent to the Wadi. The
natural discharge of groundwater occurs throughout the year along the seacoast
with the most prominent area being the salt marsh flats near Al Luhayyah.
5.        The use of groundwater, for purposes other than drinking water,
is a recent development in the Wadi Mawr area. The Government initiated
groundwater studies in the project area in 1972. Only 11 dug wells, which
used pumps for withdrawal of water, were then found in the area. A survey
conducted at end of 1977 located 184 dug wells equipped with pumps of 10
liters per second average capacity each. The groundwater levels have been
monitored since 1974 at several sites in the project area. The analysis of
the hydrographs and the groundwater contours indicates only minor fluctuations
in groundwater table during the study period, indicating that the recently
installed wells have not caused any noticeable depletion of the groundwater
reservoir. The annual groundwater recharge in the project area from the
surface water flow and the irrigation fields, after the implementation of the
project would be of the order of 49 Mm3. This will adequately meet the net
crop water requirement of about 23.9 Mm3 (Table 1) of 4000 hectares of ground-
water irrigated area included in the project. As exhibited in the table below
the gross demand of this area including 10% conveyance losses and 40 percent
deep percolation and other losses would be about 44.2 Mm3 of which about 10.2
Mm3 would be recharged to the ground leaving about 34 Mm3 as the net withdrawal
from the aquifer.



ANNEX 2
- 59 -
Description                             Relative W        Mm3   Recoverable losses
a)  Gross requirement/withdrawals         1.00 W         44.2
b)  Conveyance losses                     0.10 W          4.4           2.2)
)
c)  Deep percolation and other                                             ) 10.2
losses (.4 x .90)                    0.36 W         15.9            8.0)
d)  Crops net requirements                0.54 W         23.9
e)  Net withdrawals                       (44.2-10.2) = 34.0
6.        Groundwater having acceptable quality for irrigated agriculture
exists in all the project test wells with specific electric conductivity less
than 4000 micromho's/cm and sodium absorption ratio less than 10. The deep
percolation losses included in assessing the gross cropwater requirement for
the well irrigated areas would offset the necessity of any additional leaching
requirements where the EC of the well water does not exceed beyond 2500
micromho's/cm. Continued use of water with EC exceeding this would require
application of additional water for leaching.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Estimated Water Requirements
Total          Total
Jan.    Feb.    Mar.    Apr.    May         Jun.    Jul.    Aug.    Sep.    Oct.    Nov.    Dec.             mmha/ha      demand (net)
Climate data                                                                                                                                                                           ne
Average temp. (9C)                                     26.5    27.3    28.3    31.4    33.4    33.4    33.9    33.7    32.8    31.1    28.6    27.0
Percent daytime hours                                   0.26    0.26    0.28    0.27    0.29    0.29    0.29    0.28    0.28             0.27    0.26    0.26
Rainfall /1                                             3.2      7.4      0.7      0.4    11.5       4.7      0.6    43.1    16.6    45.0         1.5      1.2
Reference crop evapotranspiration
Daily ETo (mm)                                          5.0      5.1      5.9      7.0      8.2      8.2      8.3      8.0      7.9      7.0      5.5      5.1
Crop water requirements under
spate irrigatio                                                                                                                                                                                         a
Sorghum  (area cropped:  4500 ha)                      68      104       192      142       35                                                             75          616            27.72
Sorghum  (  "          :  5000 ha)                                        75       91      192     258      125                                                        741            37.05
Sesame  (  "      "        500 ha)                     61       104      165      126                                                                      75          531             2.66
Sesame  (  "           :  1200 ha)                                                                   75     102      132      212       104                            625             7.50
Cotton  (  '       "      1600 ha)                      39                                           75       62      152      197      228      157      103        1,013            16.21
Millet  (  "       "   :  1200 ha)                                                                   75       30      158      242       62                            567             6.80
Maize   (  "           :  2500 ha)                      40                                                                      75       74      139      168          496            12.40
Melons  (  "       "       1000 ha)                     75       50      115      200      179                                                                         619             6.19
Onions  (  "       "        500 ha)                    135      107                                           75       53       84      136      156      158          904             4 52
12.L05
Crop water requirements under
well irrigation
Sorghum (area cropped:   500 ha)                        68      104      192      142       35                                                             75          616             3.08
Sorghum (  "           :   750 ha)                                                                                    53        70      107      173      102          505             3.79
Sesame  (  "           :   400 ha)                                                                                     53       88       14      153       92          507             2.03
Sesame  (  '      "        200 ha)                     61       104      165      126                                                                      75          531             1.06
Cotton  (              :   200 ha)                                                                   75       62      152      197      228      157      142        1,013             2.03
Maize   (  '           :  1200 ha)                                                                                              75       74      139      168          496             5.95
Melons  (          "   :   400 ha)                      75       50      115      200      179                                                                         619             2.48
Tomatoes(  "           :   150 ha)                     81                                                     75       38      137      159      181      167          838             1.26             a
Onions  (  "           :   150 ha)                     135      100                                           75       53       84      136      156      158          904             1.36
Papayas (              :    50 ha)                      77       71      101      105      121      148      206      201      205      173      132      126        1,666             0.83             a x
23.87
/1 Only 50% of the monthly rainfall exceeding 10 am in any month has been taken as
effective in calculating the crop water requirement.



ANNEX 3
-61 -                                              Table 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Project Costs
Local    Foreign       Total            Local    Foreign       Total
-------YRls million -------             -------IJS$ million--------
Project Management and Engineering
Technical assistants                                            -        18.93       18.93              -         4.21         4.21
Local establishment                                            4.78        -          4.78             1.06         -          1.06
Transport vehicles, camp and
office equiyment                                              -         4.17        4.17              -         0.93         0.93
Operational ccsts                                              6.41        -          6.41             1.42         -          1.42
Subtotal                                                    1.19      23.10       34.29             2.48       5.14        7.62
Irrigation Worke
Diversion weiss and ancilliary works                           .9.96     46.58       66.54             4.44      10.35        14.79
Feeder canals                                                  6.34      14.78       21.12             1.41       3.28         4.69
Canals remode:ling                                             5.40      12.61       18.01             1.20       2.80         4.00
Tubewells dri:ling, developing
and testing                                                  0.96       2.24        3.20             0.21       0.50        0.71
Subtotal                                                   32.66      76.21      108.87             7.26      16.93       24.19
Project Headquarters
Civil works                                                    6.81      10.24       17.05             1.51        2.28        3.79
Access Roads
Civil works                                                   10.76      16.15       26.91             2.39       3.59         5.98
Equipment                                                       -         2.40         2.40              -        0.53         0.53
Road maintenance                                               4.50        -          4.50             1.00         -          1.00
Subtotal                                                   15.25      18.53       33.78             3.39       4.11        7.50
Village Water Supply
Civil works                                                    3.69       5.54         9.23            0.82        1.23        2.05
Equipment                                                       -         5.15        5.15              -         1.14         1.14
Subtotal                                                    3.69      10.69       14.38             0.82       2.37        3.19
Aaricultural Services
Extension
Experts and staff                                              2.27       2.02        4.29             0.50       0.45         0.95
Extension centers                                              0.59       0.89         1.48            0.13       0.20         0.33
Equipment                                                       -         1.27         1.27             -         0.28         0.28
Operational costs                                              1.16       0.10         1.26            0.26        0.02        0.28
Subtotal                                                    4.02       4.28        8.30             0.89       0.95        1.84
Veterinary Services
Experts and staff                                              0.61       0.90         1.51            0.14       0.20         0.34
Equipment                                                       -         0.16        0.16              -         0.04         0.04
Operational costs                                              0.61       0.18        0.79             0.13       0.04         0.17
Subtotal                                                    1.22       1.24        2.46             0.27       0.28        0.55
Credit
Experts and staff                                              0.74       0.34         1.08             0.16       0.08        0.24
Civil works                                                    0.38       0.56         0.94              0.09      0.12        0.21
Equipment                                                       -         0.23        0.23                -       0.05         0.05
Credit (short and medium term)                                 2.24       8.90        11.14              0.50      1.98        2.48
Opgrational costs                                              0.19         -          0.19              0.04       -          0.04
Subtotal                                                    3.55      10.03       13.58              0.78      2.23         3.02
Surdud Farm
Experts and staff                                              6.92       6.10        13.02              1.54      1.35        2.89
Civil works                                                    2.85       4.29         7.14              0.63      0.95        1.59
Equipment                                                        -         7.27        7.27               -        1.62        1.62
Operational costs for research                                 3.00         -          3.00              0.67       -          0.67
Working capital for production                                 4.20        0.66        4.86              0.93      0.15        1.08
Subtotal                                                   16.97      18.32        35.29              3.77      4.07        7.85
Total Base Cost                                                  95.36     172.64      268.00             21.19      38.36       59.55
Contingencies:  Physical                                          6.80      13.46       20.26               1.51      2.99        4.50
Price                                          77.70      28.35      106.05             17.27       6.30       23.57
TOTAL                                                     179.86     214.45       394.31             39.97     47.65       87.62



62 -
ANNEX 3
Table 2
YEMNE AAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAIMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
SRhodble of Anal E"e.edit-re
Yar 1                  Year 2                  year 3                 Year 4                  Year 3                      Total
1ee1  FParole          l.co   Paroiee          loal Fosr      LRn       efl FPrele            local F-raiee            Local + F.g.    F..
Pro-Jct Manaemen.t and EnRin.e.rli
Trchoical a.eleta..e                                   -      3.13             -    ,4.99             -      4.69             -      4.22            -       1.90              18.93         18.93
Local eetabliabhaot                                   1.06     -             1.06      -             0.94      -            0.94      -             0.78      -                 4.78           -
Tra.eport, office aod .eep oqoipicoot                  -       1.04            -      3.13            -        -              -       -              -        -                 4.17          4.17
Tre..port and coup operatioe                          0.68     -             1.25      -             1.80     -              1.75     -             0.93      -                 6.41          -
Subtotal                                           1.74    4.17           2.31    8.12            2.74    4.69           2.69    4.22            1.71    1.90               34.29         23.10
Contingnc-ie-:  Phyi-cal                              0.07    0.10           0.13    0.31            0.18      -            0.18      -             0.09      -                 1.06          0.41
Prior                                0.07    0.16           0.28    0.95            0.55    0.89           0.79    1.16            0.65    0.69                6.19          3.85
IrriRation Worke
Dlveraloorelri                                        3.16    7.38           8.40   19.60            8.40   19.60             -       -              -        -                66.54         46.58
Caro.a                                                 -        -             1.84    4.29           4.95   11.55           4.95   11.55             -        -                39.13         27.39
Tobewlla                                             0.48    1.12            0.48    1.12            -        -             -      __-__                                       3.20          2.24
Subtotal                                           3.64    8.50          10.72   25.01           13.35   31.15           4.95   11.55             -        -               108.87         76.21
Cootingencie-:  Phyaicel                              0.36    0.85            1.07    2.50           1.34    3.12            0.50    1.13            _        _                10.89           7.62
Price                                0.86    0.35           8.69    3.11           21.80    6.51           13.91    3.48            _        _                58.71         13.45
Pro-eot Headqa-t-ra
Civil -orkb                                           1.02    1.54           4.09    6.14            1.70    2.56             -       -               -       -                17.05          10.24
Cootiog...ioe:  Phyaital                              0.10    0.15           0.41    0.61            0.17    0.26             -       -               -       -                 1.70          1.02
Pric-                                0.24    0.06           3.32    0.76            2.78    0.54             -       -              -        -                 7.70          1.36
Access Roads
Civil -orke                                           1.64    2.47            4.56    6.84           4.56    6.84             -       -               -       -                26.91          16.15
Equipment                                              -       1.20            -      1.20            -        -              -        -              -       -                 2.40          2.40
Maint..e...                                           0.80      -             0.80     -             0.80      -             1.00     -             1.10      -                 4.50
Subtotal                                           2.44    3.67           5.36    8.04            5.36    6.84           1.00      -             1.10      -                33.81         18.55
Conting..cie-   Phyical                              0.16    0.37            0.46    0.80           0.46    0.60             -        -             -        -                 2.93          1.85
frito                                0.42    0.15           3.79    1.00            7.60    1.43           0.27      -             0.40      -                15.06          2.58
Villooo Water SoOply
CivIl vorke                                           0.89    1.34            1.20    1.80           1.60    2.40             -       -               -       -                 9.23          5.54
Equipment                                                                      -      3.60            -       1.55            -    - -                                            1           5.15
Subtotal                                           0.89    1.34           1.20    5.40            1.60    3.95             -       -              -        -                14.38         10.69
Cootig-uoi-e:  Phy.ical                              0.09    0.13           0.12    0.54            0.16    0.40             -       -              -        -                 1.44           1.07
Price                                0.21    0.06           0.97    0.67            2.61    0.82             -       -              -        -                 5.34          1.55
AOui-olt-val S-irece
Extension
E.p-rte a=d etaff                                     0.23    0.32            0.48    0.62           0.52    0.46            0.52    0.31           0.52    0.31                4.29          2.02
Extenaio.ci eter-                                     0.28    0.42           0.31    0.47             -        -              -       -              -        -                 1.48          0.89
Eqoip ect                                              -       0.50            -      0.77            -        -              -       -              -        -                 1.27          1.27
Oporational coIta                                     0.05      -             0.28    0.02           0.28    0.03            0.28    0.03           0.27    0.02                 1.26         0.10
Subtotal                                           0.56    1.24           1.07    1.88            0.80    0.49           0.80    0.34            0.79    0.33                8.30          4.28
C.ntinga.o.ie:  Phyaicl1                              0.04    0.09            0.06    0.13           0.03      -             0.03     -             0.03      -                 0.40          0.22
frtie                                0.08    0.05           0.34    0.23            0.22    0.09           0.22    0.09            0.30    0.12                1.74          0.58
Vet-einary Sr.ci-a
EoPortea=d  etaff                                     0.12    0.18            0.12    0.18           0.12    0.18            0.12    0.10           0.13    0.18                1.51          0.90
Equipment                                              -       0.14            -      0.02            -        -              -       -              -        -                 0.16          0.16
op-ratio..l coeta                                     0.12    0.03            0.12    0.04           0.13    0.03            0.12    0.04           0.12    0.04                0.79          0.18
Subtotal                                           0.24    0.35           0.24    0.24            0.25    0.21           0.24    0.22            0.25    0.22                2.46          1.24
CootingecIrei:  Phyi-tal                              0.01    0.01            0.01    0.01           0.01      -             0.01    0.01           0.01      -                 0.08          0.03
Prior                                 -      0.02           0.02    0.02            0.05    0.04           0.07    0.06            0.09    0.07                0.44          0.21
Credit
Etp-rte tnd etaff                                     0.08    0.07            0.12    0.06           0.18    0.07           0.18    0.07            0.18    0.07                1.08          0.34
Civil  -urkb                                          0.19    0.28            0.19    0.28            -        -              -       -              -        -                 0.94          0.56
Equipment                                              -       0.07            -      0.10            -      0.06             -       -              -        -                 0.23          0.23
Credit (ebort cod oedio  tren)                       0.21    0.82            0.42    1.67           0.46    1.83           0.56    2.22            0.59    2.36               11.14          8.90
Operatioeal coate                                     0.02      -             0.02     -             0.05      -            0.05      -             0.05      -                 0.19
Subtotal                                           0.50    1.24           0.75    2.11            0.69    1.96           0.79    2.29            0.82    2.43               13.58         10.03
Cootingeonoei: Phyeical                               0.02    0.04            0.02    0.04            -        -                      -              -        .                 0.12          0.08
Price                                0.06    0.04            0.21    0.25           0.13    0.37           0.21    0.63            6.30    0.89                3.09          2.20
Surdud Fart
Eoporte aed ataff                                     1.20    0.94            1.43    1.65           1.43    1.64           1.43    1.11            1.43    0.76               13.02          6.10
Civil torbe                                           0.71    1.07            1.43    2.15           0.71    1.07             -       -              -        -                 7.14          4.29
Equipm.ent                                             -       1.82            -      3.63            -       1.82                -                  -                          7.27          7.27
Operationel eipeee.e                                  0.60      -             0.60     -             0.60      -            0.60      -             0.60                        3.00           -
Worbing oaplta1                      4.           2            0.66            -                      -4.86                                                                                   0.66
Subtotal                                           i5.21    4.49          3.46    7.43            2.74    4.53           2.03    1.11            2.03    0.76              30.09          18.32
CoetiSgeo-ie:  Phyitcal                               0.13    0.29            0.20    0.48           0.13    0.29           0.06      -             0.06      -                 1.64          1.16
Prior                                0.36    0.17            1.68    0.90           1.84    0.92           0.57    0.30            0.76    0.28                7.78          2.57



Annex 3
-63 -                                      Table 3
YREEN ARAB REPITET.TC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Project Management and Engineering
Item                           Year 1      Year 2       Year 3       Year 4      Year 5       Total        Local       F.E.
-------------------------------------YRls  '000-------------------------------------
Management Staff (local)
Chairman TDA _                                      33           33           22           22          27          132          132
Director Engineering /L                             27           27           18          18           18          108          108
Director Agriculture /L                             27           27           18           18          18          108          108
Director Administration and Finance /L               27          27           18           18          18          108         108
Project Director (counterpart) /L                   54           54           54          54           54          270         270
Accounts, Monitoring, Secretarial                  368          369          368         369          368        1,842       1,842
and Clerical Staff (12)
Management St,ff (expatriate)
Management and Technical Advisor /1                112          113           75           75          75          450            -         450
Financial Advisor A                                113          112           75          75           75         450             -         450
Project Dirfector                                  225          225          225         225          112       1,012             -       1,012
Rural Sociologist                                  112          113            -           -          225         450             -         450
Subtotal                                      1,098       1,100          873          874         985        4,930       2.568        2.362
Consultants' Costs
Project Engineer                                   189          189          189         189           90          846            -         846
Office Engineer                                       -         182          146         146           72          546            -         546
Chief Design Engineer                               72          146          146            -           -          364            -         364
Design Engineer                              62          124          124         124           62          496            -         496
Chief Field Engineer                               109          146          146         146            -          547            -         547
Field Engineer                              124          124          124         124           62          558            -         558
Maintenance Supervisor                              62          124          124         124           62          496            -         496
Chief Mechanic                                      62          124          124         124           62         496             -         496
Drilling Superintendent                             68          135          135           -            -         338             -         338
Consultants' Home Office Staff                      82          164         165          164           82         657             -         657
(90 man-months)
Air Travel, Engineering Fees and                   739        1,478       1,478        1,478          739       5,912             -       5,912
Overhead Costs
Subtotal                                      1,569       2,936        2.901       2.619        1.231       1125              -      11,256
Staff Attached with Consultants
Expatriate
Design Engineers (2)                                89          178          178         178           90          713           -          713
Field Engineers (2)                                 89          178          178         178           90          713           -          713
Surveyors (4)                                      130          259         259          259            -         907            -          907
Inspectors (4)                                     130          259         259          259            -         907            -          907
Draftsmen (2)                                      108          108         108          108            -         432            -          432
Laboratory Technician                               64           65          65           65            -         259            -          259
Geologist                                           89           89          45            -            -         223            -          223
Pump Test Foreman                                   65           65           32           -            -         162            -          162
Water Supply Foremen (2)                            54          108          108           -            -         270            -          270
Air Travel                                         180          180          180         180            -         720            -          720
Subtotal                                        998       1,489        1.412       1,227          180       5,306            -       5.306
Local
Draftsmen (2)                                       60           60          60           60            -         240          240            -
Inspectors (4)                                      96           96          96           96            -         384          384            -
Senior Hydrologist                                  54           54          54           54          54          270          270            -
Assistant Hydrologist                               30           30          30           30           30         150          150            -
Weather Station Observer                              6           6            6           6            6          30           30            -
Raingauge Attendants (14) (part time)               25           26          25           25           25         126          126            -
Hydrology Helpers (2)                               21           21          22           22           22         108          108            -
Expeditors (2)                                      48           48          48           48          48          240          240            -
Radio Operator                                      14           14          14           15           15          72           72            -
Survey Crew (16)                                   173          173          86           86          86          604         604             -
Subtotal                                        527         528          441         442          286       2.224        2.224            -
Equipment and Operational Costs
Transport Vehicles, Office and                   1,044       3,131            -            -           -       4,175             -       4,175
Camp Equipment
Operation of Transport                             464          696       1,050        1,050         450        3,710       3,710             -
Operation of Camp                                  220          550         750          700         476        2,696       2,696
Subtotal                                     1.728        4.377       1,800        1.750          926      10,581        6.406       4.175
Total                                        5.920       10,430        7.427       6.912        3 608      34.297       11.198      23.099
Physical Contingencies                                173         438          180         175           92       1,058          641          417
Price Contingencies                                  228        1,228       1,445        1,942       1,343        6,186        2,336       3,850
/I  33% of their cost for years I and 2 and 25% of the costs for years 3, 4 and 3 is allocated to the Project.
August, 1978.



Annex 3
-64 -                                 Table 4
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Irrigation Works - Coat Estimate
(EEls)
Diversion Weirs
A. Diversion Structures
Darasniah Div Works   DIversion Structure I   Diversion Structure 2             Total
Item                  Unit   Unit    Quantity      Cost      Quantity       Cost      Quantity      Cost        Quantity      Cost
Description                  Cost
Care and handling    L.S.   -             -        200,000       -         500,000         -      2,000,000    -   -        2,700,000
of water
Excavation, unclass, cu.m.   10.00   15,000        150,000    87,000       870,000    123,000    1,230,000    225,000    2,250,000
for di,. str.
Excavation, unclass, cu.m.   11.50        -            -       4,000        45,000       5,000        57,500      9,000       103,500
in boriow areas
Overhaul              cu.m-km  4.00       -            -       4,000        16,000       5,000        20,000      9,000        36,000
Placing diversion    cu.M.   10.50        -            -       9,000        94,500      16,000       168,000     25,000       262,500
dike etlbanksment
Placing fuseplug      cu.m    12.00       -            -         -             -         3,000        36,000      3,000        36,000
embankrent
Backfill around       cu.m    11.50   10,000       115,000    25,000       287,500      12,000       138,000     47,000       540,500
structuLres
Compact:.on of        cu.m     6.50    7,000       45,500    20,000        130,000      10,000        65,000     37,000       240,500
backfi:-l
Riprap                cu.n.  115.00       600       69,000     3,200       368,000       3,700      425,500       7,50)0      862,500
Portland cement       bag     35.00    5,000       175,000   1'i2,000    5,320,000    163,000    5,705,000    320,000   11,200,000
Concret,! in major    cu.m   700.00    1,100       770,000   214,000   16,800,000       26,000   18,200,000      51,10)0   35,770,000
structt,res
Reinforcement         Kg       4.00  100,000       400,000   3'2,000   11,408,000    410,000    1,640,000    862,000    3,448,000
Miscellaneous
metalwurk            Kg      25.00   10,000       250,000    )8,000       450,000      20,000       500,000     48,000    1,200,000
Furnishing gates)    ton    32,500          4      130,000         14      455,000          14      455,000           32    1,040,000
and hoLsts      )            2,125
Installing gates)    ton      2,125         4        8,500        14        29,800          14       29,800          32        68,100
and hoLsts      )
Gabions               cu.m   225.00    3,500       787,500       -             -           -             -        3,500       787,500
Contractor's camp    L.S.                       -            -           -                               -        -         6,000,000
3.100.500              26,774.800               30,669,800                66,545,100
B. Canals
SuPply Canals         Remodeled Canals                                       Total
Item                  Unit  Unit    Quantity    Cost         Quantity    Cost                                   Quantity    Cost
Description                  Cost
Care and handling    L.S.      -          -        600,000              1,400,000                                          2,000,000
of water
Excavation, unclass, cu.m   13.50    21,000       283,500    14,000       189,000                                35,000      472,500
for structures
Excavation, unclass, cu.m   12.50   550,000   6,875,000   315,000   3,937,500                                   865,000  10,812,500
for canals
Excavation, unclass, cu.m   11.50       6,000       69,000     4,000       46,000                                10,000      115,000
borrow areas
Overhaul              cu.m-km 4.00      6,000       24,000     4,000       16,000                                10,000       40,000
Placing canal         cu.m   10.50   300,000   3,150,000   430,000   4,515,000                                  680,000   7,665,000
embankments
Backfill and          cu.m   11.50      6,500       74,750     2,500       28,750                                 9,000      103,500
structures
Compaction of         cu.m    6.50      3,800       24,700     2,300       14,950                                 6,100       39,650
backfill
Riprap                cu.m  115.00      3,900      448,500     3,100      356,500                                  7,000     805,000
Portland cement       bag    35.00    26,000       910,000    19,500      682,500                                45,500   1,592,500
Concrete in           cu.m  720.00      2.800   2,016,000      1,300      936,000                                 4,100   2,952,000
structures
Concrete pipe,        lin.m 310.00         10        3,100        920     192,200                                    630     195,300
18-inch
Concrete pipe,        lin.m 360.00         10        3,600       400      144,000                                    410     147,600
24-inch
Concrete pipe,        lin.m 425.00        130       55,250         30      12,750                                    160      68,000
30-inch
Concrete pipe,        lin.m 480.00         70       33,600         80      38,400                                    150      72,000
36-inch
Concrete pipe,        lin.m 560.00         40       22,400         30      16,300                                     70      38,700
42-inch
concrete pipe,        lin.m 650.00         90       58,500         60      39,000                                    150      97,500
48-inch
Reinforcement         kg      4.00   165,000       660,000    50,000      200,000                                215,000     860,000
Miscellaneous         kg      25.00    15,700      392,500      2,900      72,500                                 18,600     465,000
metalwork
Furnishing gates      ton32,500.00         41   1,332,500          63   2,047,500                                    104   3,380,000
and hoists
Installing gates      ton 2,125.00         41       27,125         63     133,875                                    104      221,000
and hoists
Gravel surfacing      cu.m  100.00    10,000   1,000,000            0            0                                10,000   1,000,000
Contractor's camp    L.S.       -         -           _           _           _6,000,000
39.142.750



ANNEX 3
-65 -
Table 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III
Field Headquarters - Cost Esimtate
No.      Item                        Unit        Quantity       Rate        Amount
    (YRls)-
20    2-bedroom houses               sq m         2,300         2,200      5,060,000
14    3-bedroom houses               sq m         2,184         2,200      4,804,800
1    6-bedroom houses               sq m           254         2,200        558,800
3    Dormitories                    sq m         1,110         2,200      2,442,000
1    Office                         sq m           300         2,200        660,000
1    Veterinary office              sq m            72         2,200        158,400
1    Animal shed and laboratory   sq m              36         1,450         52,200
1    Warehouse                      sq m           100         1,450        145,000
Water supply system            L.S.                                  1,000,000
Sewage system                  L.S.                                    700,000
Electrical system              L.S.                                    800,000
Internal roads                 L.S.                                    500,000
Boundary wall                  m              300           550        165,000
Total                                                            17,046,200



YMEWN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIhAMA DEVELOPINRT PROJECT III (WADR,MAWR)
Upit Costs for the Installatios of Secs Water ,S-ply Systems
- ---- --- --- ----- ---- ---- --YRla -- ------ --- ---- --- ---------- ----
Unit Coot                  System  1                 System  2               Syoem  3                 System 4                  sseste   5              System  6                System  7
(OBasd on villoge       (Based on village        (Based on village        (Based on  illage        (Based oo village        (Based as village        (Based em village
Job/item  deasriptios                               Unit          Rote            popolation  00)         populatino 500)         ppoulatios 1,000)        popolation 1,505)        popolatios 1.500)        popolatios 4,000)        popolation 5,000)
Quantity    Co t        QOastity    Cost         Qua-titv    Cost         Qantity    COst          Quanity    Cost          Qoastity    Cost         Quantity    Cost
Boll
Dig see sell (above eater table)                                        m.          220               20        4,400         40         0,800         25        5,500          25        5,500          25        5,500          25        5,500      Tobewell  150,000)
DSepes soli (below eater table)                                         m           550                2        1,100           4        2,200          5        2,750           7        3,050           7        3,850          10        5,500
Li.s  cell (labor asd material)                                          .        1,100               22       24,200         44       48,400          30       33,000          32       35,200          32       35,200          35       38,500
Sopply 4 i-stall well-head platfoe  and ar.es. cover                   so.          600                1          600           2        1,200          1           600          1           600          1           600          1           600
Supply & iselel1  steel platfoem relsforcemest/p,sp sopport            no.          500                1          500           2        1,000          1           500          1          500           1           500          1           500
Cos-sroct deais channel and stock troogh                               no.        1,100                1        1,100           2        2,200          -             -          -             -          -             -          -             -
Pl=P
Supply & instll pump (mosolift or turbise)
(o)  hood-operated                                                     no.       5,300                 2       10,600          4       21,200           -             -          -             -          -             -          -             -          -            -
(b)  esgies eperated (i-olodes head, shafts,                           no.      10,500/                -            -           -            -          4       10,500           1       10,500           1       10,500           1       13,400           1       13,400
column pipes, p=p mosstigR)                                              13,400
Supply h isetall dieael engine
(a)  10 hp (Ya-sor/Lit-er)                                             no.       6,000                 -            -           -            -          1        6,000           1        6,000           1        6,000           --                       -             -
(b)  16 hp (YTasar/Lieter)                                             no.      10.350                 -            -                                   -             -          -             -          -             -          1       10,350           1       10,350        a.
Supply 4 is.tll belting, -oostifg bracket,                            no.        2,750/               -             -          -            -          1        2,750           1        2,750           1        2,750           1        3,850           1        3,850        a.
elutch & feel deems                                                              3,850
Task
Supply 6 install preee-d steel ol1iaft   task
(bolted plote) iscluding roof
(a)  30,000 1                                                          no.      28,000                 -                                                              -          1       28,000           -             -
(b)  60,000 1                                                          no.      47,000                                                                                           -             -          1       47,000
(C)  75,000 1                                                          eo.      50,000                 -            -           -            -          -             -          -             -          -             -          I       50,000           1       50,000
G.L. rask (masonry 4 01 rootfig) (3x3x2 a)                             so       20,000                 -             -          -            -           1       20,000           -            -           -            -           -            -           -            -
8 m-ower, R.C. pillar type with ladder                                 no.      40,700                 -             -          -            -           -            -           1      40,700            1      40,700            -            -           -            -
10-12 mtoeer,  teel girder vith ladder                                 no.      48,400                 --                                                                        -             -           -            -           1      48,400           1       48,400
pipinu
steel cosne ctig pipe closs A 90 a  OD                                  m.           35                _             _          _            -        150         5,250        200         7,000        500        17,500           -            -           -            -
110 a  OD                               o.           45                -            -           -            -          -             -          -             -          -             -        700       31,500         700       31,500
PVC piping  (a) 20 a  0D P.C. 16 kg/. 2                                               4                _                                                 -                      25           100         50           200        100           400        100          400
(b) 50 = OD P.C. 10 kg/. 2 I.                                           12                -                                                                         -             -      2,000       24,000       2,000       24,000       2,000       24,000
(c) 63 a  OD P.C. 10 kg/b     2                            m.           15                -            -          _                                            2,000        30,000      4,000        60 000       4,000       60 000      4,000        60,000
Pipe a-d tap fittitgs                                                          7% pipe toots           -             -          _            _           -        1,300           -        7,420           -       15,200           -       15,600           -      15,600
Otbees
Pomp/engise boose construction (4x3x3) (0.1. sbeet)                    no.        7,200                -             -          -            -           1        7,200           1        7,200           1        7,200           1        7,200           1        7,200         1,
Stock troogh bdjaeet to oveeflem pipe and/or away                      no.        1,500                -             -          _            -           1        1,500           2        3,000           3        4,500           3        4,500           3       4,500
St-ad pipe moosting asd splash base                                    no.          220                -             -          -            -           -            -         16         3,420         20         4.400         40        80800          40       80800
Cost per ..it                                                                                               42500                    85o000                  96.850                  19tQ740                  285.600                   328.600                 428.Q00
NBmber of is.tollatios osits                                                                                    22                       29                       29                        4                        6                        3                       10
Cost                                                                                                       935000                2.465 000                2.00.650                   766 960                1.713.600                   975,800               4.280.000
August 1978



- 67 -                                  Annex 3
Table 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Estimates of Capital Investments, Operation & Maintenance for Agriculture
Extension & Veterinary Services
Year 1  Year 2  Year 3 Year 4  Year 5  Total  Local   Foreign   Foreign
Item                              --------------------- YRL's00O --------------------  Exchange  Exchange %
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION
Experts & Staff
Extension Expert                 180       180      180    180       180    900       0      900           100
Counterparts (expatriates)       135       135      135    135       135    675       0      675           10(
Fellowships                       -        300      150       -        -    450        0     450           10l
Extension Trainees               162         -        -       -        -    162    162         0             t
Extension Agents                  -        390      390    390       390   1560   1560          0            (
Extension Drivers                 72        90      126    126       126    540    540         0             0
Sultotal              549      1095      981    8',1     831   4287   2262    2025
Capital Investnent
Buildings
Extension Centers              700       785        -       -        -   1485    594       891            60
Suttotal              700       785                -        -   1485    594       891
Equipment
Vehicles                       154        68        -       -        -    222       0      222           103
Motorcycles                      -       120        -       -        -    120        0     120           100
Training ecuipment              27         -        -       _        -      27      0       27           100
Extension equipment            200       408        -       -        -    608       0      608           100
Spare parts                    114       179        -       -        -    293       0      293           100
Su'ctotal             495       775                             1270             1270
Operation & Maintenance
Vehicles                        48        84       84      d4       84    384    384          0            0
Motorcycles                      -        90       90      "0       90    360    360          0            0
Tractors                         -        96       96      '6       96    384    384         0             0
Demonstration Inputs                      30       40      40       20    130      26      104            80
Subtotal               48       300      310    310       290   1258   1154       104
Total AgricultuLral Extension   1792        2955    1291   1141    1121   8300   4010    4290                 48
VETERINARY SERVICES
Experts & Staff
Veterinarian (1)                 180       180      180    180       180    900              900           100
Animal Health Assistant (1)    24            24      24      24       24    120    120                       0
Livestock Assistants (5)          84        84       84      84       84    420    420                       0
Livestrock Attendant/             14        14       14      14       14      70      70                     0
Store Keeper (1)
Subtotal              302       302      302    302       302   1510    610       900
Equipment
Office Equipment                   2          2       -       -        -       4       4                     0
Veterinary Equipment              14         14       -       -        -      28               28          100
Vehicles                          74          -       -       -        -      74               74          100
Motorcycles                       24                          -        -      24               24          100
Spare Parts                       30         -        -       -        -      30      _       30           100
Subtotal              144        16                              160       4      156
Operation & Maintenance
Vehicles                          24         24       24     24       24    120    120                       0
Motorcycles                       18         18       18     18       18      90      90                     0
Expendable Veterinary Supplies 35            35       35     35       35    175               175          100
Experimental Animals & Feed    80            80       80     80       80    400    400         _             0
Subtotal              157       157      157    157       157    785    610       175
Total Veterinary Services          603        475      459    459      459   2455   1224    1231



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Agricultural Credit Cost Estimates
Foreign    Foreign
Item                                 Year 1 Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Total         Local  Exchange   Exchange
------------ YRL's 000 ---------------------------------------                  %
Experts
Branch Manager                     67.50    67.50    67.50    67.50    67.50    337.50            0    337.50      100%
Supporting Staff /1
Senior Accountant                       -        -    21.00    21.00    21.00       63.00    63.00          0        0
Accountants (2)                     18.00    36.00    36.00    36.00    36.00    162.00   162.00            0        0
Cashier (1)                         18.00    18.00    18.00    18.00    18.00       90.00    90.00          0        0
Senior Loan Officer                     -        -    21.00    21.00    21.00       63.00    63.00          0        0
Credit Supervisors (2)             18.00    18.00    36.00    36.00    36.00    144.00   144.00             0        0
Clerk                                6.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00       54.00    54.00          0        0
Typist                               6.00    12.00    12.00    12.00    12.00       54.00    54.00          0        0
Messenger                            6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00      6.00     30.00    30.00           0       0
Drivers                              9.00    18.00    18.00    18.00    18.00       81.00    81.00          0        0
Subtotal               81.00   120.00   180.00   180.00   180.00    741.00   741.00
Buildings &Li     
Office & Living Quarters for      253.00   253.00                                  506.00   202.40    303.60        60%
FManager (460m  at YRls2200/m2)   17
Farm Inputs Store                 217.50   217.50          -                          435-00   174.00    261.00     60% 
(600m2 at YR1's 450/m2)
Subtotal              470.50   470.50                                 941.00   376.40    564.60
Transportation Equipment
4-Wheel Drive Vehicles (2)          34.00        -    34.00         -         -     68.00         0     68.00      100%
Lorry(8T) (1)                           -    90.00         -        -         -     90.00         0      90.00     100%
Motorcycles (4)                      8.00     8.00         -        -         -     16.00         0      16.00     100%
Spare parts (30%)                  26.10         -    26.10         -         -     52.20         0     52.20      100%
Subtotal               68.10    98.00    60.10                         226.20              226.20               3
Operation & Maintenance               18.00    24.00    48.00    48.00    48.00    186.00   186.00             0       O 0      x
Loans
Short-term                        345.00   975.00   850.00  1625.00  1470.00   5265.00  1053.00   4212.00           80%
Medium-Term                       682.00  1119.00  1436.00  1158.00  1475.00   5870.00  1174.00   4696.00
Subtotal             1027.00  2094.00  2286.00  2783.00  2945.00  11135.00  2227.00   8908.00
Total Agricultural Credit         1732.10  2874.00  2641.60  3078.50  3240.50  13566.70  3530.40  10036.30
1/ Half cost paid by the project and the other half paid by Agricultural Credit Bank to cover areas other than Wadi Mawr.



- 69_                                     Annex 3
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC                              Table 9
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Surdud Farm Cost Estimates
Foreign Foreign
Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5    Total   Local    Exchange Exchange
Item                                                                YRL'S 000 ------------------------------          %
RESEARCIi COMPONENT
Experts
Sorghum & Maize Breeder           180.00   180.00   180.00   180.00   180.00    900.00              0   900.00    100%
(Farm Coordinator)
Livestock/Forage                   180.00   180.00   180.00   180.00   180.00    900.00             0   900.00    100%
Cotton Agronomist                       -         -        -         -         -          -         -         -
(Supplied from Taiz-Res.)
Farm Superintendent                 67.50    67.50    67.50    67.50    67.50    337.50             0   337.50
Associates or Counterparts         168.75   337.50   337.50   337.50   337.00   1518.75             0  1518.75
Subtotal            596.25   765.00   765.00   765.00   765.00   3656.25                 3656.25
Support Staff
Accountant                          42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    42.00    210.00   210.00              0        0
Secretary                           30.00    60.00    60.00    60.00    60.00    270.00   270.00              0        0
Storekeeper                         24.00    24.00    24.00    24.00    24.00    120.00   120.00              0        0
Drivers                             81.00   162.00   162.00   162.00   162.00    729.00   729.00              0        0
Farm Laborers                      360.00   360.00   360.00   360.00   360.00   1800.00  1800.00              0        0
Farm technicians                        -   120.00   120.00   120.00   120.00    480.00   480.00              0        0
Subtotal            537.00   768.00   768.00   768.00   768.00   3609.00  3609.00
Buildings & Laboratory               846.35  1692.70   846.35           -         -   3385.40  1354.16  2031.24        60%
Furniture & Laboratory Equipment  203.75   407.50   203.75              -         -    815.00         0   815.00    100%
Transportation Equipment             123.17   246.35   123.17           -         -    492.70         0   492.70    100%
Farm Equipment                       150.23   300.46   150.23           -         -    600.92         0   600.92    100%
Operational Expenses                 600.20   600.20   600.20   600.20   600.20   3001.00  3001.00              0        0
Total Research Component       3056.95  4779.71  3456.69  2133.2f  2133.U2l  15560277  L9L.16  7546.11
PRODUCTION COMPONEN1
Technical Assistance
Farm Manager                        90.00   180.00   180.00    90.00           -    540.00          0   540.00    100%
Engineer in Charge                  90.00   180.00   180.00    90.00           -    540.00          0   540.00    100%
Agronomist                          90.00   180.00   180.00    90.00           -    540.00          0   540.00    100%
Assistant Engineer                      -   135.00   135.00           -        -    270.00          0   270.00
Assistant Farm Manager                  -    67.50    67.50           -        -    135.00          0   135.00
Assistant Horticulturist            33.75    67.50    67.50    33.75           -    202.50          0   202.50
Associate Agronomist                33.75    67.50    67.50    33.75            -    202.50         0   202.50
Subtotal            337.50   877.50   877.50   337.50                 2430.00            2430.00
Administration Staff                 660.00   660.00   660.00   660.00   660.00   3300.00  3300.00               0      0%
Buildings                            937.35  1874.70   937.35           -         -   3749.40  1499.76  2249.64        60%
Furniture                             66.25   132.50    66.25           -         -    265.00          0   265.00    100%
Transportation Equipment             314.60   629.20   314.60           -         -   1258.40          0  1258.40    100%
Farm Equipment                       960.05  1920.10   960.05           -         -   3840.20          0   3840.20   100%
Working Capital
Farm Inputs                        660.00         -         -         -         -    660.00          0    660.00   100%
Others                            4195.80         -         -         -         -   4195.80  4195.80            0      0%
Subtotal           4855.80                                            4855.80  4855.80    660.00
Total Production                8131.55  6094.00  3815.75   997.50   660.00  19698.80  8995.56  10703.24



Annex 3
- 70 -                          Table 10
Page 1
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Equipment List
Estimated
Quantity             Cost
YRls '000
A.  Project Management
Vehicles (4W.D.) 3ong chassis                  8                 320
Vehicles (4W.D.) regular chassis              18                 612
Vehicles (2.E.D.)                              2                  50
Pickups (4W.D.)                               22                 880
Passenger buses                                2                 200
Generating sets                                3                 336
Water pump                                     1                  14
Water pump engine                              1                  14
Air conditioners                             220                 484
Spare parts                                 L.S.                 873
Office and survey equipment                  L.S.                180
Radio equipment                              L.S.                100
Laboratory and testing equipment             L.S.                 45
Workship equipment                           L.S.                 45
Hydrology equipment                          L.S.                 22
Subtotal                                                       4,175
B. Access Roads
Crawler tractor D-6 or equivalent
with blade and rear winch                    1                 443
Scraper Drawn, 8 cyd.                          1                 146
Front end loader                               1                 234
Motor grader                                   1                 350
Dump truck                                     1                 175
Trucks (5-7 tons)                              2                 140
Rubber tired tractor with
backhoe and rear drag blade                  1                 227
Spares                                      L.S.                 686
Subtotal                                                       2,401
C. Rural Water Supply
Pumps, hand operated                         160                 592
Pumping sets, diesel operated
2 liters/sec with 10 HP engines            39                  507
4 liters/sec with 16 HP engines            13                  247
Pressed steel aluminum tanks
30,000 liters                               4                   80
60,000 liters                               6                  192
75,000 liters                              13                 455
Steel towers, 8 meters high                  10                  280
Steel towers, 10-12 meters high              13                  442
Steel connecting pipes
90 mm diameter                          8,150 m                204
114 mm diameter                         9,100 m                318
PVC or GI pipe
20 mm diameter                          1,700 m                  5
50 mm diameter                         38,000 m               304
63 mm diameter                         84,000 m               840
Pipe fittings and mountings                L.S.                  250
Tools and spare parts for
pumping sets                             L.S.                  226
Trenching machines                             3                 162
Spares for trenching machines              L.S.                   49
Subtotal                                                      5,153



- 71 -                    Annex 3
Table 10
Page 2
List of Equipment
Quantity             Total
YRls '000
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Transportation Equipment
4-wheel drive vehicles                                 3                  102
4-wheel drive (long-base)                              3                  120
motorcycles                                           30                  120
Training Equipment
arabic typewriter                                      2                    6
stencil machine                                        1                    6
offset or gestetner                                    1                    4
overhead projector                                     2                    8
photocopying machine                                   1                    3
Extension Equipment
camera and closeup (35 mm)                             2                    6
movie camera (8 mm)                                     1                  12
movie projector (8 mm)                                  1                   2
slide projectors                                       2                    2
movie viewer and screen                                 1                   1
film splicer                                           1                    1
silk screen for posters                                1                    3
audio-visual mobile units                              1                   50
megaphones                                            10                    3
casette recorders                                      2                    3
calculators                                            2                    1
pocket calculators                                    10                    1
salt bridge                                            1                    1
scales (plots)                                         5                   10
tractors (65 hp)                                       4                  180
tractors with implements                               4                  200
seed drill fertilizers                                 4                   80
sprayer (tractor mounted, 500 L)                       2                   16
motorized knapsack sprayers                           10                   14
hand-operated (18 L)                                   5                    2
corn sheller and thresher (for plots)                  4                   20
spare parts (30% of equipment)                                            293
Subtotal                                                          1,270
VETERINARY SERVICES
Office equipment                                         1                    4
Veterinary equipment
field equipment                                                             5
laboratory equipment                                                        3
refrigeration equipment                                                    10
camping equipment                                                          10
Subtotal                                                              30
Transportation Equipment
4-wheel drive stationwagon                             1                   34
4-wheel drive long-base stationwagon                   1                   40
motorcycles                                                                30
spare parts (30% of equipment)                                             30
Subtotal                                                             128



-72 -                      Annex 3
Table 10
Page 3
AGRICULTURAL CREDIT
Transportation Equipment
4-wheel drive vehicles                               2                  68.00
lorry (8T)                                           1                  90.00
motorcycles                                          4                  16.00
spare parts (30%)                                                       52.20
Subtotal                                                         226.20
RESEARCH COMPONENT (Surdud Farm)
Camp Equipment                                                           365.00
Laboratory Equipment                                                     450.00
Transportation Equipment
4-wheel drive vehicles                               6                 204.00
motorcycles                                         10                  40.00
pickup truck                                         1                  45.00
truck (8 T tipping)                                  1                  90.00
Spare parts (30%)                                                      113.70
Subtotal                                                          492.70
Farm Equipment
tractors (65 hp)                                     3                 135.00
tractor implements                                   3                 150.00
stalk shredder                                       2                  22.00
corn sheller and thresher (for plots)                4                  20.00
motorized knapsacks                                 20                  28.00
tractor mounted sprayer (500 L)                      2                  16.00
tipping trailers                                     2                  22.50
seed cleaner                                         1                  13.50
seed drill                                           2                  44.00
scales                                               5                  11.25
spare parts (30%)                                                      138.67
Subtotal                                                          600.92
PRODUCTION COMPONENT
Camp Equipment                                                           265.00
Transportation Equipment
long-base vehicles                                   2                  80.00
4-wheel drive vehicles                               3                 102.00
motorcycles                                          4                  16.00
pickup truck                                         2                  90.00
truck (8 T)                                          2                 180.00
refrigerated truck (12 T)                            1                 180.00
bulldozer                                            1                 200.00
mobile crane                                         1                 120.00
spare parts (30%)                                                      290.40
Subtotal                                                        1,258.40
Farm Equipment
tractors (75 hp) with disc plough, chisel plough  15                 1,950.00
ridger and leveler
stalk shredder                                       3                  54.00
planter, ridger and fertilizer spreader              5                 125.00
ridger, cultivator and fertilizer spreader           5                  55.00
tractor mounted sprayer (boom)                       5                  72.50
orchard sprayer                                      1                  14.50
transplanter/ridger                                  1                  18.00
combines                                             2                 248.00
corn sheller                                         1                 180.00
tipping trailers                                     6                  81.00
cotton trailers                                      4                  64.00
fuel trailers                                        2                  42.00
miscellaneous                                                           50.00
spare parts (30%)                                                      886.20
Subtotal                                                        3,840.20



- 73 -                       ANNEX 4
Tables 1-2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Table 1: PRESENT AND PLANNED GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT
AND EMPLOYMENT BY SECTOR
1980/81              Annual
1975/76           (Final Year)            Rate of
(Actual)    %      Projected        %    Growth (%)
Total GDP (million YRls)          5,181      100      7,671         100       8.2
- Agriculture                   2,305       44     3,010           39       5.5
Total Employment ('000)           1,165.8   100       1,267.2       100       1.7
- Agriculture                     854       73        876.6        69        .5
Average GDP per Worker (YRls)  4,444         100      6,054         100       6.4
- Agriculture                   2,699       61      3,434          57       4.9
Source: EGWA, Summary of the First Five-Year Plan of the Yemen Arab Republic
(November, 1977).
Table 2: TOTAL AND AGRICULTURAL TRADE
------ (Million YRls) ------
Exports                               Imports
Agricultural /2
Year /1        Total        Agriculture           Total         Food        Non-Food
1971-72         24.7            18.1               204.4         90.9          8.7
1972-73         25.3           23.9                410.7        176.3         14.1
1973-74         55.4           53.8                745.0        364.4         13.1
1974-75         53.0           33.3                981.0       418.6          29.1
1975-76         50.0            39.0             1,707.0        714.6         44.4
1976-77         50.5             NA              3,035.3        868.4         72.1
/1   Fiscal year ending June 30.
/2   Does not include fertilizers, pesticides, etc.
Source: Central Bank of Yemen, Fifth Annual Report (1975/76) and CPO 1977/78
Trade Statistics.



- 74                           ANNEX 4
Tables 3-4
Table 3: AVAILABILITY AND USE OF MODERN INPUTS AND EQUIPMENT
Tractors        Fertilizer         Insecticide          Agricultural
Year               in Use            Imports            Imports           Pumps in Use
(tons)             (tons)
1969/70             317              1,997                118                 1,264
1971/72             317              3,153                135                 1,614
1971/72             340             4,046                 218                 2,014
1972/73             353              1,799                382                 2,384
1973/74             364             4,256                 375                 2,900
1974/75             371              3,869                717                 3,451
1975/76             417              7,932              2,510                 3,951
Source: Central Planning Organization, National Accounts Report (1977).
Table 4: PRODUCTION TARGETS DURING THE FIRST FIVE-YEAR PLAN
Area ('000 ha)                Production ('000 tons)
Base Year  Fifth Year             Base Year  Fifth Year
Crops                  (1975/76)  (1980/81)   Index   (1975/76)  (1980/81)  Index
Sorghum & Millet         1,145        1,042         91       859        1,042       121
Maize                        50          50        100         72          110      153
Barley                       68          63         93        75            83      110
Wheat                        50          80        160        52           128      246
Cotton                       14          25        179        13            32      246
Oilseeds                     10          12        120         6            11      183
Pulses                       76          84         11        76           105      138
Tobacco                       5           6         12         6             8     133
Vegetables                   20          47        235       183           705     385
Potatoes                      7          20        286        76          360      474
Coffee                        0.1         1.0   1,000          3             4     133
Fruits                        0.2         3.9   1,950        112          142      127
Livestock Products
Milk                                                         331          367      111
Meat                                                          38           43.70  115
Poultry                                                        1.4          3.1   221
Eggs (million eggs)                                          210          235      112
Source: ECWA Summary of the First Five-Year Plan of the Yemen Arab Republic
(November, 1977).



-75 -                             ANNEX 4
Table 5
Table 5: AGRICULTURAL INPUT REQUIREMENTS DURING THE
FIRST FIVE-YEAR PLAN
Item                          Uhit       Base Year       Fifth Year       Increase %
(1975/76)       (1980/81)
Chemical fertilizers       tons            7,000           27,000             286
Insecticides               tons              215            1,100            412
Veterinary supplies        1,000 YRls         75              200             167
Feed concentrates          tons               -            17,500              -
Tractors                   No.             1,130            3,565             215
Tree seedlings
Fruits                   1,000              46              368            700
Forestry trees           1,000             400            2,000            400
Coffee                  1,000               12              435          2,346
Source:  ECWA Summary of the First Five-Year Plan of the Yemen Arab Republic
(November 1977).



- 76 -
ANNEX 4
Table 6
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Distribution of Farm Size (Area Cultivated and Fallow)/l
% of Farms                          % of Land
Size of Farm             Project Area   Wadi Area Only        Project Area   Wadi Area Only
Under 10 m  ds
(3.6 ha)I-                   26.0             64.0               2.0            13.0
10.1-20 maads
(3.6-7.2 ha)                 24.5             16.5               6,5            10.0
20.1-50 maads
(7.2-18.0 ha)                28.0             11.0              16.5            15.5
50.1-100 maads
(18-36 ha)                   12.5              5.0              17.0            12.5
100.1-250 maads
(36-90 ha)                    6.5              0               19.5              0
250 maads and over
(90 ha and over)              2.5              3.5              38.5            49.0
Total                    100.0            100.0             100.0           100.0
Maximum in sampleL3         2,000m             400m
(720 ha)         (144 ha)
Mean                           57 m             20m
(20.5 ha)         (7.2 ha)
/1 Adapted from IBRD, Transportation Department, Regional Development Unit, YAR
Feeder Road Study, A Baseline Socio-Economic Survey of the Wadi Mawr Region,
May 1978.
/2 1 ha - 2.78 maads.
7.- Sample N = 161.



- 77 -
ANNEX 4
Table 7
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Distribution of Farm Size (Area Cultivated Only)/L
% of Farms                           % of Land
Size of Farm           Project Area   Wadi Area Only        Project Area   Wadi Area Only
Under 10 maads
(3.6 ha)                   37.0             64.0               5.5              13.0
10.1-20 maads
(3.6-7.2 ha)               25.5             16.5              12.0              10.0
20.1-50 maada
(7.2-18 ha)                25.0             11.0              26.5              15.5
50.1-100 maads
(18-36 ha)                  9.0              5.0              21.5              12.5
100.1-250 maads
(36-90 ha)                  2.0              0                11.0               0
250.1 maads and over
(90 ha and over)            1.5              3.5              23.5              49.0
Total                  100.0            100.0             100.0            100.0
Maximum in sample/3         500 m             400 m
(180 ha)         (144 ha)
Mean                          29 m             20 m
(10.4 ha)         (7.2 ha)
/1 Adapted from IBRD, Transportation Department, Regional Development Unit, YAR
Feeder Road Study, A Baseline Socio-Economic Survey of the Wadi Mawr Region,
May 1978.
/2 1 ha = 2.78 maads.
/3 Sample N = 161.



- 78 -                     ANNEX 4
Table 8-
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR?
Distribution of Land Ownership -
% of Owners                           % of Land
Area Owned              Project Area   Wadi Area Only         Project Area   Wadi Area Only
Under 10 m4ads
(3.6 ha)12                  28.0             48.0                1.5              7.5
10.1-20 maads
(3.6-7.2 ha)                19.0              21.0               2.5              9.0
20.1-50 maads
(7.2-18.0 ha)               28.0             19.0                8.0             17.0
50.1-100 maads
(18-36 ha)                  14.0               8.0               9.5             20.0
100.1-250 maads
(36-90 ha)                   7.0               0                11.0              0
250 maad and over
(90 ha and over)             4.0               4.0              67.5             46.5
Total                   100.0            100.0              100.0            100.0
Maximum in sample/          3,500m             400m
(1,260 ha)         (144 ha)
Mean                          115m              34m
(41.4 ha)         (12.2 ha)
/1 Adapted from IBRD, Transportation Department, Regional Development Unit, YAR
Feeder Road Study, A Baseline Socio-Economic Survey of the Wadi Mawr Region,
May 1978
/2 1 ha = 2.78 maads.
/3 Sample N = 161



79                       ANNEX 4
Table X
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Distribution of Farm and Farmer by
Type of Exploitation and Location A
Wadi    Wadi and
Type of Exploitation/Farmer        Only    Rainfed       Farmer Type
(%)       (%)
Owner-operated only                  30        46            43
Owner-operated and
sharecropped                       7         41            17
Sharecropped only                    63        13            19
Landless worker                      NA        NA            21
Total                         100        100           100
/1 Adapted from IBRD, Transportation Department, Regional
Development Unit, YAR Feeder Road Study, A Baseline Socio-
Economic Survey of the Wadi Mawr Region, May 1978.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPNMT III PROJECT (WADI MAWR)
Projected Area in Crops Produced by Modern Techniques* - Spate Area
Present
Cropped                                                              Year
Area        1        2        3       4        5       6        7       8        9       10       11      12      13       14       15
-------------__--___--------------------------------------------- (haT --------------------------------------------------------------
Sorghum (white)           7,400      0       800    1,500   3,600   5,000   6,ooo   6,750    7,500  7,900   8,ooo   8,100   8,200   8,300   8,400   8,400
Sorghum (red)             4,000      0       200       300     400      500     650      750      850    900   1,000   1,050   1,100   1,100   1,100   1,100
Sesame                    1,500      0       400       600     800   1,200   1,350   1,450    1,500  1,600   1,650   1,650   1,700   1,700   1,700   1,700
Millet                    1,60o       0      200       300     300      4oo     500      650      700    800      8^^      900     950   1,000   1,100   1,200
Cotton                      200      0       100       250     300      400     550      700      850  1,000   1,100   1,200   1,300   1,400   1,500   1,600   X
Maize                       150       0      100       200     310      550     750   1,250    1,650  1,900   2,200   2,250   2,420   2,500   2.500   2,500
Watermelon                   80       0       30        50      85      110     140      180       220    250      300     350     400      400      450     450
Sweetmelon                   70      0        20        40      80      125     165      200      250    300      350      400     450      500     530      550
Onion                         0       0       10        20      50      100     150      200      250    300      350      400     450      470     490      500
Total projected area*                   1,860    3,260   5,925   8,385  10,255  12,130   13,770 14,950  15,750  16,300  16,970  17,370  17,770  18,000
Total area cropped   15,000 15,000   15,000   15,000  15,500  16,000  17,000  18,000   18,000 18,000  18,000  18,000  18,000  18,000  18,000  18,000    l
H ID
H .5



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Projected Area in Crops Produced by Modern Techniques - Well Area
Present
Cropped                                            Year
Area          1       2        3        4       5        6        7       8        9       10
-___________________ _____-------------   (ha ------------------------------------------
Sorghum (white)       1,400       400      600     900    1,150   1,000   1,100   1,150   1,200   1,250   1,250
Sorghum (red)           650         0        0       0         0        0       0        0        0       0        0
Sesame                  200        60      130     250       300     400      450      500      550     575      600
Cotton                   20        15       40      60        80      120     160      200      200     200      200
Maize                    50        20       80     170       300      400     600      750      900   1,050   1,200
Watermelons              60        15       55      80       110      150     170      180      190     200      200        X
Sweetmelon               50        15       40      65        95     130      150      170      180     195      200        1
Onion                    20        10       20      35        60       70     100      120      140     150      150
Tomato                   40        15       25      35        55       70     100      120      140     150      150
Papaya                   10         5        7      11        20       25      30       40       50      50       50
Total projected                                                                                                        H
area                          555     997   1,606    2,170   2,365   2,860   3,230   3,550   3,820   4,000    II.
Total cropped                                                                                                          F
a34a
area              2,500    3,000   3,500   4,000    4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000   4,000



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Cash Flow Projection of Agricultural Credit Component
(in YRls '000)
1         2          3         4          5          6         7          8         9         10
Inflow
ACB funds A                                         1,700     1,670     1,190        380          -          -          -         -          -
Loans collected 2
a) short term                                      320      1,220     2,090      3,640      5,120        530         -          -          -
b) long term                                          0       140        360       650        880      1,150     1,050        800        530       310
Interest on loans
a' short term /3                                     20        go        150       260        370         40         -          -          -
b) long term                                          0        20         70       130        180        210       200        130         70        40
Sales of inputs a5                                    350     1,320      2,170     3,800      5,270        _            -         -          -         -
Total Inflow                                    2,390      4,460     6,030      8,860    11_820      1,930      1.250        930       6oo        350
Outflow
Investments in
a) buildings                                        470       470          -          -         -          -          -         -          -         -
b) transportation & office
equipment                                      70        100        60          -          -          -         -          -          -         -
Loans granted
a) short term                                       350     1,320     2,170      3,800      5,270          -          -         -          -          -
b) long term                                        680     1,120      1,440     1,160      1,470          -          -          -         -          -
Expenses
a) Interest on external funds /-                                -          -          -         -          -          -         -          -          -
b) Commission to input distribution
agents /7                                     10         50        90        150        210          -         -          -          -         -
c)  Experts a4n  staff                              150       180        250       250        250          -          -         -          -          -
d)  Operating costs                                  20        20         50        50         50          -          _         _          _
Purchase of inputs                                    640     1200       1,970     3,450      4,1470    _      
Total Outflow                                   2,390      4,1460    6,030      8,860    11,720           0          0         0          0          0
Cash balance - Annual                                   0         0          0          0       160      1,930      1,250       930        600        350
Accumulated Cash Balance                                0         0          0          0       100      2,030      3,28d     4,210      4,10      5,160
/1 From ACB equity funds.
2 Assumptions based on past ACF/ACB experience 90%, remainder
collected in following year.
/3 7% per annum
6% per annum
Sales price at 10% above purchase price, including 4% commission
paid to agents.
S Nil, assuming equity funds used.
14% purchase price.



- 83-                                            Annex 4
Table 13
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Rent and Cost Recovery Analyses /1
Spate Area                           Well Area
3 ha        lO ha          50 ha         lO ha           35 ha
Item                            (Owner        (Owner    (Owner Non-       (Owner       (Owner Non-
Operator)    Operator)   Operator)!/   Operator)         Operator)
-------------------------- (YRls) ----------------------------
1.  Gross value of production             84,460      242,220       1,507,670        734,950      2,572,330
2.  Less production (cash) costs           22,870      78,540        894,420         203,580      1,332,460
3.  Equals net cash income                61,590      163,680        513,250         531,370      1,239,870
4.  Less - depreciation                         0            0              0              0              0
5.       - family labor                    8,810       29,990               0         74,100              0
6.       - management                       3,080       8,180          51,330         53,140         93,000
7.       - return on capital                    0            0              0        104,360        365,260
8.       - risk allowance                   3,080       8,180          51,330         53,140         93,000
9.       - general taxes                   10,550       30,070         87,920         91,870        214,360
10.  Equals rent/surplus                    36,070      88,260         322,670        154,760        474,250
11.  Rent as percentage of                      59           54             63             29             38
net cash income (%)
12.  Volumetric water charges                    0            0              0              0              0
13.  Benefit tax                             2,390        7,100         39,830         47,620        166,670
14.  Total direct charges                    2,390        7,100         39,830         47,620        166,670
15.  Rent recovery index                         7            8             12             31             39
16.  Public sector outlay                   24,260       80,890        404,460         46,620        163,170
17.  Cost recovery index: 1                     10            9             10            102            102
18. Farmers' income (p.c.) at
full development (yr 15)
- owner operator                    2,060        5,160           -            12,600
- tenant                            1,230        2,790           -              -              -
- landlord                           -           2,790         13,720           -            28,730
19. Estimated national per
capita income, yr 15                  5,570        5,570          5,570          5,570          5,570
/1  Calculated on basis of owner operator on smaller farms and for owner on larger farms.
Values 1-10, 12-14, and 16 are incremental and discounted at 10%.
/2  Risk and management allowance included for non-operator since they would be expected to share the
incremental costs of intensifying production and therefore participate in decision making.



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Economic Rate of Return Calculation
(YRls '000)
Costs                                                                   Benefits
Project      Spate        Well                                Veterinary  Water   Surdud        Well        Spate      Local   Through  Surdud
Year     Management  Irrigation  Irrigation  Roads  Extension  Credit   Service    Supply   Farm       Irrigation  Irrigation  Traffic  Traffic   Farm
1       8,890      11,590      1,760      6,640    1,930     770        610      2,450   12,920       1,250            0        C       0        -240
2      22,120      37,540      1,760    14,660    3,140      830        500     7,260   14,030        3,660        1,400        0       0       3,490
3      12,300      48,900          0    13,260    1,320      360        470      6,110   12,670       6,370        2,530    1,970       0      15,730
4       7,180      18,100          0      1,000    1,170     300        250          0    8,680       9,600        5,740    1,970      470     15,930
5       3,790       1,070          0      1,100    1,150     300        250          0    8,350      11,620        9,830    1,970     507.60  16,030
6      -9,840       1,070          0        890      820       50       250          0    8,350       15,080      13,930    1,970      548.21  16,070
7         710       1,070          0        890      82o      50        250          0    8,660      17,210       17,250    1,970      592.06  16,070
8         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    8,660       20,560      20,950    1,970     639.43  16,070
9         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,270       21,740      24,280    1,970      690.58  16,070
10         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,360      21,890       27,690    1,970      745.83  16,070    1
11         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    8,930      21,890       30,930    1,970      805.50  16,070   4P
12         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,020      21,890       33,290    1,970      869.94  16,070
13         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,020      21,900       34,530    1,970      939.53  16,070
14         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,020       21,900      35,570    1.970   1,014.69  16,070
15         710       1,070          0        890      820       50       250          0    9,020       21,900      36,030    1,970   1,095.87  16,070
16         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,020       21,900      36,030    1,970   1,183.54  16,070
17         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,020       21,900      36,030    1,970   1,278.22  16,070
18         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,020       21,900      36,030    1,970   1,380.48  16,070
19         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,020       21,900      36,030    1,970   1,490.92  16,070
20         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0    9,020       21,900      36,030    1,970   1,610.19  16,070
21-50         710       1,070          0        890      820      50        250          0        0            0      36,030    1,970   1,739.0l       0
/1 Projected to grow at 8% per annum.
Internal rate of return (economic)
1.  Total Project                                             17%
Sensitivity analysis
(a)  All benefits reduced 20%                             13%
(b)  All costs increased 20%                              14%
(c)  One year delay in implementation                     16%
2. Wadi Mawr development only                                 16%
Sensitivity analysis
(a)  Irrigation works costs up 40%                        14%
(b)  Prices or yields down 20%                            13%
(c)  Addition to spate irrigated area down 30%            16%
(d)  Expansion of horticultural crops down 30%            15%
(e)  Delay in construction by one year                    15%
(f)  One year delay in utilization of water               14%
and establishment of extension service
3. Surdud farm only                                           24%



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Organization Chart
|Government of Yemen Arab Republic|
(Ministry of Agriculture)
Institutional Support
|   Cerntral  |                                                                                                ATihama Development Authoritym  i Agric Olture
Agricultura~l Research .......................                                                            ............................ofDrctr  '''''''''''''''' Credit Bank
Avso                                              Dieco  _Gen=ralManager Agric ulture|
M\anager          ||D,rector Eng,neer,ng ||Director Agriculture                                                                   |Director Finance and            Fil|ngrFil   aae
Surduc Farm n                         Department                                                    Production      || Administration    |                  |Tihama Projects                   Prjet
Wadi Mawr                Central                  Other                 Wadi Mawr                 Other                                          Assistant Manager      Assistant Managers
Project Staf            Workshop              Projects Staff            Project Staff          Prolects Staff                                        Wad, Mawr             Other Projects
-|Surveys                                                                   -Extensio an |                                                                   esne ;.  redit
Demonstrtio                                       Personnel                  Suevision
t0and                                                                      Protection                                       Budget          |-|Cashier
a Condtruction  |                                             -|    Veterinary    |                             |   Accounts                      Accounts
Payment Esitmates
-|    Hvdrolo9V  l  i  Marketing  l   l     Audit                     Distribution
Oeron tationd                                                                                                              Stores
; ;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ |Cashier   FC
- z:
WX
VVorld Bank- 19394



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Implementation Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year               |           |        19810        |         1981                  1982                   1983                   1984|
Calendar Year                           1979                  1980                   1981                   1982                   1983                   1984
IRRIGATION WORKS
Diversion Weirs                        ... ....... -
Canals                                              .............  ...   =    =    =              =    _
Tubewells                                _                            _    _    _                                              _
PROJECT HEADQUARTERS                 .          _                  _
ACCESS ROADS
Equipment Procurement             .... ....
Civil Works                             ...  ......
VILLAGE WATER SUPPLY
Equipment Procurement                  ......... ....
Construction
AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
Equipment Procurement             .........
Civil Works
Extension and Credit
Implementation
Surdud Farm Operations
.............  Bids and Contract Award                                                                                             World Bank - 19395
1t,
x



YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT III (WADI MAWR)
Crop Calendar
Jan.           Feb.             Mar.           Apr.            May             June            July            Aug.           Sept.           Oct             Nov              Dec.
Sorghum (White)   Spate & Well                                               ...__......................... ......
,__. ............ ...... .............
Sorghum (Red)      Spate          ............. ......                                                                                                                                                           .............
Sesame             Spate2J                                   _____                                                               _                ____________ .       ,. .                                             _
W=ll           .          __                                                                                                                       _                                      .
Cotton     Snnt                                                                                                                                                                                                          ......
Millet             SpuTe                                                                    ....                                         ......
Ranifield
Maize              Spate          _ 
Well           -
Watermelons        Spate                                                                               - - -______                                                               _
Well                           _________
Sweet Melons       Spate
Well
TomatoesO/         Well          _
Onions0            Spate
Well            _                       _                                                                                                      _             _                    _
1/ Apphcation of research recommendation in farming operations, crop pattern, and improved cultivars                                                              LEGEND
may change crops growing period.                                                                                                      [______  Land preparatlon and seeding/transplanting
y  Providing water is available.                                                                                                                                  Growing
3/ Transplants are grown in nursery from seeds.                                                                                       ----------- ---- Harvesting
.a.........                   ,, .. Ratoon Crop
World Bank - J396
n el



- 85 -                          ANNEX 5
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT III (WADI MAWR)
Related Document and Data Available in Project File
Reports and Studies Related to the Project
1.   Development of Wadi Mawr - Feasibility report draft (2 volumes).
2.   A Baseline Socio-Economic Survey of Wadi Mawr region.
Other Selected Papers
1.   Crop Budgets for spate and well irrigated areas.
2.   Farm budgets.
3.   Estimated agricultural credit requirements.
4.   Estimate for agricultural services, access roads and
maintenance and operation of village water supply
installations.
5.   Terms of Reference for consultants and agricultural
services experts.
6.   Demand projections of grains, fruits and vegetables.
7.   Comparison of international and domestic cotton prices.
8.   Cost and rent recovery analysis - assumptions used.
9.   Surdud Farm - projected cash flow and income statement.
10. Assumptions used in economic analysis.
11. Comparative costs of irrigation development in Tihama.



,~ LI0'           as                     ,0                            \Il,
t   g~~~/~~a1  .ds~~~~ B~~r\to6  dit   9  [        -;\  //gs         A               -~~~~~~~~~~r
7   7 Tt
3'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



