Document of
The World Bank                F I         OL
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2469-YAR
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
AND EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT
TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
FOR A
THIRD TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 21, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discl_osd without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
$1                     =         YRls 4.50 1/
YR1          1         =                $0.22
YRls     1,000                        $222.00
YRls 1,000,000         =          $222,222.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
ACB                 -      Agricultural Credit Bank
ACF                 -      Agricultural Credit Fund
ARS                 -      Agricultural Research Station
CPO                 -      Central Planning Organization
EEC                 -      European Economic Community
IFAD                -      International Fund for Agricultural Development
JPA                 -      Joint Project Agreement
LDA                 -      Local Development Association
TDA                 -      Tihama Development Authority
UNDP                -      United Nations Development Programme
1/ No par value for the Yemeni rial has yet been declared to the IMF.
All exchange transactions are effected at the Central Bank rate
which has been pegged to the US dollar since February 1973.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
THIRD TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (WADI MAWR)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:               Yemen Arab Republic
Amount:                 $15.0 million equivalent in various currencies
Terms:                  Standard
Project Description:   The project activities would be concentrated in Wadi
Mawr, the largest of the seven wadis descending from
the western slopes of the Yemeni highlands and cross-
ing the Tihama Plain. The project would consist of:
(a) constructing diversion structures in Wadi Mawr for
regulating the wadi's flow, ensuring its even distribu-
tion over cultivable lands and preventing its escape to
the sea or into adjoining salt marshes; (b) construct-
ing feeder canals and remodelling existing canals to
improve the command and the efficiency of the existing
outmoded irrigation system; (c) installing about 20
tubewells to increase the groundwater irrigated area;
(d) providing agricultural credit and extension, plant
protection and animal health services; (e) equipping
and operating a regional agricultural research, demon-
stration and production farm; (f) constructing 148 km
of gravel access roads, water supply installations for
about 103 villages or groups of villages and buildings
for project headquarters, extension centers and a
research farm; (g) providing technical assistance in
management, engineering and agricultural practices.
The project seeks to accelerate modernization of agri-
culture in Wadi Mawr and to raise agricultural produc-
tion and farm incomes. The project would introduce
the use of modern inputs, increase production and
improve its composition in favor of higher value grains,
cotton, fruits and vegetables. The direct beneficiaries
include 53,000 residents of Wadi Mawr, about 55 percent
of whom are estimated to be in the relative poverty
target group. Their farm incomes would increase three-
fold. The only special risks associated with this
project are: (i) that farm incomes of the poorer
beneficiaries would not increase as expected if the
recently issued religious edict increasing the share of
the tenant in tenancy arrangements is not successfully
implemented (although even then their incomes would
double), and (ii) those caused by the general shortage
of skilled workers and trained administrators in YAR,
which are being dealt with under this and other projects
by the use of expatriates where necessary.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Estimated Cost
and Financing:                                              Financing  /1 /2
Government,
Cost                     Other       ACB and
Local Foreign Total    IDA External IFAD    EEC         Total
---- US$ Million ----    ----------- US$ Million -----------
Project Management
and Engineering        2.5      5.1    7.6    6.0    -          -     3.2       9.2
Diversion Structures   4.4    10.4   14.8         -   12.7       -     9.6      22.3
Canal Construction      2.6      6.1    8.7    8.3    -          -     8.1      16.4
Tubewell Drilling        0.2     0.5    0.7    0.7    -          -     0.3       1.0
Project Headquarters   1.5       2.3    3.8       -    2.8       -     3.0       5.8
Access Roads             3.4     4.1    7.5       -     -       5.1    6.5      11.6
Village Water Supply   0.8       2.4    3.2       -    3.0       -     1.7       4.7
Agricultural Services  0.9       0.9    1.8       -     -       1.0    1.3       2.3
Veterinary Services    0.3       0.3    0.6       -    0.4       -     0.3       0.7
Agricultural Credit    0.8       2.2    3.0       -    2.7       -     4.0       3.7
Surdud Farm             3.8      4.0    7.8      -      -       5.9    4.0       9.9
Physical
Contingencies         1.5      3.0    4.5      -
Price Contingencies   17.3       6.3   23.6      -
40.0    47.6   87.6   15.0  21.6    12.0   39.0    87.6
/1   Includes physical and price contingencies.
/2   The EEC Special Action Credit will finance $3 million equivalent of the
project civil works, and the Government contribution will accordingly
be $36 million equivalent.
Estimated IDA
Disbursements:           IDA FY        1980      1981     1982      1983      1984
------------- US$ Million --------------
Annual                 1.0      3.5       4.5       3.3       2.7
Cumulative            1.0       4.5       9.0      12.3      15.0
Economic Rate
of Return:              17 percent.
Estimated Completion
Date:                   September 1984.
Appraisal Report:      Report No. 2248-YAR, dated February 14, 1979.
Regional Projects Department, EMENA.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF IDA
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT AND
EEC SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT TO THE
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC FOR A THIRD TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit of $15 million equivalent, on standard IDA terms, and a
proposed EEC Special Action Credit, expressed in the currencies of the nine
EEC Member States equivalent to about $3 million on the terms agreed with
the EEC, 1/ to the Yemen Arab Republic (YAR), to help finance a third Tihama
Development project, in Wadi Mawr. The International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) is considering a loan of SDR 9.3 million equivalent for the
project and will nominate IDA as cooperating agency for its loan. It is hoped
that the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, the Kreditanstalt fur
Wiederaufbau of the Federal Republic of Germany, and the UK Ministry of Over-
seas Development will also participate in financing the project. Cofinancing
will all be on a parallel basis.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A basic economic report entitled "Yemen Arab Republic:  Development
of a Traditional Economy," (No. 2057a-YAR), dated December 14, 1978, was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on January 3, 1979. Country data are
attached in Annex I.
Introduction
3.        Over the last few years YAR has experienced far-reaching changes in
its socioeconomic structure and the material welfare of its citizens. Follow-
ing the 1962 Revolution which ended the feudal rule of the Imam and opened the
country to the outside world, and after a protracted civil war that lasted
till mid-1970, the new republican government succeeded in establishing within
a surprisingly short period of time the foundations of a modern state. Tech-
nical ministries were strengthened, essential government institutions were
created such as the Central Bank and the Central Planning Organization, modern
budgetary and banking practices were introduced, and a reasonable level of
working effectiveness was achieved by the public administration. Tribal frag-
mentation, a major obstacle to political stability in the past, is gradually
being overcome.  Central government control has been spreading throughout the
country and continues to do so.
*           4.         Political integration and the growing influence of central authori-
ties have provided the basis for a rapid development of the public and private
sectors. In 1973, the government with the help of a Planning Assistance
Team in CPO financed by the Bank and the Kuwait Fund, launched a Three-Year
Development Program (1973/74-1975/76) which susbsequently was implemented
1/   These are standard IDA terms except that currencies would be repaid in
the amounts disbursed.



- 2 -
with the help of foreign technical and capital assistance. In its wake, the
physical infrastructure was expanded and communication links were built; first
attempts were made at lifting agriculture, the mainstay of the economy, out of
its medieval setting; industrialization was started, albeit on a small-scale;
education was spread at all levels; health services were improved; projects
were initiated to build urban water supply and sewage facilities; and rural
development was promoted through local development associations.
5.        More recently, especially since the quadrupling of international oil
prices at the beginning of 1974, there has been an unprecedented increase in
personal cash incomes based mainly on remittances by Yemenis who went to work
in Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States. It is estimated that workers' remit-
tances rose from some $40 million in 1969/70 to over $1 billion in 1977/78.
Largely as a result of these cash inflows, YAR's per capita GNP has more than
doubled in real terms since 1969/70, reaching a level of about $390 in 1976/77.
While these developments, together with fast-growing government expenditures
for both investment projects and public services, have greatly alleviated
Yemen's traditional problems of poverty, famine and rural underemployment,
they have created new ones which require urgent attention in the future.
Major Development Issues
6.        Foremost among these is the problem of manpower shortage which has
become the overriding constraint to YAR's development. This shortage has been
created by large-scale labor migration to neighboring oil countries which now
absorb an estimated 30 percent of YAR's male labor force. At the same time,
labor demand has increased sharply within the country as a result of develop-
ment programs initiated by the government, and a rapid expansion of private
business activity. Labor scarcities of both skilled and unskilled categories
are pervasive throughout the economy; but they are particularly pronounced in
the public sector, largely because salaries of civil servants are lagging
behind those offered in the private sector. This obviously places limitations
on the absorptive capacity of the public administration.
7.        Another major issue the government faces is to assure the rational
allocation of its rapidly growing investment resources. During the past, when
funds were more limited and modern facilities were sorely lacking, the authori-
ties found it relatively easy to select high-priority projects such as estab-
lishing the basic physical infrastructure, introducing modern education,
building irrigation works, power stations or a few factories. With the rapid
growth in development spending, however, the range of choices is increasing
very substantially and the long-term costs and benefits of individual projects
will not always be as obvious as in the past.
8.        A third issue concerns the proper maintenance of existing and new
capital stock. So far this question has not received sufficient attention by
the authorities, perhaps understandably so because of the newness of most
capital structures. However, as the stock of fixed capital increases--and
there is visible evidence of fast-growing numbers of public buildings, roads,
urban facilities, factories, power stations and irrigation schemes--the need



- 3 -
for adequate maintenance of these facilities becomes more and more pressing.
Introducing adequate maintenance programs and establishing repair facilities
for machinery and equipment are therefore urgently required if past and future
investments are not to be wasted.
9.        These new problems of affluence as well as recent achievements in
development, remarkable as they are, should not detract from the fact that YAR
continues to face many of the problems of an underdeveloped country.  Produc-
tivity levels are still extremely low, especially in agriculture which employs
about three-fourths of the resident labor force, reflecting the very limited
investment in physical capital made so far, as well as the predominance of
traditional production techniques. Nine out of ten adults are illiterate and
only one out of every four children in the age group 6-11 is enrolled in
primary school.  Over 90 percent of the population resides in rural areas, a
large part in remote villages without access to modern transportation, schools,
electricity or health services. Moreover, there are serious physical con-
straints to development in YAR. The country's known natural resources are
limited and a rugged topography poses severe obstacles for road transport.
Agricultural land and water are scarce and few mineral deposits have been
discovered so far.
Government Objectives
10.       The government is addressing these issues, as reflected in its
development objectives outlined in the first Five-Year Development Plan for
the years 1976/77-1980/81. Building on the achievements of the Three-Year
Program (para. 4), the new Plan endeavors to further develop the country's
human and natural resources; to strengthen the physical infrastructure; to
raise the productivity of the commodity-producing sectors; and to improve the
standards of living of the people, giving priority to their basic needs for
food, health services, education, water supply and other community services.
To achieve its objectives, the government has launched an impressive invest-
ment and manpower training program, in close cooperation with foreign donors
of capital and technical assistance.
11.       The Plan identifies investment opportunities in all major sectors,
especially in transport, agriculture, industry, housing, education and public
health. The overall investment targets are very ambitious. They envisage an
increase in gross fixed capital formation from $170 million in 1975/76 to
$1,230 million in 1980/81, implying an annual growth rate of almost 50 percent.
The overall investment volume during the five years of the Plan is to be $3.5
billion. Although not excessive for a country of YAR's size and population
(it represents an annual amount of about $150 per capita), because of the steep
increase in investment proposed by the Plan it is important that the technical
feasibility and economic viability of projects be studied before they are
undertaken.
12.       Some progress is already being made in reaching the government's
objectives. One example is the port development project, in which IDA and
the Kuwait Fund are participating, which is easing congestion in Hodeida and
will improve facilities in Mocha. The project is designed to meet YAR's
requirements for port capacity up to 1985. Encouraging results are also being



- 4 -
achieved in education and manpower training. Enrollment in primary and
secondary schools is growing rapidly and programs in technical and vocational
training have been started. The University of Sana'a, established in 1970,
now has some 3,000 students, many enrolled in technical discipline'. A large
number of Yemeni students (about 2,300) also receive training abroad.
13.       Other issues still have to be addressed by the authorities.  They
include measures designed to strengthen the absorptive capacity of the public
sector; to broaden the tax base, thus providing financial resources for the
necessary increase in government salaries and essential public services; to
ascertain the economic viability of future investments so as to avoid sub-
optimal utilization of domestic and foreign resources; and to introduce effec-
tive maintenance programs for existing and new capital stock.
Economic Growth and Structural Change
14.       Since the end of the civil war in mid-1970, economic activity in YAR
has expanded vigorously. GDP at constant market prices is estimated to have
grown at an average rate of 9 percent a year between 1969/70 and 1975/76, and
about 12 percent in 1976/77. Not surprisingly, economic growth was strongest
in the modern sectors, reflecting the rapid expansion of foreign and domestic
trade, of government services, of transportation and finance. There was also
a rapid increase of modern cash crops as farmers took a growing interest in
raising vegetables, fruits and chickens. Subsistence agriculture, still the
most important economic sector in YAR, grew at a much slower pace.
15.       The expansion of the modern sectors was the result of a variety of
factors. Fast growing cash incomes from workers' remittances opened new
markets for local merchants and farmers, and provided funds for private in-
vestment in housing, transport equipment, agriculture and industry. This
coincided with a vigorous expansion of public development expenditures. Ini-
tially through various ad hoc projects, but later in a more coordinated form
through its Three-Year Program and the Five-Year Plan, the government increased
its development spending from YRls 57 million ($13 million) in 1972/73 to
YRls 870 million ($193 million) in 1977/78.
16.       Although the period since 1970 is relatively short, it has witnessed
perceptible changes in the structure of YAR's economy. The shares of modern
agriculture, trade, transport and government services in GDP have all in-
creased during the 1970s while that of subsistence agriculture declined from
over 40 percent in 1969/70 to less than one third in 1976/77.  Even so, YAR's
economy is still very much underdeveloped. The contribution of cash farming
and industry (including construction) to GDP is still less than that of
subsistence farming.
Domestic and External Finance
17.       The rapid growth in money incomes which YAR experienced in recent
years has led to a spectacular increase in overall savings far exceeding the
fast-growing investment level. In 1976/77, gross national savings reached
the equivalent of 25 percent of GNP compared with only 7 percent in 1970/71.



- 5 -
While this is, indeed, a very impressive achievement for a country of YAR's
low per capita income, it must be borne in mind that the high savings rate
was perhaps as much the result of fortuitous circumstances as of deliberate
policies. Delayed consumer response to a massive growth of money incomes,
together with large capital transfers made by Yemeni businessmen returning
from Saudi Arabia, have swelled the pool of national savings to an extent
which may not be perpetuated in future years.
18.       Most of Yemen's national savings are being generated by the private
sector. The national accounts suggest that in 1976/77 total private savings
were on the order of YRls 2.3 billion ($520 million) or the equivalent of 21
percent of GNP. It can be assumed that a large part of these savings origi-
nated from workers' remittances, which are a major source of money incomes in
YAR. Recipients of those remittances often hesitate to spend them on consump-
tion items, partly as an insurance against future income fluctuations, partly
to save up for investments in housing, agricultural equipment, etc., and
partly because of physical constraints in the delivery of consumer goods to
rural areas. Savings are thus generated throughout the country, and their
ownership is widely distributed among different population groups. Financial
assets in one form or another can be found in the remotest village, although
there is probably some concentration in urban centers, such as Sana'a, Taiz
and Hodeida. Large amounts of savings are also being generated in the trading
sector (most of which is in private hands), in some areas of agriculture
(e.g., fruits and vegetables), in real estate and, to a lesser extent, in the
new manufacturing sector.
19.       Public sector savings were negative until 1975/76, reflecting a
rather narrow tax base (8 percent of GNP in that year). However, in 1976/77
tax revenue more than doubled--due largely to a surge in imports and corres-
ponding increases in the collection of import duties. As a result, the cur-
rent budget yielded its first surplus (YRls 452 million or $100 million) and
for 1977/78 this surplus is estimated to have reached YRls 690 million ($153
million).
20.       However, current government expenditures are likely to grow rapidly
in future years to cover the needs of expanded education and health services
as well as for more effective maintenance programs. It will also be necessary
to improve the remuneration of civil servants to retain qualified staff in the
public administration and to provide adequate incentives for new recruitment.
21.       The expected growth in current government spending calls for con-
tinued efforts in mobilizing additional revenues. In the short run, emphasis
will have to be given to improving the collection of existing taxes, espe-
cially import duties which are yielding rapidly growing receipts as the import
volume expands further. A thorough review of the present structure of import
tariffs would be desirable in order to maximize the revenue impact of such
duties. Other promising sources of additional revenue would be excise duties,
sales and turnover taxes. There is also much scope for direct taxation of
business incomes. However, the administrative and political obstacles against



broadening the tax base are formidable, and it will take time before a signif-
icantly higher tax ratio can be achieved. In the meantime, generous foreign
aid is easing the burden on the current budget and finances a large part of
the government's capital expenditures (see paragraphs 25-27).
22.       The external financial position of the Yemen Arab Republic has
changed dramatically in recent years. While at the beginning of the current
decade foreign exchange was in short supply and a heavy debt burden forced
the government to request the rescheduling of major parts of its outstanding
commitments, the country has now entered a phase of comfortable balance of
payments surpluses and rapidly growing exchange reserves. The principal
reason for this change must be seen in the large and growing amounts of
workers' remittances and in the substantial aid flows, especially from Saudi
Arabia and other Arab oil-exporting nations.
23.       Yemen's commodity exports are still extremely low, reflecting
the country's limited resource endowment and the underdeveloped state of
its economy. During 1973/74-1977/78 these exports averaged $13 million a
year, or the equivalent of less than 1 percent of GDP. Most exports are of
agricultural origin, with cotton, coffee and hides being the three major com-
modities.  Imports, on the other hand, have risen sharply from $194 million
in 1973/74 to $834 million in 1977/78. This upsurge in import demand reflects
the rapidly rising cash incomes, the full convertibility of the Yemen rial,
and the absence of import restrictions.
24.       With exports lagging behind the rapid growth of imports, YAR's trade
deficit reached about $827 million in 1977/78, four and a half times as large
as in 1973/74. However, YAR's import capacity is only marginally based on its
export potential and depends increasingly on its strong surplus position in
the service sectors, especially workers' remittances. In recent years net
earnings from services have grown even faster than the trade deficit. As
a result, the balance on current account, which was in deficit until 1974/75,
changed to a surplus which reached $241 million in 1977/78.
Capital Flows and External Debt
25.       Since independence, YAR has received substantial amounts of foreign
assistance. Given the country's low per capita income and its UN classifica-
tion as a "least-developed country," most of the aid was provided in the form
of grants and concessionary loans. Although a complete overview of all assis-
tance received by YAR is not possible because of information gaps, it can be
estimated that cumulative aid disbursements came close to $750 million by the
end of FY1976/77, of which more than half was disbursed in the last 3 years.
The principal donors were Saudi Arabia, the Gulf States, IDA, the USSR, China,
Germany and the USA.
26.       More than half of the total assistance given so far was provided as
grants, mostly for food aid, technical assistance and more recently, budget
support. Food aid has been provided through the World Food Program and a
number of bilateral donors. A large part of official grants has been made
available in the form of technical assistance. Given the extreme shortage of



-7-
skilled manpower in YAR, this type of aid has high priority and will be needed
by the country for many years to come. Besides the grants, YAR received
sizeable amounts of official loans and credits (see paragraph 28). Drawings
on these loans have increased in recent years, reaching $70 million in 1977/78.
More than three quarters of all official loans and credits have been committed
for the financing of specific projects with the main emphasis on roads; agri-
culture, including irrigation; and utilities. The remaining funds were given
for commodity assistance or as cash loans.
27.       The terms on which YAR has obtained official loan assistance have
been very favorable.  Loans from the USSR and the People's Republic of China
are, for the most part, free of interest. Western European countries have
generally charged between 3/4 percent and 2-1/2 percent. Interest rates
charged by Arab countries have varied from 0 percent to 4 percent.  Loan
maturities range from 5-50 years with a median of 20-30 years.
28.       Yemen's external public debt outstanding on June 30, 1978 was
estimated at $693 million, of which $363 million was disbursed. The major
creditors were IDA, the Arab Fund, USSR, China, Germany and the Kuwait Fund.
IDA credits accounted for $111 million or about 16 percent of the total debt
reported. Because of the very favorable terms of borrowing, the debt service
payments are estimated at only about $8 million for 1977/78, equivalent to
less than one percent of gross foreign exchange earnings (including workers'
remittances). Although service payments are expected to rise in the next few
years, the burden of such payments should continue to remain small in relation
to YAR's exchange earnings.
29.       In recent years YAR has accumulated large foreign reserves.  At the
end of June 1978 they reached $1,302 million or the equivalent of more than one
year's imports. This reflects rapidly rising exchange earnings, a relatively
high level of foreign aid, and last but not least the country's limited
absorptive capacity. Yemen's imports are still at a low level (about $150 per
capita in 1977/78) and are likely to grow rapidly in future years. It should
be pointed out in this context that YAR's official reserves are not assets
earned by the State--as in the case of most oil-exporting countries--but
represent largely the counterpart of unspent private incomes which could be
drawn down as import levels rise. Workers' remittances and aid inflows, on
the other hand, are of more volatile nature and their volume could change
substantially within a relatively short time. Yemen's present comfortable
reserve position may therefore be a passing phenomenon and could be eroded
quickly if recent trends in foreign exchange flows are not sustained. The
reserve position also has to be viewed in the context of the country's
dependence on agriculture and its vulnerability to the vagaries of weather.
A repetition of the severe drought which gripped YAR from 1966-72 would
necessitate the import of foodstuffs in even higher than the present volume,
adding substantially to the country's foreign exchange requirements.



- 8-
PART II - WORLD BANK OPERATIONS
30.       The proposed credit would be the nineteenth 1/ to YAR, bringing
total IDA commitments to $163.8 million. Annex II contains a summary state-
ment of IDA credits and Bank grants, as well as notes on the execution of
ongoing projects, as of December 31, 1978. The World Bank strategy in YAR
has been threefold: to concentrate on developing the basic institutions,
skills and physical infrastructure which are prerequisites for development, to
develop production and income in the dominant productive sector, agriculture,
and to support the government in its desire to meet basic needs in rural and
urban areas. To develop infrastructure, IDA has extended three credits for
highways totalling $28.2 million, a $6 million credit for a port development
project, three credits for water supply and sewerage totalling $24.2 million,
and a $10.0 million credit for power distribution. To assist in the develop-
ment of education, IDA has extended two credits for a total of $19 million,
in support of primary and secondary teacher training, and secondary and
vocational education. To develop rural infrastructure and to support produc-
tion and distribution in agriculture and agro-industry, IDA has made five
credits for a total of $41.6 million. To develop industry, IDA extended a
$2.3 million credit in 1974 for an industrial estate project, designed to
stimulate investment for small-scale industry as well as to provide a model
for future industrial development, and a $7.0 million credit (approved in June
1978) for a textile rehabilitation project; in FY1978 an investment of $2.4
million by the International Finance Corporation (IFC's first activity in YAR)
was approved to help finance a dairy and juice project.
31.       The main constraint to YAR's social and economic development has
been, and will remain for some time, the critical shortage of manpower,
especially skilled, and the newness and weakness of its institutions. World
Bank strategy in YAR has placed emphasis on helping to strengthen Yemeni insti-
tutions and manpower capabilities, through increased training of local staff
and continued technical assistance, as well as through direct financing for
education. Thus all IDA projects in YAR contain substantial components for
technical assistance towards institution building. Two particularly important
examples of the World Bank's support for institution building have been in
the Central Planning Organization (CPO) and the Ministry of Agriculture. In
CPO, the World Bank (through three grants totalling $520,000) and the Kuwait
Fund have financed a team of planning and economic advisers so as to create a
planning machinery. In the Ministry of Agriculture, the Bank supplies the ser-
vices of seven advisors initially financed by UNDP with the Bank as executing  
agency, and now financed jointly by IDA (under the second Tihama project) and
UNDP. The Central Agricultural Research Station at Taiz, which carries out
agricultural research for the country as a whole, is also financed as part
of this institutional support. Finally, the Bank has recently assisted the
government in establishing a Project Monitoring System to ensure effective
project implementation and to measure progress made against set targets; the
system is now under implementat ion.
1/   Including the supplementary credit for the first Tihama project,
No. 376-1 YAR.



- 9 -
32.       Future World Bank operations will concentrate on reinforcing the
institutional progress made in infrastructure, agriculture, and rural devel-
opment, and will seek to spread the benefits of development more widely
throughout Yemen. Particular attention will be given to YAR's ability to
implement projects, by ensuring the availability of key staff and technical
assistance needed for successful implementation.  Projects already in the
pipeline in preparatory or study stages include a third education project
which is expected to be presented to the Board in the near future.  A water
supply and sewerage project for the cities of Ibb and Dhamar has been
appraised.  A fourth Tihama agricultural project, which will provide irriga-
tion structures for Wadi Rima, is being appraised. A second rural development
project in the Southern Uplands, a fisheries project, and a development
finance project are in the preparation stage. Possible future projects
include regional electrification, industry, port development and further rural
development activities.
33.       YAR has contributed an increasing portion of local currency financ-
ing and is expected to continue to finance a rising portion of its development
expenditures in the future. Nevertheless, it remains among the least-developed
countries and requires special assistance through financing of a large part
of project costs, including local expenditures when necessary. As in the
past, the costs of future projects are expected to be substantially higher
than the amounts that IDA can provide, and we shall continue to cooperate
closely with other donors so as to maximize IDA's catalytic role in stimulat-
ing co-financing. IDA-supported projects of which there have been 16 since
1973 and for which credits amounting to a total of $141.1 million were made,
have led to about $167 million equivalent of co-financing from other aid
donors. In addition, co-financing of up to about $36 million is being sought
for this third Tihama project, including $12 million from IFAD and $3 million
from the EEC Special Action Account.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
General Setting
35.       Until the late 1960s YAR's agriculture was largely for subsistence,
with a modest marketable. surplus sufficient only to supply the needs of tradi-
tional markets of nearby villages and towns. It is estimated that in the
1960s agriculture contributed more than half of GDP and employed about 80-90
percent of the economically active population. The meagre endowment in land,
scant rainfall, primitive technology and the absence of alternative economic
opportunities combined to create an environment of pervasive rural poverty;
the lack of roads kept agriculture isolated from the monetized economy.
Although the conditions that contribute to rural poverty and low agricultural
productivity persist, the changes that have begun to take place in YAR's
economy as a whole in recent years have accentuated the importance of the
sector and the necessity for its growth and development.
36.       The role that agriculture can play in the development of YAR is a
classic one. The impetus for its growth comes from an increased demand for



- 10 -
food due to sharply increased money incomes. The government wants the sector
to supply a larger amount of food and raw materials than in the past, to
dampen the rising dependence on agricultural imports induced by rapid in-
creases in domestic demand. Although, with the rapid growth of other sectors,
agriculture's share of total GDP and labor force can be expected to decline,
agricultural output should continue to increase. Thus, during the six years
(1969/70-1975/76) for which national accounts are available, it is estimated
that the share of agriculture fell approximately from 53 to 44 percent of
total GDP in current prices. Helped by two periods of favorable rainfall,
agricultural GDP at constant market prices grew by about 7 percent annually
during the 1969/70-1975/76 period, compared with about 9 percent for the
economy as a whole during the same period. It appears that part of this
increase is due to climatic conditions. However, improved production tech-
niques and the switch to higher value cash crops are also apparent.
37.       During the last few years, agriculture has benefited from a rela-
tively favorable economic climate and stimulation by government, although
there have been severe constraints on the growth of the sector. The high
demand for labor in YAR and neighboring countries induced the emigration of
rural labor. Rising rural labor costs, reflecting higher wages in the country
as a whole, were offset by higher agricultural prices, which have been largely
sustained by the rising price level in the economy and high effective demand
for farm products. In areas where natural conditions permit, farmers have
also begun to apply modern agricultural inputs and equipment, to expand the
area planted, and to diversify production away from subsistence crops to cash
crops, such as fruits and vegetables.  Thus the area planted increased by
approximately 22 percent during 1971/72-1975/76, and crop production rose by
about 33 percent during the same period. Because of the high effective demand
for agricultural products, however, and despite these achievements, there has
been an increasing dependence on agricultural imports, especially food. The
latter rose in value from YRls 91 million in 1971/72 to YRls 868 million in
1976/77. Agricultural exports, consisting mainly of cotton, cottonseed,
coffee, hides and skins, which represent 90 percent of total exports, rose
from YRls 18 million to only YRls 39 million during the same period.
38.       Agriculture began to be modernized too recently to affect rural
poverty. Agricultural GDP per capita in 1975/76, the last year for which
data are available, amounted to only YRls 608 ($135) at 1976/77 prices, less
than one third of the 1976/77 national income per capita of YRls 1,755 ($390)
and also much below the minimum subsistence requirements of YRls 750-780 ($166-
173). The traditional poverty of rural life led many families to supplement
their incomes by working abroad. Remittances have increased dramatically in
recent years, from $30 million in 1969/70 to over $1 billion in 1977/78. It
is not clear how much of this accrues to the rural population but many of the
emigrants are from rural families and the improvement in rural consumption in
recent years is very apparent. However, despite high liquidity, rural living
conditions are still inadequate (para. 9).



- 11 -
Prospects for Growth
39.       Because agriculture in YAR began its modernization from a relatively
very low base, growth prospects on the basis of higher yields, crop diversifi-
cation and, to a lesser extent, expansion of planted area, are promising.
The transformation of agriculture, however, is subject to severe constraints,
particularly scarcity of arable land and shortage of water. Only about 1.5
million ha of land, or 8 percent of the national territory, is regularly
cultivated, mostly with the scant rainfall of two short rainy seasons per
year. Only about 220,000 ha, or 15 percent of the regularly cultivated land,
is irrigated by either the seasonal flow of wadis, or water drawn from wells,
springs and streams. Other constraints affecting growth of the sector are:
(a) widespread sharecropping arrangements under which tenants bear most of the
costs for raising productivity but have to share the benefits with landowners;
(b) lack of complementary infrastructure, especially access roads; (c) the
restricted use of farm inputs and equipment; and (d) the shortage of skilled
managerial and technical manpower to serve agriculture.
40.       Under the Five-Year Development Plan (para. 10) the government has
sought: (a) an annual increase in agricultural production of about 5.5 per-
cent; (b) long run reduction in dependence on food imports, particularly for
cereal crops, oil-seeds, vegetables and livestock; (c) improvement in the
agricultural trade balance through the increase of exports, especially cotton,
hides and skins, fresh and canned fish, vegetables and fruits; (d) improvement
in the nutritional level of the population; and (e) expansion of agricultural
research, extension and credit. These rather ambitious general objectives
imply overcoming the most pressing institutional constraints and launching
investment projects to increase output and income. With substantial tech-
nical assistance, the government has reorganized and strengthened its Ministry
of Agriculture, established a modern research station and nurseries, and
started to build other institutions. The regional development authority for
the Tihama has assumed full responsibility for agricultural land and water
resource development, operation and maintenance in the region. Resource
surveys and project feasibility studies were also conducted for future agri-
cultural projects, mainly in the Tihama region. These and other efforts, how-
ever, continue to suffer from the shortage of skilled manpower: it will be
many years before this situation improves despite the many Yemenis recently
sent to study abroad and the numerous provisions for training Yemeni staff
(para. 12).
41.       During the present Five-Year Plan, initiated in 1977, total allo-
cations for agriculture are set at YRls 2.6 billion ($587.4 million), or 14
percent of total outlays for both the public and private sectors. Public
sector investment in agriculture would be spread among some 55 projects
amounting to about YRls 1.44 billion ($320 million) of which 50 percent would
be for irrigation development, including 34 percent for development of the
Tihama, 18 percent for livestock, 25 percent for crops research, training
and rural development, 6 percent for fisheries and 1 percent for forestry.
Private sector investment as yet unspecified would amount to about YRls 980
million ($218 million). Irrigated agriculture and areas with adequate rain-
fall are assigned high priority in seeking to achieve the large increases
in yields which improved techniques permit.



- 12 -
42.       Reaching the targets set for the agricultural sector in the Plan
will require considerable external financial and technical assistance.
Approximately YRls 1.5 billion (55 percent) of total agricultural outlays
would be financed from domestic sources, of which 18 percent (YRls T63 million)
would be from government. External financing of about YRls 1 billion ($265
million) would be covered in part by loans and grants from bilateral and
multilateral sources. External assistance is intended not only to fill the
financial gaps of projects but also to overcome major institutional constraints
by supplying substantial technical assistance, until Yemeni staff have acquired
the necessary expertise and experience.
External Assistance
43.       Agriculture in YAR benefits from considerable bilateral and multi-
lateral financial and technical assistance. The UNDP, with the World Bank as
executing agency and with assistance from IDA and the European Economic Com-
munity, has financed institutional support to the Ministry of Agriculture,
the Agricultural Research Service, and to applied agricultural research in the
Tihama plain. The Federal Republic of Germany (FRG) has helped with crop and
vegetable research and the introduction of fertilizers and plant protection.
The United Kingdom has assisted with veterinary services and farm mechaniza-
tion, and area development studies in Wadi Rima and the Montane Plains. US
assistance has been mainly concerned with sorghum and millet improvement in
the highlands, poultry production, and tropical and sub-tropical fruits. Aid
from the Netherlands has expanded from rural health to area development in
southeastern YAR, potato seed production, livestock development and improved
irrigation in Wadi Rima. These studies form the basis for the current ap-
praisal of the second irrigation phase of the Wadi Rima development project.
The USSR contributed to the development of the mechanized 1,000 ha experimental
farm at Wadi Surdud. In addition, the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Develop-
ment, the Abu Dhabi Fund for Arab Economic Development and the Saudi Fund for
Development have co-financed with IDA high priority agricultural projects in
the Tihama region and the Southern Uplands.
Agricultural Credit
44.       Two institutions provide agricultural credit in YAR:  the Agricul-
tural Credit Fund (ACF) and the Agricultural Credit Bank (ACB). The ACF was
established in 1974, as a department of the Central Bank, to onlend external
funds for the first Tihama project, and has subsequently been the credit
channel for the other IDA-supported agricultural projects in YAR. The ACB
was established by the government in 1976, to serve as the major agricultural
credit institution for the whole country. Both have acceptable lending prac-
tices. The ACF charges interest rates of 9 percent for short-term credit
and 8 percent for medium/long-term. In 1978 the government reduced ACB's
lending rates from the same levels to 7 percent for short-term and 6 percent
for medium/long-term, as part of a nationwide readjustment of interest rates
implemented to eliminate the differential between domestic and international
interest rates which had led to unwanted short-term foreign private capital
inflows, and to provide greater investment incentives. The government now
wishes to merge ACB and ACF, to avoid duplication of scarce administrative



- 13 -
resources and to unify government activities in agricultural credit. Since
this would involve agreement to reduce the interest rates charged by ACF
to. the ACB levels, we recommend that during the ongoing appraisal of the
Tihama IV agricultural project the long term financial viability of ACB
be first reviewed with a view to assessing whether the lower lending rates
would be acceptable.
The Tihama Plain
45.       YAR's coastal plain, the Tihama, located along the Red Sea, ranges
in width from 30 km to 60 km and is approximately 400 km in length. Despite
a very hot and rainless climate, the Tihama plain holds great agricultural
potential, by virtue of its location, accessibility, relatively abundant land,
reasonably good soils, surface and groundwater irrigation, and moderately
diversified production. Yet at present it is one of the less developed of
the country's four major regions, with limited areas under high value cash
crops. The project activities would be mainly situated in the area irrigated
by the Wadi Mawr as it crosses the Tihama plain. Wadi Mawr is the largest of
the seven major wadis which originate in the Western slopes of the country's
highlands and flow westward across the Tihama plain to the sea. The project
area is about 100 km north of Hodeidah, the main port and commercial center
of YAR (see map). This is the third wadi in the Tihama proposed to be devel-
oped through IDA financing. The first was the Wadi Zabid, financed under
Cr. 376-YAR (Tihama Development Project I) with supplemental financing pro-
vided under Cr. 376-1-YAR, implementation of which is underway (paragraph
52); the feasibility study for Wadi Mawr was financed under this credit.
The second was the first phase of development of Wadi Rima, recently financed
under Cr. 805-YAR (Tihama Development Project II). Two other Tihama wadis,
Surdud and Siham, also hold much potential. A feasibility study for a pro-
posed Wadi Surdud Project is underway.
Tihama Development Authority (TDA)
46.       The TDA, established by the government in 1973, is responsible for
implementing, operating and maintaining all development projects in the Tihama
region. It has a board of nine directors appointed by the government. The
chairman of the board, who is also the director general, is assisted by expa-
triate management and financial advisors (see paragraph 61).
Project Area
47.       The climate in Wadi Mawr is hot and arid with somewhat milder
temperatures from November through March. Annual rainfall ranges from 300 mm
to 25 mm decreasing from east to west. The area covered by the project in the
wadi is about 72,000 ha of which about 26,000 ha is regularly or periodically
cultivated. The main source of surface water is Wadi Mawr itself which has
an average annual runoff volume of about 240 million cubic meters (Mm3). The
wadi's water has very low salinity and is suitable for irrigation. The
present irrigation system comprises 40 main canals fed by rudimentary earth
dikes, usually reinforced by brush. During floods or periods of sustained
flows, the dikes are destroyed and water escapes to the sea. The present



- 14 -
diversion and distribution system needs improvement to provide assured
supplies to farmers for optimum utilization of available water.
48.       The population of the project area is estimated at 53,000 compris-
ing 7,600 households. Like much of rural Yemen, the area has been relatively
isolated from technological, social and political change. Hence, productivity
and incomes have remained low, living conditions poor and rudimentary, and
the social structure basically feudal. The mainstay of the economy is agri-
culture with a subsistence orientation, now supplemented by workers' remit-                   4
tances. About 82 percent of the families rely on farming, supplementing their
income in varying degrees and combinations with livestock, farm wage labor
and seasonal or longer-term migration.  The average per capita income in the
project area for 1977 is estimated at around $260 equivalent. Although not
estimated on a comparable basis, this figure is considerably less than the
country's per capita GNP of YRls 1,175 ($390) in 1977 prices. It is estimated
that over half of the area's population has an income below the relative
poverty level of $130. Besides low income, the rural population has inade-
quate sources of potable water and has very limited access to social services.
Domestic water is mostly obtained from communally owned open wells, which are
liable to contamination. Where available, water is also taken from irrigation
channels and wadi flows. Water collection is an arduous process, requiring
a typical family of six to spend about two man-hours a day queueing, drawing
and transporting water for themselves and their livestock. Water consumed
is often inadequate in quantity and unhygienic. Waterborne diseases such as
amoebic dysentry, cholera and hepatitis are endemic in Tihama.
49.       Except for one gravel road connecting the project area with the
Hodeidah to Sana'a road, there are no roads in the area. During the dry
season some earth tracks are used by vehicles to haul goods to and from the
villages but in the wet season access becomes very difficult. Camels and
donkeys are normally used for hauling farm produce to local markets, with
transport costs about twice as high as those for motor vehicles. The problem
of the economic costs of transport in rural YAR has been recognized for some
time and the Wadi Mawr was one of the areas studied as part of the Yemen
feeder roads survey in 1973-74, to provide baseline socioeconomic data for an
analysis of the effects of road development. The data provided by this study
will be used in monitoring the proposed project.
Land Tenure
50.      The land tenure system of Wadi Mawr is characterized by three fea-
tures:  (i) small- or medium-sized farm units; (ii) sharecropping as a
prevalent mode of farming; and (iii) concentration of land in the hands of a
small number of long-established families which have traditionally provided
political, social and sometimes religious leadership. In 1973/74 in the
spate irrigated area, the mean farm size was 7 ha, with 80 percent of the
farmers having less than the mean and over 60 percent having less than 4 ha.
The survey results also show a skewed distribution of land ownership: 40
percent of the families are landless; 75 percent of the landowners have less
than 12 percent of the land; and 4 percent of the owners control 68 percent
of the land. However, the large landholdings are split into family farms and



- 15 -
worked by sharecroppers rather than operated as estates. About 70 percent of
the farms in the area as a whole and about 70 percent in the wadi area are
sharecropped. By tradition, tenancy rights have been secure, often passing
from father to son. The prevailing sharecropping arrangements, deriving from
a very old tribal system, are to divide the gross output, after deducting
taxes and the cost of threshing, equally between the tenant and landlord in
rainfed and spate-irrigated areas, and equally among the tenant, landlord and
well owner in well-irrigated areas. The tenant has traditionally not only
provided labor, but borne all operating expenses. These arrangements are
being improved in favor of the tenant because of the labor shortages resulting
from emigration which also result in high wage levels for farm labor. The
government wishes to move to a more equitable system of cropsharing, but in
the prevailing social and political situation must move very carefully. A
first step was the recent religious edict, which clarified the duty of land-
owners to share costs of modern crop inputs (fertilizers, plant protection
chemicals, and equipment) with the tenants in proportion to their share in
the produce. A further, most important, decision taken in recent months has
been to recover costs of irrigation projects entirely from landowners: this
decision by the government is reflected in Section 4.08 of the draft Joint
Project Agreement (JPA). Furthermore, basic land reform, while desirable in
the longer run, is not contemplated at present; any such changes would be
likely to bring about renewed tribal rivalries which could harm the present
carefully attained political balance.
51.      Two additional constraints to agricultural development in Wadi Mawr
are the prevailing primitive methods of farming and the non-availability of
modern farm inputs, especially fertilizers and plant protection chemicals.
The proposed project includes components (paragraph 57) to correct these
deficiencies by improving extension and credit services.
Previous IDA-Financed Projects in the Agricultural Sector
52.      IDA's involvement in this sector commenced in 1973 with the Tihama
Development Project I for development of Wadi Zabid (Cr. 376); co-financed
with the Kuwait Fund, it is now nearing completion. This was followed by four
additional agricultural and agro-industrial projects: the Southern Uplands
Rural Development Project (Cr. 545), co-financed by the Abu Dhabi Fund, which
is progressing satisfactorily after early delays; the Grain Storage and
Processing Project (Cr. 636), co-financed by the Saudi Fund, which includes
a nutrition study and a component for fortification of flour, and is pro-
gressing well; the Livestock Credit and Processing Project (Cr. 662), approved
in 1976, and co-financed with the Kuwait Fund, the Netherlands, and the United
Kingdom, is progressing reasonably satisfactorily, after overcoming startup
difficulties; and finally, the Tihama Development II Project (Cr. 805),
approved in May 1978, and co-financed by the Kuwait Fund, UNDP and the EEC,
under which IDA finances institutional support to the Ministry of Agriculture,
provides credit, extension, rural roads and water supply.



- 16 -
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Project History
53.        The Third Tihama Development Project for the Wadi Mawr is based on
a feasibility report prepared by the consulting engineers engaged by TDA for
the execution of the first Tihama Development Project, and financed under
the credit for that project. The project was appraised in May 1978. Nego-
tiations were held in Washington, D.C., from January 9 to January 15, 1979.
The YAR delegation was headed by His Excellency Ali Al-Mattari, Minister of
Agriculture. A report entitled "Staff Appraisal Report, Tihama Development
Project III (Wadi Mawr), Yemen Arab Republic" (No. 2248-YAR) dated February
14, 1979, is being distributed separately to the Executive Directors. The
main features of the Credit and the project are summarized in the Credit and
Project Summary and in Annex III. A map of the project area is attached.
Project Objectives
54.        The project seeks to accelerate modernization of agriculture in Wadi
Mawr through the use of improved inputs, efficient irrigation facilities and
the adoption of modern agricultural practices. These, together with a shift
towards the cultivation of higher valued grains, cotton, fruits and vegetables,
would result in a threefold increase in the farm incomes of the majority of
the beneficiaries. The specific objectives of the proposed project are: (i)
to increase agricultural production and farm income in the Wadi Mawr area; (ii)
to provide access to important population centers in the area and to facilitate
the movement of agricultural inputs and produce; (iii) to improve the health
of the rural poor by providing a potable water supply to a population of
about 53,000; and (iv) to assist the government in developping the existing
farm at Surdud (near Wadi Mawr) for research, seed and crop production,
demonstration and training purposes.
Project Description
55.        The project comprises:  (i) constructing irrigation works to improve
spate irrigation; (ii) installing about 20 tubewells to increase groundwater
irrigation; (iii) providing agricultural credit and setting up agricultural
extension, plant protection and animal health services; (iv) constructing
about 148 km of gravel access roads; (v) supplying water to 103 villages or
groups of villages; (vi) constructing project headquarters; and (vii) pro-
viding technical assistance in management, engineering and agricultural
practices.
56.        Irrigation.  The works for the development of spate irrigation would
include:  (    construction of a gabion diversion dike and two cement concrete
weirs with sluiceways and canal headquarters; (ii) construction of feeder
canals on the left and right banks of the Wadi; and (iii) remodelling of the
existing irrigation system. These works will increase the average annual
spate irrigated area within the project boundary from 15,000 ha to 18,000 ha,



- 17 -
and provide adequate and more frequent watering of the crops.  In addition,
20 wells will be drilled in a part of the project area where a suitable
aquifer has been located; the area irrigated by groundwater in the project
area will thus be increased from 2,500 ha to 4,000 ha.
57.       Extension, Credit, and Animal Health.  The agricultural services
would comprise:   i  four experts who would train local workers and set up
*            extension, plant protection and animal health services in the area; (ii) 128
man-months of overseas training for extension staff; and (iii) provision of
nine extension centers and operational equipment for extension, plant protec-
*            tion and animal health services.  Medium- and short-term agricultural credit
will be provided to farmers to purchase farm machinery and equipment, seeds,
fertilizers and plant protection chemicals.
58.       Infrastructure.  148 km of gravel access roads will be constructed
to link the project area with YAR's main road system. Potable water supply
systems will be installed for about 103 villages or groups of villages. The
nucleus of a staff headquarters, which was constructed in the project area
for the staff engaged on the project feasibility study, will be enlarged to
accommodate the project consultants, the agricultural services experts and
other local and expatriate staff.
59.       Applied Research.  To enlarge the scope of the applied agricultural
research initiated under Tihama Development Project I, and as a part of its
policy to set up regional research stations in the country to work in coordi-
nation with and under technical guidance from the central agricultural research
station at Taiz, the government has decided to set up a regional applied
research station at Surdud State Farm, located about 40 km to the southeast
of the project area. This state-owned farm has a cultivable area of about
900 ha, with both spate and groundwater irrigation facilities. However, it
lacks adequate agricultural machinery, technical personnel, accommodation and
storage facilities and a labor force for successful operation. The govern-
ment, therefore, transferred the farm to TDA on July 1, 1978, and will equip
it to be operated partly as a regional research station (50 ha) and partly as
a combined seed and commercial production farm (850 ha) to produce improved
cotton and cereal seed, as well as cereals, vegetables and fruit crops on a
commercial basis. The farm will also serve as a demonstration and training
center for the agricultural secondary school to be constructed in Surdud under
the Third Education project, and for local farmers. The project would include
the services of six experienced farm management and research experts and nine
assistants, equipment, and residential, office, storage and laboratory build-
ings.
60.       Technical Assistance and Training.  A consultant firm will be
engaged to assist TDA in the design, procurement and construction supervision
of the works and to train staff to assume eventual responsibility for the
project. They will also carry out a water regulation study to prepare a plan
for equitable distribution of the wadi's annual flows in spate irrigated
areas. A total of 460 man-months at approximately $7,000 per man-month will



- 18 -
be required for this purpose.  Following a review of the study's recommenda-
tions, the government will implement appropriate administrative and technical
measures to provide an equitable distribution of water from the wadi (Section
4.05, JPA). In addition, the services of agricultural experts (340 man-months
at $5,000 per man-month) and funds for 128 man-months of overseas training
will also be provided under the project.
Project Implementation
61.       The project would be implemented over five years.  The civil works
and procurement of equipment would be completed by June 1983 while the agri-
cultural services, credit, and operation of the Surdud farm would continue
until June 1984. TDA, which is currently successfully executing the first
two Tihama Development Projects, would be responsible for implementing the
project. The assistance of the consultants and other expatriate experts
provided would also enable TDA to implement the proposed project satisfac-
torily. Three managerial posts have been provided in TDA to head the
engineering, agricultural and administrative directorates. The project's
engineering, agricultural and administrative staff would be attached to these
respective directorates. Because of the shortage of trained personnel in YAR,
it would not be possible in the immediate future to fill all senior posts in
TDA with experienced Yemeni personnel. Consequently, these positions would be
filled, in the first instance, by expatriate staff provided under the project.
The agricultural credit to the farmers would be provided by the Agricultural
Credit Bank (ACB); the government intends to merge this institution with the
Agricultural Credit Fund (ACF), which is already satisfactorily handling
credit disbursement on four of the IDA financed agricultural projects in YAR
on terms described in paragraph 44. ACB already operates through the agency
of ACF in the areas of these projects, and we are confident that it will
handle credit arrangements under the project satisfactorily.
Project Cost and Financing
62.       The total project cost, including contingencies, is estimated at
$87.6 million, of which $47.6 million or 54.3 percent is foreign exchange.
Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 percent on equipment and
civil works. Price contingencies allow for annual increases of 7.5 percent
during 1979 and 7 percent thereafter, in the costs of equipment, the foreign
exchange component of civil works and administration costs; they also allow
for annual increases of 43 percent (3 percent per month compounded) in the
local cost component of the civil works, since the costs of civil works in YAR
have been increasing considerably faster than the general price level. Import
duties, taxes and other levies are not included in the project costs as they
are not charged on equipment imported by TDA for public projects. Total
capital costs attributable to the irrigation works are estimated at $2,760 per
hectare, which compares favorably with costs of irrigation projects in other
countries. The proposed IDA credit of $15 million, the EEC Special Account
credit of $3 million, and the IFAD loan of SDR 9.3 million (currently equiva-
lent to about $12 million) would finance 55 percent of the foreign costs of
the project: about $1 million of the IFAD loan, and most of the EEC credit,
would finance local currency expenditures. The IDA credit would finance the
foreign exchange costs of the components against which it would be disbursed,



- 19 -
namely, project management and engineering, canal construction and tubewell
drilling. The IFAD loan would be administered by the Association acting as
cooperating institution under the terms of the Cooperating Agreement between
IFAD and the Association (Section 5.01(a), JPA). The balance of the foreign
exchange costs would be financed by other external co-financiers. The effec-
tiveness of the IFAD loan agreement and of the EEC Special Action Credit,
the ratification of the JPA and the signing of agreements with the other co-
b             financiers for an amount of about $15 million equivalent would be conditions
of effectiveness of the credit (Section 5.01 of the Development Credit Agree-
ment). The government would finance about $35 million of the total project
cost and ACB about $1 million of the agriculture credit costs.  All financing
would be on a parallel basis.
Recovery of Costs
63.       The recovery of the project irrigation development costs would
follow the principles established in cooperation with IDA under the Tihama
Development Project I (Credit 376-YAR). The annual operation and maintenance
costs and the full capital cost, without interest, of the irrigation works
will be recovered by levying only on landowners a production surcharge of 2
percent on the gross value of agricultural produce in the spate irrigated area
and 1 percent in the well irrigated area. This decision by the Government to
recover costs of irrigation projects entirely from landowners is reflected in
Section 4.08 of the draft Joint Project Agreement (JPA). The surcharge thus
collected, coupled with the incremental revenue from Zakat (religious tax,
which is presently collected at 10 percent of the gross value of produce in
the spate irrigated area and 5 percent of the gross value of produce in the
well irrigated area) and other taxes, would recover the full annual operation
and maintenance cost of the spate irrigation works as well as their capital
cost in real terms, without interest, over a period of twenty years. The
levels of such surcharge will be adjusted in consultation with the Association
at intervals of not more than five years in order to take into account such
factors as actual annual collections, landowners' ability to pay, and the
requirements of future irrigation investment (Section 4.08, JPA). The Gov-
ernment has also agreed that, when it has reviewed the results of the crop
sharing study which is being financed under the second Tihama project, it will
by June 30, 1982 or such other date as may be agreed, implement measures to
improve the relative income and economic positions of tenants in the project
area (Section 4.07, JPA). The tubewells will be sold at prices representing
their full cost, on medium-term loan conditions, to the farmers who will
operate and maintain them. Although the cost of the new tubewells will be
recovered by sales, and the land at present irrigated by ground water will not
benefit from the capital investment proposed under the project, the tax would
be levied on all groundwater irrigated areas to cover the general cost of
administration and to make the surcharge in the spate irrigated area more
acceptable. The full operation and maintenance costs of village water supply
systems will also be borne by the beneficiaries, through annual assessments
averaging YRls 22 per capita per year (Section 3.05 of the JPA).
Markets and Prices
64.       Except for cotton (which would be marketed through government chan-
nels), the entire project output is expected to be consumed locally. The



- 20 -
marketable surplus would be disposed of through the existing market network
linking villages and urban centers. The roads being constructed under the
project would improve the efficiency of this system. With the high effective
demand for all agricultural commodities in YAR, farm-gate prices are expected
to continue to be high. Farmers in the Tihama enjoy a comparative advantage
vis-a-vis other regions particularly for fresh fruits and vegetables by virtue
of the subtropical climate and proximity to Hodeidah, where demand is high and
supply is scarce. Price forecasts for cotton and grains in the world market
are also favorable.
Procurement
65.       The civil works included in the IDA-financed component of the proj-
ect would cost about $17.4 million, of which tubewell drilling (total cost $1
million) would be done through force account. Building works included in the
project, being small and scattered, would not be suitable for international
bidding and would thus be procured using government local competitive bidding
procedures, which are acceptable. The procurement of civil works for canals
($16.4 million) and for all IDA-financed equipment ($1.0 million) would be
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with "Guidelines
for Procurement under World Bank Loans and Credits," except for items costing
less than $50,000, whose aggregate value would not exceed $400,000, which
would be procured through local competitive bidding. A 15 percent preference
margin, or the prevailing customs duty, whichever is less, would be extended
to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids under ICB. Procurement under
the IFAD loan will also be in accordance with the World Bank guidelines. The
EEC Special Action loan will be disbursed against civil works procured under
local competitive procedures or awarded to eligible contractors following ICB.
Disbursement
66.       Disbursements under the IDA credit would be made on the basis of 50
percent of expenditure on civil works, 100 percent of foreign expenditures
for directly imported goods and 100 percent of local expenditures exfactory
for locally procured goods, 80 percent of local expenditures of imported
goods procured locally, and 100 percent of expenditures on consultants, for-
eign experts and training.  The closing date of the credit is September 30,
1985. EEC Special Action disbursements will be on the basis of 50 percent
of expenditures, in eligible currencies, on civil works.
Financial Rate of Return
67.       The financial rate of return on investment in wells purchased by
landowners would be 52 percent, with benefits being generated in the first
year after acquisition. The Surdud farm shows a rate of return of 36 per-
cent, including the costs of research components which would yield no direct
financial benefits.
Benefits and Risks
68.       Economic Rate of Return and Justification.  The economic rate of
return is estimated to be 16 percent for the Wadi Mawr development component,



- 21 -
the cost of which is $77.7 million; and 24 percent for the Surdud farm com-
ponent, the cost of which is $9.9 million. The combined economic rate of
return for the project as a whole is 17 percent. Included in these costs are
those of water supply and veterinary service at Wadi Mawr and applied research
and seed multiplication at the Surdud farm, for which full benefits were not
quantified. The main quantified benefits are the increases in the annual
value of agricultural production estimated at YRIs 51.9 million ($11.5 million)
a            in the Wadi Mawr area and YRls 16 million ($3.6 million) from the Surdud farm.
This results from (i) the improved efficiency of the spate irrigation system
which will allow an expansion of the canal-irrigated area and a more reliable
and increased supply of water, (ii) the extension of the well-irrigated area,
(iii) the adoption of improved agricultural practices made possible by an
upgraded extension service and provision of additional credit, and (iv) the
improved operation of the Surdud farm.
69.       While the short- and medium-term benefits can be readily quantified,
the project's long-term benefits, and its implications for the YAR economy as
a whole, are still more significant. The project represents part of the
government's strategy to develop the Tihama plain, one of the least-developed
regions of YAR, yet one with the greatest agricultural potential. It would
lay the basis for long-term development by introducing essential public
sector institutions and services, including agricultural extension, research,
improved seed production, an organized supply of inputs, roads, and an admin-
istration to operate and maintain irrigation works. Increased production
under the project would reduce food imports, which has become a priority
concern of the government.
70.       The project would create 2,300 man-years of annual on-farm employ-
ment. During project implementation, 1,800 man years of unskilled labor
would be employed for civil works construction. Skilled and semi-skilled
manpower requirements for project administration would be an additional 800
man-years. This increase in employment opportunities and labor productivity
would contribute to the government's policy to increase domestic employment
and to discourage emigration, so as to check the economy's growing dependence
on employment abroad. Thus, the project fits the government's strategy for
transforming the economic structure of the country and achieving a more
balanced growth.
71.       Beneficiaries.  The project would improve the incomes and living
conditions of the 53,000 inhabitants of the project area, about 55 percent of
whom are estimated to have incomes below the relative poverty level of YRls
585 ($130). Farm incomes for these families would increase threefold in the
areas now irrigated. In the presently rainfed area, where the new wells
would be installed, incomes would increase dramatically, by as much as 28
times. A general improvement in the quality of life in Wadi Mawr is also
anticipated. Incomes would become more reliable, with more regular provision
of water and with no possibility of large floods destroying the diversion
works in the spate-irrigated areas. The increased production of cereals,
oilseeds, fruits, vegetables and livestock products, as well as the provision
of potable water, would improve caloric intake, health and nutrition, while
roads would improve access to facilities not now available. Roads would also
reduce the area's isolation and accelerate technological and social change.



- 22 -
72.       While the target population would thus benefit, the wealthier
families would also benefit substantially. Landlords' rental income would
increase as much as the tenants' in the spate-irrigated area, and for those
landowners who also owned wells, twice as much as the tenants' in the well-
irrigated area. Moreover, landowners would enjoy an increase in the value of
their land. This outcome is unavoidable since a radical change in the land
tenure system cannot be contemplated at present, for the reasons given above
(para. 50). On the other hand, the majority of the people, who are poor even
by YAR standards, could not be helped at all without investment in developing
agriculture, the only significant resource with potential in Wadi Mawr. The
government recognizes the problems posed by the land tenure situation and is
taking the first steps to tackle them, in cooperation with IDA. It has taken
a major step forward, as described in paragraph 63, in requiring cost recovery
charges to be paid by landowners; also it has recently issued a religious
edict assisting the tenants by obliging landowners to share the costs of
modern inputs (fertilizers, pesticides, improved seeds, etc.) in proportion
to their crop shares. A study on cost and crop sharing for the Tihama region
has also been commissioned under the Tihama Development II Project as des-
cribed in paragraph 63. A special monitoring unit will be created in TDA
staffed with rural sociologists. This unit would focus on the income distri-
bution impact of the project, as part of its socioeconomic analysis of the
development of Wadi Mawr.
Risks
73.       There are no special problems of a technical, financial or adminis-
trative nature expected to arise in implementing this project, apart from the
difficulty of obtaining skilled administrative staff discussed in paragraph
61. Sensitivity tests show that the project would still yield an economic
rate of return ranging between 13 percent and 17 percent even in the event of
unusually adverse conditions. However, an important risk faced by the project
is that the income of the poorer farmers would not increase as anticipated if
the recently issued edict on cost sharing is not successfully implemented.
In this case, although the project's impact on alleviating poverty would be
reduced, tenant's incomes would still double and there would be incentives to
intensify production as projected. Environmental impact would be beneficial,
due to improved water supplies.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
74.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Yemen Arab
Republic and the Association, the draft Joint Project Agreement between the
Yemen Arab Republic, the Association and IFAD, the draft Special Action Credit
agreement between the Association as Administrator and the Government, and
the recommendation of the committee provided for in Article V, Section l(d)
of the Association's Articles of Agreement are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately.



- 23 -
75.       Features of the Joint Project, Development Credit and Special Action
Credit Agreements of special interest are referred to in Section III of Annex
III. Special conditions of effectiveness of the credits are the meeting of
conditions of effectiveness of the IFAD loan agreement, and of the EEC Special
Action Credit, the ratification of the Joint Project Agreement, and the signing
of loan agreement(s) between the government and other external co-financiers
for an amount of about $15 million equivalent (Recital D and Section 5.01 of
the draft Development Credit Agreement).
76.       I am satisfied that the proposed Development Credit would comply
with the Articles of Agreement of the Association, and that the proposed
Special Action Credit would be in conformity with the agreement between the
Association, the EEC and its member states dated May 2, 1978.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
77.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed Devel-
opment Credit and the proposed Special Action Credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
by Ernest Stern
Attachments
February 21, 1979
Washington, D.C.



-24-                                                           ANNEX I
Page O of 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                                    /a
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                   - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
TOTAL            195.0                                                     SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
AGRICULTURAL       15.2                                 MOST RECENT     GEOGRAPHIC   INCOME         INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b       REGION Ic   GROUP /d    GROUP /e
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                     ..           ..     390.0 (1977)1438.5          182.9        432.3
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)        7.0        17.0       49.0           816.7        88.9        251.7                        a
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
TOTAL POPULATION, MID-YEAR
(MILLIONS)                          4.6        4.8       5.5
URBAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)   ..            ..       7.0             45.8       15.0         24.2
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                          ..        28.0       34.0             23.2       46.8         42.7
PER SQ. KCM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       ..       362.0      441.0            112.4      254.1         95.0
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                          43.3        44.1       46.8             46.0       43.6         44.9
15-64 YRS.                          54.0        53.2       49.7             50.6       53.3         52.8
65 YRS. AND ABOVE                    2.7          2.7       3.5              3.3        2.9          3.0
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                ..         ..        2.0               2.9        2.4          2.7
URBAN                                ..           ..       8.0              5.0        4.0          8.8
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        ..        50.5       47.3             45.0       44.3         42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)        ..         24.1      28.7             13.7       19.7         12.4
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..          3.5       3.5              3.4        2.9          3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..           ..        ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)    ..            ..        ..             14.7       14.6         14.2
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1970-100)             156.2        100.0     156.1            107.1       96.4        104.3
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                    82.0        71.0        * *             99.2       92.3         99.5
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)           65.0        62.0          *             63.4       50.0         56.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE          ..        15.8 /f      .              16.4       13.9         17.5
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE        ..           ..        ..               ..          ..         7.5
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)       ..           ..      37.0             53.7       45.8         53.3
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER THOUSAND)  ..            ..     159.0             77.7      102.7         82.5
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..          4.0       9.4             59.1       26.4         31.1
URBAN                                ..        45.0       51.7 /A          85.9       63.5         68.5
RURAL                                ..          2.0       6.7             38.0       14.1         18.2
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             64.3        16.1        37.5
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..             94.5       65.9         69.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             27.7        3.4         25.4
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN         143500.0     31340.0   23260.0            4271.6    13432.7       9359.2
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON          ..           ..   16830.0           2077.4     6983.3       2762.5
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
TOTAL                            3300.0           ..    2060.0            580.2     1157.6        786.5
URBAN                                ..           ..        ..            310.0      183.3        278.4
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..               ..     1348.8       1358.4
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED            ..           ..        ..             22.0        19.5        19.2
HOUSING
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                ..           ..       5.9              5.4        5.2
URBAN                                ..           ..       4.2j/             ..        4.8
RURAL                                ..           ..       6.0               ..         5.3
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                 .           ..       3.0
URBAN                                ..           ..       1.8              1.8         1.8         2.3
RURAL                                ..           ..       3.1
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINGS)
TOTAL                                ..           ..        ..             40.3       25.9         28.3
URBAN                                ..           ..      56.5
RURAL                                ..           ..        ..             12.2         ..         10.3



- 25 -                                            ANNEX I
nae 2 o f 5
TABLE 3A
YEMEN . ARAB REPUBLIC OF - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJUSTED AVERAGES
YEMEN, ARAB REPUBLIC OF                                    /a
- HOST RECENT ESTIMATE)
SAME        SAME      NEXT HIGHER
MOST RECENT      GEOGRAPHIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 jb     1970 lb ESTIMATE /b       REGION /c   GROUP Id    GROUP Ie
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  8.0         10.0      25.7             80.8         62.9        75.8
FEMALE                 0.4         2.0        7. 1            61.8        45.9        67.9
Upper SECONDARY:   TOTAL                     0.2          1.0       4.4             23.6         14.4       17.7
FEMALE                  ..         0.1        1.3             18.2         8.8        12.9
VOCATIONAL (PERCENT OF SECONDARY)   ..           2.0       2.0              6.7          6.6         7.4
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                            45.0         51.0      40.0             31.5         38.5        34.3
SECONDARY                          17.0         24.0      21.0             22.3         19.8        23.5
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)          3.0          ..      13.0             50.1         36.7        63.7
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..            14.5          3.1         7.2
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..       13.0           125.8         31.1        71.1
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           ..           ..         ..            34.5          2.8        14.1
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..        10.0         ..            17.4          6.0        16.3
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..            ..         ..              1.6         1.4         1.6
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)           ..          ..    1140.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    3.8          4. 2      4.3              9.33        24.2        28.0
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)              83.2         79.2      73.0             42.0         60.7        54.1
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                  6.9          9.0
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                30.0         29.1       28.3            26.9         39.8        37.8
MALE                                  57.0        55.1       53.6             46.6        53.3        50.3
FEMALE                                2.3          2.4        2.5             5.3         19.6        20.9
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                 ..          ..        2.2              1.9         1.3         1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..         20.3        19.5
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..            ..         ..              ..         45.1        48.9
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..          5.7         5.9
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..         ..              ..         16.8        15.7
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..       .. . .                          ..        88.5       155.9
RURAL                                 ..          ..                      142.0         71.9        97.9
ESTIMATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                ..           ..      79.0            236.1        100.8       143.7
RURAL                                 ..          ..      40.0            144.7         42.0        87.3
ESTIMATED POPULATION BELOW POVERTY
INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                ..           ..       15.0             21.5        46.0        22.9
RURAL                                ..           ..       60.0             37.4        48.0        36.7
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a    The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b    Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1973 and 1977.
/c    North Africa & Middle East;   /d   Low Income ($280 or less per capita, 1976);   /e  Lower Middle Income
($281-550 per capita, 1976);   If  Av. 1964-66;  /R  Only in the major cities of Samoa, Taig and Hodaidah.
September, 1978



- 26 -
ANNEX I
DEFINITIONS OF SOCIAL INDICATORS                                                      .he '  of   5
Lgiog: The adjusted group averages for each indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme values of the indicator and the rost
populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.  Due to lack of dcc.c,
group averages for Capital Surplus Oil Exporters and indicators of access to water and excreta disposal, housing, income distribution and ?rverty are
simple population-weighted geometric means without the exclusion of extreme values.
LAND AREA (thousand sq. ki)                                                               Population per hospital bed - total  urban, and rural - Population (total,
Total - Total surface area comprising land area and inland waters.                           rbas, and rural) divided by their respective number of hospital beds
Agricultural - Most recent estimate of agricultural area used temporarily                   available in public and private general and specialized hospital and re-
or permanently for crops, pastures, market and kitchen gardens or to                     habilitation centers.  Hospitals are establishments permanently staffed by
lie fallow.                                                                              at least one physician.  Establishments providing principally custodial
care are not included. Rural hospitals, ho-ever, include health and nedi-
GINP PER CAPITA (US$) - GNP per capita estimatea at current market prices,                   cal centers not permanently staffed by a physician (but by a medical as-
calculated by same conversion method as World Bank Atlas (1975-77 basis);                sistant, nurse, midwife, etc.) which offer in-patient accommodation and
1960, 1970, and 1977 data,                                                               provide a limited range of medical facilities.
Admissions per hospital had - Intal number of adnissicons to or discharges
ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA - Xnnual consumption of commercial energy                      from hospitals divided by the   number of beds.
(coal and lignite, petroleum, natcral gas and hydro-. nuclear and geo-
thrmal electricity) in kilograms of coal aquivalent per capita.                      HOUSING
Average size of household (persons per household) - total, arban, and rural -
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS                                                              A household consists of a group of individuals who share living quarters
Total population, mid-year (millions) - As of July 1; if not available,                     and their main meals.  A boarder or lodger nay or may not be included in
average of two end-year estimates; 1960, 1970, and 1977 data.                            the household for statistical purposes.  Statistical definitions of house-
Urban population (percent of total) - Ratio of urban to total popula-                       hold vary.
tion; different definitions of urban areas may affect comparability                    Average nuber of persons per roes - total, urban, and rural - Average som-
of data among countries.                                                                 ber of persons per room in all, urban, and rural occupied conventional
Population density                                                                         dwellings, respectively.  Dwelliags eaclude non-pernantnc structures snd
Per  sq. km. - Mid-year population per square kilometer (100 hectares)                    unoccupied parts.
of total area.                                                                         Access to electricity (percent of dwellings) - total, urban, and rural -
Per sq. km. agriculture land - Computed as above for agricultural land                    Cosoen naionl dwellings with electricity in living quarters as percentage
only.                                                                                    af total, urban, and rural dwellingoos -petively.
Population age structure (percent) - Children (0-14 years), working-age
(15-64 years), and retired (65 years and over) as percentages of mid-                EDUCATION
year population.                                                                      Adjusted enrollment ratios
Population growth rate (percent) - total, and urban - Compound annual                    Primary school - total, and female - Total and finsle  eolo-e1 t of all ages
growth rates of total and urban mid-year populations for 1950-60,                        at the primary level as percentages of respectively primary school-age
1960-70, and 1970-75.                                                                    populations; normally includes children aged 6-11 years but adjusted for
Crude birth rate (per thousa.nd) - Annual live births per thousand of                      different lengths of primary education; for countries with universal edo-
aid-year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and                     cation enrollment may esceed 100 percent siece none pupils are below or
1970 and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                      above the official school age.
Crude death rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thousand of mid-                     Secondary school - total, and female - Computed as above; secondary sduce-
year population; ten-year arithmetic averages ending in 1960 and 1970                    tion requires at least four years of approved primary instruction; pro-
and five-year average ending in 1975 for most recent estimate.                           vides general vocational, or teacher trainirg instructions for pupils
Gross reproduction rate - Average number of daughters a woman will bear                    usually of 12 to 17 years of age; correspondence courses are generally
in her normal reproductive period if she experiences present age-                        excluded.
specific fertility rates; usually fioe-year averages ending in 1960,                   Vocational enrollment (percent of secondary) - Vocational institutions in-
1970, end 1975.                                                                          clude technical, industrial, or other programs which operate independently
Familv planning - acceptors, annual (thousands) - Annual number of                         or as departments of secondary institutioc5.
acceptors of birth-control devices under auspices of national family                 Pupil-teacher ratio - primary, and secondary - Total students enrolled in
planning program.                                                                        primary and secondary levels divided by numbers of teachers in the norre-
Family planning - users (percent of married women) - Percentage of                         sponding levels.
married women of child-bearing age (15-44 years) who use birth-control                Adult literacy rate (percent) - Literate adults (able to read and write) an
devices to all married women in same age group.                                          a percentage of total adult population aged 15 years and over.
FOOD AND NUTRITION                                                                      CONSUMPTION
Indea of food production per capita (1910=100) - Index nusber of per                    Passenger cars (per thousand population) - Passenger cars comprise motor cars
capita annual production of all food commodities.                                      seating less than eight persons; excludes ambulances, hearses and military
Per capita suanIl  of calories (percent of requirements) - Compated from                 vehicles.
energy equivalent of net food supplies available in country per capita               Radio receivers (per thousand population) - All types of receivers for radio
per day.  Available supplies comprise domestic production, imports less                broadcasts to general public per thousand of population; excludes unlicensed
exports, and changes in stock.  Net supplies exclude animal feed, seeds,               receivers in countries and in years when registration of radio sets wss in
quantities used in food processing, and losses in distribution.  Re-                   effect; data for recent years mav nmt be comparable since most countries
quirements were estimated by FAO based on physiological needs for nor-                 abolished licensing.
mal activity and health considering environmental temperature, body                   TV receivers (per thousand pepulation) - TV receivers for broadcast to generaL
weights, age and sex distributions of population, and allowing 10 per-                   public per thousand population; excludes unlicensed TV receivers in coon-
cent for waste at household level.                                                       tries and in years when registration of TV sets was in effect.
Per capita supply of protein (grams pen day) - Protein content of per                   Newspaper circulation (per thousand populatlon) - Shows tho average circula-
capita net supply of food per day.  Net supply of feed is defined as                     ticn of "daily general interest newspaper". defined as a vecLodical pabli-
above.  Requirements for all countries established by USDA provide for                   cation devoted primarily to recording general news.  It ;s considered to
a minimum allowance of 60 grams of total protein per day and 20 grams                    be "daily" if it appears ut leaot four tines a week.
of snimal and pulse protein, of which 10 grams should be animal protein.              Cinema annual attendance per c-pita per year - Based on the nscber of Lickets
These standards are lower than those of 75 grams of total protein and                    sold during the year, including admisniens to drive-in rinc.as and -obile
23 grams of animal protein as an average for the world, proposed by                      units.
FAO in the Third World Food Survey.
Per capita protein supply from animal and pulse - Protein supply of food               EMPLOYMENT
derived from animals and pulses in grams per day.                                     Total laboo force (thousands) - Economically active persons, including armed
Child (ages 1-4) mortality rote (per thousand) - Annual deaths per thous-                  forces and unemployed but excluding housewives  stuents, etc.  Defini-
and in age group 1-4 years, to children in this age group.                               ti.ns i  vi eious countries are nor  -omparsble.
FPeale (percent) - Female labor force us percentage of -orI labor force.
HEALTH                                                                                   Agriculture (percent) - Labor force in farming, forestry, hunting and fishing
Life espectancy_at  it   yas   Average number of yearn of life                             as percentage of total labor force.
rfenming ot bicti; u. ally five-year averages ending in 196D, 1970,                   Industry (percent) - Labor force in mining, constr-ctie,  anufactorisg and
and 1975.                                                                                electricity, water and gas as percentage of total labor force.
Infant mortality rate (per thousand) - Annual deaths of infants under                   Participation rate (percent) - total, male, and female - Total, male, and
one year of age par thousand live hinhts,                                                femal  labor force as percetages of their respetive populoticos.
Access to safe water (percent of population) - total  urban, and rural -                    These are TLCs adjusted psrticipstion  urtes reflecting ace-sen
Number of people (total, urban, and rural) with reasonable access to                     strurlore of the population. cnd lone time trend.
safe water supply (includes treated surface waters or untreated but                   fEcnomic dependency ratio - Ratie of population under 15 acc  bS and ose.r t
uncontaminated water such an that from protected boreholes, springs,                     the labor force in age group of 1-64 years.
and sanitary wells) as peruentages of their respectire populations.
In an urban area a public fountain or standpost located not more                     INCOME DISTRIBUTION
than 200 meters from a house may be considered as being within rea-                   Percentage of private income (both in cas  and kind) received by richest 5
sonable access of that house.  In rural areas reasonable access would                    percent, richest 20 percent, poorest 20 percent, snd poorest 40 p-rcnen
imply that the housewife or .e.bers of the household do not have to                      of households.
spend a disproportionate part of the day in fetching the family's
water needs.                                                                         POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
Access to excreta disposal (percent of populatio) - total  urban  and                   Estimated abso lut e poveory income level (iS Fer  sai _             'v      r,,tu  -
rural - Nuaber of people (toal, urban, and rural) served by exoneta                         Absolute poverty income level is that inme   level '.sbs 'h  h
disposal . a  percentages of their respective populations.  Excrete                      sutritio.alic adequate dint pius essential non-fosd r-qu-,r--or's is co
dinvos-l may include the collection and disposal, with or without                        affordable.
treatment, of human excreta and waste-water by water-borne systems                    Estineotd relative poverty income level (US$ Fnc capita) - urb   and c.",.I -
or the use of pit privies and similar installations.                                      Relative p-oerty incom-e  ovel1 is that income ice  levs tur. ocr-third
Pcpulation per physician - Population divided by number of practicing                       per capita personal income of the country.
physicians qualified from a medical school at university level.                       Estimated population below poverty income level (percent'  -erhc avo roa-i -
Po      n  per nursing person - Population divided by number of                             Percent of population (urban and rural) whc are either    'ci.out  pcor" or
practicing male and female graduate nurses, practical nurses, and                         "relative poor" whichever is greater.
assistant nurves.



ANNEX I
- 27 -                             Page 4 of 5
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1976/77                                            ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH
(%, Constant Prices)
US$ Mln.              %                 1969/70-1975/76    1976/77
GNP at Market Prices               2,450               100                      15              20
GDP at Market Prices               1,560                64                       9              12
Gross Domestic Irivestment           445                18                      21              24
Gross National Satving               620                25                                      22
Current Account Balance              175                 7
Exports of Goods, NFS                 65                 3                                       19
Imports of Goods, NFS                780                32                       ..             60
OUTPUT, LABOR FOLCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1975/76
Value Added                    Labor Force               V. A. Per Worker
(US$ Mln.)        %              Thous.          %           US $           %
Agriculture            512            45               800           73            640          61
Industry               117            10                90            8         1,30C         123
Services               522            45               200           19         2,610         247
TOTAL/AVERAGE      1,151           100             1,090          100         1,056         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
% of GNP
1973/74   1974/75   1975/76   1976/77   1977/78g21   1976/77
-               Y-ls Million------------------
Current Revenue                        277        381       605       1,293      1,925        12
Current Expenditure                    323       472        617         841      1,235         8
Current Deficit/Surplus                -46       -91        -12        +452      +690          4
Development Expenditure                139        185       322         463        870         4
External Assistance (net)              239        536       635         606        682         6
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES
 ---------------------- June 30 ------------_____-___
1973      1974       1975      1976       1977       1978
_______ YK-LsMillion Outstanding End Period)---------
Money Supply                                489        640        964     2,028      3,642      5,248
Bank Credit to Govt. Sector                 102         77       -150      -407       -939    -1,006
Bank Credit to Non-Govt. Sector             169        238       394        566      1,474      1,571
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money Supply as % of GNP1/                    14        15         15        20         26
Consumer Price Indexi/                       ..        154        203       237        293        348
(1972 = 100)
Annual percentage increasel/ in:
Money Supply                               36         31         51        104        80         44
Consumer Price Index                       ..         ..        32         17         24         19
1/ During fiscal year ending June 30.
2/ Preliminary estimates
.. Not available



ANNEX I
- 28-                               PaSe 5 of 5
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS
1973/74    1974/75    1975/76    1976/77    1977/78
-------------Million US$-------------------
Exports of Goods, fob                    14          13          12          19           7
Imports of Goods, cif                   194         259         382         730         834
Trade Balance                          -180        -246        -370        -711        -827
Non Factor Services, net                 14          18          22          -3         -21
Factor Income, net                      117         203         479         889       1,089
Workers' Remittances, net            (112)       (191)       (457)       (842)    (1,019)
Investment Income, net                 (5)        (12)        (22)        (47)        (70)
Balance on Current Account              -49         -25         131         175         241
M & LT Capital, net                      62         126         153         146         165
Official Grants                        33          93         114         104         101
Official Loans, net                    29          33          39          42          64
Disbursements                       (32)       (37)         (42)        (46)        (70)
Repayments                          (-3)       (-4)         (-3)        (-4)        (-6)
Other Capital, net!/                     15          -3          +4         126         -24
Increase in Reserves (-)                -28        -98        -286        -447        -382
Gross Reserves (end fiscal year)./    89            187         473         920       1,302
MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
EXTERNAL PUBLIC DEBT, JUNE 30, 1978                 (AVERAGE 1975/76-1976/77)
US$ Mln.                                            %
Total outstanding                693             Cotton and Cotton Products        51
of which disbursed               363             Coffee                            18
Hides & Skins                    14
All other commodities             17
TOTAL                       100
DEBT SERVICE RATIO   FOR 1977/78                         RATE OF EXCHANGE
%                         Since February 1973
Total outstanding and                                    US$ 1.00 = YRls  4.50
disbursed                    1                         YR1 1.00 = US$ 0.22
1/ Includes errors and omissions.
2/ Central Bank holdings of convertible reserves.
3/ Includes workers' remittances.
February 2, 1979



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN THE YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
A.   Statement of IDA Credits
(As of December 31, 1978 - $ Million)
Amount
Credit                                                           (less cancellations)
Number   Year          Borrower         Purpose                  IDA      Undisbursed
315     1972   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways I                   7.7           -
376     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture 1   21.2 /1            1.88
421     1973   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                   11.0          1.20
464     1974   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply                 6.3          1.54
465     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Industrial Estate            2.3          1.05
545     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Rural Development          10.0           6.54
558     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways II                  9.0          0.44
559     1975   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply
and Sewerage           8.1          4.02
611     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Education                    8.0          4.78
636     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Grain Storage and
Processing              5.2          3.30
662     1976   Yemen Arab Republic  Livestock Credit
and Processing         5.0           3.40
670     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Water Supply and
Sewerage              10.0          9.67
714     1977   Yemen Arab Republic  Port Development            6.0           5.90
794     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Highways III /2             11.5         11.50
805     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Tihama Agriculture /3  10.5              10.50
832     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Textile Rehabili-
tation /4                 7.0          7.00
837     1978   Yemen Arab Republic  Power Distri-
bution /5                10.0         10.00
Total                                                 148.8         82.72
Of which has been repaid                                -
Total now held by IDA                                 148.8
Total undisbursed                                                   82.72
/1   Including supplementary credit of $10.3 million of April 9, 1976.
7T   Approved April 27, 1978; Credit not yet effective.
75   Approved May 18, 1978; Credit not yet effective.
74   Approved June 20, 1978; Credit not yet effective.
/5   Approved July 6, 1978; Credit not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
(As of December 31, 1978)
(Amount in US$ millions)
Year            Obligor                Type of Business    Loan   Equity   Total
1978     Yemen Dairy and Juice        Dairy Products         2.4       -       2.4
Industries Co. Ltd.
Total Gross Commitments                             2.4              2.4
less cancellations, terminations,
repayments, sales                                   -                -
Total commitments now held by IFC                   2.4              2.4
Total undisbursed                                   1.4              1.4
C.   Other Bank Group Activities
Three Bank grants of $200,000, $200,000 and $120,000  respectively,
were approved in July 1971, September 1973 and January 1976 to help finance,
jointly with the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, a team of planning
and economic advisors and later of a management/administrative expert. The
Kuwait Fund provided grants of about $200,000, $300,000 and $425,000. The
Bank grants will be fully disbursed in early 1979.
D.   Projects in Execution
Cr. No. 376-YAR - Tihama Agriculture; $10.9 million Credit of May 2, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: September 4, 1973; and $10.3 million Supplementary
Credit of April 9, 1976; Effectiveness Date: June 18, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1979.
Construction work on the diversion weirs has been substantially
completed, and the canal will be completed by April 1979. The Agricultural
Credit Fund (ACF) was established towards the end of 1974. ACF's operations
in the project are highly satisfactory. The project is expected to be com-
pleted by June 1979.
Cr. No. 421-YAR - Education Project; $11 million Credit of July 19, 1973;
Effectiveness Date: April 10, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1979.
Following initial delays in recruiting staff for the Project Unit
and the UNDP/UNESCO Task Force, project implementation is now about 24 months
behind appraisal estimates. All site problems have been resolved. With the
exception of one school, all equipment and furniture contracts have been
awarded and delivery has commenced. All institutions are scheduled to be
operational with the school year beginning October 1979. The most critical



- 31 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
aspects of the project are the difficulty of recruiting expatriate and
trained Yemeni staff for project institutions, and of obtaining technical
assistance to draw up curricula and to make the institutions operational.
The UNDP/UNESCO Task Force in the Ministry of Education, whose period was due
to expire in December 1978, has been extended for three years, with financing
from UNDP. The government is pursuing discussions with bilateral agencies
to meet the technical assistance and some staffing needs for the project
institutions.
Cr. No. 464-YAR - Sana'a Water Supply Project; $6.25 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: July 15, 1974; Closing Date: September 28, 1979.
Water supply headworks were inaugurated in September 1978 and the
main transmission line into the city is operational. Pipe-laying for the
distribution network is expected to be completed in February 1979.
Cr. No. 465-YAR - Industrial Estate Project; $2.3 million Credit of March 4,
1974; Effectiveness Date: November 27, 1974; Closing Date: December 31,
1980.
Construction work started in February 1976; construction of the
developed plots is almost finished and most plots have been rented. The
Industrial Estate Authority now wishes to establish additional estates in
Hodeida and Taiz.
Cr. No. 545-YAR - Southern Uplands Rural Development Project; $10.0 million
Credit of May 13, 1975; Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982.
After a slow start in project implementation, the project encoun-
tered management, staffing and organizational problems. Since the Fall of
1976 progress has been encouraging. Project management has improved and
agricultural extension, veterinary and credit activities are progressing
very satisfactorily. Problems of cost escalation have been met by reducing
the number of loans that can be made to farmers, and the extent of the feeder
road component. Well drilling and the village water supply component is
underway.
Cr. 558-YAR - Second Highway Project; $9.0 million Credit of June 20, 1975;
Effectiveness Date: January 27, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1979.
The construction of the Taiz-Km 64 road was completed in November
1976, and the 2-1/2 years technical assistance consultancy to the Highway
Authority is being continued under the Third Highway Project.
Cr. No. 559-YAR - Hodeida Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $8.1 million
Credit of June 20, 1975; Effectiveness Date: December 29, 1975; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980.
Tenders for the combined civil and electrical/mechanical works for
water supply as well as sewerage have been evaluated and the contracts are



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
expected to be awarded shortly. Work is scheduled to start in February 1979.
Transfer of the existing water system assets from the Port Authority is
expected shortly. Consultants for the tariff study have been selected and
the work is underway.
Cr. No. 611-YAR - Second Education Project; $8.0 million Credit of February 13,
1976; Effectiveness Date: May 10, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Physical implementation of this project is proceeding on schedule
and all project institutions are expected to be operational by October 1979.
Bids for furniture and equipment for the eight project institutions have been
received and evaluation is underway. Following the establishment of the
National Basic Training Board, an initial deposit of $50,000 has been made to
the Basic Training Fund. Severe constraints have been placed on achieving
the educational objectives of the project due to lack of progress in financing
and recruiting expatriate and Yemeni staff for the project institutions. The
government is pursuing discussions with bilateral agencies to meet the tech-
nical assistance and some staffing needs for the project institutions.
Cr. No. 636-YAR - Grain Storage and Processing Project; $5.2 million Credit
of June 7, 1976; Effectiveness Date: October 26, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981.
YGGC was established in October 1976 and is implementing the
project satisfactorily. Staffing is complete for local and expatriate
professionals and six local staff are currently undergoing training in the
US and UK in fields of cereal sciences and bakery management. Contracts for
the silo, government bakeries and warehouses have been awarded and construc-
tion has commenced and is expected to be complete by end 1979. The Grain
Storage Survey is underway and is expected to be completed by early 1979.
The National Nutrition Status Survey is planned for April 1979 and would
be carried out in cooperation with the US Government's Center for Disease
Control and USAID. Cost overruns on construction and delays in implementa-
tion of the nutrition component and Grain Storage Survey are problems but
satisfactory efforts are being made to remedy the situation.
Cr. No. 662-YAR - Livestock Credit and Processing Project; $5.0 million Credit
of November 15, 1976; Effectiveness Date:  August 22, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
The project manager and practically all expatriate staff are in the
field, together with the co-manager and some counterparts.  Cost escalation
was resolved in a meeting of co-financiers in London in October 1977 by reduc-
tion and/or reorientation of some components without changing the project
concept. Government sites for the two dairy farms, two slaughterhouses and
the fattening farm have been secured and the planning phase for construction
of the project components has been completed. The physical works program of
the project is now well underway.



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Cr. No. 670-YAR - Sana'a Second Water Supply and Sewerage Project; $10.0
million Credit of January 14, 1977; Effectiveness Date: May 16, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982.
The contract for bulk supply of materials for sewerage is expected
to be awarded shortly. Bids for civil works and electrical/mechanical works
for sewerage were opened in November 1978 and are being evaluated. All
other tender documents are being finalized. A consultancy contract for the
supervision of construction was signed in December 1978. Proposals for final
designs of the Ibb and Dhamar water supply and sewerage projects were received
on January 15, 1979 and are being evaluated by NSWA.
Cr. No. 714-YAR - Port Development Project; $6.0 million Credit of June 8,
1977; Effectiveness Date: March 17, 1978; Closing Date: March 31, 1982
The port engineer and the engineering consultants have been
appointed. Because of the delay in appointing consultants, project imple-
mentation is about five months behind schedule. The engineering design
and soil studies on berth No. 5 are expected to be ready by early 1979.
Consequently, construction is now likely to commence around July 1979, and
the berth will probably be commissioned in the latter part of 1980.
Cr. No. 794-YAR - Third Highway Project; $11.5 million Credit of May 31,
1978; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: March 31, 1983.
Although this credit is not yet effective because of a delay in
securing cofinancing, implementation has begun.
Cr. No. 805-YAR - Tihama Development II Project; $10.5 million Credit of
May 31, 1978; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: June 30,
1984.
Although the loan from the co-financier has been approved, there has
been a delay signing that loan and as a result the credit is not yet effective.
However, implementation of the project begun in mid-1978 and is progressing
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 832-YAR - Textiles Rehabilitation Project; $7.0 million Credit of
July 25, 1978; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: December 31,
1982.
Due to delays in arranging for consultancy services, start of imple-
mentation is about twelve months behind schedule. This credit is not yet
effective.
Cr. No. 837-YAR - Power Distribution Project; $10.0 million Credit of July 25,
1978; Effectiveness Date: (Not effective); Closing Date: January 1, 1983.
Although this credit is not yet effective because of the delay in
concluding an agreement with the co-financier, implementation has begun.



- 34 -
ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
THIRD TIHAMA DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Time taken by country to             April 1974-April 1978 (time taken by
prepare project:                    consultants to complete investigations
for assessing ground and surface water
potential and to prepare the project).
(b)  The agency which has                 Tihama Development Authority (TDA) and
prepared the project:               the government, using consulting engineers
Tipton and Kalmbach, Inc.
(c) Date of first presentation
to IDA:                             April 1978 (receipt of feasibility study)
(d)  Date of departure of
Appraisal Mission:                  May 6, 1978
(e) Date of completion of
negotiations:                       January 15, 1979
(f) Expected date of Credit
Effectiveness:                      July 1979
Section II: Special Implementation Action by IDA
None.
Section III: Special Conditions
A.   Meeting the conditions of effectiveness of the IFAD loan, and of the EEC
Special Action Credit, the ratification of the Joint Project Agreement
(JPA), and signing of loan agreements between the government and other
external co-financier(s) for an amount of about $15 million equivalent
would be conditions of effectiveness of the Development Credit and
Special Action Credit Agreements (paragraph 62).
B.   Measures to be agreed upon by the government would include:
1.   Completion by the project consultants of a water regulation
study for equitable distribution of the wadi's annual flows,
furnishing a copy for IDA's review by December 31, 1980, and
implementing suitable measures on the basis of the study's
findings (paragraph 60);



- 35 -
ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
2.   recovery of full capital, maintenance and operation costs
of the irrigation works from landowners by a levy of
production tax of not less than 2 percent of the gross
agricultural produce in spate-irrigated and not less than
1 percent in well-irrigated areas, in addition to the
tax at present charged for zakat and local development
activities (paragraph 63);
3.   communities benefiting from the village water supply would
be charged for the full costs of operation and maintenance
of the system (paragraph 63); and
4.   the recommendations of the crop-sharing study would be imple-
mented in the Tihama area in discussion with IDA, by June 1982
(paragraphs 50, 63 and 72).






IBRD 13809
I   9                                   0 \-                 >         ,    : ~             ~          ~           ~~~~~~~~~~C,  Z3'0D                                                                             /                                      OCToBER 5Q7,
|  A- Why tI                                                                                                           '                                                                                                                                    -4 ,
P                                                   -.---4 ,o, _. Z-~7 bn-           . M-'A
2 1'          ,.d---/                                   C          /            ;                                                        ,,                       0 DvAr1   Strctu -- PrZDeiE8udr                             y      -otMase
hZ    E   -)                '_                         "cm"K/nSt dml                             rpsdeoddopslfgrnl7sre /3 \4 0-rs                                                          eme         ee h                  TI A         A     D V       L    PM      N        R    JC
A-\~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
-IN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
'p                                 -  ------- _A'  \                                     - --  proposEd 4 SmWde RZlzds                   _      EKlstmg Dr.vel                                                                                MLE50        i               3E-                      I.S
Al                3                                        3 '~  i; [   , =  Proposed 6 0 m Wlde Roods   --   A 11 Weother Rood ZProposed bs oAleZ.  (
~~RBEE    ER  oeo K   \7 e S 5 5 4 2 V E   ~~~~~~                           (2,
IT.~~~~~~~~~~ 
33,5                                                                                                      j  Al                  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'p-     .d.   -,  .   RIH   S .t.                                        YEE AA   REUBl
,ss S'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ? : L ~ ~ ~ ~   c  :   >     ~ ~ ~ ~ < 2     N     ~      -.  f -  -   9 7   S . - y                                           - 5  
7-     ~~~~~~d~~P.-  R...WC ..k                                                                                             of-                                 TIA A     EELPEN                                   ROET  I
27'                               - ~~~~ soeNon SOWdURES                         --   Pro4siBoundory~t 195 5-                    (20 Sot-,0 Ms e -                                          YEWdiMENawrA  RP UBLIctAe
ereoDssoRRseOa         ------PrRRRBd 3 5m~W,de Roads                          RER  Eo-n 30,1978                                                                                  0    I    2 3       A          
---Propo...d4 45,, W do Woods                     E-IBEIR  Gr-seaR Ro- dSS 
'8  '~~~~~~~~v-,-'J ~~~~~~~~Pro-o-d 6 Or, W,de R00dB                                                    -       All, Weorer Roos (Prooo-d b, other)



