SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 1 YAR
Special Action Credit Agreement
(Third Tihama Development Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
Dated                              , 1979


﻿SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT NUMBER 1 YAR
SPECIAL ACTION CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       0    A     O           , 1979, between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by the MEMBER STATES of the
EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY.
WHEREAS by the Agreement, dated May 2, 1978, between the
International Development Association (the Association) and the
European Economic Community and its Member States there has been
established by the Association a Special Action Account consti-
tuted by the funds which shall be contributed by the Member States
of the European Economic Community and administered by the Associ-
ation, acting as Administrator of such Special Action Account, for
the purpose of, and in accordance with, the provisions of said
Agreement;
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower
of even date herewith, the Association has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower a Development Credit (hereinafter called
the Development Credit) in a principal amount in various curren-
cies equivalent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000), for the
purpose of assisting in the financing of an agricultural develop-
ment project (the Project);
WHEREAS by a loan agreement with the Borrower of even date
herewith, the International Fund for Agricultural Development (the
Fund), has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan, in a principal
amount in various currencies equivalent to twelve million dollars
($12,000,000), for the same purpose;
WHEREAS the Fund has appointed the Association as the Co-
operating Institution to administer the Fund Loan;
WHEREAS the Project is described in Schedule 2 to the Joint
Project Agreement of even date herewith, concluded among the
Borrower, the Association and the Fund;
WHEREAS the Borrower intends to contract from other external
sources of finance loans (hereinafter called the Co-Financiers'
Loans) in an aggregate amount equivalent to about fifteen million
dollars ($15,000,000) to assist in financing the Project on the
terms and conditions set forth in agreements (hereinafter called
the Co-Financiers' Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the
Borrower and each of such sources of finance;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Borrower has requested the Association, acting
in the capacity'referred to above as the Administrator, for
assistance from the resources of the Special Action Account in the
financing of the Project and the Association has determined that
such assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the
Agreement of May 2, 1978 referred to above;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the International Development Association,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the following
modifications thereof (said General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements of the International Development
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions):
(a) the term "Association", wherever used in the General
Conditions, means the International Development Association acting
as the Administrator of the Special Action Account referred to in
the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agreement;
(b) the terms "Development Credit Agreement" and "Credit",
wherever used in the General Conditions are amended to read
"Special Action Credit Agreement" and "Special Action Credit",
respectively;
(c) Sections 4.01, 4.02, 4.03, 4.04 and the second sentence
of Section 5.01 are deleted; and
(d) in Sections 6.02 and 7.01, the term "Association" shall
also include the International Development Association acting in
its own capacity.
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:


﻿-3-
(a) "Member States" means the Member States of the European
Economic Community, i.e. Belgium, Denmark, The Federal Republic of
Germany, France, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands and
The United Kingdom; and
(b) "Administrator" means the International Development
Association acting as Administrator of the Special Action Account
referred to in the Preamble to this Special Action Credit Agree-
ment.
ARTICLE II
The Special Action Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the
Borrower on the terms and conditions in the Special Action
Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, the following currency
amounts:
Three milion six hundred    Belgian francs      (BF3,680,000);
eighty thousand
Four hundred fifty-eight    Danish kroner       (DK458,000);
thousand
One million seven hundred   Deutsche marks      (DM1)769,000);
sixty-nine thousand
One million eight hundred   French francs       (FF1,870,000);
seventy thousand
Four thousand one hundred    Irish pounds       (IrZ4,100);
Two hundred sixteen million Italian lire        (ItL216,984,000);
nine hundred eighty-four
thousand
One hundred sixteen thousand Luxembourg francs  (LFll6,000);
Four hundred eighty-nine    Netherlands         (Dfl 489,000);
thousand                  guilders            and
Four hundred fifty thousand Pounds sterling     (E450,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Special Action Credit may
be withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the


﻿-4-
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement, as such Schedule may
be amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and
the Administrator, for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator
shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit.
(b) Withdrawals shall be made only on account of expendi-
tures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods produced in,
or services supplied from, (i) any of the Member States and (ii)
any developing country which is a member of the International
Development Association and could be the recipient of a Special
Action Credit, as determined by the Administrator.
(c) Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the
respective currencies in which the expenditures to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit have been paid or are
payable or, at the option of the Administrator, in such currency
or currencies as the Administrator shall from time to time select.
Section 2.03. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit shall be governed by
the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be -December 31, 1981,
or such later date as the Administrator shall establish. The
Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall ay to the Administrator
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum, on each of the various currency amounts with-
drawn from the Credit Account and outstanding from time to time.
The amounts of service charge in various currencies so found, and
the additional service charges (if any) payable pursuant to
Section 3.02 of -the General Conditions, shall be payable in the
currency of the United States of America or in another currency
selected by the Administrator in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph (b) of this Section, after their conversion into such
currency on the basis of exchange rates determined in accordance
with the provisions of Section 4.05 of the General Conditions.
(b) If the Administrator shall at any time determine that
the currency so specified or selected is not freely convertible or


﻿-5-
freely exchangeable by the International Development Association
for currencies of other members of the International Development
Association for the purposes of its operations, service charges
shall be payable in such other currency as the Administrator may
select for such purposes and shall notify in writing to the
Borrower, whereupon, commencing thirty days after the date of such
notice, service charges shall be payable in such other currency.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Special Action Credit in semiannual installments
payable on each May 1 and November 1 commencing May 1, 1989
and ending November 1, 2028, each installment to and including the
installment payable on November 1, 1998, to be one-half of one per
cent (1/2 of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter to be one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such
principal amount.
(b) Each of the installments payable pursuant to paragraph
(a) of this Section shall be the aggregate of such amounts in the
various currencies withdrawn from the Credit Account as shall be
found by multiplying the total amount in each currency so with-
drawn by the applicable installment percentage as specified in
paragraph (a) of this Section, unless the Administrator shall
otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower prior to each payment
date for the purpose of avoiding the payment *of fractional cur-
rency amounts.
(c) If withdrawal shall have been made in a currency which
the Administrator shall have purchased with one or more other
currencies for the purpose of such withdrawal, the portion of the
Special Action Credit so withdrawn shall, for the purpose of
paragraph (b) above, be deemed to have been withdrawn in the
currency or currencies used by the Administrator for such purchase
in the amounts of such currency or currencies so used.
(d) The Administrator will, at the request of the Borrower
and on such terms and conditions as the Administrator shall
determine, use its best efforts to purchase any currency needed by
the Borrower for payment of principal required under this Agree-
ment upon payment by the Borrower of sufficient funds therefor in
a currency or currencies to be specified by the Administrator from
time to time. In purchasing the currencies required the Adminis-
trator shall be acting as agent of the Borrower and the Borrower


﻿-6-
shall be deemed to have made any payment required under this
Agreement only when and to the extent that the Administrator has
received such payment in the currency or currencies required.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions set forth in the Joint Project Agreement as if they were
fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Administrator
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Any of the Co-Financiers' Loan Agreements shall have
failed to become effective by March 31, 1980, or such other
date as the Administrator may establish; provided, however, that
the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Administrator that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower on terms
and conditiona consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and the Joint Project Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borrower to withdraw the
proceeds of the Development Credit or the Fund
Loan or any of the Co-Financiers' Loans made
to the Borrower for the financing of the
Project shall have been suspended, cancelled
or terminated in whole or in part,   pursuant
to the terms and conditions of the Agreement
providing therefor, or
(B) such Credit or any such Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.


﻿-7-
(ii) Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Administrator that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of   a Borrower under this Agreement and the
Joir Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the
General Conditions, the following event is specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof, namely, that, the event specified in
paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall become effective on the
date upon which the Development Credit Agreement shall become
effective.
Section 5.02. The date                          , s speci-
fied for the purposes of Section l.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Agriculture
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic


﻿-8-
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Sana'a
For the Administrator:
Administrator of the Special Action Account
(International Development Association)
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                       Telex:
INDEVAS                             440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
-of Columbia. United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By                        _-k
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as ADMINISTRATOR of the SPECIAL ACTION ACCOUNT
established with funds contributed by
the MEMBER STATES of the EUROPEAN ECONOMIC COMMUNITY
By         S
.o-- Reional Vice Presidnct '
Europe, Middle L.5t and N   Africa


﻿SCHEDULE
Withdrawals of the Proceeds of the
Special Action Credit; Procurement
1.   The table below sets forth the Category of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Special Action Credit, the
allocation of the amount of the Special Action Credit and the
percentage for items so to be financed:
Amount of the
Special Action Credit         % of
Allocated (Expressed      Expenditures
0  Category     in Dollar Equivalents)    to be Financed
Civil works                 3$000$000           50% for works to
be co-financed by
the Association
and 40% for works
to be co-financed
by the Fund
2.   The dollar amount shown in the foregoing table shall be
adjusted from time to time as required to reflect the aggregate
dollar equivalent of the unwithdrawn.currency amounts in the
Credit Account.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Special Action Credit Agreement.
4.   Notwithstanding the disbursement percentage set forth in the
table in paragraph 1 above, if the Administrator has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Special Action Credit will be
insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures,
the Administrator may, by notice to the Borrower, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in
order that further withdrawals may continue until all expenditures
thereunder shall have been made.
5.   Disbursement from the proceeds of the Special Action Credit
may be made under: (a) contracts, for the carrying out of civil
works, awarded pursuant to the procedures described in Part A of
Schedule 3 of the Joint Project Agreement to contractors from the
Yemen Arab Republic or any of the countries referred to in Section


﻿-10-
2.02 (b) of this Agreement; (b) contracts, for the carrying
out of civil works, negotiated under arrangements acceptable to
the Administrator or under competitive bidding advertised locally
pursuant to procedures acceptable to the Administrator, and
awarded to contractors from any of the countries referred to in
sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph; and (c) statements of expen-
ditures pertinent to civil works carried out by force account in
respect to the items and pursuant to the procedures specified in
Part C.2 of Schedule 3 of the Joint Project Agreement.
6.   For purposes of reviewing by the Administrator of procurement
decisions made by the Borrower, the procedures described in Part D
of Schedule 3 to the Joint Project Agreement will be followed.
7.   If the Administrator shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item is inconsistent with the procedures
set forth or referred to in this Special Action Credit Agreement,
no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Special Action Credit and the Administrator may,
without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power
or remedy of the Administrator under the Special Action Credit
Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such currency amounts
of the Special Action Credit as, in the Administrator's reasonable
opinion, represent the currency amounts which would otherwise have
been eligible for withdrawal out of the proceeds of the Special
Action Credit in respect of such expenditures.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the  20        day of
197-..
FOR SECRETARY


