IDA CREDIT NUMBER 880 YAR
IFAD LOAN NUMBER         YAR
Joint Project Agreement
(Third Tihama Development Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
Dated     G       &                  , 1979


﻿IDA CREDIT NUMBER 880 YAR
IFAD LOAN NUMBER    YAR
JOINT PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated               j'      , 1979, between YEMEN
SAAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower), INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association)
and INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter
called the Fund).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower
of even date herewith, the Association has agreed to make avail-
able to the Borrower a Development Credit in a principal amount
in various currencies equivalent to fifteen million dollars
($15,000,000), for the purpose of assisting in the financing of an
Agricultural Development Project (the Project), described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
WHEREAS by a Special Action Credit Agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Action Credit Agreement) of even date herewith
between the Dorrower and the Association as Administrator of
the Special Action Account established by the Association with
funds contributed by the Member States of the European Economic
Community, the Association has agreed to assist the Borrower in
the financing of the Project;
WHEREAS by a loan agreement with the Borrower of even date
herewith, the Fund has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan, in a
principal amount equivalent to SDR9,300,000 for the same purpose;
WHEREAS the Fund has appointed the Association as the Cooper-
ating Institution to administer the Fund Loan;
WHEREAS the parties hereto deem it to be in their mutual
interest that the allocation, withdrawal and use of the proceeds
of such loan and credit and the execution of the project to
be financed thereby, as well as other matters relating thereto, be
regulated as hereinafter provided;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
following terms wherever used in this Agreement shall have the
following meanings:


﻿-2-
(a) "Association Credit Agreement" means the credit agree-
ment between the*Borrower and the Association referred to in the
first recital to this Agreement, as from time to time amended;
(b) "Fund Loan Agreement" means the loan agreement between
the Borrower and the Fund referred to in the second recital to
this Agreement, as from time to time amended;
(c) "Association Credit" means the credit provided for in
the Association Credit Agreement;
(d) "Fund Loan" means the loan provided for in the Fund Loan
Agreement;
(e) "Association Account" and "Fund Account" mean the
respective accounts established under the Association Credit
Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreemant;
(f) "TDA" means the Tihama Development Authority, a govern-
mental semi-autonomous agency established and operating under
the Borrower's Law No. 2 of 1973;
(g) "Project area" means Wadi Mawr located in the Tihama
region of the Borrower;
(h) "ACB" means the Agricultural Credit Bank of the Bor-
rower;
(i) "Surdud Farm" means the Surdud State Farm located
southeast of the Project area;
(j) "LDA's" means the Local Development Associations operat-
ing in the Project aree:
(k) "Yemeni Rial' means the currency of the Borrower; and
(1) "SDR's" means, according to Section 2.01 (27) of the              (
Fund General Conditions, the Special Drawing Rights as defined
from time to time by the International Monetary Fund.
ARTICLE II
Allocation and Withdrawal of Proceeds
of Association Credit and Fund Loan
Section 2.01. Subject to the rights of suspension and can-
cellation set forth in the Association Credit Agreement and the
Fund Loan Agreement, the amount of the Association Credit and the


﻿-3-
Fund Loan may be withdrawn from the Association Account and the
Fund Account, respectively, in accordance with the provisions of
this Agreement and with the allocation of the proceeds of the
Association Credit and Fund Loan set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement, as such allocation may be modified from time to time
pursuant to the provisions of such Schedule or by further agreement
among the parties to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw from
the Association Account and from the Fund Account for expenditures
made (or, if the Association and the Fund shall so agree., to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Association Credit and the Fund Loan.
Section 2.03. (a) When the Borrower shall desire to withdraw
any amount of the Association Credit and the Fund Loan, the Bor-
rower shall deliver to the Association a written application in
such form and containing such statements and agreements as the
Association and the Fund shall reasonably -request. Applications
for withdrawal, with the necessary documentation as hereinafter
provided shall, except as the Borrower, the Association and the
Fund shall otherwise agree, be made promptly in relation to
expenditures for the Project.
(b) Each such application for withdrawal -shall be-identified
by the Borrower as a request to withdraw funds from the Associa-
tion Credit or the Fund Loan, as the case may be.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence in support of the application as the
Association or the Fund shall reasonably request, whether before
or after the Association shall have approved any withdrawal
requested in the application.
(d) Each application and the accompanying documents and
other evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy
the Association and the Fund that the Borrower is entitled to
withdraw from the Association Account and the Fund Account the
amount applied for and that such amount is to be used only for the
purposes of the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal from the Fund Account
the Association shall promptly notify the Fund that it has


﻿-4-
received an application for withdrawal from the Fund Account in
the aggregate amount specified in such notice, and that the amount
set forth in such notice is eligible for payment by the Fund.
(b) Upon receipt of such notice of the Association, the
Fund shall, subject to the rights of suspension and cancellation
of the Fund Loan set forth in the Fund Loan Agreement, pay the
amount so to be withdrawn from the Fund Account in the currency
and to the payee stated in the notice.
Section 2.05. When the Association shall have approved an
application by the Borrower for withdrawal from the Association
Account, the Association shall pay the amount which the Borrower
is entitled to withdraw from the Credit Account to or on the order
of the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of the Associ-
ation Credit Agreement.
Section 2.06. Upon the Borrower's request and upon such terms
as shall be agreed between the Association and the Borrower,
the Association may enter into special commitments to pay amounts,
out of the proceeds of the Fund Loan, in respect of the cost of
goods required by the Project. Any such special commitment by the
Association shall, once it has been notified to the Fund, consti-
tute an obligation on the part of the Fund to pay, notwithstanding
any subsequent suspension or cancellation of the Fund Loan and in
conformity with the foregoing Sections 2.03 (b) and .2.04.
Section 2.07. Except as the Association and the Fund shall
otherwise agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit and the
Fund Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through TDA with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate engineering, agricultural, financial and adminis-
trative practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall employ, with such
qualifications and experience and under such terms and conditions


﻿-5-
as shall be satisfacLory to the Borrower, the Association and the
Fund:
(i) engineering consultants in order to assist the
Borrower in carrying out the civil works under the
Project;
(ii) agricultural experts in order to assist the Bor-
rower in carrying out Parts B (1) and (2) and G (1)
of the Project; and
(b) The Borrower shall employ, with such qualifications and
experience as shall be satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association, a management expert in order to assist in carrying
out Part C (2) of the Project.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that: (a) the consul-
tants and experts referred to in the preceding Section shall be
selected and the personnel required for senior positions under the
Project shall.be appointed not later than September 30, 1979 (or
such other date as may be agreed with the Association and the
Fund); and (b) every effort shall be made in order to select by
such date expatriate personnel for the senior engineering, agri-
cultural and management positions for which adequately qualified
local personnel are not reasonably expected to be found.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause TDA to undertake, as
part of its operation and maintenance of the irrigation structure
to be constructed under Part A (1) of the Project: (a) periodic
soundings downstream of such structure; (b) annual inspection
immediately following the flood season; and (c) repair of any
damage detected by such inspection before the onset of the next
flood season.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (i) cause TDA to appropri-
ately operate and adequately maintain the water supply installa-
tions to be constructed under Part E of the Project until such
time as LDA's shall have trained personnel in number adequate for
LDA's to assume responsibility for such operation and maintenance;
(ii) cause LDA's to collect, in the form of service charges, from
the village communities benefiting from such installations, except
those provided with hand pumps only, the full operation and
maintenance cost of such installations at an annual level which is
currently estimated at 22 Yemeni Rials per capita; (iii) cause
LDA's, until they assume responsibility for such operation and


﻿-6-
maintenance, to transfer to TDA the amounts collected on account
of such charges in semiannual installments; (iv) cause TDA and
LDA's to conclude arrangements to the effect provided under (ii)
and (iii) above before the start of the construction of such water
installations; and (v) provide the Association with copies of such
arrangements promptly upon their conclusion.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause TDA to construct the
roads provided under Part D of the Project in accordance with
appropriate design standards, and to adequately maintain such
roads until such time as jurisdiction over such roads shall have
been transferred to the Highway Authority of the Borrower.
Section 3.07. For the implementation of Part B (2) of the
Project, the Borrower shall cause TDA: (a) to utilize the services
of the agricultural consultants and experts employed under the
Project and the local training facilities for the implementation
of on-the-job training programs for local extension staff; and (b)
to prepare and furnish to the Association and the Fund, not later
than December 31, 1980, or such later date as may be agreed
between the Borrower, the Association and the Fund, a detailed
program for overseas training of Yemeni extension agents and
counterpart staff, including the qualifications of candidates for
training and, after reviewing the Association's and the Fund's
-comments thereon, to carry out such program.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause ACB: (a) to procure
and distribute, through dealers or agents operating at the village
levels, sufficient quantities of farm inputs for the Project area,
including fertilizers and plant protection chemicals; ACB shall
continue, after Project implementation, to distribute such farm
inputs to the Project area in quantities at least equivalent to
those actually used in such area during the last year of Project
implementation; and (b) to provide farmers in the Project area,
through its unit operating in said area, with the short- and
medium-term credits referred to in Part C (1) of the Project, such
credits to be provided under such terms and to be supervised
pursuant to such procedures as shall be consistent with sound
agricultural credit policies.
Section 3.09. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit or the Fund
Loan against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for


﻿-7-
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association and the Fund shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed
out of the proceeds of the Association Credit and the Fund Loan
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 3.10. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
contract documents, and construction and procurement schedules
for the Project, and-any material modifications thereof or addi-
tions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably
request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records and procedures
adequate to record and monitor the progress of the Project
(including its cost and the benefits to be derived from it), to
identify the goods and services financed out of the proceeds of
the Association Credit or the vund Loan, and to disclose their
use in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's and the
Fund's accredited representatives to visit the facilities and
construction sites included. in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit
and the Fund Loan and any relevant records and documents; and
(iii) shall furnish to the Association and the Fund at regular
intervals all such information as the Association and the Fund
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, its cost and,
where appropriate, the benefits to be derived from it, the expen-
diture of the proceeds of the Association Credit and the Fund Loan
and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
(c) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower,
the Association and the Fund, the Borrower shall prepare and fur-
nish to the Association and the Fund a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association and the Fund shall reasonably
request, on the execution and initial operation of the Project,
its cost and the benefits derived and to'be derived from it, the
performance by the Borrower, the Association and the Fund of their
respective obligations under the Association Credit Agreement, the
Fund Loan Agreement and the Joint Project Agreement, and the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Association Credit and the
Fund Loan.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause TDA to maintain
separate Project accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with
consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its
operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall cause TDA to: (i) have its Project
accounts for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appro-
priate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association and the Fund; (ii) furnish
to the Association and the Fund as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association and the Fund shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association and the Fund such
other information concerning said accounts and the audit thereof
as the Association and the Fund shall from time to time reasonably
request.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall ensure that suitable
arrangements will be concluded between TDA and the Public Cotton
Company of the Borrower whereby the latter will ensure the timely
and appropriate distribution of adequate quantities of cotton seed
of the cultivars developed and approved for multiplication in the
Tihama region.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall cause TDA to provide the
Association and the Fund, quarterly during the Project implementa-
tion period and thereafter annually for the next five years, with
reports of such scope and in such detail as shall be acceptable to
the Association and the Fund on progress in carrying out the
Project and in operating the facilities established under the
Project, and on farm inputs and outputs, agricultural prices,
availability of labor and other matters relating to agricultural
production in the Project Area.
Section 4.04. The Borrower-shall ensure that all roads,
buildings, irrigation structures and equipment, and water supply
installations provided under the Project will be adequately
maintained and that all necessary repairs thereof will be made in
accordance with sound engineering practices.


﻿-9-
Section 4.05. The Borrower shall cause TDA: (a) to carry out,
with the assistance of the engineering consultants to be employed
under the Project, a study on water regulation with a view to
ensuring an equitable distribution of the-wadi's annual flows to
the various canals in the irrigation system of the Project area,
as such system shall be expanded under Part A of the Project; (b)
to complete said study and to furnish a copy of it to the Associ-
ation and the Fund for their comments by December 31, 1980 or by
such later date as the Borrower, the Association anfd the Fund may
agree; and (c) to enforce the agreed recommendations emerging from
said study through suitable administrative and technical measures.
Section 4.06. The Borrower shall cause TDA: (a) to keep at
all times a record of the groundwater tables in the Project area;
(b) to prohibit additional installation of wells and regulate
withdrawal from existing wells when such record indicates a
continuous and hazardous mining of the aquifer; and (c) to keep
the Association and the Fund informed of the content of such
record as updated from time to time, during the period of Project
implementation and thereafter for the next five years.
Section 4.07. Under the Development Credit Agreement for the
Second Tihama Development Project concluded between the Borrower
and the Association on May 31, 1978, the Borrower has undertaken:
(i) to provide the Association, not later than September 30, 1979,
with a copy of.the study to be carried out on farmirig through cost
and crop sharing arrangements *between tenants and landowners;
(ii) to consult with the Association, in the light of said study's
recommendations, on the measures most appropriate for ensuring a
more equitable cost and crop sharing system; and (iii) to imple-
ment such measures through suitable legislative or governmental
action. The Borrower hereby accepts the incorporation of the
foregoing undertakings into this Agreement and further undertakes
to implement such measures as would further improve the relative
income and economic position of tenants in the Project area by
June 30, 1982 or by such other date as the Borrower, the Associa-
tion and the Fund may agree.
Section 4.08. In order to ensure the recovery of the full
investment costs (measured in real termg without interest) of the
irrigation works under Part A of the Project and the full opera-
tion and maintenance costs of such works, the Borrower shall take
such governmental action as shall enable and cause TDA, immedi-
ately upon the completion of such irrigation works, to collect
from landowners in the project area, in addition to the charges


﻿- 10 -
currently in force, a surcharge on gross agricultural production
at the rate of 2% for spate irrigated areas and 1% for well-
irrigated areas. The levels of such surcharge shall be adjusted in
consultation with the Association and the Fund, at intervals of
not more than five years in order to take into account such
factors as actual annual collections, landowners' ability to pay,
and the requirements of future irrigation investment.
Section 4.09. The Borrower undertakes that the sale of wells
drilled by TDA under the Project to landowners shall be made at
prices representing the full cost of such wells.
Section 4.10. The Borrower shall: (a) ensure the continuous
operation of the Surdud farm in accordance with sound economic
principles and under competent management assisted by qualified
staff; and (b) ensure that TDA will arrange for regular training
on said farm of the students of the Surdud Agricultural School.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous
Section 5.01. (a) The Association is hereby appointed by the
Fund and agrees to act as the Cooperating Institution for the
administration of the Fund Loan, with the responsibilities set
forth in Article V of the General Conditions to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Fund. Accordingly, any action required or per-
mitted to be taken by the Fund under this Agreement, other than
actions by the Fund referred to in Section 2.04 hereof, shall be
taken by the Association as the Cooperating Institution on behalf
of the Fund, except-as otherwise agreed between the Association
and the Fund.
(b) The Association and the Fund shall fully cooperate to
ensure effective coordination of their respective actions under
the Association Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement and
the achievement of the purpose of the Association Credit and the
Fund Loan. .
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
and the Fund sufficient evidence of the authority of the person or
persons who will sign the applications provided for under Article
II of this Agreement or who will, on behalf of the Borrower, take
any other action or execute any other documents required or per-
mitted to be taken or executed by the Borrower under this Agree-
ment, and the authenticated specimen signature of each such
person.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.03. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower or
such person or persons as he shall designate in writing are
designated as the representative of the Borrower to take any
action or execute any documents required or permitted to be taken
or executed by the Borrower under this Agreement.
Section 5.04. (a) Exce-t as shall otherwise be agreed by
the parties hereto, this Agieement shall become effective on the
earliest date upon which the Association Credit Agreement, the
Special Action Credit Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement shall
all be in effect.
(b) If the Association Credit Agreement or Special Action
Credit Agreement or Fund Loan Agreement terminates for failure
to become effective in accordance with its terms, this Agreement
shall forthwith terminate and the Association or the Fund, as the
case may be, shall promptly notify the other parties hereto of
such termination.
Section 5.05. This Agreement and all obligations thereunder
of the parties hereto shall terminate on the earliest date upon
which the Association Credit Agreement, the Special Action Credit
Agreement and the Fund Loan Agreement shall all have terminated or
on a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement, whichever
shall be the earlier.
Section 5.06. Upon termination of the Association Credit
Agreement or the Special Action Credit Agreement or the Fund Loan
Agreement only, the Association or the Fund, as the case may be,
shall promptly notify the other parties hereto and, upon such
notification, this Agreement shall continue to remain in force and
effect only for the purpose of implementation of the Special
Action Credit Agreement or the Association Credit Agreement or the
Fund Loan Agreement and of orderly settlement of matters of mutual
interest to the parties hereunder, subject to such modifications
of this Agreement as shall be agreed among the parties hereto or
as shall be reasonably requested by the Association or the Fund
for such purposes.
Section 5.07. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made by any party under this Agreement shall be in
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly
given or made when it shall have been delivered by hand or mail,
telegram, cable, radiogram or telex to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's address


﻿- 12 -
specified below or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Agriculture
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic
Cable Address:
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable Address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For the Fund: (except for matters within the responsibilities
of the Association as the Cooperating Institution for administra-
tion of the Fund Loan, for which notice or requests will be
delivered to the Association):
International Fund for
Agricultural Development
107 Via del Serafico
00142
Rome
Italy
Cable address:                     Telex:
IFAD                               614160 IFAD
Rome                               614162


﻿- 13 -
Section 5.08. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of wlich shall be an original. All such coun-
terparts shall collectiely be but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEFLOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representativer thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names, and to be
delivered in the D!strict of Columbia, United States of America,
and Rome, Italy, as of the day and year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By   1~       AX~kE~
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By     (
Ltrpe, M:idle E&st Ead loth Africa
INTERNATIONAL FUND FOR AGRICULTURAL
DEVELOPMENT
By
Authorized Representative


﻿11
- 14 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the
Association Credit and Fund Loan
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit and the
Fund Loan, the allocation of amounts of the Association Credit and
the Fund Loan to each Category and the respective percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
% of
Expenditures
Category            Amount Allocated           to be Financed
Association        Fund
Credit           Loan
(Expressed in    (Expressed in
Dollar Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)
(1) Civil works:
(a) under Parts     8,000,000                  50%
A (1) (b),
A (2) and
A (3) of
the Project
(b) under Parts                   4,650,000    60%
B (3), D, and
G (3) and (4)
of the Project
(2) Equipment and goods:
(a) under Part A    1,000,000                 100% of for-
(3) of the                                eign expendi-
Project and                               tures, 100% of
for Project                               local expendi-
management and           ,                tures (ex-
engineering                               factory) and
80% of local
expenditures
for imported
items procured
locally


﻿-15-
% of
Expenditures
Category            Amount Allocated           to be Financed
Association        Fund
Credit           Loan
(Expressed in    (Expressed in
Dollar Equivalent) SDR Equivalent)
(b)  under Parts                  2,325,000    100% of for-
B (1) and (2),                            eign expendi-
D and G of                                tures, 100% of
the Project                               local expendi-
tures (ex-
factory) and
80% of local
expenditures
for imported
items procured
locally
(3) Consultants,
experts and
training:
(a)  consultants'   4,800,000                  100%
and experts'
services
for project
management
(b)  experts under                1,580,000    100%
Parts B (1)
and (2) and G
of the Project
and overseas
training under
Part B (2) of
the Project
(4) Unallocated          1,200,000       745,000
TOTAL    15,000,000     9,300,000


﻿- 16 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association and the Fund that no
proceeds of the Association Credit or the Fund Loan shall be
disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the impor-
tation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to that end,
if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect of any
item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Association Credit
or the Fund Loan decreases or increases, the Association may, by
notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consis-
tent with the aforementioned policy.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Associa-
tion Credit or the Fund Loan or the disbursement percentages set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, if the Association has
reasonably estimated that the amount of the Association Credit or
the Fund Loan then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Association Credit or the
Fund Loan which are then allocated to another Category and which
in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other
expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 17 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that
the procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Association Credit or the Fund Loan and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right,
power or remedy of the Association under the Association Credit
Agreement or of the Fund under the Fund Loan Agreement, by notice
to the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Association Credit or
the Fund Loan, respectively, as, in the Association's or the
Fund's reas6nable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Association Credit or the Fund Loan,
respectively.
Aj
V!I
qi
:1


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The main objectives of the Project are to (i) increase
agricultural production in the Project area through improving and
expanding the irrigation system, providing agricultural credit to
facilitate the use of agricultural inputs and machinery and
improving agricultural services through a program of technical
assistance and training; (ii) facilitate the movement of agricul-
tural inputs and produce through the construction of feeder roads
connecting the main population centers in the Project area; (iii)
improve the health and nutrition of the rural population through
the provision of potable water and of a wider range of crops for
local consumption; and (iv) enlarge the scope of applied agricul-
tural research and demonstrate the advantages of advanced farming
techniques through assisting TDA in operating the Surdud Farm as
a production farm and a research station. Accordingly, the Project
consists of the following:
Part A:   Irrigation
(1) The construction of (a) a gabion dike and two diversion
weirs with ancillary works for diverting wadi flows into
the irrigation canals, and (b) four feeder canals which
will take off from the diversion weirs for feeding the
existing inundation canals.
(2) Remodelling the existing inundation canals to ensure
more efficient irrigation of their command areas.
(3) Drilling of about 20 new wells and converting of about
20 existing testing wells in the Project area into
irrigation wells.
Part B:   Agricultural Services
(1) Strengthening, with the assistance of expatriate
experts, of the extension, plant protection and animal
health services in the Project area and the provision of
equipment adequate for the purpose.
(2) The carrying out of a training program for the Yemeni
extension personnel and counterparts.


﻿-19-
(3) Establishment of about nine extension centers at
convenient locations in the Project area.
Part C:   Agricultural Credit
(1) Provision, through ACB, to farmers in the Project area
of short-term credits for the purchase of farming
inputs, and medium-term credits for the purchase of
farming machinery and equipment.
(2) Strengthening the management, accounting and secretarial
capabilities of ACB's unit operating in the Project area
through the provision of an expatriate management expert
and staff.
Part D:   Roads
Construction of about 148 km of gravel access roads connect-
ing the population centers in the Project area to the main roads,
and the provision of road maintenance equipment.
Part E:   Potable Water Supply
Construction of about 103 water supply installations; for the
provision of potable water to villages in the Project area popu-
lated by about 53,000 inhabitants.
Part F.   Project Headquarters
Expanding the existing TDA's staff residences near Al-Zuhra
so as to accommodate the Project staff and to operate as the
Project headquarters. The expansion comprises the construction of
about 38 staff residences, an office building, a veterinarian's
office and laboratory, and a warehouse for equipment spare parts.
Part G:   Surdud Farm
The purpose of this Part is to assist TDA in equipping and
operating a research station to be established on the Surdud Farm
and equipping the rest of the Farm to operate, on a sound commer-
cial basis, for seed multiplication and other agricultural
production purposes and to serve as a demonstration and training
farm. This Part consists of:
(1) The employment for agricultural research purposes of an
experienced farm superintendent, an expert in cereal


﻿- 20 -
crops, an expert in livestock forage crops, about five
associate experts, and supporting staff; and the employ-
ment for agricultural production purposes of a farm
manager, an agronomist, a farm mechanization engineer,
four associate experts, and supporting staff.
(2) Provision of equipment and machinery for agricultural,
transport, office, laboratory and camp purposes.
(3) Construction of about 14 staff residences and an office
cum laboratory building.
(4) Installation of storage sheds and platforms for farm
machinery, inputs and produce.
(5) Provision, for agricultural production purposes, of
working capital for one year of operation and,
for the research station, of operational expenses for
the period of Project implementation.
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1984.


﻿-21-
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A. International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and civil works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for
Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by
the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the
basis of international competitive bidding as described in Part A
of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods and works to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare
and forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any
event not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to
the public of the first tender or prequalification documents
relating thereto, as the case may be, a general procurement
notice, in such form and detail and containing such information as
the Association shall reasonably request; the Association will
arrange for the publication of such notice in order to provide
timely notification to prospective bidders of the opportunity to
bid for the goods and works in question. The Borrower shall
provide the necessary information to update such notice annually
so long as any goods or works remain to be procured on the basis
of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, (i) bidders shall be required to state
)y ) in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods,
or the ex-factory price for domestically manufactured goods;
(ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods,
and sales and similar taxes on domestically supplied goods, shall
be excluded; and (iii) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shaLl be included.
B.   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A of this Schedule, goods manufactured in


﻿I-
- 22 -
the Yemen Arab Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
1.   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a bid
for such preference and the following methods and stages that will
be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
the Yemen Arab Republic if the bidder shall
have established to the satisfaction of the            Or
Borrower and the Association that the manufac-
turing cost of such goods includes a value added
in the Yemen Arab Republic equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured
in the Yemen Arab Republic.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
3.   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared
among themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import
taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or similar taxes
on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine the lowest
evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as .a result of this
comparison, a bid from group A or group B is-the lowest, it shall
be selected for the award.
4.   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph
3 above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to: (i) the amount of customs
duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would
have to pay for the importation of the goods offered in such
group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid price of such goods
if said customs duties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If
the group A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it


﻿- 23 -
shall be selected for the award; if not, the bid from group
C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 is the
lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works under Parts B (3) and G (3) and (4) of the
Project may be carried out under contracts negotiated under
arrangements acceptable to the Association and the Fund or under
competitive bidding advertised locally pursuant to procedures
acceptable to the Association and the Fund.
2.   Civil works for tubewell drilling may be carried out pursuant
to the procedures provided under the preceding paragraph, or by
force account; provided that satisfactory documentation pertinent
to the cost of works carried out by force account shall be
forwarded to the Association.
3.   Contracts for the purchase of goods estimated to cost not
more than the. equivalent of $50,000 per contract and $400,000 in
the aggregate, may be awarded in accordance with the applicable
procedures of the Borrower, acceptable to the Association and the
Fund.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of prequalification:
If bidders are required to prequalify, the Borrower shall,
before qualification is invited, inform the Association and the
Fund in detail of the procedure to be followed, and shall intro-
duce such modifications in said procedure as the Association and
the Fund shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
.Y bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and of
the reasons for the exclusion of any applicant for prequalifica-
tion shall be furnished by the Borrower to the Association, and to
the Fund only in regard to prequalification for contracts to be
financed from the proceeds of the Fund Loan, for their comments
before the applicants are notified of the Borrower's decision, and
the Borrower shall make such additions 'to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Association and the Fund
shall reasonably request.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:


﻿- 24 -
With respect to all contracts for civil works estimated each
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, or for the supply of
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received and such other informa-
tion as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be inconsis-
tent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association -promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Association Account or the Fund
Account in respect of such contract.
3.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Associ-
ation Account or the Fund Account in respect of such contract, two
conformed copies of such contr'act, together with the analysis of
the respective bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the award of the contract
was not consistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿-25-
4.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of the
terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 30% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿eU
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the            day, of  l
1979q.
FOR SECRETARY


