CREDIT NUMBER 880 YAR
Development Credit Agreement
(Third Tihama Development Project)
between
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated              ,Q1979


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 880 YAR
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated              Ck'      , 1979, between YEMEN
ARAB REPUBLIC (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of an agricultural development project by
extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) by the Special Action Credit Agreement (hereinafter
called the Special Action Credit Agreement) of even date herewith,
the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower a
Special Action Credit (hereinafter called*the Special Action
Credit) to assist in financing the Project on the terms and condi-
tions therein set forth. Said Special Action Credit is granted by
the Association in its capacity as the Administrator of the
Special Action Account established by the Association with
funds contributed by the Member States of the European Economic
Community;
(C) by agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called
the Fund Loan Agreement), the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (the Fund) has agreed to-make a loan (hereinafter
called the Fund Loan) to the Borrower in an aggregate principal
amount equivalent to twelve million dollars ($12,000,000) to
assist in financing the same project (the Project) on the terms
and conditions therein set forth;
(D) the Borrower, the Association, and the Fund have entered
into an agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the
Joint Project Agreement) providing for the allocation, withdrawal
and use of the Association Credit and the Fund Loan and execution
of the    Project to be financed thereby as such Project is
described in Schedule 2 of said Joint Project Agreement, as well
as other matters relating thereto; and
(E) the Borrower intends to contract from other external
sources of finance (hereinafter called -the Co-financiers) loans
(hereinafter called the Co-Financiers' Loans) in an aggregate
amount equivalent to about fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000)
to assist in financing the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in agreements (hereinafter called the Co-Financiers'
Loan Agreements) to be entered into between the Borrower and each
of the Co-Financiers;


﻿-2-
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Association Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions being hereinafter called the Association
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
Association General Conditions and in Section 1.01 of the Joint
Project Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth
except that the terms "Development Credit Agreement", "Credit" and
"Credit Account" as defined pursuant to Sections 2.01 (3), 2.01
(4) and 2.01 (8) respectively of said Association General Condi-
tions are herein replaced by the terms "Association Credit
Agreement", "Association Credit" and "Association Account" respec-
tively.
ARTICLE II
The Association Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Association Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to fifteen million dollars ($15,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Association Credit may be
withdrawn from the Association. Account in accordance with the
provisions of the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 1985
or such later date as the Association shall otherwise establish.
The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.


﻿-3-
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the pro-
visions of Schedule 3 to the Joint Project Agreement.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 15
and October 15 commencing April 15, 1989, and ending October 15,
2028, each installment to and including the installment payable
on October 15, 1998, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%)
of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be
one and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the Asso-
ciation General Conditions.
Section 2.09. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower and
such other person or persons as he shall designate in writing are
designated as representatives of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the
provisions of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the
Association General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall duly perform all its obliga-
tions set forth in the Joint Project Agreement as if they were
fully set forth herein.
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the Asso-
ciation General Conditions, the following additional events are
specified pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:


﻿-4-
(a) Any of the Co-Financiers' Loan Agreements shall have
failed to become effective by March 31, 1980, or such other date
as the Association may establish; provided, however, that the
provisions of this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower
establishes to the satisfaction of the Association that adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement and the Joint Project Agreement.
(b) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A) the right of the Borro er to withdraw the
proceeds of the Special Action Credit or
the Fund Loan or any of the Co-Financiers'
Loans made to the Borrower for the financing
of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part,
pursuant to the terms and conditions of the
Agreement providing therefor, or
(B) such Credit or any of such Loan shall have
become due and payable prior to the agreed
maturity thereof.
(ii) Subparagraph (a) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that:
(A) such suspension, cancellation, termination or
prematuring is not caused by the failure of
the Borrower to perform any of its obligations
under such agreement, and
(B) adequate funds for the Project are available
to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations
of the Borrower under this Agreement and the
Joint Project Agreement.
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the Asso-
ciation General Conditions, the following event is specified pur-
suant to paragraph (h) thereof, naILy, that, the event specified
in paragraph (b) (i) (B) of Section 4.01 of this Agreement shall
occur.


﻿-5-
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as addi-
tional conditions to the effectiveness of the Association Credit
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the Associa-
tion General Conditions:
(a) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Joint Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary governmental action;
(b) the execution and delivery on behalf of the Borrower of
the Fund Loan Agreement has been duly authorized and ratified by
all necessary governmental action and all other conditions prece-
dent to the effectiveness of- the Fund Loan pursuant to the Fund
Loan Agreement (other than the effectiveness of this Agreement)
have been duly fulfilled;
(c) the -Co--Financiers' Loan Agreements.have been duly signed
on behalf of the parties thereto; and
(d) all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of the
Special Action Credit Agreement have been fulfilled.
Section 5.02. The date       J            is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the Association General Con-
ditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Agriculture of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the Association General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the Association General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Agriculture
Sana'a
Yemen Arab Republic


﻿-6-
Cable address:
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE
Sana'a
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                    Telex:
INDEVAS                           440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
YEMEN ARAB REPUBLIC
By  )sj  cj
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                          yx
Ix-r~  *~j~  *1 -7. I.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the    Dt k    day of OA   S,
1971O.
FOR SECRETARY


