Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2203 DJI
                (Second Urban Development Project)
                              between
                       REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated March 29, 1991
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2203 DJI
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 28, 1991, between the REPUBLIC OF
DJIBOUTI (the Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated December 2,
1990 from the Borrower describing its program of actions and its
objectives and policies in the urban sector and declaring the
Borrower's commitment to such program;
      (C)   the Borrower will carry out the Project as part of such
program;
      (D)   the Borrower intends to contract from the French
Republic, acting through its Ministry of Cooperation and Development
and its Fonds d'Aide et de Cooperation, from the French Caisse
Page  2
Centrale de Cooperation, from the European Economic Community acting
through it Fonds Europeen de Developpement and from the OPEC Fund
for International Development additional loans and grants to assist
in financing the Project, on the terms and conditions set forth in
agreements entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and
such parties; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the following modifications (the General Conditions), con-
stitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)  the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted; and
      (b)  in Section 11.01 after the word "telex", the language
", facsimile" is added.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble
to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and
the following additional terms have the following meanings:
      (a)  "Interministerial Committee" and "Project Management
Unit" mean, respectively, the committee and the unit, each as so
denominated, established by the Borrower pursuant to Section 3.01
(b) of the Development Credit Agreement dated March 21, 1985 between
the Borrower and the Association for the financing of the first
Urban Development Project;
      (b)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated February 21, 1989 and
April 7, 1989 between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (c)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seven million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 7,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of this
Section and of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made
(or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project,
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Page  3
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time, at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the Borrower;
and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for the
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannu-
al installments payable on each April 15 and October 15, commencing
April 15, 2001 and ending October 15, 2030. Each installment to and
including the installment payable on October 15, 2010 shall be one
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment
thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due considera-
tion by them of the development of the Borrower's economy, modify
the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
Page  4
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
economic, financial, administrative, ecological and technical
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and the selection of consultants'
and specialists' services required for the Project and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower shall ensure that:
      (a)   its Ministry responsible for urban development provide
the secretariat for the Interministerial Committee under terms and
conditions agreed between the Borrower and the Association; and
      (b)   the Project Management Unit carry out its role of
coordinating the carrying out of the Project pursuant to Arrcte
No. 91-0078/PR/PPUL dated January 13, 1991.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take such steps as shall be
necessary to ensure that its Land Office (Service des Domaines)
continue to be fully funded after external financing has been
exhausted and that personnel theretofore supported by such financing
be continued in their positions as regular employees.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall ensure that residents of the
Old Wards and of Balbala who are displaced by the Project be given
priority in the purchase of plots in the Old Wards or in Balbala.
      Section 3.06. The studies comprising Part E of the Project and
to be financed under the Credit shall be carried out only under
terms of reference satisfactory to the Association.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of any department or agency
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part
thereof.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section, including those
                   for the Special Account as well as the accounts
                   and financial statements of the Project Manage-
                   ment Unit, the Housing Agency (Societe
                   Immobilicre de Djibouti), the Development Bank
Page  5
                   (Banque de Developpement de Djibouti) and the
                   Urban Development Fund audited for each fiscal
                   year, in accordance with appropriate auditing
                   principles consistently applied, by independent
                   auditors acceptable to the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association, as soon as avail-
                   able, but in any case not later than six months
                   after the end of each such year, certified
                   copies of the reports of such audits by said
                   auditors, of such scope and in such detail as
                   the Association shall have reasonably requested;
                   and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other informa-
                   tion concerning said records, accounts and the
                   audits thereof as the Association shall from
                   time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained, in accor-
                   dance with paragraph (a) of this Section, re-
                   cords and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    retain, until at least one year after the Asso-
                   ciation has received the audit report for the
                   fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from
                   the Credit Account or payment out of the Special
                   Account was made, all records (contracts, or-
                   ders, invoices, bills, receipts and other docu-
                   ments) evidencing such expenditures;
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records; and
           (iv)    ensure that such records and accounts be includ-
                   ed in the annual audits referred to in para-
                   graph (b) of this Section and that the reports
                   of such audits contains separate opinions by
                   said auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal con-
                   trols involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. The Borrower shall furnish to the Association
prior to October 31 in each year a draft three-year rolling
investment program for its urban sector and shall exchange views
thereon with the Association prior to its incorporation into the
budgetary proposals.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   subject to sub-paragraph (iii) of this paragraph:
            (i)    the right of the Borrower to withdraw the pro-
                   ceeds of any loan or grant made to the Borrower
                   for the financing of the Project shall have been
                   suspended, cancelled or terminated in whole or
                   in part, pursuant to the terms thereof, or
           (ii)    any such loan shall have become due and payable
                   prior to the agreed maturity thereof,
Page  6
          (iii)    subparagraphs (i) and (ii) of this paragraph
                   shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to
                   the satisfaction of the Association that (A)
                   such suspension, cancellation, termination or
                   prematuring is not caused by the failure of the
                   Borrower to perform any of its obligations under
                   such agreement; and (B) adequate funds for the
                   Project are available to the Borrower from other
                   sources on terms and conditions consistent with
                   the obligations of the Borrower under this
                   Agreement;
      (b)   a situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the program for the Borrower's urban sector, as described in
the letter cited in paragraph B of the Preamble to this Agreement,
or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely that
the event specified in Section 5.01 (a) (ii) of this Agreement shall
occur, subject to the proviso of subparagraph (iii) thereof.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   all conditions precedent to the first withdrawal or
utilization of the loans and grants referred to in paragraph (D) of
the preamble to this Agreement have been fulfilled, other than any
condition related to the effectiveness of this Agreement;
      (b)   legal title in the name of the State covering the 3,600
plots in Balbala included in the Project has been duly recorded;
      (c)   all steps have been taken, including the adoption of any
necessary legislation, to simplify the procedure for the issuance of
building permits in the Old Wards and Balbala and especially to
provide a uniform system compatible with existing construction
capacities;
      (d)   prices for the sale of plots in the Old Wards and
Balbala have been officially established at levels accepted by the
Association as appropriate for optimum cost recovery;
      (e)   the structure of tariffs applicable to the supply of
water, including the level of charges for the sale of water, has
been modified pursuant to the results of the study carried out on
that subject;
      (f)   all steps have been taken, including the enactment of
any necessary legislation, to facilitate the transfer of land and
the use of titles to land as security for loans for purchases and
construction in urban areas; and
      (g)   a Director and a Deputy Director, each within qualifica-
tions and experience satisfactory to the Association have been
appointed to the Project Management Unit, under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
      Section 6.02. The date ninety days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
      Section 6.03. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV
of this Agreement shall cease on the date on which this Agreement
shall terminate or on the date fifteen years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
Page  7
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for
finance is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and National Economy
            Boite Postale 13
            Djibouti
            Republic or Djibouti
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   Ministry of Finance       994 5871
                     and National
                    Economy
                                           Facsimile:
                                              (253) 35-5049
      For the Association:
            International Development
             Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
                                           Facsimile:
                                             (202) 477-6391
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         REPUBLIC OF DJIBOUTI
                         By /s/ Roble Olhayeh
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Francisco Aguirre-Sacasa
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
Page  8
               SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)   Civil Works                2,085,000      80%
(2)   Vehicles, equipment        1,251,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                90% of local
                                                expenditures
(3)   Consultants',              1,876,000      90% of local
      specialist'                               expenditures for
      services (other                           services of
      than for studies);                        consultants
      training                                  domiciled within
                                                the territory of
                                                the Borrower and
                                                100% of foreign
                                                expenditures for
                                                services of
                                                other consultants
(4)   Studies                       764,000     100%
      (Part E of
      the Project)
(5)   Operating costs               139,000     70%
                            Amount of the
                            Loan Allocated           % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6)   Refunding of                 278,000      Amounts due
      Project                                   pursuant to
      Preparation                               Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                   of this Agreement
(7)   Unallocated                1,407,000
                                 _________
      TOTAL                      7,800,000
                                 =========
2.    To the extent that the amount allocated to Category (6)
exceeds the amount due, the excess will be reallocated to Cate-
gory (7).
3.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for goods or
services supplied from the territory of any country other than that
of the Borrower;
      (b)   "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory
of the Borrower; and
      (c)   "operating costs" means expenditures of the Project
Management Unit and of the Land Office for salaries and allowances
Page  9
of support staff, office supplies, operation and maintenance of
vehicles and utilities.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expendi-
tures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The objectives of the Project are to assist the Borrower in
carrying out its strategy for urban development through the
strengthening of policy-making, planning and management in the urban
sector, promoting efficient municipal management, increasing the
absorptive capacity of institutions, improving the land tenure
system, developing cost recovery mechanisms and exploring the
feasibility of decentralization in the sector.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     The Old Wards
1.    Rehabilitation of streets, construction of drainage and
sewerage facilities and improvements in water distribution networks,
in Wards 1 and 2;1/
2.    rehabilitation and construction of streets and drainage
networks and expansion of the water and electricity supply and of
the street lighting systems in Ward 7;1/
3.    improvement of the primary drainage system and construction of
new off-site storm water collectors in Wards 1 to 6; and
4.    preparation of final designs for works on infrastructure in
Wards 7 bis, Djebel and Ambouli.
Part B:     Balbala
1.    Development of sites with services on about 3,600 plots from
105 to 160 square meters, including roads, water, drainage,
electricity, public lighting and two public markets;1/
2.    delineating and clearing of rights of way for roads in future
extensions;1/
3.    construction of roads and drainage systems in the old center;
and
4.    installation of directional and street name signs.1/
Part C:     Salines Ouest
      Development of sites with services on about 230 plots,
including general filling of the area, construction of roads and
drainage facilities, provision of water supply and  of waste water
systems and of electricity and public lighting, jointly with the
Djibouti Housing Agency (Societe Immobilicre de Djibouti), which
will furnish the land and bear the costs of the on-site infrastruc-
ture.1/
Part D:     Institutional Development
1.    Ministry of Public Works, Urban Development and Housing -
Procurement of vehicles, equipment and supplies for data processing
and radio communication and operating and maintenance equipment for
sanitation activities; restoration of pumping stations and construc-
tion of two watchmen's posts; employment of consultants and
specialists, including those for training, to strengthen the
capacity of the Ministry in sanitation operations, urban planning,
Page  10
site development and the development of its Public Investment
Program; training on-site and abroad for the staff of the Sanitation
Subdivision and provision of fellowships for training future
management personnel. (Two engineers, one architect, training
abroad, data-processing equipment and fellowships, are not to be
financed out of the Credit.)
2.    Land Office (Service des Domaines) - Strengthening of the
capabilities of the Office through the employment of additional
staff, training, including fellowships abroad for section chiefs,
the expansion of office space and the procurement of vehicles and
equipment.
3.    Housing Agency (Societe Immobilicre de Djibouti) - Strengthen-
ing of the agency through the employment of specialists in the
administrative, technical and financial fields;  provision of
fellowships for training abroad of higher-level staff. (The
technical specialist is not to be financed out of the Credit.)
4.    District of Djibouti - Completion of technical depots 2, 3 and
4, including the construction of office space for the workshops,
parking space, a truck shed and the installation of utility hookups;
strengthening of domestic solid waste disposal services and
extension of such services to Balbala through the improvement of the
disposal site and the purchase of equipment; strengthening of the
technical and administrative capacities  in urban management through
the purchase of vehicles and data-processing equipment, the
employment of financial, technical and  administrative specialists;
training of staff, including visits abroad and the granting of
fellowships.2/
5.    Development Bank (Banque de Developpement de Djibouti) -
Strengthening of the Bank through the employment of an administra-
tive and financial director for the Department of Housing Credits;
training of management personnel locally and abroad.
6.    Assistance to the Construction Industry - Employment of five
technicians furnished by the French Association of Volunteers for
Progress to assist individual construction contractors, artisans and
small-scale construction firms.1/
Part E:     Studies
      Carrying out studies on:
1.    the feasibility of the decentralization of municipal services
in the District of Djibouti;
2.    savings and savings ability and behavior of households with
respect to housing;
3.    development needs of secondary towns and the updating of the
Djibouti Urban Development Scheme;
4.    the establishment and implementation of a housing financing
system; and
5.    such other matters in the sector as may be agreed between the
Borrower and the Association.
                            * * * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.
                SCHEDULE 3
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
Page  11
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means the amount of
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into
the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association re-
                   quests for deposits into the Special Account at
                   such intervals as the Association shall specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required pursu-
                   ant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which reple-
                   nishment is requested. On the basis of each such
                   request, the Association shall, on behalf of the
                   Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
                   deposit into the Special Account such amount as
                   the Borrower shall have requested and as shall
                   have been shown by said documents and other
                   evidence to have been paid out of the Special
                   Account for eligible expenditures.
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
Page  12
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods or works
capable of being furnished by a single supplier shall be grouped
into bid packages large enough to attract the greatest number of
bidders.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Contractors
      In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
Page  13
1.    Contracts for works in the old center of Balbala, off-site
infrastructure in Salines Ouest, improvement of technical depots,
rehabilitation of pumping stations and construction of office space
for the Land Office, as well as for the purchase of light vehicles
and office equipment, may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with
paragraph 3.3 of the Guidelines.
2.    Contracts for the purchase of office equipment, furnishings
and supplies valued at less than the equivalent of $10,000 may be
procured on the basis of shopping as described in paragraph 3.4 of
the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract for works to be procured
under Part C.1 above estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or
more, as well as any other contract for the purchase of vehicles or
equipment estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph 1(a), the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments
for such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies
of the contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which the Association has
authorized withdrawals on the basis of statements of expenditure.
      (d)   The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants and Specialists
      In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ such consultants and specialists as shall
be agreed between the Borrower and the Associations; the qualifi-
cations, experience and terms and conditions of employment of such
consultants and specialists shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion, and they shall be selected in accordance with principles and
procedures satisfactory to the Association on the basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in
August 1981.
