Report No. PID6996
Project Name                     Bosnia Herzegovina-Export Enterprise (@)
Facility
Region                           Europe and Central Asia
Sector                           Industry
Project ID                       BAPE62936
Borrower                         Bosnia and Herzegovina
Implementing Agency              Investment Guarantee Agency (IGA)
Date PID prepared                October 26, 1998
Date PID updated                 March 15, 1999
Appraisal Date                   March 12, 1999
Board Date                       May 20, 1999
Country and Sector Background
Before the war, exports from Bosnia and Herzegovina stood at about USD 1.7
billion. Currently exports are about USD 200 million. This substantial drop
in exports needs to be reversed in order to create a sustainable trade balance
and source of hard currency as aid flows diminish. Medium and long-term
economic growth will be partly dependent on export-oriented activity given the
size of the Bosnia and Herzegovinan (BiH) market.
In spite of the war, there are companies in Bosnia and Herzegovina that have
the necessary infrastructure, management and skilled labor necessary to
produce goods for the export market. However, these companies are suffering
from a lack of working capital to purchase necessary inputs, pay salaries,
etc. In order for such companies to start exporting again, they need access
to working capital to be able to fulfill export orders.
In addition, Bosnia and Herzegovina's economy is in transition, moving towards
a market economy. The financial system and the enterprise sector are
undergoing reform, including privatization. The Federation and Republic of
Srpska are in the process of introducing new banking laws in line with
European Union and US standards. The reform of the banking sector as well as
its privatization will allow it to increase its links to the international
financial system, including mainstream trade finance, which will benefit
exporters. The project will create linkages between the BiH banking system
and foreign banks in the context of a pre-export working capital facility.
Objectives
The main objective of the project is to increase the volume of BiH exports and
help BiH markets regain markets that were lost during the war, and develop new
markets.
1.      Working Capital Facility
The capacity of the BiH banking system to provide adequate working capital
finance to BiH enterprises is limited and is unlikely to be able to cope with



increased demand for funds as economic activity, including exporting activity,
picks up. Foreign banks do not have adequate confidence in BiH banks at this
time to allow BiH banks to receive significant support from international
trade finance. In addition, cost of funds to BiH enterprises are high,
between 25t and 35w, impacting on exporters' competitiveness.    The Working
Capital Facility will improve the capacity of BiH banks to provide working
capital finance to BiH enterprises for export activity by providing funds to
BiH banks to on lend to BiH enterprises as working capital linked to specific
export orders, and by providing support to foreign financial institutions to
encourage them to also provide funds to BiH banks to support export activity.
By linking support to specific export orders and requiring the buyer risk to
be covered by documentary credits or export credit insurance, the risk on BiH
enterprises of exporting will be reduced and BiH enterprises will be able to
increase their competitiveness by offering post shipment credit terms to their
buyers where necessary.
2.      Performance Bond Facility
Since the war, it has been virtually impossible for BiH enterprises to tender
for major construction and supply contracts abroad because banks acceptable to
the buyers will not take the risk of non-payment by the enterprise or a local
bank following a call of the bond. The Performance Bond Facility will allow
BiH companies to tender for such large export contracts by giving security to
bond giving banks.
The project's performance indicators will include:
- Increase in volume and value of BiH exports;
- Value and number of working capital loans made to BiH exporters;
- Value and number of performance bonds given to support BiH exporters;
- Increased profitability of BiH exporters;
- Improved marketing skills and knowledge of up-to-date export procedures of
BiH exporters
Description
The project would consist of (i) a credit line providing working capital loans
(up to 1 year) and (ii) a performance bond facility for eligible BiH
exporters, and (iii) technical assistance to support project implementation.
The Export Enterprise Facility would be implemented by the Investment
Guarantee Agency (IGA), a corporation owned by the BiH government, which was
created under another World Bank project, the Emergency Industrial Re-Start
Project. This project established a Political Risk Guarantee Facility which
provides guarantees against political risks to foreign companies with
financial exposure in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It has been functioning
successfully for over a year. By managing the Guarantee Facility, IGA has
gained knowledge of local enterprises and banks and, with some additional
staff, credit assessors in particular, will be well qualified to implement the
Facility.
The Working Capital Facility would combine two tranches of funding. An IDA
credit would constitute one source of funds, which would be deposited at a
local bank that would on-lend the funds to its exporting client. The second
tranche would be directly lent to the local bank by a foreign financial
institution and would represent at least the same amount as the World Bank
- 2-



financed tranche thereby increasing liquidity in the BiH banking system and
leveraging IDA funds. IGA would conduct due diligence on the enterprise
before depositing funds with the local bank. IGA would also provide the local
bank with an indemnity for the portion of the loan funded by the IDA credit,
such that, in case of default by the local enterprise, the local bank would be
relieved of its obligation to return the deposited funds. This indemnity
would increase the local banks balance sheet capacity as the IDA portion of
the working capital loan would not need to be secured by mortgage and would be
zero-risk weighted for capital adequacy purposes on the balance sheet of the
BiH bank lending the funds.
Under the Performance Bond Facility, IGA would conduct due diligence on
enterprises to assess their capacity to perform the contracts and verify that
there would be a minimum BiH content in these contracts, representing at least
the value of the bond, to ensure that the IDA funds support productive
activity in BiH. If IGA is satisfied that that the company can perform the
contract and repay a call, it will submit the BiH enterprise's application to
a commercial insurance syndicate that will assess whether it is prepared to
underwrite the proposed bond for unfair calling insurance, i.e. for liability
to the BiH enterprises in the event that the bond is called in circumstances
where the BiH exporter is in compliance with the terms of the export
contract.   If the commercial insurance syndicate is prepared to underwrite
the bond for unfair calling risk, it will indicate approval to issue a
guarantee to a first-class bank that would issue the performance bond to the
buyer. The IDA credit would be held in an offshore trust account and would be
used as security for the commercial insurance company. In case of a fair call
from the buyer, i.e. if the BiH enterprise had failed to perform under the
terms of the contract, the commercial insurance syndicate would have access to
the funds in the trust account to cover its losses from the claim. In such a
case, the BiH enterprise would be required to reimburse the syndicate/trust
account.
The technical assistance would provide limited support to IGA to strengthen
its credit assessment and project implementation capacity.
Financing
IDA and foreign banks would be the main sources of finance for the
operation. The IDA credit for this project would be US$ 12 million, of which
US$ 0.85 would go towards institutional strengthening of IGA and exporting
enterprises, while the remainder would be earmarked for the Working Capital
and Performance Bond Facilities.
Sustainability
The design of the project would ensure that the working capital loans
and performance bonds would be available only to those enterprises that are
commercially sound and have good prospects of viability and sustainability.
Eligible enterprises will have to be private or privatizing. Due diligence
will be conducted on the enterprises applying for working capital loans by
both IGA and the local bank. Commercial insurance syndicates will assess the
risks of underwriting performance bonds for unfair calling insurance.
Environmental Aspects
-3-



The project has been assigned an FI category. There are no major
environmental issues associated with this project. Steps will be taken before
the approval of working capital credits/performance bonds to ensure that the
production of environmentally hazardous outputs and/or environmentally
hazardous activities are not supported.
Project Benefits
The project would help:
- increase BiH exports, thereby increasing economic growth and employment
- revive viable companies that do not have access to working capital due to
shortage of funds in the BiH financial system, and allow them to regain
markets lost during the war
- build links between the BiH financial system and mainstream international
trade finance
- strengthen IGA, that could, in two or three years, become a full-fledged
Export Credit Agency
- improve the competitiveness of BiH exporters
Risks
This project presents two main risks.
The first is the risk of non-performance of the export contracts by the
enterprises supported under the project. This risk will be mitigated by
developing stringent eligibility criteria for participating banks and
companies (see above) and credit assessment procedures, and close supervision
of project implementation. IGA will benefit from technical assistance during
the facility's first year of operation, who will prepare an Operations Manual
spelling out these procedures and train IGA's staff.
Another risk results from the ongoing international financial crisis which has
led most banks to pull out of emerging markets. It may be temporarily
difficult to identify foreign banks that would agree to take risk on Bosnian
enterprises and banks at this time despite the security that the scheme would
provide. Provision would be made under the project for local banks funds to
carry out this role in the start-up phase.
For further information on this project, please contact:
Contact Point:                   The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Lloyd Edgecombe
Phone:       (202) 458-5982
Fax No.:    (202) 522-3687
E-Mail:     ledgecombe@worldbank.org
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
- 4 -



Washington, DC 20433
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending March 19, 1999.
One or several commercial insurance syndicates will be identified by IGA as willing to
participate in this scheme.
- 5 -



