Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 19304-BIH
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 8.9 MILLION
TO
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
FOR AN
ENTERPRISE EXPORT FACILITY
May 19, 1999
Private/Finance Sector Development Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective March 17, 1999)
Currency Unit = Convertible mark
Convertible mark 1.7825 = US$1
US$0.5610 = 1 Convertible mark
FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BAR    -    Bank Eligibility Report
BiH     -    Bosnia and Herzegovina
BEEF   -    Bosnia and Herzegovina Enterprise Export Facility
CAS    -    Country Assistance Strategy
EBPAC  -    Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit
FBA     -    Federation Banking Agency
IDA     -    International Development Association
IGA     -    Investment Guarantee Agency
PA      -    Participation Agreement
PFI     -    Participating Financial Institution
RS      -    Republika Srpska
SDR     -    Special Drawing Rights
SOE    -    Statement of Expenditure
Vice President          Johannes Linn
Country Director        Christiaan Poortman
Sector Leader           Gerhard Pohl
Task Team Leader        Lloyd Edgecombe



Bosnia-Herzegovina
Enterprise Export Facility
CONTENTS
A. Project Development Objective                                               2
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators             2
B. Strategic Context                                                           2
1. Sector-related CAS goal supported by the project                         2
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy                               2
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices       4
C. Project Description Summary                                                 5
1. Project components                                                       5
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project            5
3. Benefits and target population                                           5
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements                            6
D. Project Rationale                                                           8
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection                8
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies  9
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design                 10
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership                         10
5. Value added of Bank support in this project                              10
E. Summary Project Analyses                                                    11
1. Economic                                                                 11
2. Financial                                                                11
3. Technical                                                                12
4. Institutional                                                            12
5. Social                                                                   12
6. Environmental assessment                                                 13
7. Participatory approach                                                   13
F. Sustainability and Risks                                                    13
1. Sustainability                                                           13
2. Critical risks                                                           14
3. Possible controversial aspects                                           14
G. Main Loan Conditions                                                        15
1. Effectiveness conditions                                                 15
2. Other                                                                    15



H. Readiness for Implementation                                                16
I. Compliance with Bank Policies                                               16
Annexes
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary
Annex 2.   Detailed Project Description
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs
Annex 4.   Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Annex 5.   Financial Summary
Annex 6.   Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Table A.    Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
Table A. 1.  Procurement Plan
Table B.    Thresholds for Procurement methods and Prior Review
Table B. 1.   Summary of Procurement Activities
Table C.    Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Table D.    Capacity Assessment of the Implementing Agency
Annex 7.   Financial Management
Annex 8.   Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Annex 9.   Documents in Project File
Annex 10.  Statement of Loans and Credits
Annex 11.  Country at a Glance



Bosnia-Herzegovina
Enterprise Export Facility
Project Appraisal Document
Europe and Central Asia Regional Office
Bosnia-Herzegovina Country Unit
Date: May 19, 1999                                    Task Team Leader: Lloyd Edgecombe
Country Director: Christiaan Poortman                 Sector Leader: Gerhard Pohl
Project ID: 62936       Sector: Financial             Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: Financial Intermediary Loan       Program of Targeted Intervention:    [ ] Yes  [X] No
Project Financing Data                 [] Loan       [X] Credit       [] Guarantee       [] Other [Specify]
For Loans/Credits/Others:
Amount: SDR 8.9 million (US$12.0 million equivalent)
Proposed terms:                         [XI  Multicurrency       [   Single currency, Euro
Grace period (years): 10          []   Standard Variable   [   Fixed           [ ]    LIBOR-based
Years to maturity: 35
Commitment fee: 0.5% (less any waiver)
Service charge: 0.75 %
Financing plan (US$m):
Source                               Local              Foreign           Total
Government
IDA                                                                              12.0               12.0
Other - Foreign Banks                                                           10.0                10.0
Total                            22.0                22.0
Note: Cofinancing will be sought during project implementation, if demand warrants.
Borrower: Bosnia and Herzegovina
Responsible agency: Investment Guarantee Agency
Estimated disbursements (Bank FY/US$M):      1999       2000        2001      2002    2003   2004
Annual    0.00        4.50        5.50        2.0     0       0
Cumulative    0.00       4.50        10.0       12.0    12.0   12.0
Project implementation period: 10/99 - 12/04  Expected effectiveness date: 10/01/99  Expected closing date: 12/31/04
OSD PAD Form: July 30, 1997



Page 2
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1).
The primary objective of the Bosnia and Herzegovina Enterprise Export Facility (BEEF) is to support
sustainable economic growth by facilitating and expanding viable export activity. Bosnia and Herzegovina
(BiH) was the largest exporting republic of the former Yugoslavia, with exports at around US$1.7 billion per
annum. In 1997, exports of goods were around the level of US$575 million. The main objective of the project
is to contribute to an increase in the level of exports which is urgently needed to reduce the economy's
dependence on aid.
BEEF will give BiH enterprises the opportunity to increase their level of export activity by providing working
capital linked to specific export contracts, and by providing access to performance bonds for large export
contracts.
Performance indicators of BEEF would include:
*  Increase in volume and value of BiH exports;
*  Value and number of working capital loans made to BiH exporters;
*  Value and number of performance bonds given to support BiH exporters.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (see Annex 1):
CAS document number: IDA-R98 111    Date of latest CAS discussion: August 28, 1997
Date of latest CAS progress report: August 6, 1998
The project will support the CAS goal to develop the enterprise sector and in particular to promote export
activity. The project will also support private sector development as companies receiving funds will either
have to be private or will be required to have started the process of privatization under the relevant
privatization law.
The project will underpin financial sector reform by addressing the chronic shortage of funds in the BiH
banking system and supporting banks of good quality. It will initiate and strengthen links between local banks
and foreign banks based upon genuine risk assumption by foreign banks, which is an important element of
integrating the BiH banking system into the region.
2. Main sector issues and Government strategy:
a. Private Sector Development: Reform Strategy and Progress
There is broad consensus within BiH that a market-based economy and a vibrant private sector are
preconditions to lasting growth and for preparing the country for participation in Europe's economic and
political institutions. There is also growing awareness that private business activity requires an appropriate
legal and institutional framework to operate and grow.
Establishing the architecture for a private, market-based economy is essential not only for the long-term future of
the BiH economy, but also in order to maximise the prospects for successful sales of publicly owned enterprises
and banks. Since the end of the war, several key legal and institutional reforms conducive to private business
activity have been implemented, notably the introduction of a common currency, passage of a State Law on
foreign investment, and introduction of uniform trade and customs policies across the Entities. The major items
in the agenda now being addressed are: clarification of property rights, strengthening of corporate govemance,
enforcement of commercial contracts, adherence to fair market practices, introduction of capital market
instruments, institution of a privately owned competitive payments and clearing system, enforcement and
simplification of taxes, improvements to accounting and auditing standards, and reform of regulations on
dependent labor and social welfare. While the establishment of the policy, legislative and institutional framework



Page 3
for supporting private sector growth is the responsibility of each Entity,' Entity governments seek to harmonize
policy reforms and new legislation to the extent possible. In all the areas outlined above where policy and
institutional development is needed, the Entities are cooperating closely with specialist assistance teams from
international donors (notably USAID and the UK Know-How Fund) to put in place solutions that will facilitate
private sector development and the success of the privatization programs.
Supported by considerable technical assistance, the Federation has passed a law requiring that Federation
enterprises adopt certain key intemational accounting standards beginning January 1, 1999. By adhering to such
standards, domestic enterprises will generate auditable, accurate and timely financial statements that are of use to
both foreign and local investors, to local banks and the government. Enterprises will also be better equipped to
understand and manage their own financial position and operations. Similar reforms in the Republika Srpska
(RS) laws are expected in mid-1999.
The two Entities have adopted a comprehensive set of laws for the privatization of enterprises and, furthermore,
have established agencies to undertake the task. In the Federation, Laws on Enterprise Privatization and on
Opening Balance Sheets (that defines the balance sheet of the enterprise to be privatized) have been adopted.
Privatization agencies at the Federation level and in cantons have been established and their division of
responsibilites clarified. Republika Srpska legislation on enterprise privatization and opening balance sheets was
passed in July 1998, thereby annulling the earlier highly defective Privatization Law of 1996, and the
privatization agency is functioning.
The small-scale privatizations are expected to be completed within one year in each Entity. Preparations have
already begun, albeit in a preliminary way, for the sale of large enterprises and conglomerates. These enterprises
are outdated, with markets lost, and skills dispersed. The strategy is to identify the centers of profitability that
exist within some enterprises of these conglomerates and to sell those to strategic investors under public tender
offerings. To implement the strategy, conglomerates will have to develop business plans for the promising
enterprises and a privatization plan with the opening balance sheet. Parts of conglomerates that could not be
privatizated would be closed. The task of completing mass privatization will take up to two years.
b. Strengthening and Privatizing the Banking Sector
There are 55 banks operating in the Federation, 13 of which are majority owned by the public sector. These
publicly owned banks hold over DM 5 billion in assets (at current book value, unadjusted for potential losses) or
about 77 percent of total banking assets in the Federation. In the RS, there are 15 banks, 11 of which are majority
owned by public enterprises. The four largest of these control two-thirds of all RS bank assets. Private banks in
both Entities were generally created during or after the war and are generally very small in capital or asset size.
While BiH is over-banked in terms of the number of banks registered, the level of banking and, in particular,
lending services available is highly inadequate to support the recovery of the economy.
Until today, banks are illiquid and generally unable to perform significant lending services, other than those
refinanced through donor-provided credit lines. There are no active inter-bank or domestic capital markets.
Market interest rates of up to 3 percent per month on DM-based short-term loans from banks reflect this
shortage of credit.
The reform strategy being pursued by both Entities is intended to enhance public confidence in the privatized
banking system through (i) strengthened banking supervision, aided by the powers of a modem commercial
bank law; (ii) the liquidation of all insolvent banks; (iii) institution of a deposit insurance scheme; (iv)
promoting the entry of foreign banks; and (v) securing long term funding for commercial banks. It is the
policy of both Entities that all solvent publicly-owned banks would be rapidly privatized.
The Law on Privatization of Banks sets criteria by which publicly-owned banks will be selected for privatization
or liquidation, and defines the respective roles of the Entity's banking supervision agency and the MoF in that
IBiH consists of two Entities: the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Republika Srpska, in accordance with
the Dayton Accord of 1995.



Page 4
process. Through the enactment of the Laws on Bank Privatization in both Entities, ownership of publicly-owned
banks has been passed over to the MoF.
In the Federation, the opening balance sheets for all majority-publicly owned banks were required to be
submitted to the Federation Banking Agency (FBA) for a solvency test in March 1999. Of the eight majority
publicly-owned banks, three submitted opening balance sheets on time. For the other five, the Bank
Privatization Unit is currently preparing their opening balance sheets. This process is expected to be
completed in May 1999. The FBA has completed the solvency tests of the three banks that have submitted
their opening balance sheets, and each was deemed solvent and will proceed with the privatization process
targeted to end in June 2000. For banks considered insolvent, the FBA will appoint a provisional administrator
who will have 60 days to recommend a course of action for the bank - closure, merger, or capital injection.
In the RS, banks are required to submit their opening balance sheets to the RS Bank Privatization Agency in
May 1999. The RS Bank Privatization Agency will review the opening balance sheets and, if acceptable,
submit them to the Ministry of Finance for forwarding to the RS Banking Agency for a solvency test. As in
the Federation, RS banks that are considered insolvent will be appointed a provisional administrator and those
that are solvent will proceed with the privatization process.
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices:
a. Enterprise Sector
The main sector issue that would be addressed by BEEF is the development of an enviromnent conducive to
enterprise sector development, specifically exporting companies. The project would provide needed working
capital to companies that are capable of fulfilling export orders thereby expanding the country's exports,
generating foreign exchange and fostering economic growth. The Performance Bond component would enable
companies that have the ability to tender for and perform large export contracts to obtain performance bonds
from first-class European banks, which is a pre-condition for participating in a tender and being awarded a
contract, thereby allowing these companies the opportunity of regaining pre-war scales of operation.
In addition, the project would include technical assistance to help eligible companies market their products
abroad in a secure manner, regain the scale of exporting activity lost as a result of the war, and adapt to a
market economy.2  State-owned companies receiving support would have to have started the process of
privatization under the relevant Entity's privatization law, including having a privatization plan approved by
the relevant privatization agency, and advancing the privatization process in accordance with this plan in a
satisfactory manner.
b. Banking Sector
The financial sector in BiH needs to be strengthened in order to meet the demands of industry. It lacks
liquidity and its cost of funds is high. It also needs to build links with international banks and other financial
and credit insurance institutions, and become more familiar with the need to be transparent. BEEF's
requirement of combining World Bank funds and foreign commercial funds to support BiH exports will
contribute to these objectives. The foreign funds would leverage the World Bank funds, and increase liquidity
in the system.
Currently, there is lack of knowledge about BiH banks as well as developments in the Federation and RS
Banking Laws on the part of most foreign financial institutions, contributing to their reluctance to work with
BiH banks. One function of BEEF includes regular dissemination of knowledge about BiH banks to foreign
banks to mitigate some of the foreign financial institutions' concerns and provide sufficient comfort to
engender the necessary interest and confidence of some foreign financial institutions to allow them to
participate in the financing of BiH exporters.
2 In the former Yugoslavia, most companies relied on trading companies to sell their products abroad and they do not have
the necessary skills in-house to market their products.



Page 5
Participating banks will have to be private or in the privatization process under the relevant Entity law and
advancing in the privatization process in accordance with its privatization plan in a satisfactory manner.
C: Project Descripdon Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2 for a detailed description and Annex 3 for a detailed cost breakdown):
Component                 Category    Cost Incl.    % of    IDA-        % of
Contingencies  Total  financing    IDA-
(US$M)        _     (US$M)   financing
Working Capital Facility               Foreign    19              86     9          75
Performance Bond Facility              Foreign     2               9     2          17
Technical Assistance - Institutional   Foreign     1.0             5     1.0         8
Strengthening for IGA and Exporters             I                                 I
Total 22.0            100    12.0       100
2. Key policy and institutional reforms supported by the project:
This project would rely upon and reinforce reforms currently being implemented, particularly those that are
supported under the proposed Enterprise and Bank Privatization Adjustment Credit (EBPAC) (see section B.2.
Main sector issues and Government strategy for background on the reforms supported by EBPAC).3 BEEF
will benefit from the implementation of EBPAC that is aimed at supporting the privatization of banks and state
owned companies. The technical assistance program supported by the U.S.A. to assist in the design and
implementation of a legal and regulatory reform for the banking system is also playing an important role in
improving the framework in which BEEF will operate.
New Banking Laws, in the process of implementation in both the Federation and Republika Srpska, are
comprehensive, up-to-date codes prepared according to European Union and US standards. Banks in both
entities will have to be privatized under these new laws, and the privatization process is under way.
The project would contribute to the ongoing effort of banking reform, particularly in creating links with
foreign banks and in the area of transparency and disclosure, as foreign banks would insist on obtaining quality
information on the BiH banks to which they would be lending. Until the new Banking Laws of the two entities
are fully implemented and the banks are privatized, eligibility of banks to participate in BEEF would be based
on a number of criteria, which are detailed in Annex 2, assessing performance, soundness and capacity. Once
the laws are fully implemented, having an unconditional banking license under the laws of either the
Federation or Republika Srpska would be an additional criteria that participating banks would have to meet.
BEEF will also support reformns in the enterprise sector by assisting enterprises in the early stages of their life
in a privatized economy when working capital is scarce.
3. Benefits and target population:
The Working Capital Facility would support BiH exporters that currently suffer from a chronic shortage of
funds to finance export activity. By injecting additional funds into the BiH banking system, exporters would
be able to increase their activity and profitability as well as expand their markets. BEEF would make it easier
for exporters to offer post-shipment credit terms to foreign buyers and discount the receivables at interest rates
that are based upon the quality of the buyers and the interest rates prevailing in their countries, thereby
increasing the competitiveness of BiH exporters in intemational markets.4 To support their tenders for export
contracts, the Performance Bond Facility would assist BiH enterprises obtain performance bonds from banks
that are acceptable to the buyers/principals. Having access to such bonds, which would otherwise be
3EBPAC's Board presentation is planned for June 1999.
4Currently, BiH companies fund post-shipment credit through their local bank at around 35 % p.a.. With credit insurance,
if the buyer is a good European corporate, the rate would be reduced to around 8 to 9 %, including the cost of export credit
insurance.



Page 6
unobtainable, will allow BiH enterprises to compete for large export contracts. Both the Working Capital
Facility and the Performance Bond Facility would thus have a significant impact on economic growth and
employment.
BEEF would assist the BiH banking system by creating a framework where foreign financial institutions
and/or credit risk insurers would enter the BiH market as risk takers and would forge partnerships with BiH
banks. BEEF would furthermore strengthen the better quality banks by providing them with liquidity and the
ability to attract better quality clients.
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
The Investment Guarantee Agency, IGA, was created under the Bosnia and Herzegovina Emergency Industrial
Re-Start Project to provide guarantees against political risks to foreign companies taking financial exposure in
Bosnia and Herzegovina for productive purposes. IGA was established in October 1996, and has been
operating successfully since it issued its first guarantee in July 1997. IGA would be responsible for the
implementation of the Bosnia Enterprise Export Facility given the knowledge of local banks and enterprises
that it has acquired through its guarantee activity. BEEF will benefit from the strong reputation that IGA has
developed, both in BiH and abroad, among enterprises, commercial banks and insurers.
Under the project, assistance would be provided to improve the capacity of IGA to assess the viability of the
exporters and their proposed export contracts through the provision of consultants, additional staff, and funds
to cover a declining proportion of IGA's incremental operating costs for the first 18 months of operation of
BEEF. The specialized technical skills of the new staff, combined with the extensive commercial experience
of IGA's current staff and its experience in implementing a World Bank project, will provide an adequate
skills mix to implement BEEF.
IGA's obligations to carry out its functions with due diligence and efficiency using appropriate administrative
and financial practices will be reflected in a Project Agreement between IGA and IDA. This agreement will
also require IGA to provide loans and indemnities to eligible local banks following procedures that
substantially conform with those set out in the Operations Manual, maintain accounts of its financial dealings,
have these accounts audited in accordance with appropriate auditing principles, fumish regular reports to IDA
of its operations, participate in reviews and evaluations with IDA of the operations of the project, and prepare
an implementation completion report within six months of completion of the project.
a. Working Capital Facility (WCF)
The Working Capital Facility (WCF) is a revolving line of credit to provide working capital loans to BiH
exporting enterprises that have specific and signed export contracts. The IDA funds will be combined with
foreign bank funds, and on-lent through eligible local banks to BiH exporters. IGA and/or the local bank will
identify a foreign bank that is willing to lend at least one half of the funds needed by the exporter to the local
bank. The combined IDA and foreign bank funds will add significantly to the volume of funds available for
exports in the BiH banking system. Initially, IGA will fund up to 50 percent of the working capital loans; this
number should drop to about 30 percent over time as a company builds a track record using the facility. Thus,
the leverage of the IDA funds will increase over time.
Eligible transactions would be loans to BiH enterprises for working capital needed to fulfill a confirmed export
order.
IGA will conduct due diligence on enterprises applying for working capital loans and verify the validity of the
export order. An Operations Manual has been prepared which was agreed at negotiations and provides
operating guidelines for IGA covering credit assessment procedures, as well as other rules of operation. IGA
will need to obtain the World Bank's no objection for each loan before it is approved until the World Bank is
satisfied that the scheme is operating successfully and that IGA has built up and confirmed its credit
assessment and supervisory skills, and is operating on a consistent basis.5
5It is expected that "no objections" will be required for a period of at least two years.



Page 7
While the BiH bank will take the full risk on the foreign funded portion of the loan, which will provide a
strong incentive for the BiH bank to ensure that loans under BEEF are made to financially sound enterprises,
IGA will indemnify the local bank for the IDA portion of the loan. This indemnity will relieve the bank of the
obligation to repay the BiH Govenmient funds in thd event of a default by the ultimate borrower. The effect of
an indemnity for 50% of the total working capital loan amount removes the risk of default by an enterprise
from the balance sheet of the participating financial enterprise and transfers it to IGA for that portion, thereby
increasing the capacity of the participating financial institution to provide funds for export activity, without
relieving it of the risk of significant loss upon default by the enterprise. Balance sheet capacity of banks in
Bosnia and Herzegovina is a significant constraint to increased economic activity in Bosnia and Herzegovina.
To encourage the participation of foreign financial institutions, BiH enterprises would be required to assign the
proceeds of the export orders obtained as a result of the working capital loans as security for the foreign
tranche of the loan.
If IDA agrees, IGA may provide funds in conjunction with local bank funds, in lieu of foreign bank funds, in
the following circumstances: (i) the initial operation phase of the facility, if participation of foreign banks in
the scheme takes some time to develop. In this case, a fully functioning scheme using local bank funds would
be more attractive to foreign banks than an untried scheme; (ii) loans to certain enterprises whose exporting
profile does not allow for adequate security to the foreign financial institution with export cashflows, usually
where export income is derived from many small value transactions; (iii) when the costs of funds sourced
within BiH are competitive with foreign sourced funds. The importance of having IGA follow strict operating
guidelines in terms of appraisal, security, and supervision of loans is heightened where there is no foreign bank
participation, and the World Bank no objection will be required for a longer period of time in such cases as an
additional discipline on IGA in maintaining standards of credit assessment and monitoring.
Administration of BEEF by IGA will involve identifying foreign financial institutions that may be willing to
participate in the scheme and continuously providing information to these institutions about BiH banks and
enterprises and the banking laws of BiH. In the initial stages of the project, World Bank assistance will be
provided to carry out this function. Several specialist trade finance institutions have already expressed interest
in participating in the scheme and further efforts will be made by IGA and the World Bank to bring these and
other foreign financial institutions into the scheme.
b. Performance Bond Facility (PBF)
Since the war, it has been virtually impossible for BiH companies to tender for major construction and supply
contracts abroad because banks acceptable to the buyers will not take the risk of non-payment by the enterprise
or a local bank following a call of the bond. The Performance Bond Facility (PBF) will allow BiH companies
to tender for such large export contracts by giving security to bond giving banks. This security is provided by
placing the IDA funds on trust in an offshore bank account available to reimburse commercial insurance
companies that will guarantee the bond givers.
One or several commercial insurance syndicates will be identified by IGA as willing to participate in this
scheme. In preliminary discussions with such syndicates, they have indicated that they would be willing to
guarantee performance bonds for a value of up to four times the amount of cash held on trust.
IGA will (i) conduct due diligence on enterprises to assess their capacity to perform the contracts; and (ii)
verify that there would be a minimum BiH content in these contracts, representing at least the value of the
bond, to ensure that the IDA funds support productive activity in BiH.7 Prior to its final approval, IGA and the
commercial insurance syndicate will enter into a recourse agreement with the BiH enterprise, which will
6 Expressions of interest in participating in BEEF have come from several banks and insurance syndicates. These banks
are located in neighboring countries (Austria, Slovenia and Germnany) and have an interest in developing long term
relationships with Bosnian banks. Written expressions of interest in the formn of non binding indications have been
provided by insurance syndicates based in London. These syndicates would provide banks that provide the "foreign bank"
portion of the funding with guarantees against default by the local bank.
' i.e. for a works contract performed abroad, a minimum percentage of inputs and/or labor must originate from BiH.



Page 8
require the enterprise to reimburse the commercial insurance syndicate in case a call occurs as a result of
breach of contract. IGA will also arrange for adequate security from the enterprise backing up its obligation in
the recourse agreement.
As for the Working Capital Facility, a World Bank no objection would be required before IGA's final approval
of an enterprise to participate in the PBF.
Subject to the project having been implemented in a satisfactory manner, funds from the IDA credit and other
donor sources will be available to the BiH Government to use as capital for IGA to perform the functions of
BiH's export credit agency or for some other agreed purpose.
Initially, and to facilitate disbursements, US$1 million would be allocated to the PBF and US$9 million to the
WCF. Once the funds had been disbursed against these components and had started revolving, the funds could
be used interchangeably for both facilities.
c. Technical Assistance: Institutional Strengthening of IGA and Exporters (US$1 million)
IGA will benefit from technical assistance to strengthen its operations and develop its skills in the area of
export credit insurance. An important objective of IGA's institutional strengthening will be building its credit
assessment capability. The project would provide financing for expert services to train IGA's staff to perform
due diligence and credit assessment based on the Facility's Operations Manual, and assist them in processing
applications for working capital loans/performance bonds. Terms of Reference for this consultant have been
agreed with the Bank. The Operations Manual reflects market standards in due diligence and credit risk
assessment, and takes specific characteristics of the BiH environment into account, such as the prevailing legal
system (mortgage law, bankruptcy law, banking law) and the local bank's credit assessment procedures. In
addition, the project would finance short-term assistance in such areas as financial management, auditing, and
legal and environmental services.
To help exporters acquire the ability to market their products and find buyers, as well as to build their
knowledge of export procedures, the project would make available to IGA the services of experts for about one
year. These experts would identify enterprises with the ability to export (i.e. companies that can start
exporting if given access to working capital and not initially requiring capital investment) but that have lost
their foreign markets during the war and do not have the skills required to regain these markets or identify new
clients, and/or need to improve their in-house knowledge of export procedures. The technical assistance would
be provided only to enterprises that are eligible and approved for support under the Working Capital Facility,
and a fee would charged to the enterprise benefiting from the assistance. A primary objective of the technical
assistance would be to use external consultants to identify and introduce new buyers for IGA's clients thereby
ensuring that working capital loans are used to expand exports by viable enterprises. Whilst the amount of the
funds available for technical assistance is limited, additional funding from donor sources can be sought if the
scheme proves successful in leading to new business opportunities for IGA's clients.
This component would also finance a small amount of office equipment and vehicles for IGA, and, for a period
of 18 months following effectiveness of the IDA credit, a declining proportion of IGA's incremental operating
costs to cover general operating expenses, including salaries, and equipment that IGA would require to
establish, operate and manage the schemes.8
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
Initially the alternative considered to increase access to credit for BiH exporters was a guarantee facility for
Bosnian banks that would cover the banks against the risk of default by Bosnian enterprises for working
capital loans to support export orders. Research in the field demonstrated that while credit risk was an issue,
more important barriers to access to credit for exporters were (i) liquidity, and (ii) cost of funds. Thus the
aSee Annex 5 for IGA's budget.



Page 9
guarantee scheme was rejected in favor of a scheme which mobilizes funds from both IDA and foreign
financiers to support exports and lowers the cost of funds than is currently experienced by borrowers of
working capital loans where local deposits are the source of funding.
In addition, existing credit lines were considered but were deemed unsuitable for the purposes of increasing
exports as they are geared towards general working capital and medium term financing needs. BEEF will in
fact complement these existing credit lines.
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies (completed, ongoing and
planned):
Sector issue                    Project         Latest Supervision (PSR) Ratings
(Bank-financed projects only)
Implementation   Development
Progress (IP)   Objective (DO)
Bank-financed
Enterprise Sector Development       Emergency Recovery            S               S
Credit - credit line
component (Federation
project)
Enterprise Sector Development       Emergency Pilot Credit       HS               S
Project, Rep. Srpska
Private Sector and Financial Sector  Proposed Enterprise and    FY99
Development                         Bank Privatization
Adjustment Credit
Reconstruction and Private Sector   Emergency Industrial Re-      S               S
Development                         start Project
Other development agencies
EBRD                                Medium-term investment  Ongoing and
loans including new SME  planned
credit line
USAID - Business Finance            Medium-term investment  Ongoing
loans (3 yrs.)
IFC                                 Medium term general     Ongoing and
working capital loans  planned
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)



Page 10
3. Lessons learned and reflected in the project design:
The existing credit line projects in Bosnia and Herzegovina address general working capital or medium-term
financing needs of enterprises. BEEF will provide a valuable supplement to these credit lines by providing
working capital for specific export contracts allowing for expanded export activity. IGA will benefit from
access to information on local enterprises and banks that has been accumulated during the implementation of
other credit lines, including USAID, EBRD, IFC, and IDA projects.
The need for a credit line specific to exports is evidenced by (i) current low volume of exports compared with
pre-war levels. As mentioned in Al, exports from BiH before the war had reached the level of US$1.7 billion
compared with levels.of around US$575 million in 1997; and (ii) research with BiH banks and enterprises,
which identify lack of working capital as one of the key constraints to increasing exports from the current low
level of exports.
In addition, this project benefits from experience in mainstream export credit markets and trade finance
institutions that specialize in performance based lending. The structure of the project reflects the advantages of
relying on export cashflows as security as well as applying market standards in due diligence and credit risk
assessment.
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
The Government of Bosnia and Herzegovina has recognized the critical need to increase exports which
declined substantially due to the war, and therefore to support enterprises that are engaged in export activity,
thereby fully utilizing their comparative advantage. The BiH Government as well as both Entity Governments
have expressed their enthusiastic support for BEEF in this context, and the Government has requested this
project urgently.
IGA has acquired a level of skills and a strong reputation which will enhance its effectiveness as the
implementing agency. IGA's Board has itself expressed support for the project and interest in expanding its
role and developing as an institution.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
The involvement of the World Bank in this project adds value in five main areas: (i) attracts commercial funds
from foreign sources at lower rates than prevail when scarce local deposits are the source of funding; (ii)
provides exporters with funds at lower overall cost than those which currently prevail in BiH and adds
liquidity to the system; (iii) provides comfort to foreign banks making them more likely to participate in
genuine risk taking; (iv) provides comfort to foreign banks posting performance bonds to benefit BiH
companies by providing funds to secure a commercial insurance syndicate issuing guarantees to such banks;
(v) ensures better quality information and transparency on BiH banks and enterprises.
At the current level of exports, a US$12 million IDA credit to support both the Working Capital and
Performance Bond Facility will have an impact on BiH exports. The funds on-lent under the Working Capital
Facility will be revolving, and the average period of a loan is expected to be not more than 120 days. In
addition the credit will be leveraged at least two to one through foreign bank participation. The combined
effect of revolving funds and foreign bank participation should result in the facility supporting exports in
excess of US$50 million per year when fully operational, against a background of an aggregate level of exports
of goods of about US$575 million in 1997.9 The Bank's support will act as a catalyst in forging relationships
between foreign and local banks on a genuine risk sharing basis much earlier than would otherwise occur, and
which in part should be sustained beyond the life of the project.
The Performance Bond Facility will also support exports well in excess of the facility's funds. The average
maturity of the performance bonds is expected to be about one year, and buyers/principals generally request
perforrnance bonds averaging 10 percent of the value of the contract. Furthermnore, the commercial insurance
9A model developed to assess the value of exports generated by the Working Capital Facility over the life of the project
shows that this facility could support about US$300 million in exports over five years. See Annex 4 for more details.



Page 1 I
companies will provide guarantees for about four times the level of funds put on trust. Thus, if about US$2
million of the credit back up performance bonds the facility could support up to US$300 million in exports
over the life of the project.10
E: Summary Project Analysis (Detailed assessments are in the project file, see Annex 9)
1. Economic:
[ ] Cost-Benefit Analysis : NPV=US$ million; ERR= %  [] Cost Effectiveness Analysis:
[X] Other
BEEF will only support economically viable transactions for the following reasons:
1. Working Capital Facility
* Participating banks will have adequate credit assessment capacity and will be subject to a number of tight
eligibility criteria (see Annex 2).
* Only enterprises that are private, or where the privatization process has commenced and is proceeding
satisfactorily will be eligible.
* Buyer risk will be covered by export credit insurance or adequate documentary credit.
* BiH bank's assessment of the enterprises will be reviewed both by IGA and the foreign bank.
* Exporters obtaining working capital will have a signed export order indicating that they are competitive in
international. markets.
2. Performance Bond Facility
* The enterprises will have secured a contract in competition with other companies from other countries
under international tendering conditions.
e Unfair calling insurance by the commercial insurance market should safeguard against enterprises entering
into contracts with buyers/principals with low commercial morality.
* Only enterprises with a successful track record of performing contracts of the type for which support is
sought will be eligible.
-  IGA and the commercial insurance syndicate will do due diligence and be satisfied of the capacity of the
enterprise to reimburse in the event of a fair call.
2. Financial (see Annex 5):
IGA's risk premium and interest income should equal or exceed operating costs (including IDA charges) and
net losses in each year except Year 1, when the deficit is made up by IDA credit funds.1' Assumptions
include:
* Interest on funds deposited with local banks: LIBOR + 0.5 percent with LIBOR at 3 percent
* Interest on funds held in accounts: LIBID (LIBOR - 1/8)
* Average Risk Premium on Working Capital Facility: 4 percent
* Average Risk Premium on Performance Bond Facility: 2 percent
* Average losses on WCF: None in Year 1, 3.5 percent on lent funds in Years 2-5
* Average losses on PBF: None
* IGA does not incur income tax.
Fiscal impact:
Implications for Government budget: Over the life of the credit, the project should not have any implications
for the Government budget. Revenues to IGA from interest income will cover the IDA service fee of 0.75
percent. 90 percent of IGA's operating costs in year one, and if necessary 50 percent of its operating costs for
10 A model developed to assess the value of exports generated by the Performance Bond Facility over the life of the
project, which does not assume that the facility will be used at full capacity at all times, shows that this facility could
support about US$300 million in exports over five years.
1 Support from the IDA credit in the first half of year two to cover 50% of IGA's operating costs is provided for as a
contingency in case IGA's revenues from the facilities are lower than projected.



Page 12
the first six months of year two, will be met from the IDA credit. Operating costs will be met from IGA's own
revenues in subsequent years as shown in Annex 5.
3. Technical:
The key technical issue in this project is lending based upon performance risk.
Assessment of the quality of enterprises and BiH banks: The project will need to apply high standards in terms
of credit and project assessment to ensure that enterprises participating in either scheme are well managed and
have the ability to fulfill the export order that is benefiting from the loan or performance bond. IGA will
receive technical assistance to acquire credit evaluation skills so that it can verify the local bank's assessment
of a client and assess the capacity of enterprises to perform export contracts.
It will also be necessary to evaluate local banks to restrict eligibility to banks that have strong balance sheets,
good management, and in-house credit assessment skills. Experience gathered from other IDA-financed
projects will be used to facilitate this task as will the support of a consultant who has experience in evaluation
of banks in the initial stages of the project.
Documentation: A quality set of documents will be developed to minimize procedural problems and facilitate
the loan approval process for the Working Capital Facility. It is expected that eligible local banks will enter
into Participation Agreements with IGA and participating foreign banks so that the documentation
requirements for individual loans will be minimal. Agreements would also be established between IGA and
the foreign banks. Once these Participation Agreements are in place, agreements for individual transactions
will proceed according to short form authenticated transaction documents, thereby reducing the bureaucratic
burden for all participants.
4. Institutional:
IGA has demonstrated its ability to implement a complex IDA-financed project, the Emergency Industrial Re-
Start Project, in a sound, reliable, and professional manner, and has established a good reputation. The project
will benefit from IGA's developed relationships with local and overseas banks, enterprises, and commercial
insurers. This will allow IGA to readily establish its credentials in its new role under BEEF.
IGA's staff is currently composed of a Managing Director, two Deputy Directors, a Marketing Manager, and a
Translator/Administrative Assistant. However, IGA will need additional skills to implement BEEF to achieve
best practices in tenns of assessing the quality of BiH banks and enterprises. IGA will need to hire two credit
analysts, a lawyer, and a bookkeeper/credit insurance operator to be able to manage BEEF. The skills of the
new staff will complement the expertise among IGA's current staff. In addition, the project includes support
from an in-house consultant for about one year who will train IGA's staff and assist in evaluating requests for
loans. '2
It is anticipated that, in two or three years, IGA will be well positioned to undertake all of the functions of an
export credit agency, ensuring that the terms of financing for exports from BiH are not placed at a competitive
disadvantage with other countries in the region. In the meantime, IGA would act as an agent for an external
export insurance company thereby learning the techniques of credit insurance without assuming risk, and, at
the same time, eaming commissions on business underwritten.
5. Social:
n/a
12 A grant for technical assistance covered the first phase of the consultant's work, writing the Operations Manual, and
additional grant funding will be sought to fund the next phases, training and support during the early stages of
implementation.



Page 13
6. Environmental assessment. Environmental Category  [ ] A   []B    []C  [X] Fl
BEEF is classified as a financial intermediary loan and as such is not expected to have any adverse
environmental impact. The main environmental concern associated with this project is that working capital
loans or performance bonds could support importing environmentally hazardous inputs, the production of
environmentally hazardous outputs, and environmentally hazardous activities.  The Operations Manual
provides a checklist with the environmental requirements to be satisfied. IGA, as part of its due diligence, will
verify that the enterprise complies with these requirements. For the Performance Bond Facility, IGA will
arrange for an environmental audit to be carried out if one has not already been conducted by the EBRD, IFC,
or USAID within the preceding three years.
7. Participatory approach:
a. Primary beneficiaries and other affected groups
Consultations have been held with exporters in BiH, who are the primary beneficiaries of the project. These
enterprises indicated their support for the project as they are suffering from a critical lack of working capital as
well as the inability to obtain performance bonds from first-class offshore banks. Many enterprises have the
infrastructure, management, and skilled labor necessary to produce, as well as foreign clients to whom they
could sell their goods, but do not have the working capital to purchase necessary inputs, pay salaries, etc.
Many companies cannot participate in tenders for export contracts because of the need to post a perfonnance
bond.
b. Other key stakeholders
Banks are the other important beneficiaries of BEEF. Most banks indicated interest in participating in BEEF
and corroborated information from enterprises that they lacked liquidity necessary to expand export activity.
Most banks confirmed that BEEF would enable them to increase their lending to exporting clients. In addition,
they welcomed the opportunity to build relations with foreign banks under the scheme.
F: Sustainability and Risks
I. Sustainability:
BEEF will allow an important component of BiH's industrial sector to resume/increase activity, regain markets
lost during the war, compete in international markets for significant export contracts, and remain in business
while the general business environment in BiH improves and the privatization process is completed. It should
thus contribute to the long term growth of industry and economic growth in BiH by resulting in a permanent
increase in volume of exports.
Funds supplied under BEEF are available to support additional export orders by enterprises with a track record
of exporting for profit. It will thereby contribute in due course to the capacity of a participating enterprise to
internally generate its own working capital through growth in and retention of profits.
As the economy recovers, the local banking system stabilizes, and enterprise and banking reforms are
implemented, market rates are expected to go down towards the interest rate levels charged under the facility.
This trend is already evidenced by current market rates in certain parts of BiH (e.g. Mostar) where the
economy is on a better footing.
By linking the Bosnian financial system with mainstream international trade finance, BEEF should create
sustainable sources of finance for Bosnian exporters as aid funds decline. It is expected that the IDA financed
portion of the loan will drop from one half to one third of the loan as a company builds a track record using the
facility. Local banks will build ties with foreign financial institutions which should stay in place after the end
of the project as foreign banks will have built up their knowledge of BiH banks and will feel comfortable
working with BiH banks on a stand alone basis.
The Performance Bond Facility will allow commercial insurance companies and offshore banks to become
familiar with BiH companies, which in time should allow them to take risks on these enterprises without the



Page 14
security provided by the IDA funds under this facility. In addition, it is expected that, over the life of the
project, the quality of local banks will improve and they will regain their ability to support BiH enterprises in
obtaining performance bonds.
BEEF is a key step in allowing IGA to develop into BiH's export credit agency undertaking its activities on a
sustainable basis. IGA will continue to exist and expand its activities in support of exports from BiH after the
end of the project.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column ofAnnex 1):
Risk                     Risk Rating      Risk Minimization Measure
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"
Insufficient number of quality local banks  M            None
Slow progress in enterprise and bank privatization S     Proposed Enterprise and Banking
and in implementation of laws reforming the              Privatization Adjustment Credit
security available to lenders                            (EBPAC)
Reluctance of foreign banks to participate due to   S    Exploring different ways to bring in
ongoing financial crisis affecting emerging              foreign financing including the
markets and regional instability                         private credit insurance market
(Lloyd's of London);
Having the possibility of combining
IDA funds with local bank funds
Non-performing loans                       S             Developing stringent eligibility
Fair calls on performance bonds                          criteria for participating banks and
companies and credit assessment
procedures, and close supervision of
project implementation;
Recourse agreements and security
from enterprises obtaining bonds
Slow start-up of the Performance Bond Facility    S      Credit funds will not be segregated
between the PBF and the WCF
Detailed administration and high overhead costs   S      Participation Agreements and short
form transaction documents
Overall Risk Rating S
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
3. Possible Controversial Aspects:
Risk                   Type of  Risk Rating  Risk Minimization Measure
Risk
None
Type of Risk - S (Social), E (Ecological), P (Pollution), G (Governance), M (Management capacity), 0
(Other)
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)



Page 15
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Effectiveness Conditions:
*  The Agency and Funding Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been entered into by the
Borrower and IGA.
*  At least one Project Support Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has been entered into by
the parties thereto.
*  An Operations Manual, which sets out the operating policies and procedures of IGA for support
of the Export Financing Facility and Performance Bond Support Facility, satisfactory to the
Association, has been adopted and approved by IGA and the Borrower.
* Establishment of financial management system satisfactory to the Association.
* Legal opinions relating to the Project Agreement, Agency and Funding Agreement, Project
Support Agreements and Recourse Agreement have been delivered in addition to the legal opinion
on the Development Credit Agreement.
2. Other
IDA has the right to suspend disbursements covering new commitments of IGA if the following events occur:
*  IGA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or properly
carry out its responsibilities under the Operations Manual.
*  As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Development Credit Agreement, an
extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it improbable that IGA will be able to
perform its obligations under the Project Agreement.
*  The Charter or the Operations Manual shall have been amended, without the concurrence of the
Association, or suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the operations or financial condition of IGA or its ability to carry out the Project or to perform any
of its obligations under the Project.
*  The Federation or Republika Srpska shall have suspended or terminated their respective Project
Support Agreement or not have complied with any of the provisions thereof.
e  The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Agency and Funding
Agreement.
*  Any provision of the Performance Bonds shall have been amended, assigned, suspended,
abrogated, terminated or waived without the prior written consent of the Association.



Page 16
H. Readiness for Implementation
[ ] The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of
project implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[ ] The procurement documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for the start of project
implementation. [X] Not applicable.
[XI The Project Implementation Plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of satisfactory quality.
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
[X]  This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
Task Team Leader: Lloyd Edgecombe
Sector     j      r
Country Director: hristiaan



Page 17
Annex 1
Enterprise Export Facility
Project Design Summary
Narrative Summary       Key Performance       Monitoring and       Critical Assumptions
Indicators          Evaluation
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                            (Goal to Bank Mission)
*  Enterprise Sector      * Increase in export   *  Economic data on   *  Sustainable economic
Development: Promotion   activity of viable    exports               growth
of export activity      enterprises
Project Development                                                  (Objective to Goal)
Objective:
*  Increase in exports    * Value of exports of  *  Gather data on   *  Increase liquidity and
participating         participating         reduce cost of funds
companies             enterprises during    available to exporters
supervision of       in BiH
project           *  Enable BiH exporters
implementation       to obtain performance
bonds from first-class
offshore banks
Outputs:                                                             (Outputs to Objective)
*  Working capital loans    * Value of working    *  Monitor lending  *  Bring BiH exports
for export activity     capital loans made     activity              closer to pre-war level
*  Performance bonds for    * Value of         *  Monitor            *  Regain markets and
export activity         performance bonds      commercial           identify new markets
*  Marketing and export     given                 insurance             for BiH products
procedures training for    * In-house marketing  companies'
exporting companies     and exporting skills   guarantee activity
in exporting      *  Monitor companies
companies             benefiting from
technical assistance



Page 18
Annex 2
Enterprise Export Facility
Project Description
Enterprise Export Facility, US$11.0 million
The Enterprise Export Facility comprises a Working Capital Facility and a Performance Bond Facility.
1.A. Working Capital Facility (Export Financing Facility)
A BiH enterprise with an export order will contact its bank and request a working capital loan. The local bank,
after reviewing the company's request, will submit an application for a loan to IGA. IGA will review the
application, conduct due diligence on the enterprise, or review and update its earlier due diligence, and verify
the validity of the export order.13 IGA and/or the local bank will identify a foreign bank that is willing to lend
at least one half of the funds needed by the exporter to the local bank. This leverage is expected to increase
with time as the IDA financed portion of the loan will be required to drop from one half to one third as a
company builds a track record using the facility.
Initially, IGA will need to obtain the World Bank's no objection for each loan before it is approved in order to
ensure that the operational procedures are followed. This no objection will be required until it is deemed that
the scheme is operating successfully and that IGA has built up and confirmed its credit assessment and
supervisory skills, and is operating on a consistent basis.14 Once the transaction is approved, IGA will deposit
IDA funds at the local bank, in accordance with the terms of a Participation Agreement between IGA and the
local bank, to be on-lent to the exporter. The rate to be paid on this deposit will be a small margin above
LIBOR plus a risk fee to IGA (between 3 and 5 per cent per annum), as IGA will indemnify the local bank in
case of default by the enterprise for the IDA funded portion of the loan. The effect of this indemnity would be
to relieve the BiH bank of the obligation to return the deposited funds in the event of default by the borrower
unless the bank has been negligent in its dealings with the borrower and prejudiced IGA's rights against the
borrower. As IGA will be at risk under its indemnity it will have to be satisfied that the borrower is financially
sound and able to complete the export order financed by the working capital loan.
To encourage the participation of foreign financial institutions, BiH enterprises would be required to assign the
proceeds of the export orders obtained as a result of the working capital loans as security for the foreign
tranche of the loan. The fact that IGA was also at risk, monitoring the exporter, and subordinating its rights of
recovery to the foreign lender would provide further comfort to the foreign financial institution.
As indicated above, IGA's indemnity would not be given in respect of the portion of the loan funded by a
foreign financial institution. This would provide a strong incentive for the BiH bank to ensure that loans under
BEEF are made to financially sound enterprises that are capable of fulfilling the export order once the working
capital loan is provided as it would be responsible for repaying the foreign bank funded portion of the loan if
the enterprise were to default.
In special circumstances, IGA will be authorized to provide funds in conjunction with local bank funds, in lieu
of foreign bank funds. These circumstances will include: (i) the initial operation phase of the facility, if
participation of foreign banks in the scheme takes some time to develop. In this case, a fully functioning
scheme using local bank funds would be more attractive to foreign banks than an untried scheme; (ii) loans to
certain enterprises whose exporting profile does not allow for adequate security to the foreign financial
institution with export cashflows, usually where export income is derived from many small value transactions;
(iii) when the costs of funds sourced within BiH are competitive with foreign sourced funds. The importance
of having IGA follow strict operating guidelines in terms of appraisal, security, and supervision of loans is
heightened where there is no foreign bank participation, and the World Bank no objection will be required for
3 Eligible transactions would be loans to BiH enterprises for working capital needed to fulfill a confirmed export order.
4 It is expected that "no objections" will be required for a period of at least two years.



Page 19
a longer period of time in such cases as an additional discipline on IGA in maintaining standards of credit
assessment and monitoring.
Administration of BEEF by IGA will involve another role which will be carried out in the initial stages with
World Bank assistance. This role will be to identify foreign financial institutions that may be willing to
participate in the scheme and to continuously provide information to these institutions about BiH banks and
enterprises and the banking laws of BiH. Several specialist trade finance institutions have already expressed
interest in participating in the scheme and further efforts will be made by IGA and the World Bank to bring
these and other foreign financial institutions into the scheme.
It is envisaged that each eligible bank wishing to participate in the Working Capital Facility will enter into a
"Participation Agreement" with IGA and with any foreign bank willing to advance funds to such bank under
the facility.
A Participation Agreement between IGA and an eligible bank would inter-alia provide:
(1)  that loan funds will be applied exclusively for the purpose of a loan to an approved exporting enterprise
for an approved working capital loan;
(2)  that the eligible bank will take reasonable actions to ensure that the loan proceeds are applied by the
exporting enterprise for the purpose for which they are lent and that the exporting enterprise diligently
performs the export project;
(3)  that the bank shall enter into a loan agreement with the exporting enterprise which shall include the
following terms and conditions:
(i) provide for security over the payment obligation of the buyer under the approved export transaction
and such other security that IGA may nominate;
(ii) require the exporting enterprise to apply the proceeds of the loan for the purpose for which they are
lent and to diligently and expeditiously perform the approved export transaction;
(iii) repay the loan on the due date and in any event to apply the proceeds of the export transaction to
payment the of loan;
(4)   IGA shall indemnify the eligible bank against default by the exporting enterprise in payment under the
loan for an amount not exceeding the amount of IGA's contribution to such loan unless;
(i)  there is a breach by the eligible bank of a term of the Participation Agreement;
(ii)  any term of the loan or any security provided to the exporting enterprise under the sub loan is
not enforceable due to negligence on the part of the eligible bank;
(iii) where the eligible bank has knowingly made a material misrepresentation regarding the financial
condition and circumstances of the exporting enterprise or the export project.
(5)  for suspension of the eligible bank in the event of non payment to a participating foreign bank and in
circumstances set out in (4) above.
Once IGA and an eligible bank had entered into a Participation Agreement, each transaction would be covered
by short form authenticated transmissions that refer to and incorporate the terms of the Participation
Agreement.
1.B. Performance Bond Facility
A BiH enterprise wanting to participate in a tender for an export contract requiring a performance bond will
contact IGA and request support to obtain a performance bond from a first-class offshore bank. IGA will
conduct due diligence on the enterprise to assess its capacity to perform the contract and reimburse the bond-
giver in the event of a call. IGA will also verify that there would be a minimum BiH content in the contract,



Page 20
representing at least the value of the bond."5 If IGA is satisfied that the company can perform the contract and
repay a call, it will submit the BiH enterprise's application to a commercial insurance syndicate that will assess
whether it is prepared to underwrite the proposed bond for unfair calling insurance, i.e. for liability to the BiH
enterprises in the event that the bond is called in circumstances where the BiH exporter is in compliance with
the terms of the export contract, or if it is not in compliance, such non-compliance is due to no fault of the
exporter (e.g. outbreak of war). If the commercial insurance syndicate is prepared to underwrite the bond for
unfair calling insurance it will indicate approval to issue a guarantee to the first-class bank that would issue the
performance bond to the buyer/principal.
The IDA credit would be held by IGA in an offshore escrow account and would be used as security for the
commercial insurance company guaranteeing the banks providing the performance bonds. In case of an unfair
call from the buyer/principal, the commercial insurance company would be financially responsible for the
bank's claim. In case of a fair call from the buyer/principal, i.e. if the BiH enterprise had failed to perform
under the terms of the contract, the commercial insurance syndicate would have access to the funds in the
escrow account to cover its losses from the claim. There would be adequate dispute resolving procedures to
determine whether a call was fair or unfair.
Prior to issuing the guarantee, IGA and the commercial insurance syndicate will enter into a recourse
agreement with the BiH enterprise, which will require the enterprise to reimburse the commercial insurance
syndicate in case a call occurred as a result of breach of contract. IGA will also arrange for adequate security
from the enterprise backing up its obligation in the recourse agreement.
One or several commercial insurance syndicates will be identified by IGA as willing to participate in this
scheme. In preliminary discussions with such syndicates, they have indicated that they would be willing to
guarantee performance bonds for a value of up to four times the amount of cash held on trust, provided the
portfolio of guaranteed transactions constitutes a reasonable spread of risks.
Transaction documents for the PBF would include:
(1) An application by a BiH enterprise;
(2) An application by IGA to the commercial insurance syndicate;
(3) A recourse agreement between IGA and the insurance syndicate on the one part and the applicant enterprise
on the other part;
(4) An unfair calling insurance policy issued by the commercial insurance syndicate; and,
(5) An unconditional guarantee issued to the bond-giving bank.
Bank Eligibility Criteria
To be eligible to act as local PFI, a BiH bank will be required to meet financial and managerial criteria and
have signed a Participation Agreement (PA) with IGA. After meeting the initial eligibility requirements, IGA
will apply the same criteria over the course of the Project to constantly monitor the eligibility of the local PFIs
to intermediate BEEF credit resources.
Banks with owners/shareholders, directors or managers who have criminal records or who have been indicted
for any felony will not be eligible to act as local PFI.
Before signing a PA, IGA will appraise each potential local PFI, paying particular attention to its overall
lending capabilities, financial performance, and creditworthiness. The appraisal will be contained in a report
titled IGA Bank Eligibility Report (BAR).
Where available, IGA may rely upon infonnation published by the regulatory authorities on BiH banks unless
this information is published less frequently than each quarter or is not comprehensive. Published information
should include comprehensive financial data determined according to IAS standards, common ratio analysis
and certification that the bank is in conformity with the laws and regulations on banks.
" The purpose of this condition would be to ensure that the IDA funds would be supporting productive activity in BiH, i.e.
for a works contract performed abroad, a minimum percentage of inputs and/or labor must originate from BiH.



Page 21
The inclusion of a BiH bank as an approved PFI requires the approval of the Supervisory Board of IGA and
the no objection of the World Bank before it can be qualified to take part in the WCF.
IGA will be required to update the BAR for each local PFI on a quarterly basis. The BAR will review the PFI's
performance with regard to the following general eligibility criteria. For each area, the Entity banking
agencies have established minimum requirements, which are included as conditions to the local PFI and IGA
PA.
General Criteria
The PFI must:
(i)    undergo an in-depth annual audit, in accordance with International Accounting Standards of
Auditing issued by the International Federation of Accountants, by independent auditors which
are approved by IDA. The PFI must furnish IGA/IDA and the foreign banks a copy of the audit
as soon as possible, but not later than six months after the end of such year.
(ii)    be private or in the process of privatization under the relevant entity law and advancing in the
privatization process in accordance with its approved privatization plan in a satisfactory manner;
(iii)   be in compliance with all banking laws and prudential regulations of the Federation or Republika
Srpska Banking Agency.
These laws and regulations which have been prepared in accordance with US and European Union prudential
standards include (i) financial requirements relating to capital adequacy, liquidity, loan loss provisioning, loan
concentration and foreign exchange exposure, and (ii) managerial criteria relating to the quality of the Board of
Directors and its oversight, the bank's business plan and budgeting, and its operations, planning and controls.
Enterprise Eligibility Criteria
BiH enterprises have to be private or have started the process of privatization under the relevant entity's
privatization law and advancing in the privatization process in accordance with its approved privatization plan.
The definition of "private" will be in accordance with the relevant privatization law. In addition, privatizing
enterprises will be commercially and financially autonomous. Those enterprises, which qualify, can apply
either for a working capital loan from a local PFI to finance their export orders or they may apply directly to
IGA for a performance bond guarantee.
Enterprises with owners/shareholders, directors or managers who have criminal records or who have been
indicted for any felony will not be eligible for a working capital loan or performance bond support.
Additional eligibility requirements include:
Financial
(i)  enterprise must be commerically viable and financially sound in that it must have adequate equity,
be able to service its debt, and have positive operating cash flow;
(ii)  does not control or is not controlled by the PFI applying for funds;
In addition, the enterprise must have experienced and competent managers and a track record of successfully
exporting products of acceptable quality adopting sound exporting procedures and practices, or, in case of a
newly created enterprise, can clearly demonstrate its capacity to perform the specific export order.
When assessing enterprises applying for performance bonds, the history of the company in performing export
contracts without calls on performance bonds will receive particular attention. Because contracts of the nature
covered by the Performance Bond Facility can include high levels of non-BiH content, particular attention will
also be paid to ensuring that BiH content is at an acceptable level and at least equal to the value of the
performance bond.



Page 22
Fees/interest rate charged by IGA
A. Working Capital Facility
The interest rate charged by IGA on Working Capital Facility loans will be a small margin above LIBOR,
while the indemnity fee will range between 3 and 5 percent according to the criteria set out in the Operations
Manual. As the maturity of these loans will maximum one year, the indemnity fee will be payable up front.
If appropriate arrangements can be made with external credit insurance companies, IGA will also offer export
credit insurance under BEEF acting as agent for an offshore commercial credit insurance company and will
receive a commission that will represent about 10-12 percent of gross premiums.
B. Performance Bond Facility
IGA will charge a risk premium to enterprises benefiting from the Performance Bond Facility. IGA's risk will
be the recourse risk on the enterprise in case a fair call on the bond is made thereby allowing the conmmercial
insurance syndicate to reimburse itself from the fumds in the trust account. This risk premium is expected to be
about 2 percent per annum on the value of the guarantee.
Technical Assistance: Institutional Strengthening of IGA and Exporters - US$1.0 million
IGA will benefit from technical assistance to strengthen its operations and develop its skills in the area of
export credit insurance, particularly to build up its credit assessment capability. Consultant services are
provided under the project to work with IGA for about one year in this area. Terms of Reference for this
consultant have been agreed with the Bank. A draft Operations Manual spelling out the rules and procedures
to be followed by IGA in conducting due diligence on local banks and exporters has already been drafted.?6
The Manual reflects market standards in due diligence and credit risk assessment, and takes specific
characteristics of the BiH environment into account, such as the prevailing legal system (mortgage law,
bankruptcy law, banking law) and the local bank's credit assessment procedures. Assistance is also provided
under the project to train IGA's staff to perform due diligence and credit assessment based on the Operations
Manual and assist them in processing applications for working capital loans under the facility. In addition,
short-term assistance, to be decided during the course of implementation, will be provided to strengthen IGA's
operations and management, including accounting services to install software, write an operations manual and
train IGA staff to maintain its own books according to acceptable standards (see section on Financial Records
and Audit), environment services, and legal services.
This component would finance, for a period of 18 months following Credit effectiveness, a small amount of
office equipment and vehicles for IGA, and a declining proportion of its incremental operating expenses,
including salaries, that IGA would require to establish, operate and manage the schemes.17
The project also provides for assistance to exporters to build eligible enterprises' ability to market their
products and find buyers as well as to build their knowledge of export procedures so that they can protect their
interests. To carry out this role, consultants would work with IGA for about one year to identify enterprises
with the ability to export (i.e. companies that can start exporting if given access to working capital and not
initially requiring capital investment) but that have lost their foreign markets during the war and do not have
the skills required to regain these markets or identify new clients and/or need to improve their in-house
knowledge of export procedures. If successful, the technical assistance would result in expanding the
enterprises' markets and securing additional export orders. The assistance would be provided only to
enterprises that are eligible and approved for support under the Working Capital Facility, and a fee would
charged to the enterprise benefiting from the assistance.
Organization of IGA
IGA is a state-owned commercial corporation which was established by the BiH govemment in 1996 for the
purposes of implementing a World Bank project, the Emergency Industrial Restart Project which set up a
Political Risk Guarantee Facility. IGA operates in both Republika Srpska and the Federation and is in the
16 This work was financed by a Swiss Trust Fund.
17 See Annex 5 for IGA's budget.



Page 23
process of establishing a branch office in Banja Luka. IGA has been successfully implementing this project
and has been chosen as implementing agency for BEEF.
Currently IGA  has a Managing Director, two Deputy Directors, a Marketing Manager and a
Translator/Administrative Assistant. For the purposes of implementing BEEF, IGA will hire two Credit
Analysts, one Lawyer and one Bookkeeper/Credit Insurance Operator.
The Credit Analysts will be responsible for conducting the due diligence on the enterprises applying for
working capital loans through their local banks and on entetprises requesting support under the Performance
Bond Facility. They, together with IGA's current staff who have extensive commercial experience, will
receive training from a foreign consultant specialized in credit assessment.
The Bookkeeper/Credit Insurance Operator will be responsible for maintaining IGA's books using a software
package which complies with BiH accounting laws. He will also manage the export credit insurance portion of
IGA's business, i.e. working closely with the foreign export credit insurer(s) for whom IGA will act as agent,
keeping track of the export credit insurance sold to BiH companies and IGA's commission from the foreign
export credit insurer, and maintaining a databank on BiH exporters.
Operations Manual
The implementation of the Enterprise Export Facility will be guided principally by the use of the Operations
Manual which sets out in detail conditions of eligibility and the procedures involved in reviewing applications
for working capital loans and performance bonds, particularly conducting due diligence on the exporter. The
terms of the Operations Manual were agreed upon at negotiations and cannot be changed without the
agreement of IGA and IDA. Adherence to the terms of the Operations Manual is important because it ensures
that a thorough credit analysis of exporters will be carried out prior to approval of loans. The Operations
Manual will also include general guidance and procedures for IGA staff regarding administrative procedures,
risk management, financial and payment controls, accounting and audit guidance, environmental reviews of
transactions being financed, and procurement methods.
Environmental Issues
A. Working Capital Facility
Before IGA approves a loan, it will have to verify that the enterprise has valid municipal/canton licenses to
operate and has complied with any conditions relating to the environment. IGA will also conduct a visual
inspection of the premises to verify that there are no obvious hazardous activities being undertaken. The
Operations Manual lists a number of questions that IGA will have to ask the enterprise regarding the potential
impact of its activity on the environment. After conducting this due diligence on the company, IGA will
complete a check list verifying that it has complied with the environrnental requirements spelled out in the
Operations Manual. In addition, if the company applying for a working capital loan has benefited from loans
or other forms of financial support from USAID, the EBRD or IFC, IGA will obtain the environmental
assessment/audit that was conducted by these organizations.
B. Performnance Bond Facility
If an environmental audit has been conducted by USAID, the EBRD, or IFC on the company applying for
support to obtain a performance bond within the last three years, IGA will obtain and review this
environmental audit. If no environmental audit has been conducted in the last 3 years, IGA will hire a local
environmental expert/firm to conduct an audit. In addition, IGA will verify the validity of the company's
licenses to operate and compliance with any environmental conditions, and conduct a visual inspection of the
premises that are related to the export contract in accordance with the requirements spelled out in the
Operations Manual.
World Bank "no objection" Procedures
In order to ensure that the terms of the Project Agreement are adhered to and that IGA is applying the
Operations Manual and functioning smoothly, operational guidelines require that no loan or performance bond
support can issue from IGA until the World Bank has received details of an application and IGA's assessment



Page 24
of the enterprise, and has issued its advice that the Bank has no objection to the application proceeding. As
soon as it is estimated that IGA has adequately trained staff who are implementing the guidelines in a
consistent and effective manner, the World Bank, in its sole discretion, may discontinue the "no objection"
procedures.
Thereafter, reviews will be carried out on an ex-post basis by IDA during the course of supervision. In
addition, audits by approved auditors will evaluate the past performance of the activities of IGA in accordance
with normal World Bank requirements.
Financial records and audit
The current financial management practices for IGA are adequate; IGA currently does not control a Special
Account nor does it control the disbursement of IDA funds. The changes to operating procedures and systems
planned for IGA under BEEF will be sufficient to enable IGA to comply with the relevant IDA requirements
(OP/BP 10.02).
For its ongoing activities under the Emergency Industrial Re-Start Project, IGA is being audited by a local
auditor who, following an assessment of the auditor's capability, was determined to be competent to audit
IGA's current operations. The complexity of IGA's operations will increase with the proposed operation and
hence a condition of the project agreement will be that an auditor, acceptable to IDA, is appointed, the terms of
reference for the appointment being approved beforehand by IDA. Resources will be provided under the
project to finance IGA's first year audit.
Currently, all of IGA's base documents and accounting records are maintained by an external bookkeeping
agency. Under BEEF, IGA will be responsible for managing a Special Account and for reporting its activities
to IDA. A condition of effectiveness will be that a suitable system offinancial controls is established and that
IGA has a management information system, consistent with the size and complexity of its operations. The
appointment of a consultant to write a procedures manual, install the software and provide some basic training
is provided for in the funding for IGA's institutional strengthening.
Initially, all disbursements supporting the export credit facility and all transfers to the performance bond
escrow account will be subject to IDA's prior approval.
A further review of financial management issues is given in annex 7.



Page 25
Annex 3
Enterprise Export Facility
Estimated Project Costs
Project Component                        Local          Foreign        Total
-----------------------US $ million--------------------
Working Capital Facility                                   19            19
Performance Bond Facility                                   2.0           2.0
Institutional Strengthening                   0.08          1.0           1.08
Consultant Services                                      0.57           0.57
IGA's Incremental Costs                    0.08          0.35           0.43
Total Project Cost                            0.08         22.00         22.08



Page 26
Annex 4
Enterprise Export Facility
Cost Effectiveness Analysis Summary
Summary of benefits and costs:
In order to establish whether the project is likely to generate substantial benefits compared to the costs incurred
by the Goverm-nent in taking an IDA credit, models were developed to estimate the amount of exports
generated by the Working Capital Facility and the Performance Bond Facility. These models are based on
certain assumptions in terms of the average maturity of the loans/bonds, the percentage of the facility that is
on-lent/backing up performance bonds at any point in time, and the value of exports supported by loans/bonds
(see assumptions below).
The benefits of the project are equated to the exports it generates. The amount of exports generated over the
life of the project will be a multiple of the balance of outstanding loans/bonds at any point in time because: (i)
the maximum maturity of working capital loans will be a maximum of one year, and their average maturity is
expected to be significantly under one year, which means that the funds will revolve more than once a year and
will finance a large number of transactions over the five year life of the facility; (ii) the average maturity of the
performnance bonds is expected to be about one year, thus the funds backing them up will revolve over the life
of the project; (iii) the amount of working capital loans and bonds will represent less than the value of the
export contract they support. In addition, the capacity of both the Working Capital Facility and the
Performance Bond Facility will be larger than the IDA credit thanks respectively to foreign bank funds and
leveraging from commercial insurance companies. The model used to calculate the amount of business
generated by both facilities indicates that the facility is capable of supporting about USD 650 million in
exports in BiH over five years if the size of the facilities is not reduced significantly by bad loans/calls on
bonds resulting from a breach in contract by the BiH enterprise.
Main Assumptions:
1. Working Capital Facility
* The foreign bank funds represent 50 percent of each working capital loan for the first three years, and 66
percent of each working capital loan in years 4 and 5.
* The average loan maturity is 120 days, thus the funds revolve 3 times a year.
* The value of each working capital loan represents, on average, 70 percent of the value of the export
contract.
* The average loans outstanding represent:
35 percent of available funds in year 1
75 percent of available funds in year 2
90 percent of available funds in years 3-5
2. Performance Bond Facility
* The average bond maturity is 1 year.
* The value of each bond represents, on average, 10 percent, of the value of the export contract.
* The average bonds outstanding utilize:
25 percent of available funds in year 1
50 percent of available funds in year 2
100 percent of available funds in years 3-5
* The Commercial Insurance Syndicate leverages the IDA funds 4 to 1.



Page 27
WORKING CAPITAL FACILITY          Year 1   Year 2   Year 3   Year 4   Year 5   Total
Exports Generated*                    27.00    57.86    69.43      86.79    86.79   327.86
IDA credit                              9.00     9.00      9.00     9.00      9.00
Average foreign bank funds              9.00     9.00      9.00    13.50     13.50
Average Loan Maturity in years          0.33     0.33      0.33     0.33      0.33
Average Loan value/Export contract      0.70     0.70      0.70     0.70      0.70
value ratio
Average total loans/funds available ratio  0.35  0.75      0.90     0.90      0.90
Leverage ratio                                                                        32.79
PERFORMANCE BOND FACILITY                                                                _
Exports Generated**                   20.00    60.00      80.00    80.00    80.00   320.00
IDA credit                              2.00     2.00      2.00     2.00      2.00
Commercial Insurance Company            6.00     6.00      6.00     6.00      6.00
Exposure
Average Bond Maturity in Years          1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00
Average Bond value/Export contract      0.10     0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10
value ratio                                                    _
Average total bonds/funds available     0.25     0.75      1.00      1.00     1.00
ratio
Leverage ratio                                                                        64.00
Total Exports Generated by project***                                                 647.86
Total Leverage Ratio                                                                   43.19
* Exports Generated equal the IDA credit plus the foreign bank funds times the average total loans/funds available
ratio divided by the average loan value/export contract value ratio times the average loan maturity.
** Exports generated equal the IDA credit plus the Commercial Insurance Company Exposure times the average
total bonds/funds available ratio divided by the average bond value/export contract value ratio divided by the
average bond maturity.
*** Not all of the exports generated will be goods and services produced in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is expected
that the Bosnian content for the Working Capital Facility will be in excess of 75% of total exports, and for the
Performance Bond Facility, will be in excess of 50% of total exports.



Page 28
Annex 5
Enterprise Export Facility
Financial Summary
Years Ending June 30
Implementation Period
In $ 000'            FY00    FY01    FY02   FY03'   FY04
Project Costs
Investment Costs (incremental)   62
Recurrent Costs (incremental)   285     328      370      588      588
Total                       347      328      370      588     588
Financing Sources (% of total
project costs)
IBRD/IDA                        90%1    25%2       0%       0%       0%
Investment Guarantee Agency     10%       0%       0%       0%       0%
Government                       0%       0%       0%       0%       0%
User Fees/Beneficiaries          0%     75%    100%    100%    100%
Total                       100%    100%    100%    100%    100%
IIncremental Operating Expenses (Technical Assistance component)
2Incremental Operating Expenses - Contingency
3End of the Emergency Industrial Re-start Project, meaning that BEEF will need to cover 100% of IGA's operating
costs.
Main assumptions:
IGA's risk premium and interest income equal or exceed operating costs (including IDA charges) and net
losses in each year except year 1, when the deficit is made up by IDA loan funds. The support for IGA's
incremental operating expenses in year two is a contingency put in place in case IGA's revenues are lower than
projected. In determining IGA's revenues and net losses, assumptions include:
*  Interest on funds held in accounts at: LIBID (LIBOR - 1/8)
*   Interest on funds deposited with local banks: LIBOR + 0.5 percent with LIBOR at 3 percent
*  Average Risk Premium on Working Capital Facility: 4 percent
*  Average Risk Premium on Performance Bond Facility: 2 percent
*   Average losses on WCF: None in Year 1, 3.5 percent on lent funds Years 2-5
*  Average losses on PBF: None
*   IGA does not incur income tax.



Page 29
Annex 6
Enterprise Export Facility
Procurement and Disbursement Arrangements
Procurement
Procurement methods (Table A)
Institutional Strengthening
Implementation Responsibilities:  IGA  will be responsible for procurement under the institutional
strengthening component (technical assistance - US$1.0 million). IGA has been implementing the Bank
financed Emergency Industrial Restart Project for about two years. It has developed a good understanding of
the Bank's procurement guidelines which it has applied in the implementation of this project. IGA has a
sufficient capacity to undertake the limited procurement under this component of BEEF in accordance with
the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and
August 1996 and January 1999). To improve this capacity, a procurement training session will be scheduled
as part of the project launch workshop planned for September/October 1999, to further familiarize IGA's staff
(particularly the Managing Director and Marketing Manager) with IDA procurement procedures and the
competitive bidding procedures to be followed when hiring consultants. Assistance will also be provided to
IGA in preparing the terms of reference and bidding documents for the consulting services and goods to be
purchased throughout the project. In addition, the workshop will incorporate training for IGA's staff and
credit assessment consultant in commercial procurement practices (acceptable to the World Bank) to be
followed under the Working Capital Facility. The procurement check list for this will be approved by
the World Bank before private borrower' procurement capacity is assessed.
Procurement of Goods: Under the institutional strengthening component, national shopping will be used to
procure goods (a small quantity of office equipment and vehicles) for contracts up to US$50,000 to an
aggregate amount of about US$70,000. Most goods are expected to be available from local dealers and
representatives of international companies, which can supply back-up parts and warranty servicing.
International shopping will be used for any items which are not available locally and for individual contracts
estimated to cost more than US$50,000.
Consulting Services: Selection of consultants for this component will be done according to the provisions of
the "Guidelines for Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" (January 1997, as
revised September 1997 and January 1999). Least-cost selection will be used for contracts totaling about
US$20,000 (for IGA's periodic project audits). Selection based on consultant qualifications (including legal,
marketing, environment) will be used for small value contracts totaling about US$150,000. Individual
consultants will be selected in accordance with Section 5 of these guidelines for contracts totaling about
US$400,000. Selection of individual consultants will be on the basis of comparison of CVs of consultants
who have expressed their interest in response to an advertisement.
IGA's Incremental Operating Costs: Up to about US$350,000 of IGA's incremental operating costs for 18
months will be reimbursed on the basis of annual budgets approved by IDA. About 70 percent of these costs
will cover salaries, while 30 percent will cover utilities and other overhead.
Working Capital Facility (Export Financing Facility)
The Working Capital Facility will finance loans of an average maturity of about 120 days to meet the working
capital needs of exporting enterprises to finance goods,18 labor and overheads. Average loan size is expected
"' Goods will include raw materials and other inputs (for example timber, textile, and steel products) and will exclude
capital goods.



Page 30
to be around US$250,000, with the IDA financed portion of the loan representing up to 50% of that amount.
In addition, the IDA financed portion of a loan will not exceed US$1.1 million, in any single case.
Procurement of goods under these loans will be according to commercial practices for contracts of up to
US$500,000 each. Given the nature of working capital loans, it is not anticipated that contracts will exceed
this amount. However, procurement for any contract estimated to exceed US$500,000 would be done using
Intemational Competitive Bidding procedures.
A survey of procurement methods of a sample of BiH enterprises confirms that they employ competitive
practices to contract for goods. Surveyed companies, which are private or in the process of privatizing,
confirmed that they conduct market surveys to update knowledge of prevailing prices for goods, obtain
competitive quotations from several suppliers, and regularly update their list of approved suppliers based on
price, quality and reliability. They apply raw material market prices when purchasing their needed inputs.
Selected suppliers compete for their business. These companies have established conditions for the use of
various procurement methods. Privatizing companies which would be eligible to participate in this
component would be financially and legally autonomous and would operate under commercial law.
Commercial practices are suitable as the enterprises obtaining working capital loans from the facility will
have secured export orders, indicating that they are competitive in international markets. Companies
benefiting from the Working Capital Facility will be private or privatizing. As part of its due diligence, IGA
will verify the enterprise's procurement practices used under loans financed by this facility.
Performance Bond Facility
Funds for the Performance Bond Facility will be placed in an account on trust as security for commercial
insurance companies issuing guarantees and thus no procurement activities are involved.
Prior review thresholds (Table B)
Three or four small contracts are expected for the procurement of goods using shopping procedures. The first
two contracts will be subject to IDA's prior review. The remaining contracts will be reviewed ex post.
For all consultant services, IGA will need IDA's no objection for the terms of reference and short-list of
firms/individuals. Contracts with firms valued at over US$50,000 each will be subject to IDA's prior review
and approval. Contracts with individuals valued at over US$30,000 each will be subject to IDA's prior review
and approval. In addition, the first two consultant contracts, regardless of size, will also be subject to IDA's
prior review. The remaining contracts would be subject to IDA's post review during project supervision.
For the Working Capital Facility, IDA will conduct post reviews during supervision of randomly selected
enterprises.
Procurement Scheduling
Consultant services will be procured mostly during the first year, with project audit services engaged during
the first quarter of 2000.
IGA's purchases of goods, office supplies, and supporting services (as part of incremental operating
expenses) will be on a continuous basis over the 18 month Bank-supported start-up period beginning at
effectiveness.
Procurement under the Working Capital Facility will be ongoing during the life of the project.
Disbursement
The total credit is expected to be disbursed over 2.5 years and the project completed by December 31, 2004.
The Closing Date will be December 31, 2004. Disbursements will be administered by IGA as follows:



Page 31
The proceeds of the Credit under the Working Capital Facility will finance up to 50 percent of working
capital loans to eligible enterprises via eligible local banks. The remainder will be funded by either foreign
banks or local banks.
The proceeds of the Credit under the Institutional Strengthening component will finance 100 percent of
expenditures for consultant services and training, 90 percent of IGA's operating expenses for the first year
operation (starting at effectiveness), 50 percent of IGA's operating expenses for the first six months of the
second year of operation, and the limited purchase of goods, including office equipment and vehicles (100
percent of foreign expenditures). Retroactive financing is recommended to finance consultants services of up
to US$200,000 needed from May 1, 1999 to help put in place needed procedures and to ensure a timely
project start up. These consultants would be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the Selection
of Consultants and selection procedures agreed for the project. Such contracts would be subject to the Bank's
prior review.
For the Performance Bond Facility, IGA will establish an escrow account, in Euros, at a commercial bank
acceptable to IDA. Once a performance bond has been approved by the relevant parties, IGA will request that
100 percent of the value of the bond be transferred from the Special Account to this Trust Account. When a
bond expires, IGA will have the authority to release the unconmmitted funds in the Trust Account and transfer
them to an account managed by IGA.
Upon expiration of the project, the Working Capital and Performance Bond Facility funds would be made
available to the BiH Government to use as capital for IGA to perform the functions of BiH's export credit
agency or for some other purpose to be agreed between the Government and IDA at the project's mid-term
review (tentatively scheduled for early 2002).
Special Account
The Borrower will establish, maintain and operate, under terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, a
Special Account, in Euros, at a commercial bank acceptable to the Bank. The Special Account will have an
authorized allocation of US$3 million equivalent. Replenishment will be allowable when the amount in the
Special Account drops to 50 percent of the authorized allocation. Replenishment applications will be
submitted by IGA. For disbursements related to the Working Capital Facility, replenishment applications will
include (i) an acknowledgement by the local bank of receipt of funds for an approved working capital loan for
disbursements under the Working Capital Facility; (ii) a copy of the working capital loan application
decision; (iii) a copy of IDA's no objection. Withdrawal requests from IGA for replenishment of the Special
Account due to a transfer to the Trust Account under the Performance Bond Facility will include supporting
documentation including (i) approval by the commercial insurance syndicate to issue the guarantee to the
bond giving bank; and (ii) a copy of IDA's no objection. Statements of expenditure would be used for IGA's
incremental operating expenses (based on the annual budgets approved by IDA), for contracts with firms
below the prior review threshold of US$50,000 and for contracts for individuals below the prior review
threshold of US$30,000.



Page 32
Annex 6, Table A: Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ Thousands equivalent)
Expenditure Category                          Procurement Method                    Total Cost
(including
contingencies)
ICB         NCB         Other        N.B.F
1. Works
n/a                            --           --           --                         --
2. Goods
Office technology and              --          --            15.0                      15.0
equipment                                                    (15.0)1                 (15.0)
Vehicles                           --          --            60.0                     60.0
(60.0)1                 (60.0)
3. Consultant Services                                      575.0                    575.0
(575 .0)2                (575.0)
4. Miscellaneous
IGA's additional Operating        --          --            430.0                    430.0
Expenses                                                   (350.0)3                  (350.0)
Working Capital Facility           --          --        9,000.0       10,000.0   19,000.0
(9,000.0)4                (9,000.0)
Perfornance Bond Facility                                  2,000.0                  2,000.0
(2,000.0)'               (2,000.0)
Total                           --          --         12,080.0                 22,080.0
(12,000.0)               (12,000.0)
Note:  N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel cofinancing procedures, consultancies
under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other miscellaneous items).
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan/IDA credit
1. National Shopping or International Shopping
2. Procurement according to the Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants.
3. No procurement. IGA's annual operating budget will be subject to the Bank's prior review.
4. Commercial practices
5. No procurement



Page 33
Annex 6, Table A.1: Procurement Plan
(in US$ equivalent)
Category             Number   Estimated Total  Procurement                   Timing
of        Cost           Method             Contract Signing  Delivery
Contracts
Goods
Office Equipment   2         15,000         NS                9-12/1999        10/1999-2/2000
Vehicles          2          60,000         NS                9/1999-3/2000    10/1999-6/2000
Services
Credit Assessment'  1        130,000        Individual        9/1999           10/1999-4/2000
Export procedures   1        90,000         Individual         12/1999         1-12/2000
Marketing'        1          100,000        Individual        12/1999          1-12/2000
Marketing         1         50,000          Selection based on   2/2000        3-12/2000
Consultants'
Qualifications
Other short term  2          105,000        Selection based on   12/1999-6/2000   1-9/2002
Contracts (firms)                           Consultants'
Qualifications
Other short term  3          80,000         Individual        8/1999-7/2000    8/1999-9/2002
Contracts
(individuals)2
IGA's Project     1          20,000         LCS               1/2000           3/2000
Audit               I_      _I                               I                I               I
These assignments are of a highly specialize nature and are more suitable for individuals than firms.
2 Maximum three month duration



Page 34
Annex 6, Table B: Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
Expenditure             Contract Value            Procurement           Contracts Subject to
Category               (Threshold)                 Method           Prior Review / Estimated
Total Value Subject to
Prior Review
Us$                                               Us$
1. Goods (procured by
IGA)
50,000-150,000      International Shopping'       -            -
<50,000          National Shopping            2          30,000
2. Services (procured
by IGA)
Firms2                          <200,000          LCS                           1          20,000
Finns                        50,000-100,000        Selection based on          2          100,000
Consultants'
Qualifications
Firms                            <50,000           Selection based on           1          40,000
Consultants'
Qualifications
Individuals                      >30,000          Selection of Individual       3
Consultants
Individuals                      <30,000           Selection of Individual      I
Consultants
3. Working Capital
Facility
Goods                           >500,000          ICB                              See footnote 3
<500,000          Commercial Practices             See footnote 3
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:    575,0004
'All goods contracts are expected to be under $50,000.
2Least cost selection will be used only for IGA's audit.
3Given the nature of the WCF component, it is not possible to estimate the total proportion of goods to be included in the sub-
loans.
4Other contracts will be subject to IDA's post review.



Page 35
Annex 6, Table B1 - Summary of Procurement Activities
Section 1: Procurement Review
Percentage of
Credit
Amount
subject to
prior review
ICB         IS        NS                           Other
Procurement Thresholds
Working Capital Facility         More than                        Working Capital               All subloans
$500,000                         Subloans                     will be
incorporating                subject to
procurement of               prior review
goods for contracts
of less than
$500,000 through
commercial
practices
Goods (for IGA)                      -      More than   Less than
$50,000    $50,000
IGA's incremental operating costs    -                                                Annual
budget
review
Aggregate                        -          -          $75,000    $10,000,000        $350,000   87%
Prior review                     All        -          First two
Consultants:                     QCBS       LCS        CQ         Individual
Aggregate                        -          $20,000    $155,000   $400,000                      4.5%
Prior review   All TORs and shortlists. All evaluation reports and contracts for contracts with firms above $50,000 and for
contracts with individuals above $30,000. For contracts awarded through LCS, RFP also subject to prior review
Ex-post review   Review of procurement activities during supervision missions. Yearly financial audit by acceptable firm selected
competitively
Section 2: Capacity of the Implementing Agency In Procurement and Technical Assistance Requirements
Existing Capacity of Implementing Agency (IGA):
IGA has a sufficient capacity to undertake the limited procurement under BEEF in accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and January 1999).
IGA's Marketing Manager will perform the functions of the procurement officer. This individual will be responsible for the
procurement of goods and services under the Institutional Strengthening Component of the Project. He will also verify, in
accordance with a checklist to be incorporated in the Operations Manual, that commercial practices have been used by enterprises
participating in the Working Capital Facility. The procurement officer needs to be familiarised with World Bank procurement
procedures, especially to employ consultants. A Project Launch Workshop, to be held in the Fall of 1999 to coincide with project
start-up, will cover procurement procedures.
Proposed Staffing:
No dedicated procurement personnel will be appointed to IGA, given that its procurement-related responsibilities will account for
only a very small part of the total activities of the Agency. The main responsibility for procurement under the project will remain
with the exporting enterprises which have their own procurement procedures and staff. There is sufficient capacity in IGA to ensure
that its procurement is carried out in accordance with IDA guidelines. Additional support and guidance will be provided by PMAU
staff at the Resident Mission. In addition, a training session for IGA's staff on the selection of consultants will be included in the
project launch workshop.
Country Procurement Assessment Report or Country       Are the bidding documents for the procurement actions for the
Procurement Strategy Paper status:                    first year ready by negotiations?
CPAR needs to be scheduled. In April 1998, the Federation  No. Most of these will be prepared during the project launch
Ministry of Finance issued a Decree on Procedures for  workshop.
Procurement of Goods, Services and Contracting which does not
fully comply with the WB Guidelines. The Federation law
allows precedence to be given to Bank Guidelines over
Federation law.



Page 36
Section 3: Training Information and Development on Procurement
Estimated date of Project    Estimated date of Publication of   Indicate if there is procurement  Domestic Preference
Launch Workshop           General Procurement Notice     subject to mandatory SPN in        for Goods
Development Business
September/October 1999    May 1999                       No                                  No
Retroactive Financing                                                                        Advance Procurement:
Yes. Up to US$200,000 for consultants services after May 1, 1999, for IGA's project          No
start-up activities. Consultants to be selected in accordance with Bank Guidelines for the
Selection of Consultants and agreed selection procedures, and will be subject to IDA's
prior review.
Briefly explain the Procurement Monitoring System:
The Marketing Manager in IGA will overview all procurement activities. IGA will establish and maintain procurement files for the
project and will manage the special account. Periodic supervision missions will review IGA's records.
Cofinancing: Not applicable
Section 4: Procurement Staffing
Indicate name of Procurement Staff or Bank's staff part of Task Team responsible for the procurement in the Project:
Bosnia Enterprise Export Facility          Name: Ron Isaacson                   Ext: (387-71) 440 293 (Sarajevo)
Explain briefly the expected role of the Field Office in Procurement: Provide initial review and approve procurement documentation



Page 37
Annex 6, Table C: Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Expenditure Category          Amount in US$     Amount in SDR    Financing Percentage
Thousands         Thousands
A. Consultant Services                     525.0            390.0         100 percent
B. Working Capital Facility             9,625.0             7,100.0      50 percent
C. Performance Bond Facility             1,000.0            740.0         100 percent
D. Incremental Operating Expenses for      300.0            230.0        90 percent for 1 year
IGA                                                                      starting at effectiveness;
50 percent for six
months thereafter
E. Goods for IGA                            50.0             40.0        100 percent of foreign
expenditures, 100
percent of local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and 85
percent of local
expenditures for other
items procured locally
F. Unallocated (for all categories)        500.0            400.0
Total       12,000.0          8,900.0



Page 38
Annex 6, Table D: Capacity Assessment of the Implementing Agency
General Information and Summary:
Date of Report: April 02, 1999
Basis of the Report
1.    This report has been prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Procurement Policy and
Services Group (OCSPR) memorandum dated August 11, 1998, on the assessment of the capacity of the
Project Management Unit - the Investment Guarantee Agency (IGA), a state-owned corporation of Bosnia and
Herzegovina.  The report makes an assessment of IGA taking into account its experience with the
implementation of procurement under the ongoing IDA project as well as the procurement environment in the
country and Entity in which IGA will operate.
Scope of Review
2.    This review covers the assessment of IGA's capacity to conduct the different phases of the procurement
cycle. It addresses the following: legal aspects; procurement cycle management; organization and functions;
support and control systems; record keeping; staffing; general procurement environment; and general risk
assessment. This summary also includes an action plan to further build IGA's capacity and the recommended
thresholds under the proposed Project.
Project Description
3.    The Project will finance loans of an average maturity of about 120 days to meet the working capital
needs of exporting enterprises to finance goods 9, labor and overheads. Procurement of goods under these
loans will be according to commercial practices for contracts of up to US$500,000 each. Given the nature of
working capital loans, it is not anticipated that contracts will exceed this amount. However, procurement for
any contract estimated to exceed US$500,000 would be done using intemational competitive bidding
procedures. Commercial practices are suitable as the enterprises obtaining working capital loans from the
facility will have secured export orders, indicating that they are competitive in intemational markets.
Companies benefiting from the Working Capital Facility will be private or privatizing. As part of its due
diligence, IGA will verify the enterprise's procurement practices used under loans financed by this facility.
4.   In order to achieve the project objectives, the Project will have to purchase a small amount of goods and
consulting services.
Procurement Implementation
5.   IGA will have overall responsibility for procurement under the Project and will be responsible for
procurement under the institutional strengthening component (technical assistance - US$1 million). IGA has been
implementing the Bank financed Emergency Industrial Restart Project for about two years. IGA has a sufficient
capacity to undertake the limited procurement under this component of BEEF in accordance with the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised January and August 1996 and January
1999). Under the institutional strengthening component, national shopping will be used to procure goods (a small
quantity of office equipment and vehicles) for contracts up to US$50,000 to an aggregate amount of about
US$70,000. Most goods are expected to be available from local dealers and representatives of intemational
companies, which can supply back-up parts and warranty servicing. International shopping will be used for any
items which are not available locally and for individual contracts estimated to cost more than US$50,000. Under the
Working Capital Facility component of the project, funds will be on-lent to private or privatizing enterprises. These
enterprises will be responsible for their own procurement in accordance with commercial practices. As part of its
due diligence IGA will verify the enterprises' procurement practices.
'9 Goods will include raw materials and other inputs (for example timber, textile, and steel products) and will exclude
capital goods.



Page 39
Existing Procurement Capacity
6.   IGA has a sufficient capacity to undertake the limited procurement under this component of BEEF in
accordance with the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD loans and IDA Credits" (January 1995, revised
January and August 1996 and January 1999).
7.   IGA's Marketing Manager will perform the functions of the procurement officer. This individual will be
responsible for the procurement of goods and services and will be trained in World Bank procurement
procedures, especially to employ consultants. A Project Launch Workshop, to be held in September/October
1999 to coincide with project start-up, will cover procurement procedures.
Action Plan
8.   A procurement training session will be scheduled, as part of the project launch workshop, to familiarize
IGA with IDA procurement procedures and the competitive bidding procedures to be followed when hiring
consultants, and to assist IGA in preparing the terms of reference and the bidding documents for the consulting
services and goods to be purchased throughout the project. It will also incorporate training, for IGA's staff
and credit assessment consultant, in commercial procurement practices that are acceptable to the World
Bank. The procurement check list will be approved by the World Bank before private borrower's
procurement capacity is assessed.
Suggested Thresholds
9.   IGA does not have extensive experience in Bank-financed projects; legislation governing conflict of
interest, corruption, and transparency has not been passed; and standards for procurement which comply with
IDA procurement guidelines have not been developed. For these reasons, IGA has been rated high risk. It is,
therefore recommended that the following thresholds be used:
*  Less than US$100,000 for each goods contract to be purchased using International Shopping procedures.
* Less than US$50,000 for each goods contract to be purchased using National Shopping procedures to an
aggregate amount of US$70,000.
Review Thresholds
10.  The first two goods contracts should be subject to the WB prior review. Terms of reference and short
lists for all consultant contracts will be subject to the Bank's prior review. Documents for all consultant
contracts with firms over US$50,000 and over US$30,000 with individuals will be subject to WB prior review.
In addition, the first two contracts for consultants, regardless of their value, will also be subject tot the Bank's
prior review.
Assessment of the Public Procurement System
11.  Explicit policies and procedures have not been developed in BiH to promote accountability, establish
internal controls, ethical standards, and anti-corruption measures. As a result, the country does not have any
legislation to ensure a transparent and fair procurement process. In addition, there is a heavy presence of
donors in BiH who have provided all of the equipment and services required to expedite the transition from an
emergency situation into sustainable development efforts. Due to the war and shortage of local funds, the
country has had little procurement experience and has relied on the donor community to procure goods and
services. Therefore, from a procurement point of view, the country is a high risk.
12.  It is recommended that a country procurement assessment of Bosnia and Herzegovina be conducted as
soon as possible. The CPAR will identify the weaknesses of the public procurement system and will stimulate
the dialogue on strengthening the procurement and related systems in the country as a whole, and within each
Entity. It is also recommended that an International Development Fund Grant be made available to assist the
State of BiH and the two Entities, develop standard procurement procedures, anti-corruption legislation, and a
code of ethics.



Page 40
13.  The specific and most immediate actions that should be taken by the Government pending the CPAR
are as follows:
*  Develop anti-corruption and conflict of interest legislation.
*  Develop and legislate standard procurement procedures to ensure an open, transparent, and fair
procurement process.
*  Provide initial training to public officials in procurement.



Page 41
Annex 7
Enterprise Export Facility
Financial Management
Introduction
The Investment Guarantee Agency (IGA) was constituted to offer political risk guarantees to foreign entities
making investments or extending credit to entities in Bosnia Herzegovina (BiH). It is a wholly State owned
corporation having share capital of DEM 80,837:
Under the Emergency Industrial Restart Project two offshore funds, held in ING Bank, were founded to give
cash backing to the political risk guarantees. The mandates for these two "escrow" accounts do not permit
IGA staff access to these funds without the authorization of IDA. A third account, into which IGA's fees are
paid, is under the control of IGA. To meet local expenses, IGA transfers funds from ING via a local bank to
its account at ZPP (the State clearing system). As IGA acts in the capacity of an agent only in respect of the
offshore "escrow" funds, any interest income generated on those funds and any calls on those funds are not
reflected in IGA's accounting records.
In 1997, IGA's first year of operation, based on audited accounts, IGA covered its operating expenses. From
the audited accounts for 1998, IGA made a profit KM 10,500. IGA's activities under BEEF are to be self
financing in the long term but the increase in costs will precede any increase in revenues from the new
activities. Provision is made in the IDA Credit to purchase a small amount of office equipment and two cars
and to fund the shortfall in revenues during the first year.
IGA currently employs a managing director and two deputy directors, representing each ethnic group, a
marketing director and an administrative assistant. Once IGA gains control of a Special Account and its
activities have expanded, consideration should be given to establishing a more formal structure.
Accounting
IGA does not maintain its own accounting records. Instead, an extemal bookkeeper collects the base
documents and maintains the records in his own system. The accounts are maintained on the accruals basis
and in conformity with local accounting standards.
From 1 January 1999, BiH has adopted national accounting standards which are based closely on International
Accounting Standards. Donor agencies are providing training to local accountants to familiarize them with the
new standards.
It is envisaged that IGA will increase the volume and scope of its activities. Under BEEF, IGA will be
required to maintain a Special Account and records of all sub-loans. It is therefore appropriate at this time to
bring the accounting function in-house and strengthen the institution by adding an experienced bookkeeper. A
consultant is to be hired to install suitable software and to write an operating manual which should cover, inter
alia, such issues as:
*  Segregation of duties
*  Maintenance of records
*  Authorization and review of transactions
*  Data security
In selecting/designing the accounting software the consultant should consider the following:



Page 42
* The income/expenses of the guarantee activities should be distinguished from those of the Working
Capital Loans activities i.e. it will be necessary to establish separate cost centers.
* The system should be capable of calculating interest due on the Working Capital Loans.
*  The system should be multi-currency to facilitate both local and IDA reporting.
An appropriate solution may be to install a local general ledger system using the Bosnian chart of accounts.
The loans/sub-loans system could be maintained in an off-the-shelf software package e.g. "MS Access." Data
would be transferred manually between the two systems and reconciled on a regular basis.
Audit
IGA does not operate a Special Account and does not submit statements of expenditure (SOE). An assessment
by a Financial Management Specialist of IGA's current auditor found him to be sufficiently experienced to
perform the audit of IGA's current operations. The latest available audited accounts (1998), for which the
audit is stated to have been performed in accordance with International Standards on Auditing, received an
unqualified (clean) audit opinion.
IGA also received a confirmation, from ING's auditors, of the balance on each of the three accounts held at
ING Bank.
It is envisaged, under BEEF, that IGA will operate a Special Account and submit SOE's. IGA should
therefore engage an auditor acceptable to IDA (typically an "international" firmn), the auditor's terms of
reference to be agreed with IDA. As a minimurn, the auditor would be expected to issue an opinion on the
following:
- The financial statements of IGA
- The maintenance of the Special Account
* The use of IDA funds, including a limited scope review of the working capital sub-loans
*  That the SOE's are adequately supported by appropriate documentation
Under BiH legislation, corporate entities are required to be audited by a registered auditor. We understand that
a number of the international audit firms acceptable to IDA, though maintaining no permanent presence in
BiH, have associations with local practitioners permnitting them to fulfil local legal obligation.
Disbursement
Much of the country's export capacity remains in the public sector as does a significant part of the banking
system. It is possible therefore, that the project will be presented with State owned banks presenting proposals
from State owned companies. In such circumstances IGA staff may be subject to considerable pressure to
relax their standards when assessing default risk. For this reason, disbursement applications will continue to
be subject to review by IDA. This project is not considered a suitable candidate for LACI type disbursement
procedures. However, IGA will produce and furnish to IDA regular financial reports in a format, to be agreed
with IDA, consistent with its operations.
Other issues
IGA does not carry insurance coverage for its fixed assets other than its cars. Neither does it provide personal
injury coverage for its employees. We understand that such insurance is available in BiH. IGA should
consider adequately insuring its property and obtaining sufficient coverage against personal injury claims.



Page 43
Timetable for The Implementation of Financial Management Systems
Action                                                      Date due
Prepare credit operations manual                          Draft completed
Draft PMR forms completed (by FMS)                        By December 31, 1999
Prepare terms of reference for IGA's
Accountant (1) (2)                                        28 May, 1999
Sign accountant's contract (1)                           30 June, 1999
Prepare terms of reference for consultant
to install accounting software and prepare
accounting manual (2)                                    30 June, 1999
Accounting manual completed and software
Installed                                                 30 July 1999
FMS on-site review and certification of financial systems  By end August 1999
(1) It is envisaged that IGA will contract with its current bookkeeper to work part time within IGA
(currently the accounting is maintained off-site on an agency basis). One member of IGA's staff is
currently undertaking formal accounting training and will work alongside the accountant.
(2) Documents will be prepared by IGA and reviewed by FMS/PTL.



Page 44
Annex 8
Enterprise Export Facility
Project Processing Budget and Schedule
Planned                Actual
A. Project Budget (US$)                       (At final PCD stage)
$92,000               $99,700
B. Project Schedule                                Planned                Actual
(At final PCD stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)                               9 months
First Bank mission (identification)               07/15/1998            07/15/1998
Appraisal mission departure                       01/19/1999            02/09/1999
Negotiations                                      02/09/1999            04/26/1999
Board                                             03/30/1999            06/24/1999
Planned Date of Effectiveness                     07/31/1999             10/01/1999
Prepared by: Investment Guarantee Agency
Preparation assistance: Swiss Consultant Trust Fund
Bank staff who worked on the project included:
Name                                        Specialty
Lloyd Edgecombe                             Task Team Leader
Tariq Hassan                                Senior Counsel
Michael Gascoyne                            Financial Sector Specialist
Rochelle Hilton                             Operations Officer
Ron Isaacson                                Procurement Specialist
Joseph Formoso                              Senior Disbursement Officer
Marie-Sophie Tar                            Financial Analyst



Page 45
Annex 9
Enterprise Export Facility
Documents in the Project File*
A. Project Implementation Plan
Project Implementation Plan
Operations Manual
B. Bank Staff Assessments
Mission Reports
IGA's incremental budget
Projections on volume of exports generated by BEEF
Procurement Capacity Assessment
Survey of enterprises' procurement practices
C. Other
Draft Participation Agreements
*Including electronic files.



Page 46
Annex 10
Statement of Loans and Credits
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS'
(As of May 24, 1999)
US$ Million
Loan      Fiscal                                                                     (Less Cancellations)
No.       Year        Borrower                          Project                       Loan Undisbursed
Loans/Credits/Grants
IBRD bI
4038-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan A                       28.6      0.0
4039-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan B                      284.9      0.0
4040-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina   Consolidation Loan C                      307.1      0.0
Total                                         620.6      0.0
Of Which: Repaid                          24.9
Total Now Held by the Bank:               595.7
TFBH' (Under Disbursement)
TF-024030 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Recovery Credit                 45.0       0.0
TF-024031 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Farm Reconstruction             20.0       0.0
TF-024032 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Water Supply                    20.0       0.0
TF-024033 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Transport                       35.0       1.8
TF-024034 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency District Heating                20.0       0.0
TF-024035 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation       5.0       0.0
TF-024040 1996      Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction          5.0      0.0
Total                                         150.0       1.8
IDA
2897-BOS 1996       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Education Reconstruction          5.0      0.0
2896-BOS 1996        Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency War Victims Rehabilitation        5.0       2.6
2902-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Housing Repair                   15.0       0.0
2903-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina   Emergency Power Reconstruction             35.6       0.2
2904-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Public Works and Employment      10.0      0.8
2905-BOS 1997        Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Landmines Clearance              7.5       0.0
2906-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina     Emergency Demobilization and Reintegration  7.5      0.5
2914-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transition Assistance Credit               90.0       0.0
NOOI-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Industry Re-Start Guarantee      10.0      0.0
N002-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Microenterprise/Local Initiatives  7.0     0.4
N003-BOS 1997       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Essential Hospital Services                15.0      3.7
N032-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Transport Reconstruction II                39.0      6.7
N035-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Education Reconstruction II                11.0      2.7
3028-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Reconstruction Assistance Project          17.0      4.8
3029-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Natural Gas                      10.0       0.4
3070-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Emergency Pilot Credit (RS)                 5.0      2.7
3071-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Power II                                   25.0      25.0
N040-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Forestry                                    7.0       6.2
3090-BOS 1998       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Public Finance I (Structural Adjustment)   63.0      0.0
3191-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Local Development                          15.0      15.0
3020-BOS 1999       Bosnia and Herzegovina    Basic Health                               10.0      10.0
Total                                              409.6      81.7
The status of these projects is described in a separate report on all Bank/IDA financed projects in execution, which is updated twice yearly and
circulated to the Executive Directors on April 30 and October 31.
b/ Consolidation Loans A, B, and C were approved on June 13, 1996 and became effective on June 14, 1996.
cd Trust Fund for Bosnia and Herzegovina.



Page 47
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of March 31, 1999)
Gross Commitments
---------US$ Million-------
Fiscal
Year      Obligor                           Type of Business                   Loan  Equity   Total
1977     Tvomica Kartona i Ambalaze Cazin   Timber, Pulp and Paper             3.65   0.00    3.65
1985     Sour Energoinvest                  Industrial Equipment and Machinery  8.53  0.00    8.53
1997     Horizonte BiH Enterprise Fund      SME Investment                     0.00   1.93    1.93
1997     Microenterprise Bank               Microcredit                        0.00  0.57     0.57
1997     Sarajevska Pivara                   Beverage Manufacturing            3.89  0.00     3.89
1998     SEF Akova                          Abbatoir, Meat Packing and Processing  2.08  0.00  2.08
1998     Wood Agency Credit Line            Fumiture and Other Wood Products    13.69  0.00    13.69
1998     SEF Lignosper                      Furniture Manufacturing            2.27   0.00    2.27
1999     SEF Kopex                          Industrial and Consumer Services   2.46  0.00     2.46
Total Gross Investments                                         36.57 2.50    36.57
Participations, Cancellations, Terminations, Exchange Adjustments,
Repayments, and Arrears (Principal Only)                       13.01 0.00    13.01
Total Commitments Now Held by I FC                              36.57 2.50    36.57
Total Undisbursed                                                14.20 1.54    14.20
Total Outstanding                                               22.37 0.96    22.37



Page 48
Annex I11
Bosnia and Herzegovina at a glance                                                                    5/10/99
POVERTY and SWCA"n                                            eta        Lw              - ---
Herzegolna      Asia  1ncom         Development dlamond*
Population,mid-year (mi'llions),                       4.2      478      2.048Lfeeptnc
GNP per capia (Atlas method, US$)                     920      2,320      350Liexpcay
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       3.      1,106l     722
Average afnnua~tbr, 19917.0
Population (%)                                        0.01       0.2       2,1
Labor force PA)                                        0.        0.        23       N
per        p&-mGrys
Most recent estimate (latest year.wavltable.4011-997)                              capita                       enrollment
Poverty (% ofpopulatOnbelow naionAl pve4 tne            , 
Urban population (% of total population                427                 28;
Life expectancy at birth (yers)                                            so89 5
Infa nt mortality (per 1, 000 live birts)  ~9                     25       78
Child malnutrition (% of ahildien under 5)              .          .         .               Access to safe water
Access to safe water (% oirpopulation)                  .          ..      71
Illiteracy (% of populatfon7age 15+)                     .         ,       47
Gross primary enrollment] (% of' school-g opulation)    ..       9                             onaan   ezgvn
Male                                                                    ioo.  .  10        Low-income group
Female                                                ...                81     _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and. LONG-TERM.TRENDS
1*7'6    1996      1997      1998
Economic ratiose
GDP (US$ billions)                                               34        4.1,
Gross domestic investmientlGDP                 ..       .,      42.0      38.0
Exports of goods and services/GODI.                     .       29.3      33.5Trd
Gross domestic savings/GOP                     ,.       .       -.         1.3
Gross national savings/GOP..                             .      11.0      10.4
Current account balance/GOP  ..    .,    -31.0    -27.6      ~~Domestic                   Investment
Interest payments/GOP~                         V.       .         .        2.7
Total debtlGDP                                                 1 , 128.3  7         aig
Total debt service/exports                                        38         9
Present value ot debt/GOP       .                                  .      59.8
Present value of debtlexports                                     ..     178.6
Indebtedness
1916-86  1987497    1099&:    1997       1198
(averag annual grooth)
GDP..                                           .     69.1      29.5 J 17.7             -Bosnia and Herzegovina
GNP per capita                        .,       .         .         .         .Low-income group
Exports of. goods and services  ..    .         .     99.3      57.7      34.7Y     ________________
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976     1986      1997      1998     Growth rates of output and Investment(%
(% of GDP)                                                                         2 
Agriculture                                    ..        .         .         .
Industry
Manufacturing                                ..                                    D 10
Services                                                                           50-
0
Private consumption                            ..       .                    .92  93  94  95  go  97  98
General govemment consumption                                                                     GD..GD
Imports of goods and services                  .        ..      76.1      70.2              - 0           0-O
(average anual growth)1976-88  1987-97               1997      1998     Growth rates of exports and imports %
Agriculture                                    ,,        ,         ,200 
Industry                                       ..       ..*..
Manufacturing..                                        .
Services                                                                           0
Private consumption                                                                so
General govemment consumption                  .         ..                  ..     0
Gross domestic investment                      .        ..      61.2      10.2           92  93  94  95  90  97  99
Imports of goods and services                  .        ..      31.7       3.7             -Exports   a0--mports
Gross national produGt                         .                                   ____________________
Note: 1997 data are preliminary estimates.
'The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Page 49
Bosnia and Herzegovina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1976     1986      1997      1998      Inflation (Y.)
(% change)                                                                          115
Consumer prices                                                                      110
ImplicitGDPdeflator                             ..       ..       11.2       3.1    10/
100
Government finance                                                                  s9
(% of GDP, includes current grants)                                                               , 
Current revenue                                 ..       ..         ..        .             92   93  94   95   9s   97   98
Current budget balance                                                                       -     GDP deflator  --*-CPI
Overall surplusldeficit                         ..       .._..                ..
TRADE
1976     1986      1997      1998      Export and Import levels (USS millions)
(US$ millions)
Total exports (fob)                             ..       ..        575      817      3,000
Commodity 1                                    .I       ..         .         .     2,500
Commodity 2                                    ..       ..        ..        ..    2   .
Manufactures                                   ..2.                .
Total imports (ci)                                               2,333     2,573     1 'o-
Food                                                                               1,000
Fuel and energy                                                                     sc .         I *  500
Capital goods                                  ..       ..         .                                                    F 
Export price index (1995=100)                                                              91  92  93  94  95  so  97  a8
Import price index (1995-100)                   r. ..               ..        ..                 Exports    n Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..       .._.._..
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(US$ millions)                                1976     1986      1997      1998      Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exports of goods and services                                    1,002     1,387      0
Imports of goods and services                   ..       ..    2,606       2,864     4 - 91  92  93  94       98 9s  97  98
Resource balance                                ..        .    -1,604    -1,498    -10
Net income                                       ..      ..      -228      -109    -15
Net current transfers                           ..       ..        772      480    -20
Current account balance                          .        ..    -1,080    -1,127 
Financing items (net)                                    ..       971      1,158    -30 -_
Changes in net reserves                         ..       ..         89      -31    -35
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ millions)          ..
Conversion rate (DEC, local/JS$)                 ..
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1976     1986      1997      1998
(US$ millions)                                                                       Compositon of total debt, 1998 (USS millions)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed            ..        ..    4,392      2,879
IBRD                                           ..      ..       596       581
IDA                                           ..       ..       291       433                                  A:581
Total debt service                              ..       ..        385       123           E 822  /
IBRD                                           ..      ..        35        35
IDA                                           ..       ..         2         3
Composition of net resource flows
Official grants                               ..       ..       574       727                                       8: 433
Official creditors                            ..       ..       431       363
Private creditors                             ..       ..      -107       -75
Foreign direct investment                      ..       .         0       100                                    C :77
Portfolio equity                              ..       ..         0         0                 D: 966
World Bank program
Commitments                                   ..       ..         77      100      A - IBRD                      E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 ..       ..       111       142      B - IDA   D - Other multilateral   F - Prvate
Principal repayments                          ..       ..         0         0      C - IMF                       G - Short-termn
Netflows                                       ..      ..       111       142
Interest payments                             ..       ..        37        38
Net transfers                                  ..      ..        74       104
Development Economics                                                                                                   5/10/99



