Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3257 BOS 
 
Amended and Restated  
Project Agreement 
 
(Enterprise Export Facility Project) 
 
between 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
and 
 
INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY 
 
Dated as of July 5, 1999 
As amended and restated 
as of July 2, 2002 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3257 BOS 
 
PROJECT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated as of July 5, 1999, as amended and restated on July 2, 2002 
between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and 
INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY (IGA). 
 
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith between 
Bosnia and Herzegovina (the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make 
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to eight million nine 
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 8,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth 
in the Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that IGA agree to undertake such 
obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this Agreement; 
 
(B) 
by an Agency and Funding Agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and IGA, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will 
be made available to IGA, on the terms and conditions set forth in said Agency and Funding 
Agreement;  
 
(C) 
by Participation Agreements to be entered into between IGA, on behalf of the 
Borrower, and the Participating Financial Institutions, a portion of the proceeds of the Credit 
provided for under the Development Credit Agreement will be made available to the Participating 
Financial Institutions on the terms and conditions set forth in said Participation Agreements; and 
 
WHEREAS IGA, 
in consideration of the Association’s entering into the Development 
Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in this 
Agreement; 
 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
 
ARTICLE I 
 
Definitions 
 
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and in the General Conditions 
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms 
have the following meanings: 
 
(a) 
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 3.02 of this Agreement; 
 
(b) “Revolving 
Project 
Account” 
means the account referred to in 
Section 2.04 (a) of this Agreement; 
and 
 
(c) 
“Working Capital Guarantee Credit 
Insurance  Escrow Account” means 
Page  3
-
2
-
the account referred to in Section 
2.04 (b) of this Agreement. 
 
Page  4
-
3
-
ARTICLE II 
 
Execution of the Project; 
Management and Operations of IGA 
 
Section 2.01. (a) IGA declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth 
in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project 
and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with sound financial and export standards 
and practices, with qualified and experienced management and personnel, and in accordance with 
the Operations Manual. 
 
(b) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and IGA shall otherwise agree, IGA shall carry out Parts A and C of the 
Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement.  
 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and IGA shall otherwise agree, IGA shall carry out Part B of the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement.  
 
(d) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section and 
except as the Association and IGA shall otherwise agree, IGA shall carry out Part D of the Project 
in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.  
 
Section 2.03. IGA shall select enterprises engaged in the business of exports, in 
consultation with the Association, for the provision of assistance under the Project, based on 
criteria specified in the Operations Manual. 
 
Section 2.04. (a) IGA shall open and maintain in Euros an account in a bank, acceptable 
to the Association, wherein it shall deposit the repaid amounts of the Participation 
Loans/Subloans,  loan and the amounts released from the Contract Bond Securities and Escrow 
Account and utilize the same, on a revolving basis, for activities under the Export 
Financing/Guarantee Facility and/or the Export Performance Support Facility. Payments out of 
the Revolving Project Account shall be made for the purposes of the Project and on terms and 
conditions specified in the Operations Manual.  
 
(b) 
IGA shall open and maintain in Euros an account in a bank, acceptable to the 
Association, wherein it shall deposit the amounts required to support and back-up the obligations 
assumed for the Working Capital Guarantees and Credit Insurance.  Payments out of the Working 
Capital Guarantee Credit Insurance  Escrow  Account shall be made exclusively for the purposes 
of the Project and on terms and conditions specified in the Operations Manual.  
 
Section 2.05. (a) IGA shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, 
plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition) in respect of the 
Project Agreement. 
 
Page  5
-
4
-
(b)  
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, IGA 
shall: (i) prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and furnish to the 
Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Association and IGA, a plan designed to ensure the continued 
achievement of the Project’s objectives; and (ii) afford the Association a reasonable opportunity 
to exchange views with IGA on said plan.  
 
Section 2.06. (a) IGA shall, at the request of the Association, exchange views with the 
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under 
this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.  
 
(b) 
IGA shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which interferes or 
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the 
Credit, or the performance by IGA of its obligations under this Agreement and under any other 
agreements related to the Credit. 
 
Section 2.07. IGA shall:  
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate on 
an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the Association, the carrying out of 
the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;  
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and furnish to 
the Association, on or about September 30, 2002, a report integrating the results of the monitoring 
and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of said report and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the 
achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
 
(c) 
review with the Association, by December 31, 2002, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Association views on the matter.  
 
Section 2.08. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IGA shall not use the funds 
available under the Project for any purposes other than those authorized by the Development 
Credit Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE III 
 
Financial Covenants 
 
Section 3.01. (a) IGA shall maintain a financial management system, including records 
and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Association, adequate 
to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
 
(b)  
IGA shall:  
 
(i) 
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the Escrow 
Account and the Revolving Project Account for each fiscal year audited, 
Page  6
-
5
-
in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, 
by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;  
 
(ii) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of 
the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for 
such year as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements, records 
and accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and 
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and  
 
(iii) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, 
as the Association may from time to time reasonably request. 
 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, IGA shall:  
 
(i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;  
 
(ii) 
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;  
 
(iii) 
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; and  
 
(iv) 
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals. 
 
Section 3.02. IGA shall prepare and furnish to the Association a financial monitoring 
report (FMR), in form and substance satisfactory to the Association, which: 
(i)  
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, showing separately funds 
provided under the Credit, and explains variances between the actual and 
planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and explains variances between 
the actual
 
and planned Project implementation; and 
(iii)  
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. 
 
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period from the 
incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first calendar quarter; 
Page  7
-
6
-
thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Association not later than 45 days after each 
subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter. 
 
Section 3.03. IGA shall take such steps satisfactory to the Association as shall be 
necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the rates of exchange 
between the various currencies (including the currency of the Borrower) used in its operations.  
 
ARTICLE IV 
 
Effective Date; Termination 
Cancellation and Suspension 
 
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon which the 
Development Credit Agreement becomes effective. 
 
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and of IGA 
thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates: (i) 
the  date  on  which  the 
Development Credit Agreement shall terminate; or (ii) 
a date twenty (20) years after the date of 
this Agreement.  
 
(b) 
If the Development Credit Agreement terminates before the date specified in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify IGA of 
this event.  
 
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect 
notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions. 
 
ARTICLE V 
 
Miscellaneous Provisions 
 
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made under this 
Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in 
writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made when it shall be 
delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is 
required or permitted to be given or made at such party’s address hereinafter specified or at such 
other addresses as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or 
making such request. The addresses so specified are: 
 
Page  8
-
7
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable 
address: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
  248423 
(MCI) 
or  (202) 
477-6391 
 Washington, 
D.C. 
 64145 
(MCI) 
 
For IGA: 
 
Investment Guarantee Agency 
 
No. 1 Fra Andjela Zvizdovica St. 
 
71000
Sarajevo 
 
Bosnia and Herzegovina 
 
Facsimile: 
 
(387) 33 262 730 
 
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any documents required 
or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of IGA or by IGA on behalf of the 
Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement, may be taken or executed by its General 
Director, or by such other person or persons as IGA shall designate in writing, and IGA shall 
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen 
signature of each such person.  
 
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which 
shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.  
 
Page  9
-
8
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the City of 
Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Joseph Ingram   
Authorized Representative 
 
INVESTMENT GUARANTEE AGENCY 
 
By /s/ Lamija Kozaric   
Authorized Representative 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Implementation Program for the Export Financing/Guarantee Facility 
 
A. 
Selection of Participating Financial Institutions 
1. 
IGA shall select financial institutions and enterprises, in consultation with the 
Association, for participation under Part A of the Project, based on criteria specified in the 
Operations Manual.  
 
B. 
Participation Agreements and Participation Loans
1. 
IGA shall make available a portion of the proceeds of the Credit to Participating 
Financial Institutions, for further on lending to Exporting Enterprises for Export Projects, or to 
Exporting Enterprises directly, under separate agreements to be entered into between IGA, on 
behalf of the Borrower, and each of the Participating Financial Institutions or Exporting 
Enterprises, whichever the case may be, under the terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Association, including the following:  
 
(a) 
the term of the Participation Loans shall be up to one year;  
 
(b) 
the Participating Financial Institutions or Exporting Enterprises shall be required 
to pay interest not less than one half of one percent above LIBOR for the period corresponding to 
the term of their respective Participation Loan;  
 
(c) 
the Participating Financial Institutions or Exporting Enterprises shall make 
payment of interest and other charges and repayment of principal in foreign currency; and  
 
(d) 
the Participating Financial Institutions or Exporting Enterprises shall make 
repayment in one or more installments no later than the date of scheduled receipt of export 
proceeds from the Export Project.  
 
2. 
IGA shall exercise its rights under the Participation Agreements in such manner as to 
protect the interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the 
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, IGA shall, not assign, amend, 
abrogate or waive any Participation Agreement or any provision thereof. 
 
3. 
IGA may, in the normal course of its business, indemnify any Participating Financial 
Institution against default by the concerned Exporting Enterprise of any payment under the 
Subloan for an amount not exceeding such part of the Credit as is contained in the Subloan 
unless: (a) there is a breach by the Participating Financial Institution of a term of the Participation 
Agreement relating to the Subloan; (b) any term of the Subloan or any security provided by the 
Exporting Enterprise under the Subloan is not enforceable due to negligence on the part of the 
Participating Financial Institution; or (c) the Participating Financial Institution has knowingly 
made a material misrepresentation regarding the financial condition and circumstances of the 
Exporting Enterprise or the Subloan Agreement. 
 
C. 
Subloan Agreements and Subloans 
1. 
IGA shall cause the Participating Financial Institutions to make available the proceeds of 
the Participation Loans to Exporting Enterprises for Export Projects, under separate Subloan 
Page  11
-
10
-
Agreements to be entered into between each Participating Financial Institution and Exporting 
Enterprise, in accordance with procedures and on the terms and conditions, specified in the 
Operations Manual, including those outlined in Section D of this Schedule. 
 
2. 
IGA shall:  
 
(a) 
cause the Participating Financial Institutions to exercise their rights under the 
respective Subloan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower, the 
Association, and IGA and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit; and  
 
(b) 
ensure that the Participating Financial Institutions do not assign, amend, abrogate 
or waive any Subloan Agreement or any provision thereof.  
 
D. 
Procedures for and Terms and Conditions of Subloans
1. 
(a)  
The Participating Financial Institutions shall make available Participation Loans 
to Exporting Enterprises, provided that IGA shall not permit a Participating Financial Institution 
to include in a Subloan or Subloans to any one Exporting Enterprise more than 10% of the 
portions of the Credit and any other funding available for Participation Loans; (b) the 
Participating Financial Institutions shall make available guarantees of Subloans, provided that 
IGA shall not permit a Participating Financial Institution to include in a Subloan guaranteed 
portion that is more than 10% of the Credit. 
 
(a) 
the term of the Subloans shall be up to one year;  
 
(b) 
the Exporting Enterprises shall make payment of interest and other charges and 
repayment of principal in foreign currency; and  
 
(c) 
the Exporting Enterprises shall make repayment in one or more installments no 
later than the date of scheduled receipt of export proceeds from the Export Project. 
 
2. 
No expenditures for goods or Working Capital required for an Export Project shall be 
eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit unless the Subloan for such Export Project 
shall have been approved by the Association and such expenditures shall have been made not 
earlier than ninety (90) days prior to the date on which the Association shall have received the 
application and information required under paragraph 3 (a) of this Section in respect of such 
Subloan. 
 
3. 
When presenting a Subloan to the Association for approval, a Participating Financial 
Institution shall, through IGA, furnish to the Association an application, in form satisfactory to 
the Association, together with: (i) a description of the Exporting Enterprise and an appraisal of 
the Export Project, including a description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit; (ii) the proposed terms and conditions of the Subloan, including the 
schedule of amortization of the Subloan; and (iii) such other information as the Association shall 
reasonably request. 
 
4. 
Subloans shall be made on terms whereby each Participating Financial Institution shall 
obtain, by written contract with the concerned Exporting Enterprise or by other appropriate legal 
means, rights adequate to protect the interests of the Borrower, the Association and IGA, 
including, in the case of any Subloan, the right to:  
 
Page  12
-
11
-
(a) 
require the Exporting Enterprise to carry out and operate the Export Project with 
due diligence and efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial, managerial, 
export and environmental standards and practices, and to maintain adequate records; 
 
(b) 
require that: (i) the goods, consultants’ services and Working Capital to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured as follows: (A) Except as provided in 
sub-paragraph (i) (B) hereof, goods costing more than $500,000 shall be procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and (B) goods and services, estimated to 
cost up to an aggregate amount of $500,000 equivalent or less, may be procured at a reasonable 
price, account being taken also of other relevant factors such as time of delivery and efficiency 
and reliability of the goods and availability of maintenance facilities and spare parts therefor, and, 
in the case of consultants’ services, of their quality and the competence of the parties rendering 
them; and (ii) such goods, services and Working Capital shall be used exclusively in the carrying 
out of the Export Project;  
 
(c) 
inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of the Association if the 
Association shall so request, such goods, works, plants and construction included in the Export 
Project, the operation thereof, and any relevant records and documents; 
 
(d) 
require that the Exporting Enterprise shall take out and maintain with responsible 
insurers such insurance, against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound 
business practice;  
 
(e) 
obtain all such information as the Association or IGA shall reasonably request 
relating to the foregoing and to the administration, operations and financial condition of the 
Exporting Enterprise and to the benefits to be derived from the Export Project; and   
 
(f) 
suspend or terminate the right of the Exporting Enterprise to the use of the 
proceeds of the Credit upon failure by such Exporting Enterprise to perform its obligations under 
its contract with the concerned Participating Financial Institution. 
 
Page  13
-
12
-
SCHEDULE 2 
 
Implementation Program for the Export Performance Support Facility 
 
A. 
Contract Bonds and Recourse Agreement
1. 
IGA shall assist Exporting Enterprises to obtain contract bonds (being an undertaking by 
a
financial institution or an insurance company (Bondgiver)  provided to a person (Buyer or a 
financial institution) in respect of a contract (Export Contract) by an Exporting Enterprise to bid 
for a contract to sell goods and/or services to a Buyer or to sell goods and/or services to a Buyer, 
under which the Bondgiver agrees to pay an amount to the Buyer or financial institution either 
upon demand or upon failure of the Exporting Enterprise to fulfill a condition of the Export 
Contract) from quality financial institutions or insurance companies, through the provision of 
security or securities (Security or Securities) covered by the Secured Amount to: (a) a financial 
institution providing a Contract Bond; or (b) a commercial insurance company or companies 
providing insurance or guarantees to a Buyer or a financial institution providing a Contract Bond. 
 
2. 
IGA shall: (a) on the first day following each six-month period after the Effective Date, 
furnish to the Association a report, in such detail as the Association shall request, on the Contract 
Bonds and Securities issued and, if applicable, the payments made thereunder during such period; 
and (b) not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Association, the Borrower and IGA, prepare and furnish to the 
Association a report, of such scope and detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the 
execution Export Performance Support Facility, its cost and the benefits derived from it, the 
performance by the Association, the Borrower and IGA of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement, respectively, and the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit. 
 
3. 
The Export Performance Support shall be provided, in consultation with the Association, 
in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions specified in the Operations 
Manual, which shall include the following: the execution and delivery of a Recourse Agreement 
between IGA and the Exporting Enterprise for securing the obligation of an Exporting Enterprise 
to pay the amount of a call made under a Contract Bond through an undertaking by the Exporting 
Enterprise to: (a) reimburse: (i) a Bondgiver; (ii) any person insuring, guaranteeing or providing 
security to a Bondgiver; (iii) any person insuring, guaranteeing or providing security to a Buyer; 
or (iv) any person insuring, guaranteeing or providing security to a person insuring or 
guaranteeing a Bondgiver, for any sums paid by the Bondgiver under a Contract Bond; (b) 
replenish the Escrow Account for any sums paid out of the Secured Amount; and (c) provide such 
security over its assets as IGA may from time to time consider appropriate to secure payment 
under the Recourse Agreement. 
 
4. IGA 
shall: 
 
(a)  
review applications for Contract Bonds/Securities to verify that each Export 
Contract proposed to be covered by the Secured Amount excludes: 
 
(i) 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of 
the Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, 
Rev.3), published by the United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, 
No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any successor groups or subgroups 
under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the Association by 
notice to the Borrower and IGA: 
Page  14
-
13
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 
   
 
 
- 
  Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
   
 
 
- 
  Tobacco, 
unmanufactured, 
tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
 
 
   - 
 
 
Tobacco, manufactured (whether or not  
 
containing tobacco substitutes) 
 
525 
 
 
   - 
 
 
Radioactive and associated materials 
 
667 
 
 
   - 
 
 
Pearls, precious and semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked or worked 
 
718 
  718.7 
  Nuclear 
reactors, 
and 
parts 
thereof; 
fuel 
 
 
elements (cartridges), non-irradiated, for 
 
nuclear reactors 
 
728 
  728.43 
  Tobacco 
processing 
machinery 
 
897 
 
 
897.3 
 
 
Jewelry of gold, silver or platinum 
 
group metals (except watches and watch 
 
cases) and goldsmiths’ or silversmiths’ 
 
wares (including set gems) 
 
971 
 
 
   - 
 
 
Gold, non-monetary (excluding gold 
 
ores and concentrates)   
 
(ii) 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or 
for luxury consumption;  
 
(iii) 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the 
manufacture, use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the 
Borrower or international agreements to which the Borrower is a party);  
 
(iv) 
expenditures: (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member 
of the Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) on account of any payment to persons or entities, or any 
import of goods, if such payment or import is prohibited by a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the 
Charter of the United Nations; and  
 
(v) 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association 
determines that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Credit during 
the procurement or execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the 
Association to remedy the situation.  
 
Page  15
-
14
-
(b) 
unless the Association directs otherwise by notice to the Borrower and IGA, 
submit to the Association for prior review and approval each application approved by IGA for a 
proposed Export Contract/Contract Bond
 together with IGA’s evaluation of such application; 
 
(c) 
issue Security, upon receipt of no objection from the Association;  
 
(d) 
notify the Association with respect to each Security issued or cancelled; and  
 
(e) 
maintain copies of, and retain for at least one year after the Closing Date, all 
Securities issued and all records relating to each such Securities.  
 
B. Escrow 
Account
1. 
IGA shall, for the purposes of Part B of the Project, open and maintain in Euros an 
escrow account in a bank, acceptable to the Association, on the terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Association, including appropriate protection against setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Escrow Account shall be made in accordance with procedures 
specified in the Operations Manual, which shall include the provisions outlined in Section B of 
this Schedule.  
 
2. 
The Escrow Account shall be in the form of an interest bearing account for the purposes 
of the Project.  
 
3. 
The Secured Amounts shall be used either make payments due in respect of any call(s) 
made under a Contract Bond, or when not required for that purpose, shall be used for the purpose 
of this Project. 
 
4. 
IGA, or such other person to whom IGA has provided security with respect to the funds 
in the Escrow Account, shall have the authority to withdraw from the Escrow Account.   
 
5. 
Any funds withdrawn by IGA from the Escrow Account shall be placed into the 
Revolving Project Account, to be used for the purposes of the Project. 
Page  16
-
15
-
SCHEDULE 3 
 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
 
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with: (a) the provisions of Section I of the 
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines); and (b) the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule. 
 
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
Goods for Part A of the Project, estimated to cost more than $500,000 equivalent, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
 
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
1. International 
Shopping
Except as provided in paragraph 2 hereof, goods under Part C of the Project shall be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.  
 
2. 
Goods under Part C of the Project, estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per 
contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $70,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
 
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1. Procurement 
Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall 
have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.  
 
2. Prior 
Review
With respect to: (a) all contracts to be awarded on the basis of international competitive 
bidding; and (b) the first two contracts and any contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$50,000 or more to be awarded on the basis of international or national shopping, the following 
procedures shall apply: (i)prior to the selection of any supplier under shopping procedures, IGA 
shall provide to the Association a report on the comparison and evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)prior to the execution of any contract procured under shopping procedures, IGA shall provide 
Page  17
-
16
-
to the Association a copy of the specifications and the draft contract; and (iii) the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule. 
 
Part B:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Least-cost 
Selection
Services for auditing under Part C of the Project, estimated to cost up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $20,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.  
 
2. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for financial management, accounting and environment under Part C of the 
Project, estimated up to an aggregate not to exceed $155,000 equivalent, may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.  
 
3. Individual 
Consultants
Services for marketing, credit assessment and export procedures and legal services under 
Part C of the Project, estimated to cost up to an aggregate not to exceed $400,000, shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
 
Part C:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1. Selection 
Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.  
 
Page  18
-
17
-
2. Prior 
Review
(a) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant  Guidelines shall 
apply. 
 
(b) 
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Association for its 
prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have 
been given.  
 
3. Post 
Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
 
Page  19
-
18
-
SCHEDULE 4 
 
Credit Insurance Implementation Program 
 
1. 
IGA may provide the Credit Insurance to any person exporting goods and services which 
are partly or wholly manufactured  in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to any person who 
bears the risk of loss of goods imported into Bosnia and Herzegovina in relation to a 
productive activity undertaken within Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
 
2. 
IGA shall, by itself or through another qualified institution, carry out due diligence on 
buyers or banks in respect of which  Credit Insurance is sought, all in accordance with the 
provisions in this regard contained in the Operations Manual. 
 
3.  IGA may issue the Credit Insurance policy covering loss in respect of those payment 
obligation of buyers and banks that are deemed credit-worthy through the due diligence 
process referred to in paragraph 2 above. 
 
4. 
IGA shall charge an appropriate risk premium for transactions covered under each Credit 
Insurance policy, which transaction shall be subject to the prior receipt from the 
Association of a no objection confirmation when paid in connection with an import 
transaction.   
 
5. 
IGA shall, where possible, obtain reinsurance on reasonable terms and conditions of an 
appropriate percentage of its insurance portfolio  from one or more major, reputable 
insurance companies.   
 
