            Document of
          The World Bank




                                      Report No: 32647

IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
            (IDA-32570)

               ON A

              CREDIT

  IN THE AMOUNT OF US$10 MILLION

                 TO

     BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA

              FOR AN

 ENTERPRISE EXPORT FACILITY (BEEF)




            June 16, 2005

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                         (Exchange Rate Effective June 16, 2005)

                               Currency Unit = Marka
                                BH Marka 1 = US$ .619080
                                      US$ 1 = Marka 1.6153

                                    FISCAL YEAR
                               January 1    December 31

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BH   Bosnia and Herzegovina
IDA  International Development Association
IGA  Investment Guarantee Agency
OECD Organization for Cooperation and Development

                             Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director     Orsalia Kalantzopoulos
                            Sector Manager      Gerardo Corrochano
           Task Team Leader/Task Manager:       Lloyd Edgecombe

                                 BOSNIA-HERZEGOVINA
                       ENTERPRISE EXPORT FACILITY (BEEF)


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            3
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              7
6. Sustainability                                                                  8
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   9
8. Lessons Learned                                                               11
9. Partner Comments                                                              12
10. Additional Information                                                       13
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             14
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             15
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             17
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             18
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             20
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                21
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            22

Project ID: P062936                                                  Project Name: ENT EXP FACIL (BEEF)
Team Leader: Lloyd Edgecombe                                         TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 17, 2005


1. Project Data
                   Name: ENT EXP FACIL (BEEF)                                     L/C/TF Number: IDA-32570
   Country/Department: BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA                                             Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Other industry (94%); Banking (6%)
                  Theme: Export development and competitiveness (P); Infrastructure services
                            for private sector development (P); Small and medium enterprise
                            support (P); Conflict prevention and post-conflict reconstruction (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 11/08/1998                                     Effective: 10/13/1999                10/13/1999
     Appraisal: 03/12/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 06/24/1999                                      Closing: 12/31/2004                 12/31/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA/INVESTMENT
                                           GUARANTEE AGENCY
                      Other Partners:      NIL

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes Lynn
Country Director:               Orsalia Kalantzopoulos                         Christiaan Poortman
Sector Manager:                 Gerardo Corrochano                             Gerhard Pohl
Team Leader at ICR:             Lloyd Edgecombe                                Lloyd Edgecombe
ICR Primary Author:             Lloyd Edgecombe


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      HL
   Institutional Development Impact:       H
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The primary objective of the project was to support sustainable economic growth in Bosnia and
Herzegovina (BH) by facilitating and expanding viable export activity thereby reducing the economy's
dependance on aid.

3.2 Revised Objective:
There was no revision of the project's objective.

3.3 Original Components:
The original components were:
(i) Working Capital Facility. This involved support to commercial banks in providing both finance and
risk sharing for working capital loans associated with export activity. This is achieved by the implementing
agency, the Investment Guarantee Agency (IGA), making a deposit to an eligible BH bank of 50 percent of
a proposed working capital loan. This deposit known as a "Participation Loan" is on lent to a BH
enterprise together with the BH bank's own funds, or funds obtained from foreign banks, making up the
remaining 50 percent. IGA accepts the risk of non payment of its 50 percent on a "first loss" basis i.e. the
commercial bank is entitled to recover its 50 percent following default by the borrower, in preference or
priority to IGA.

(ii) Performance Bond Facility. This involved support to BH exporting enterprises to arrange guarantees,
such as performance and advance payment guarantees, by highly rated commercial banks, which were
required by the BH enterprises to secure export contracts. The procedure involves IGA carrying out due
diligence on an exporter and its capacity to perform an export contract referred to it. If satisfied, IGA refers
the proposal to trade credit insurance companies including several Lloyd's of London insurance syndicates.
If insurers are satisfied with an exporters capacity to perform the export contract, insurers issue an
insurance policy to a highly rated commercial bank indemnifying the bank against loss arising from
payment under the guarantee. In support of its application to insurers, IGA provides partial cash, usually
one quarter of insurer's liability, as security to the insurer. The cash is lodged by IGA in an escrow account
under the control of the insurers and made available to insurers to pay claims. IGA also takes security
against fixed or other assets of the exporter covering both insurers' and IGA's risk of loss in the event that
an exporter fails to reimburse the bank providing the guarantees when a valid payment under a guarantee is
made.

(iii) Institutional - technical assistance. This component strengthened IGA's operations by assisting the staff
in credit assessment of banks and enterprises and in operating a computerized accounting and management
information system. Technical assistance was also to be made available to assist exporters to market their
product and build their knowledge of export procedures.

3.4 Revised Components:

The project was restructured in May, 2002 to permit World Bank funds under the project to support the
following additional activities;
(iv) Guarantees to commercial banks. This facility allowed IGA to provide guarantees to BH or foreign
banks for working capital loans not accompanied by a Participation Loan from IGA in the manner
described in (i) above;

(v) Direct working capital loans. This facility allowed IGA to make working capital loans directly to
enterprises engaged in export activity;


                                                        - 2 -

(vi) Credit insurance. This component allowed World Bank funds to support the issuance of credit
insurance.Credit insurance is insurance against non payment for goods or services sold on credit terms in
circumstances where the insured enterprise is not in default in performance of the insured contract. This
component included both insurance of goods sold and exported and a limited form of reinsurance of the
liability of foreign insurers for monies due for goods or services imported into BH.

Component; Cost; Rating
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE;               $1,000,000.00;    S
WORKING CAPITAL FACILITY;                 $9,000,000.00;   HS
PERFORMANCE BOND FACILITY;                   $2,000,000.00;   HS

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The project was consistent with and supportive of the objectives of the CAS and Government priorities
which included:
(i) Facilitating and promoting a market-based economy and the private sector. There was a broad
consensus within BH that a market based economy and a vibrant private sector were a pre-condition to
sustainable growth and for preparation of the country for participation in Europe's economic and political
institutions. By confining eligibility to privately owned enterprises or enterprises that were privatizing or in
compliance, the project provided support to these objectives. Supporting private sector exporting
enterprises also assisted these enterprises in developing better quality standards and economies of scale.

(ii) Strengthening the Banking Sector. At the time of appraisal, the banking sector was illiquid and cost of
funds were high. Lending services of banks was inadequate. The project concept assisted the banking
system by providing project funds and mobilizing foreign funds. One of the cornerstones of the reform
strategy for strengthening the banking sector was privatization. The project supported the privatization
process by confining eligibility to privatized banks or banks privatizing in accordance with an approved
privatization plan.

(iii) Supporting and developing exports. Development of the export sector was considered essential to
reduce the economy's dependance on aid and to assist in development of enterprises in the private sector.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

As mentioned in Section 3, the primary objective of the project is to support sustainable economic growth
by facilitating and expanding viable export activity. This has been achieved in a most satisfactory manner.
The project is estimated to have supported exports valued at Euros 275 million (approx. US$340 million)
during the five year implementation period as set out below in the table of output by components.The value
of exports supported by the project is not as great as estimated at time of appraisal of US$648 million. The
difference is largely due to overestimating the extent of usage of the Performance Bond Facility. Estimating
the value of exports supported by the project during project preparation was a difficult exercise and rested
on certain assumptions about the condition of the financial sector in BH and the international
competitiveness of several large BH enterprises.Nevertheless, under the circumstances the result is very
satisfactory. The benefits to the exporting community arising from the project during the implementation
period will continue, as discussed in Section 4.5.

4.2 Outputs by components:
(i) Working Capital Facility. The project was designed shortly after the 1998 financial crisis. At the time,


                                                      - 3 -

most BH banks were experiencing a shortage of deposits and were required to borrow at very high interest
rates. Accordingly, the design incorporated a concept whereby foreign funds were mobilized to support
banks making working capital loans to exporting enterprises. As it eventuated, by the time the project was
effective, availability of funds and their cost had improved significantly for BH banks and this trend
continued throughout the implementation period. As a result BH commercial banks had little interest in
receiving funds from foreign banks. Furthermore, most loan applications were below the size that made it
possible to interest foreign banks in providing funds to BH commercial banks. Accordingly, the concept of
mobilizing foreign bank funds was not put into practice despite the fact that several syndicates in the
Lloyd's of London insurance market had indicated in principle they were prepared to insure foreign banks
against payment default by BH banks.

The project restructuring in May of 2002 permitted IGA to participate to the extent of 100 percent of a
proposed Working Capital Loan instead of a maximum of 50 percent before restructuring, provided
however that whenever the percentage of a Participation Loan was above 50 percent of a Working Capital
Loan, IGA's participation as a guarantor remained at a maximum of 50 percent.

A total of 104 Participation Loans were made to BH banks during the implementation period totaling Euros
7,888,647 in value supporting Working Capital Loans of Euros 13,789,287. These Working Capital
Loans were made to a total of 70 exporting enterprises, 40 in Republika Srpska and 30 in the Federation.
Exports declared by these enterprises and supported by these Working Capital Loans amounted to Euros
110,087,800. By sector, these enterprises are divided into 29 in the wood industry, 15 in metal working, 10
food processors, 6 textile enterprises, 3 mining companies, 3 involved in chemical production, 3 in
construction and one enterprise producing paper.

(ii) Performance Bond Facility. A total of 7 exporting enterprises and 9 contracts were supported by the
facility involving bond values of approximately Euros 26 million and contract values of approximately
Euros 122 million, resulting in premium income of Euros 505,697. This is less than the amount of contract
value estimated in Annex 4 of the PAD of US$ 320 million. This facility was included in the project design
because of the difficulty of a number of BH enterprises specializing in international construction and
engineering works to provide bank guarantees to secure export contracts. These enterprises were
responsible for export business in excess of US$ one billion per annum before the break up of Yugoslavia.
At the time of project appraisal it was not known how many of these enterprises would be competitive and
able to secure international contracts once they became able to provide bank guarantees. As it eventuated,
only two of these larger enterprises were able to use the facility, resulting in a lower than anticipated
overall usage. However, the facility has been a critical element of the return to international business for
these two enterprises and to the competitiveness of the other five enterprises that have used it. Furthermore,
it should be noted that IGA was able to support every contract referred to them during the implementation
period. There are no claims under this facility. The facility was intended to be temporary pending the
strengthening of the BH banking sector which to a large extent has occurred. Despite this, it is expected
that the facility will continue to be used by BH enterprises for some time to come.

(iii) Institutional - Technical assistance. Funds are allocated to assist the staff of IGA to develop the
specialized skills required to operate the various facilities of the project. An experienced foreign consultant
was employed on a residential basis to assist the executives and financial analysts employed in IGA in
credit assessment of enterprises. This included supplying software to prepare cashflow forecasts and pro
forma financial statements, working with the staff in obtaining and interpreting financial data and
effectively using the program, assisting staff on site visits in interviewing management of enterprises and
assessing the quality of the management and other aspects of enterprises such as quality of inventory and
receivables. A local consultant was employed to assist IGA staff in bank analysis. This also included


                                                      - 4 -

supply of software and assistance in its application. Both a foreign and local consultant were employed in
assisting the staff and a number of exporters in export procedures and documentation. A local consultant
was also employed to assist in designing and implementing a computerized accounting and management
information system.

(iv) Guarantees to commercial banks for working capital loans not accompanied by a participation loan
from IGA in contrast to (i) above. No guarantees were issued by IGA since this facility was added in May
of 2002. This is due to several related factors, the first being the unclear legal status of IGA, the lack of
capital on the balance sheet of IGA and the refusal of the banking regulatory agencies to recognize IGA's
guarantees as security for banks until these issues had been resolved. These issues are discussed in Section
6, Sustainability.

(v) Working capital loans directly from IGA to enterprises engaged in export activity. This facility was
added as part of the restructuring of the project approved by the World Bank Board on May 30, 2002. The
perceived need for IGA to have the authority to provide direct loans to enterprises arose out of the
insolvency and collapse of Krystal Bank of the Republika Srpska and the lack of alternative banks in
Republika Srpska eligible under World Bank criteria. The insolvency of Krystal Bank and the lack of a
clear alternative at the time would have meant that IGA's services would have been denied to the majority
of exporting clients from Srpska. As it turned out, the newly established Nova Bank was eligible for the
Working Capital Facility and was able to provide banking services to many exporters from Republika
Srpska that formerly banked with Krystal Bank. Nova Bank has developed a satisfactory relationship with
IGA resulting in support from IGA to 38 exporting enterprises in Republika Srpska.

Another perceived need was to assist exporting enterprises that were not able to provide banks with
adequate fixed assets as security for a working capital loan. In these cases IGA provided some support in
the form of advances against the security of debts for goods sold and delivered to foreign buyers i.e.
provided factoring services in respect of export receivables. This facility was introduced in 2003 and as at
the closing date of December 31, 2004 there were 17 clients receiving advances against the security of
export receivables. Total turnover to December 31, 2004 stood at Euro 4.3 million and outstanding
advances at Euro 878,332. Turnover at Euro 4.3 million represents Euro 5.38 million in export values.
Gross income consisting of interest and administration fees totalled Euro 78,000. There are no losses
although a small percentage of invoices go beyond 60 days overdue.

(vi) Credit Insurance. As at the Closing Date of December 31, 2004, insured turnover for export credit
insurance reached Euros 45.5 million representing export contract values of approximately Euros 53.5
million. However, for the purposes of estimating export contract values supported by the project, this
figure is discounted by 30 percent to Euro 37.45 million to avoid double counting as some of the credit
insured contracts are also supported under the Working Capital Facility. There were seventy two exporting
enterprises insuring exports with IGA as at December 31, 2004, covering 310 buyers. Gross premiums
amounted to Euros 404,723 of which Euros 232,269 were ceded to the reinsurer, Atradius. Administration
income totalled Euros 89,736. Net claims after recoveries as at December 31, 2004 amounted to Euros
77,845 shared between IGA and Atradius, the reinsurer. Overall this is a very satisfactory result. It should
be noted that insured turnover in 2004 amounted to Euros 28 million, being 61.5% of the total of insured
turnover of Euros 45.5 million. The large increase in 2004 over previous years reflects a similar pattern to
some other emerging countries in the development of credit insurance, for example Slovenia and the Czech
Republic, in that it takes approximately two years for the business and financial community to understand
and value the product before they start to use the facility. If IGA follows a similar pattern as these other
emerging economies as is expected, turnover will increase rapidly year on year for a number of years
before flattening out at about 10% of BH's exports.


                                                       - 5 -

There were no transactions for import insurance despite a significant number of inquiries. This is due in
large part to the inability of IGA to project itself as a viable financial/insurance agency to foreign insurance
companies and agencies because of the lack of capital on its balance sheet. This is discussed in Section 6,
Sustainability.

  COMPONENT                                                VALUE OF EXPORTS (Euro millions)
 (i) Working Capital Facility                                  110.00
 (ii) Performance Bond Facility                                122.00
 (v) Direct working capital loans                                 5.40
 (vi) Credit Insurance                                           37.45
 TOTAL                                                        274.85

Medium term loans. During the implementation period, IGA made 8 medium term "participation loans"
totalling approximately Euros 1.5 million. Four of these loans were made to borrowers in the Republic of
Srpska and three to borrowers in the Federation. Five loans were for 36 months and the remaining three
were for 60 months. Four of the borrowers are in the wood industry, two in food production, one in metal
working and one in the chemical industry.The mechanism for making these loans was the same as for
working capital loans, namely IGA supplied funds to local banks and guaranteed one half of a borrower's
liability. The funds made available for these loans were provided from reflowed funds under the Emergency
Industrial Restart project in accordance with authorities provided to IGA by the bank and the BH
government. Whilst these loans do not fall strictly within the Enterprise Export Facilitation project, they are
mentioned here for the sake of completeness. All of these loans are performing. No attempt has been made
to include the value of exports supported by these loans in the figures set out in the table.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Not applicable

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not applicable

4.5 Institutional development impact:

IGA was created to implement the Emergency Industrial Restart Project (P045820). It was contemplated
during preparation of this project that IGA would develop into BH's export credit agency. Implementing the
Emergency Industrial Restart Project was largely an administrative process involving a review of
eligibility criteria, preparation of documents and implementation of procedures to allow the issue of
standby letters of credit by ING Bank of Amsterdam or insurance policies by Lloyd's of London insurance
syndicates. These steps were set out in clear terms in an operations manual. IGA implemented this facility
in a timely and professional manner. IGA had a staff of six persons to implement this facility. IGA was
then given the task of implementing the much more complex and difficult Enterprise Export Facility
involving a number of facilities which are related but demand experience and a high degree of professional
skill for successful implementation. IGA has performed well in converting itself from this small
administrative unit into an effective export credit agency, particularly in view of the handicap that has been
imposed upon them by the entity governments delaying the approval of new law reconstituting IGA and
providing it with adequate capital to carry out its mandate, which is discussed in Section 6, Sustainability.

In December 2004, the BH parliament passed new law reconstituting IGA as a State institution with



                                                        - 6 -

appropriate powers to continue and expand its activities in support of BH exporters. IGA now has a staff
of 13 implementing the facilities listed in Section 4.2. As mentioned, these facilities require specialized
knowledge and credit assessment skills of a high order. It takes a decade for a start up export credit agency
in an emerging country to develop into a mature institution. After a slow start IGA is making excellent
progress. All the indications are that if it is allowed to develop acting independently and along commercial
lines as the new law requires, it will continue to progress towards maturity and take its place amongst the
better performing export credit agencies in the region such as the Czech Republic and Slovenia that support
more than ten percent of their nations exports.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
As has been mentioned in Section 4.2, Output by Components, the project was designed in part to address
the low availability and high cost of funds in the BH banking system following the 1998 financial crisis, by
mobilizing funds from foreign banks. These foreign banks would have been covered against payment
default by BH banks by insurance from the London trade credit insurance market. As it turned out,
conditions in the financial sector in BH improved steadily and made it both unnecessary and unpopular
with BH banks to borrow foreign sourced funds. This affected the assumptions on which the original
project design was based. However, the design was flexible enough for IGA to employ project funds in
conjunction with funds of eligible BH banks, resulting in 104 working capital loans to 70 exporting
enterprises during the implementation period.

One of the important limiting factors for the larger BH enterprises specializing in construction and
engineering works that were responsible for large volume exports before the break up of Yugoslavia, was
their inability to provide bank guarantees from highly rated banks in support of export contracts. The
Performance Bond Facility was designed to give these enterprises the opportunity to resume tendering for
export contracts by providing them with the means to arrange these type of bank guarantees. As it turned
out only two of these larger enterprises were able to avail themselves of this facility resulting in a lower
usage of this facility than desired.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The project was implemented at the level of BH. Entity governments supported the project by entering into
a "project support agreement" with BH whereby each entity agreed, amongst other things, to permit the
performance by IGA of the project on its territory and to a formula for providing BH with adequate funding
to repay the credit.

IGA was incorporated in 1996 as a joint stock company under the law of the Federation with BH as the
sole shareholder. At the time there was no means of creating an institution at the level of BH. However, as
implementation progressed it became apparent that IGA needed to be reconstituted as a special institution
under BH law in order to be able to effectively carry out its mandate. Further, if IGA was to become
recognized as a viable financial institution it would need to be adequately capitalized. The funds for this
could come from donor and IDA credit funds available under this project and the Emergency Industrial
Restart Project. Accordingly, IGA and the BH Government commenced a process in late 2001 to resolve
these issues. Draft law was prepared by lawyers employed by IGA which was reviewed by the Central
Bank of BH and the Ministry of Treasury Institutions, resulting in several amendments to the draft.
Thereafter a process of protracted discussions and negotiations took place between representatives from
IGA, the Ministry of Treasury Institutions and the Ministries of Finance of the two entity governments,
lasting more than a year. Very little progress was made on the key issues of responsibility to repay the IDA
credit, which governments would be the founder of the agency, and how to constitute and appoint the



                                                        - 7 -

Board. In March 2003, following new elections in BH, these proposals for a new IGA law and transfer of
project funds to IGA's balance sheet, were taken up by the newly created Coordination Committee and an
Action Plan adopted by the Committee. After discussions with representatives of entity governments further
amendments were made to the draft IGA law. This new draft was considered by the Council of Ministers in
January 2004 but could not be adopted because of the failure of the entity governments to give final
agreement. The timetable under the Action Plan slipped considerably and both the World Bank and OHR
made representations to the entity Governments to speed up the process. A written objection was made in
May 2004 by the Prime Minister of the Federation at the inclusion of lending in IGA's activities.
Notwithstanding this objection, the Council of Ministers adopted the draft law on July 15, 2004 and sent it
into parliamentary procedure. In September 2004, the draft law was adopted and passed by both houses of
Parliament.

Few financial institutions are willing or able under their prudential controls to take a financial risk on an
entity that does not have a clear mandate and is without adequate equity capital. The result has been that
IGA's guarantees have not had the credibility, particularly amongst foreign financial institutions, that is
desirable for any financial institution.Thus whilst the project is rated a success, the failure for so long of
the entity governments to agree with each other and the BH Government on the terms of the new IGA law
and the transfer of funds to the IGA balance sheet, has resulted in the project having lower impact than
would have been the case had the entity governments agreed to the initiatives within a reasonable time after
they had been proposed.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
In order to successfully operate IGA and for the project to succeed, the staff of IGA had to be acquire
specialized knowledge and skills, including credit assessment skills. As has been noted in Section 4.5,
Institutional Development Impact, the staff of IGA has successfully managed the transition from a small
administrative unit to an export credit agency despite the frustrations and limitations imposed by the delay
of the entity governments approving IGA's transition from a joint stock corporation under Federation law
into an institution created under BH law and in transferring project funds to IGA's balance sheet.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project was estimated to cost US$22 million consisting of US$10 million in IDA credits and US$12
million from foreign banks. As discussed in Section 4.2, Achievement of Objectives and Outputs, the
original concept of mobilizing foreign funds became obsolete due to the fairly rapid stabilization of the BH
banking system and the pattern of relatively low value loans. However, as noted in Section 4.2,
Achievement of Objectives and Outputs, local bank funds were successfully utilized by local banks in lieu
of foreign bank funds.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability rating will be HL.

IGA was originally created to implement the Emergency Industrial Restart Project. However, it was
foreseen at the time of appraisal of that project in July 1996 that IGA would become a "guarantee agency"
with permanent status. This concept was supported by BH and entity governments.Implementing the
Emergency Industrial Restart Project resulted in the creation of an institution whose activities had some
affinity with activities of an export credit agency and created links with counterpart trade credit insurance
institutions. As discussed in Section 4.5, implementation of the Enterprise Export Facility, which
commenced in October 1999, was a major step in terms of complexity and volume of business. The staff of
IGA handled the conversion successfully and operationally IGA is a viable and effective institution.


                                                      - 8 -

However, for IGA and its operations to be sustainable, IGA had to be properly constituted with an
appropriate mandate and adequate capital. The passing of the law relating to IGA by the BH Parliament in
September 2004, discussed in Section 5.2, has achieved the objective of a mandate. Transfer of funds to
IGA's balance sheet has yet to occur but has been agreed by the three governments and this, together with
the appointment of a new Board, is in process.

The new IGA law requires that IGA operate independently and along commercial lines. This mandate is
reinforced by membership of the Prague Club, an association of export credit agencies, which requires IGA
to observe the terms of the OECD mandate for officially supported export credit agencies. The OECD
mandate requires that a government supported agency should do no worse than "break even" over time and
not be a vehicle for subsidies to exporters. IGA is accepted by its peer institutions in the region, and
increasingly outside the region, as BH's official export credit agency. Whilst its lack of proper status and
capital has hindered its acceptability as a vehicle for other institutions to share risk on BH enterprises and
banks, it is being increasingly used as a source of information by its peer institutions on BH enterprises and
banks as evidenced by requests for credit reports currently running at more than one request per week.

As has been noted in Section 4.5, it takes a decade for an export credit agency in an emerging market to
reach maturity. IGA has reached the stage where development into an effective mature institution is
achievable as long as it is able to observe its mandate by operating along commercial lines with the
management and staff continuing to make independent decisions about credit risk.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As mentioned, the passing of the IGA law by the BH Parliament, albeit belated, was one of two major
actions required to put IGA on a sustainable basis. The other is the completion of arrangements to transfer
funds on to the balance sheet of IGA, as equity as discussed in Section 5.2. Action to complete this
transfer and appoint a new Board is underway.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The preparation process involved an extensive demand survey with exporting enterprises to better
understand the trading pattern and needs of these enterprises. The Bank assisted IGA in interpreting the
results and designing the facilities.The design involved the concept of providing funds and at the same time
guaranteeing 50% of a borrower's liability, usually on the basis that IGA would allow the bank priority to
any recoveries following borrower default. This provided "additionality" to bank activities that allowed the
banks to go further in support of exporting activity than they would otherwise have done. The bank
involvement in preparation also included some detailed negotiations with representatives of entity
governments. Initially, representatives of the Federation Government opposed the project because they were
not satisfied that the overall cost of the working capital loans supported under the Working Capital Facility
would be low enough. Ultimately they agreed and each entity government signed an agreement with BH
which, amongst other things, agreed on a formula for repayment of the IDA credit according to percentage
of use in each entity, provided that each entity would support the project, and authorized IGA to implement
the project on their respective territories.The Bank assisted in the preparation of this project support
agreement.

The Bank's performance in preparation is rated satisfactory.

7.2 Supervision:



                                                      - 9 -

The Bank was closely involved in the day to day operations of IGA. The project design incorporated a
system whereby IGA was required to obtain Bank "no objection" to eligibility of banks for participation in
the Working Capital Facility, for individual Participation Loans to banks and for transactions under the
Exporter Performance Facility. This system allowed the Bank to continuously monitor governance within
the agency and the quality and thoroughness of their due diligence on banks and enterprises.This system
was extended to the new facilities of guarantees and credit insurance except for credit insurance
transactions that were reinsured in the private reinsurance market. The system also allowed IGA staff to
benefit from technical assistance provided by the World Bank team. In the early stages of implementation,
the reports of the financial analysts in IGA on proposed transactions presented an opportunity to discuss
and debate issues relevant to the merits of or the structuring of a proposal. The requirement of prior Bank
"no objection" to each transaction other than reinsured credit insurance transactions was progressively
lifted during the implementation period, firstly for the smaller value transactions and finally for all
transactions, when it became clear that the due diligence process and internal controls were at a satisfactory
standard. After the no objection process was discontinued, the Bank team maintained close involvement
with IGA's operations by frequent reviews of past activity and the status of all transactions.

Bank supervision also involved extensive negotiations in the restructuring of IGA and in assisting in the
drafting and negotiation of the new IGA law and transfer of project funds onto the balance sheet of IGA.
This involved discussions with representatives of the BH and entity governments and representatives of the
OHR. The Bank consented to the transfer of IDA Credit funds in both the Emergency Industrial Restart
Project and Enterprise Export Facility Project in November 2002.

The Bank's performance in supervision is rated satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank as discussed in 7.1 and 7.2, is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower is BH. However, the two entity governments were also involved in preparation and in
negotiations. At the time of appraisal, all three governments approved of the concept of supporting exports
with finance and guarantees and assistance to exporters that needed to provide guarantees to secure export
contracts. As mentioned in 7.1, there were extensive negotiations between the Bank team, IGA and the
entity governments about the project design, particularly the cost of funds to local banks and exporting
enterprises.

The Borrower's performance for preparation is rated Satisfactory.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
There are three governments involved in the project. Apart from the issues already discussed relating to the
development of a new IGA law and transfer of project funds onto the balance sheet of IGA, the entity
governments had very little involvement in policy issues or operations of IGA. Management of IGA
reported to the Minister for Treasury Institutions of BH. Several persons filled the role of Minister for
Treasury Institutions during the implementation period. These ministers and the IGA Board consistently
supported IGA's operations without seeking to influence individual credit decisions.

The Government's performance for implementation is rated Satisfactory.

7.6 Implementing Agency:




                                                     - 10 -

IGA was in existence at the time of preparation of the project and implementing the Emergency Industrial
Restart Project in its last stages. As a result, the staff of IGA had established relationships with several
Lloyd's of London trade credit insurance agencies and some foreign banks, had some familiarity with
specialized types of trade transactions such as leases and letters of credit, and had gained a knowledge and
an understanding of the role and function of an export credit agency.Implementing the project was however,
a much more difficult and complex task involving, amongst other things, mastering the technical aspects of
the specialized facilities of an export credit agency, installing and managing computerized accounting and
management information systems and appropriate internal controls, and developing credit assessment skills.
As has been discussed in Section 4.5, IGA staff and management were successful in managing the
transition and effectively operate this complex institution.

The Implementing Agency's performance is rated Highly Satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
It is difficult to give an overall rating of the performance of the Borrower because of the delays on the part
of the entity governments in resolving the status of IGA. If the entity governments are excluded and the
evaluation is confined to the BH Government and IGA, performance could be considered Highly
Satisfactory. However, taking into account the problems with the entity Governments, the overall Borrower
performance is rated Satisfactory only.

8. Lessons Learned

The initial concept for the project addressed issues that were identified by exporting enterprises at the time
of appraisal, namely:

(i) "pre shipment" or pre delivery working capital for identified export contracts at a time when liquidity of
the BH banking system was low and cost of funds was high, and;

(ii) support to an identified group of exporters required to provide guarantees from highly rated commercial
banks to secure export contracts.

The more traditional activities of an export credit agency such as guarantees without finance and credit
insurance were not addressed because at the time of appraisal they were not requested by the banking or
exporting community. As activity increased at IGA, it was realized that these facilities needed to be
included in order to provide a comprehensive service to the exporting and banking community and the
project was restructured to provide IGA with the authority to use World Bank funds under the project to
support these additional facilities.

At the same time, it was realized that if IGA was to be effective as an export credit agency, have permanent
status, and have the same impact on exports as its counterparts in nearby countries such as the Czech
Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia it would need to have equity capital that was adequate
in accordance with accepted prudential standards within the industry. Accordingly, the initiative was
commenced by IGA and BH to create new law for IGA by BH legislation and to transfer the donor and
project funds under the Emergency Industrial Restart Project and this project, onto the balance sheet of
IGA. This is discussed in Section 6, Sustainability.

The impact of the project during the implementation period would have been greater had IGA been
authorized to use World Bank funds to support these traditional facilities from the time of effectiveness,
and project funds had been transferred to IGA as equity progressively as funds were drawn down from the



                                                        - 11 -

Bank. The same mistake was not made in the design of the Export Finance Facilitation Project (P074484)
in Serbia and Montenegro where authority for the implementing agency to use World Bank funds for all of
the facilities eventually incorporated into the Enterprise Export Facility project, was provided upon
effectiveness. This project is in the implementation stage and both World Bank and donor funds are being
progressively transferred onto the balance sheet of the implementing agency, the Serbian and Montenegro
Export Credit Agency (SMECA) as disbursements take place.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

We read the Report and agree with assessment that project has been implemented successfully.

The performance of the implementing agency as well the Bank performance was highly
satisfactory.

The purpose of the project is to support sustainable economic growth by facilitating and
expanding viable export activities.

It is undoubted that under the project IGA has successfully developed several products especially
designed to help BiH exporters such as:

·        Working capital loans
·        Performance bonds
·        Export ­ credit insurance
·        Factoring

Also IGA has been recognized by the international institutions as BiH official export credit
agency. IGA is member of Prague club (association of export credit agencies in transition
countries).

Through the membership IGA is in position to exchange experiences and information regarding
foreign trade, with common institutions all over the world.

Apart of all activities it is important to stress that Export insurance and Factoring are the
specific products which only IGA is offering to BiH companies.

It is important that IGA has balanced its activities on the whole BiH territory, between two
entities and between different sectors.

BiH governments have made efforts to adopt Law of export credit agency which has been
adopted in both houses of the Parliament on 22/23 December 2004.

We are hopping that some limited factors for IGA's expansion will be solved in very near future:

·        Issue of funds transfer into IGAs balance sheets should be solved by relevant authorities;
·        There are some issues to be solved in next period of time regarding position of IGA in
BiH financial sector, in order to make IGAs financial products, especially guaranties, recognized
by                regulatory agencies as adequate securities for the banks


                                                     - 12 -

·       Up to now no additional financial recourses (from foreign financial institutions) were
mobilized by project. We hope that implementing agency with State support will do that in the
next stage               of its operations.

IGA as institution, profiled itself in business community and become well known as export
creditor and insurer in BiH. Through project implementation IGA staff gained necessary technical
knowledge in credit assessment and underwriting.

(b) Cofinanciers:
There are no cofinancing partners

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There are no other partners

10. Additional Information

Nil




                                                  - 13 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Upward trend of production and jobs in                                     There is a significant upward trend. Some
export oriented companies.                                                 companies have achieved spectacular
                                                                           growth. Average considered at about 25%.
Marked upward trend in value of exports from                               There is a significant upward trend which
export oriented companies.                                                 varies from company to company. Average is
                                                                           also considered to be in the vicinity of 25%.
Upward trend in value of essential inputs                                  Similar to upward trend in value of exports.
used by export oriented companies.
Upward trend in value of import credit                                     None issued due to lack of mandate and
insurance policies issued.                                                 capital of the implementing agency.
Upward trend in value of working capital                                   Value of working capital loans has increased
loans/guarantees made.                                                     from Euros 890,000 in 2000 and Euros
                                                                           709,000 in 2001 to Euros 5.561 million in
                                                                           2003 and Euros 4.311 in 2004.
Upward trend in value of contract bonds                                    Demand for this product is erratic and there
issued.                                                                    is no clear pattern of increase. This facility
                                                                           was transitional to facilitate large export
                                                                           contracts form several traditional exporters
                                                                           pending the development of an adequate
                                                                           banking system.
Upward trend in value of contracts covered                                 The value of credit insurance has increased
by credit insurance facilities.                                            each year from Euros 5.6 million in 2002 to
                                                                           Euros 28 million in 2004.


Output Indicators:
                                                                      1
               Indicator/Matrix                   Projected in last PSR                Actual/Latest Estimate
Working Capital Loan Facility :                                            A total of 104 working capital loans for export
Improved access to working capital loans for                               activity were supported by the project.
export activity
Working Capital Guarantee Facility                                         Not used due to lack of mandate and capital
                                                                           of the implementing agency.
Exporter Performance Facility                                              The exporter performance facility supported
Improved access to essential inputs for                                    bond values of Euros 26 million and contract
Bosnia export enterprises                                                  values of Euros 122 million.
Credit Insurance Facility                                                  Credit insurance supported more than 72
Improved access to credit insurance facilities                             exporting enterprises and exports valued at
for exporting companies                                                    Euros 53.5 million.
Credit Information                                                         As at project closing credit information on
Improved access to quality credit information                              more than 310 buyers was available to
for benefit of Bosnia companies                                            benefit Bosnia companies


1End of project




                                                        - 14 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Working Capital Loan Facility                               19.00             4.83           25.42
Consulting Services                                          0.60             0.41            68.3
Incremental Operating Costs                                  0.40             0.80             200
Performance Bond Facility                                    2.00             5.70             285

Total Baseline Cost                                         22.00           11.74
 Physical Contingencies                                      0.00             0.00
 Price Contingencies                                         0.00             0.00
                        Total Project Costs                 22.00           11.74
                  Total Financing Required                  22.00           11.74


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00              0.00         0.00          0.00          0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00              0.00        75.00          0.00          75.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (75.00)         (0.00)       (75.00)
3. Services                       0.00              0.00       575.00          0.00         575.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)     (575.00)         (0.00)      (575.00)
4. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00       350.00          0.00         350.00
IGA's additional operating        (0.00)           (0.00)     (350.00)         (0.00)      (350.00)
expenses
5. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00      9000.00          0.00        9000.00
Working Capital Facility          (0.00)           (0.00)     (9000.00)        (0.00)      (9000.00)
6. Miscellaneous                  0.00              0.00      2000.00          0.00        2000.00
Performance Bond Facility         (0.00)           (0.00)     (2000.00)        (0.00)      (2000.00)
   Total                          0.00              0.00      12000.00         0.00        12000.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)    (12000.00)        (0.00)     (12000.00)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                          0.00             0.00         0.00           0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                          0.00             0.00        52.00           0.00         52.00
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)      (52.00)         (0.00)       (52.00)
3. Services                       0.00             0.00         0.41           0.00         0.41



                                                - 15 -

                                           (0.00)             (0.00)            (0.41)            (0.00)           (0.41)
   4. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00            807.00             0.00             807.00
   IGA's additional operating              (0.00)             (0.00)          (807.00)            (0.00)          (807.00)
   expenses
   5. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00            4826.00         10000.00          14826.00
   Working Capital Facility                (0.00)             (0.00)          (4826.00)       (10000.00)        (14826.00)
   6. Miscellaneous                         0.00               0.00            5732.00            0.00            5732.00
   Performance Bond Facility               (0.00)             (0.00)          (5732.00)           (0.00)         (5732.00)
       Total                                0.00               0.00           11417.41         10000.00          21417.41
                                           (0.00)             (0.00)         (11417.41)       (10000.00)        (21417.41)
   The project was restructured in may 2002 and additional facilities were added being Working Capital
   Guarantees
   and Credit Insurance. There were no disbursements for Working Capital Guarantee but an amount of
   US$160.365
   was disbursed for Credit Insurance.
     1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

     2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
       of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
       managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                                       Percentage of Appraisal
        Component                   Appraisal Estimate                  Actual/Latest Estimate
                                Bank        Govt.        CoF.         Bank         Govt.      CoF.       IDA      Govt.     CoF.
Working Capital Facility        9.00         0.00        10.00        4.80         0.00       0.00       53.3      0.0       0.0
Performance Bond Facility       2.00         0.00         0.00        5.70         0.00       0.00       285.0     0.0       0.0
Technical Assistance -          1.00         0.00         0.00        1.20         0.00       0.00       120.0     0.0       0.0
Institutional




                                                           - 16 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

No economic or financial rate of return was calculated for this project at appraisal as this would have had
little meaning given that the facilities were demand driven and the extent of usage could not have been
accurately estimated at the time. The value of exports covered compared with the estimate at appraisal is
set out in Annex 1 and discussed in Section 4.1.

Operating costs during the implementation period according to audited financial statement's of IGA
amounted to Euros 3,682,770 including an amount of Euros 377,226 for foreign exchange losses and Euro
362,056 for provisions against losses from working capital loans. At the date of this ICR, some further
write offs are expected due to protracted delays in two large loans. Revenues for this period according to
the audited reports total Euro 3,447,083, a deficit of Euros 235,687 or 6.4 percent. It should be noted that
it took time to fully utilize project funds during the implementation period. Revenues on a per annum basis
are therefore likely to be greater in the post implementation period now that project funds are being fully
utilized. IGA's mandate under BH law is to operate long commercial lines. It is not obliged to make profits.
This mandate is reflected in IGA's Business Plan and is in accordance with the mandate recommended by
the OECD for officially supported export credit agencies which need not be profit making enterprises but
must do no worse than break even over time.

After a slow start, IGA has developed at a very satisfactory rate. However, IGA is not yet a mature
institution. It takes about ten years for a start up agency in an emerging economy to develop into a mature
institution. A major reason for this as already noted, has been the inability of IGA to project itself as a
viable institution due to the lack of proper status and lack of capital. Assuming that the process described
in Section 6 is completed and funds and assets under the Emergency Industrial Restart Project and this
project are transferred onto the balance sheet of IGA, an institution with adequate capital to fulfill its
mandate staffed with people experienced in operating the specialized facilities of an export credit agency
will have been created providing continuous benefits for the BH economy.




                                                       - 17 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               10/27/1998                2     TEAM LEADER,                         S               S
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               3/12/1999                 2     TEAM LEADER,                         S               S
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST

 Supervision
               6/12/1999                  2    TEAM LEADER,                         S               S
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST
               9/5/1999                   2    TEAM LEADER,                         S               S
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST
               10/20/1999                 2    TEAM LEADER,                         S               S
                                               OPERATIONS ANALYST
               12/10/1999                 2    TEAM LEADER (1) CHIEF                S               S
                                               EXECUTIVE (1)
               2/19/2000                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               5/20/2000                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               11/01/2000                 3    TEAM LEADER, FINANCIAL               S               S
                                               ANALYST, CONSULTANT
               7/28/2001                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               6/14/2002                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               9/24/2002                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               11/30/2002                 1    TEAM LEADER
               2/12/2003                  2    ENTERPRISE SPECIALIST,               S               S
                                               TEAM LEADER
               10/17/2003                 1    TEAM LEADR                           S               S
               12/4/2003                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               2/14/2004                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               4/17/2004                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               6/19/2004                  1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               10/20/2004                 1    TEAM LEADER                          S               S

 ICR
               2/2/2005                  1     TEAM LEADER                          S               S
               18/5/2005                 1     TEAM LEADER                          S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  24                            80
  Appraisal/Negotiation                       12                            48
  Supervision                                 93                           467


                                               - 18 -

ICR        8          30
Total    137         625




           - 19 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 20 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Nil




                                      - 22 -

- 23 -

