Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 3257 BOS
Development Credit Agreement
(Enterprise Export Facility Project)
between
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated as of July 5, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3257 BOS 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated as of  July 5, 1999, between BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA (the 
Borrower or BH) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and 
priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project;
(B)
the Project will be carried out by the Investment Guarantee Agency (IGA, 
as said term is defined herein) with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such 
assistance, the Borrower will make available to IGA the proceeds of the Credit as 
provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date herewith between the Association 
and IGA;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997), (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
Page  2
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
"Agency and Funding Agreement" means the agency and funding agreement 
entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and IGA, as specified in Section 
3.04 of this Agreement, as said agreement is modified from time to time with the 
concurrence of the Association.
(b)
"Charter" means the Charter of IGA Number: 011-286/2-97, dated October 
28, 1997, (based on Article 10 of the Decision on the establishment of agency for 
issuing of guarantees against political and war risk for foreign investors and 
traders, issued by the Council of Ministers of BH), as amended to the date of this 
Agreement. 
(c)
"Escrow Account" means the escrow account for the Performance Bond 
Support Facility referred to in paragraph B.1 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
(d)
"Euros" means the lawful currency of the member states of the European 
Union that adopt the single currency in accordance with the Treaty establishing the 
European Community, as amended by the Treaty on European Union. 
(e)
"Export Financing Facility" means the export financing facility provided 
under Part A of the Project. 
(f)
"Export Project" and "Export Projects" mean, singularly, the specific 
export development project and, collectively the specific export development projects 
to be carried out by an Exporting Enterprise under Part A of the Project utilizing the 
proceeds of a Subloan or Subloans for the export of goods and services from BH.
(g)
"Exporting Enterprise" means, singularly, an enterprise selected for 
assistance under the Project in accordance with Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement; 
and "Exporting Enterprises" means, collectively, all said enterprises.  
(h)
"Federation" means the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, a political 
subdivision of the Borrower, and includes any successor or successors thereto. 
(i)
"IGA" means the Investment Guarantee Agency, a legal entity established 
and operating pursuant to the Charter registered under the laws of the Borrower, and 
includes any successor thereto or permitted assigns. 
(j)
"Operations Manual" means IGA’s Operations Manual referred to in Section 
6.01(c) of this Agreement, hereof, as said manual may be amended, from time to time, 
with the concurrence of the Association. 
(k)
"Participating Financial Institution" and "Participating Financial 
Institutions" mean, singularly, the institution or enterprise and, collectively, the 
institutions or enterprises selected for participation under Part A of the Project in 
accordance with paragraph A.1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement.
(l)
"Participation Agreement" and "Participation Agreements" mean, 
singularly, the Participation Agreement and, collectively, the Participation 
Agreements entered or to be entered into between IGA, on behalf of the Borrower, and 
each of the Participating Financial Institutions pursuant to paragraph B.1 of Schedule 
1 to the Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such 
term includes all schedules supplemental to the Participation Agreement(s). 
(m)
"Participation Loan" and "Participation Loans" mean, singularly, the 
participation loan and collectively the participation loans made or proposed to be 
made under the relevant Participation Agreement(s). 
(n)
"Performance Bond Security" means, singularly, the security, in the form 
of an approval, undertaking or agreement, provided by IGA to a financial institution 
providing a Performance Bond or to a commercial insurance company or financial 
institution insuring or guaranteeing a financial institution providing a Performance 
Bond under which a Secured Amount is made available to said institutions and 
companies; and "Performance Bond Securities" means, collectively, all said securities.
(o)
"Performance Bond Support Facility" means the Performance Bond Support 
facility provided under Part B of the Project. 
(p)
"Performance Bond Support" means the support provided to Exporting 
Page  3
Enterprises under Part B of the Project in accordance with paragraph A.1 of Schedule 2 
to the Project Agreement. 
(q)
"Performance Bond(s)" means the performance bond(s) that are issued and 
remain outstanding under the Performance Bond Support Facility. 
(r)
"Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association and IGA, 
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and such term 
includes all schedules and agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement. 
(s)
"Project Support Agreement(s)" means the Project Support Agreement(s) 
entered or to be entered into between the Borrower and the Federation and the Borrower 
and RS as specified in Section 3.05 of this Agreement. 
(t)
"Recourse Agreement" means the recourse agreement referred to in 
paragraph A.3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement. 
(u)
"RS" means Republika Srpska, a political subdivision of the Borrower, and 
includes any successor or successors thereto.
(v)
"Secured Amount(s)" means the amount(s) of the Credit withdrawn from the 
Credit Account or the Special Account and deposited in the Escrow Account, from time 
to time, to secure any call(s) that may be made in respect of any payment(s) due under 
a Performance Bond. 
(w)
"Special Account" means the special deposit account referred to in 
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement. 
(x)
"Subloan Agreement" and "Subloan Agreements" mean, singularly, any of the 
subloan agreements and, collectively, all the subloan agreements entered or to be 
entered into between the Participating Financial Institutions and the Exporting 
Enterprises pursuant to paragraph C.1 of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules 
supplemental to the Subloan Agreement(s).  
(y)
"Subloan" means any loan, credit or deposit made or proposed to be made 
by a Participating Financial Institution to or for an Exporting Enterprise for an 
Export Project, including Working Capital required therefor, which includes the 
proceeds of the Credit relent to the Participating Financial Institution under any 
Participation Agreement; and "Subloans" means all said loans or credits, collectively. 
(z)
"Working Capital" means the capital used for the cost of goods, including 
materials, labor and overheads incurred by an Exporting Enterprise in the performance 
of an Export Project. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit  Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to eight million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 8,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) 
Part A of the Project, for amounts paid (or, if the Association shall so agree, 
amounts to be paid) by a Participating Financial Institution on account of withdrawals 
made by an Exporting Enterprise under a Subloan to meet the reasonable cost of goods 
and Working Capital, required for the Export Project in respect of which the 
withdrawal from the Credit Account is requested; (ii) Part B of the Project, for the 
purposes of and in accordance with the provisions of Part A of Schedule 2 to the 
Project Agreement; and (iii) Part C of the Project, for expenditures made (or if the 
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
services, and incremental operating costs required therefor, and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
Euros a special deposit account in a bank, acceptable to the Association, on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Association, including appropriate protection against 
setoff, seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
Page  4
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2004 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower 
and IGA of such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit account or canceled; and 
(ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at 
such other rates as  may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) 
above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in 
that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each 
March 15 and September 15 commencing September 15, 2009 and ending March 15, 2034. 
Each installment to and including the installment payable on March 15, 2019, shall be 
one and one-fourth percent (1-1/4%) of such principal amount, and each installment 
thereafter shall be two and one-half percent (2-1/2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever (i) the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower’s economy, modify the 
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to 
repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal amount 
of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to commence 
repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment 
date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six (6) months or more after the date 
on which the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a grace period of 
a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
Page  5
Section 2.09. IGA is designated as representative of the Borrower for the 
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions 
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Description of the Project; 
Use of the Proceeds of the Credit
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under the Development 
Credit Agreement, shall cause IGA to perform in accordance with the provisions of the 
Project Agreement all the obligations of IGA therein set forth, shall take and cause 
to be taken all actions, including the provision of funds, facilities, services and 
other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable IGA to perform such obligations, 
and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere 
with such performance. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for Parts A and C of the Project and to 
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of 
Schedule 3 to the Project Agreement. 
Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree that the obligations 
set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions 
(relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and 
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out by IGA 
pursuant to Section 2.05 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall enter into an agency and funding agreement 
with IGA for the purpose of assisting IGA to execute the Project on terms and 
conditions, satisfactory to the Association, which shall include the following: (a) 
delegation of authority to select Participating Financial Institutions and Exporting 
Enterprises; (b) delegation of authority to provide indemnities or guarantees, execute 
the Participation Agreements and to authorize the Subloans; (c) delegation of 
authority to withdraw from the Credit Account, operate the Special Account and the 
Escrow Account, and establish, operate and maintain the Revolving Project Account; (d) 
delegation of authority to procure goods and services financed under the Project; and 
(e) making available the proceeds of the Credit to IGA, for executing the Project, on 
its behalf, under terms and conditions which shall have been approved by the 
Association. 
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Agency and Funding 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Association and to 
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower shall, not amend, abrogate or waive the said agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall enter into a separate Project support agreement 
with the Federation and RS, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, 
whereunder the Federation and RS, respectively, shall have undertaken, inter alia, to: 
(a) support the Borrower’s commitment to the Project as set forth in this Agreement; 
(b) agree to contribute their proportionate share towards the payment and repayment 
obligations of the Borrower in accordance with this Agreement; and (c) support and 
enable IGA to carry out the Project in accordance with its obligations under the 
Project Agreement and the Operations Manual.
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall: 
(i)
maintain, or cause to be maintained, in accordance with sound 
accounting practices, records and accounts reflecting such 
expenditures; 
(ii)
ensure that all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
Page  6
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures are 
retained until at least one year after the Association has 
received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Credit Account was made; and 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) of 
this Section and those for the Special Account for each fiscal 
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles 
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case 
not later than six (6) months after the end of each such year the 
report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested, 
including a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, 
together with the procedures and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Association 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V 
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
IGA shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the Project 
Agreement or to properly carry out its responsibilities under the Operations Manual.  
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the 
Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall 
make it improbable that IGA will be able to perform its obligations under the Project 
Agreement. 
(c)
The Charter or the Operations Manual shall have been amended, without the 
concurrence of the Association, or suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect materially and adversely the operations or financial condition of IGA or its 
ability to carry out the Project or to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project. 
(d)
The Federation or RS shall have suspended or terminated their respective 
Project Support Agreement or not have complied  with any of the provisions thereof.
(e)
The Borrower shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under 
the Agency and Funding Agreement. 
(f)
Any provision of the Performance Bonds shall have been amended, assigned, 
suspended, abrogated, terminated or waived without the prior written consent of the 
Association.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified: 
(a)
The events specified in paragraphs (a), (d), (e), (f), and (g) of Section 
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower and IGA. 
(b)
Any event specified in paragraph (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement 
shall occur. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  7
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Condition: 
(a)
The Agency and Funding Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, has 
been entered into by the Borrower and IGA. 
(b)
At least one Project Support Agreement, satisfactory to the Association, 
has been entered into by the parties thereto. 
(c)
An Operations Manual, which sets out the operating policies and 
procedures of IGA for support of the Export Financing Facility and Performance Bond 
Support Facility, satisfactory to the Association, has been adopted and approved by 
IGA and the Borrower. 
(d)
A financial management system for IGA, satisfactory to the Association, 
has been established.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Association: 
(a)
that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and 
executed and delivered on behalf of, IGA and is legally binding upon IGA in accordance 
with its terms;  
(b)
that the Agency and Funding Agreement has been duly authorized and 
executed by the parties thereto and is legally binding upon them in accordance with 
its terms; and  
(c)
that the Project Support Agreement, referred to in section 6.01(b) 
hereof, has been duly authorized and executed by the parties thereto, and is legally 
binding upon them in accordance with its terms. 
Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Articles III and V of this 
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate or on the date twenty years after the date of this 
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.09 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations of the Borrower is designated as the 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Foreign Trade and Economic Relations 
Musala 9 71000 
Sarajevo 
Bosnia and Herzegovina
For the Association:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Page  8
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the City of Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as of the day and year first above 
written.
BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA
By /s/ Ante Jelavic 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Rory O’Sullivan 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Subloans
   7,100,000
50%
(2)
Goods for 
      40,000
100% of foreign
Part C of
expenditures,
the Project
100% of local
expenditures,
(ex-factory cost)
and 85% of local
expenditures for
other items procured
locally
(3)
Consultants’
     390,000
100%
services and training
(4)
Incremental operating
     230,000
90% for one year from
costs
the Effective Date; 50%
for six months thereafter
(5)
Secured Amounts under
     740,000
100%
Performance Bond Securities
(6)
Unallocated
     400,000
TOTAL
   8,900,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
Page  9
(c)
the term "incremental operating costs" means incremental costs incurred 
by IGA for the management, administration, implementation, monitoring and evaluation 
of the Project, including costs of office equipment and salaries of local personnel 
(but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower), based upon an annual budget 
acceptable to the Bank.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made: 
(a)
in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the 
equivalent of SDR 150,000, may be made in respect of Categories 2 and 3 set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule on account of payments made for expenditures 
before that date but after May 1, 1999;
(b)
in respect of a Subloan to an Exporting Enterprise in the Federation or 
RS unless: (i) the Subloan has been made in accordance with the criteria, procedures 
and on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in paragraph C.1 of Schedule 
1 to the Project Agreement, and (ii) the Project Support Agreement has been entered 
into between the Borrower and the Federation or the Borrower and RS, respectively, and 
evidence, satisfactory to the Association, has been furnished to the Association that 
the concerned Project Support Agreement has been duly authorized and executed by the 
parties thereto, and is legally binding upon them in accordance with its terms; and
(c)
in respect of a Performance Bond Security issued in respect of an 
Exporting Enterprise in the Federation or RS unless: (i) the Performance Bond has been 
made in accordance with the procedures and on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in paragraph A.3 of Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement; and (ii) the 
Project Support Agreement has been entered into between the Borrower and the 
Federation or the Borrower and RS, respectively, and evidence, satisfactory to the 
Association, has been furnished to the Association that the concerned Project Support 
Agreement has been duly authorized and executed by the parties thereto, and is legally 
binding upon them in accordance with its terms.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for: (a) goods under contracts costing $50,000 
equivalent or less each; (b) services under contracts costing $50,000 equivalent or 
less each in case of firms and under contracts costing $30,000 equivalent or less each 
in case of individuals; (c) training under contracts costing $10,000 equivalent or 
less each; and (d) incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as the 
Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to assist in financing such productive 
facilities and resources in BH as will contribute to the economic and social 
development of the country; and (ii) to assist IGA in marketing its financial 
services, enhancing its credit assessment capacity, and developing its export credit 
services.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Export Financing Facility
Provision of assistance to Exporting Enterprises, through selected financial 
institutions, by financing of specific export development projects, through the 
provision of Working Capital and indemnities required therefor.
Part B:
Performance Bond Support Facility
Provision of performance bond support aimed at allowing Exporting Enterprises to 
obtain performance bonds from quality offshore financial institutions, through the 
provision of security or guarantees to financial institutions and commercial insurance 
companies providing security or guaranteeing said financial institutions, that issue 
performance bonds in support of exports of goods and services by Exporting 
Enterprises.
Page  10
Part C:
Institutional Strengthening 
1.
Strengthening the institutional capacity of IGA through the provision of 
technical assistance (including assistance for marketing its financial services, 
enhancing its credit assessment capacity, and developing its export credit services), 
training, studies, audit, accounting, and legal services, office equipment and 
vehicles, and incremental operating expenses for Project management and 
implementation. 
2.
Promotion of exports from BH through the introduction of export credit insurance 
for BH exporters.
3.
Strengthening the capacity of Exporting Enterprises through the provision of 
technical assistance and training to improve export procedures and marketing skills. 
*** 
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2), (3) (4) and (5) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods, services, Working Capital and Secured Amounts for 
Performance Bonds, required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with 
the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and 
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to 2,800,000 
Euros to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the 
Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an 
amount equivalent to 1,900,000 Euros until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from 
the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
shall be equal to or exceed SDR 2,200,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the  Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit  into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the  Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association requests for deposits into the  Special 
Account at such intervals as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence 
required pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment 
or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the 
basis of each such request, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Association from the Credit Account under the respective eligible 
Page  11
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall 
have been justified by said documents and other evidence. 
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the  Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence  showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the  Special Account: 
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account; 
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or 
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow 
such procedures as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such 
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Association 
shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special 
Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible 
pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence 
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund 
to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion 
thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be. 
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account. 
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
