Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6850
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 745-BA)
June 29, 1987
South Asia Regional Office
General Agriculture I Division
l-his document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorinzation.



BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 745-BA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
LIST OF PRINCIPAL ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS USED
AC              Agricultural Corporation
AFPTC           Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
AMD             Agricultural Mechanization Department
ARD             Applied Research Division (AC)
ARI             Agricultural Research Institute (AC)
CC              Construction Corporation
CF              Central Farm
ED              Extension Division (AC)
EPC             Electric Power Corporation
GDP             Gross Domestic Product
HYV             High Yielding Varieties
ICB             International Competitive Bidding
IRRI            International Rice Research Institute
MAB             Myanma Agricultural Bank
NRCC            National Research Coordination Committee
NSC             National Seed Committee
PCR             Project Completion Report
PD              Procurement Division (AC)
RCC             Research Coordination Committee
SF              Seed Farm
TIC             Textile Industries Corporation
WTEP            Whole Township Extension Program



nwoa  m       =oLy
THt WOetLD SANK
Washinlon. D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
O6ke of DOitorCowal
OpWOM fEvawtm
June 29, 1987
HEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:  Project Completion Report on Burn  Seed Development
Prolect (Credit 745-BA)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled 'Project
Completion Report on Burma Seed Development Project (Credit 745-BA)l prepared by
an FAO/Word.1 Bank Cooperative Programme. Further evaluation of this project by
the Operations Evaluation Department has not been made.
Attachment
This document ha a stid dstrbutio            u, my be wad by _   **  h th §
of their official dutio Its contents auy sot olhor_s be discnoS witbout WorBokahoido |



SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
f=ECT COMPMLETION REPORT
The terms used to describe the seed produced at various stages of the
multiplication process vary considerably between countries and authorities.
the following definitions apply only to this PCR.
Breeder SeeJ        -  Seed which is produced under the direct control of
the plant breeding institution (Agricultural Research
Inctitute) and which forms the source for production
of all later generations.
Foundation Seed    -  The progeny of breeder see:, w,ch has been handled to
maintain specific genetic purity and identity.
Registered Seed    -  The progeny of foundation seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. In this
project the bulk of the rice and medium staple cotton
seed produced on the Central Farms has been referred
to as registered.
Quality Seed        -  The progeny of registered seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. The term
is used to describe the rice and medium staple cotton
seed produced by contract seed growers and distributed
to farmers.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
SLD DEVELOPMENT PROJBCT (CREIT No. 7411A
TABLE OP CONMTS
Pae No.
PIRACE                                                                        S
BASIC DATA SNeEE                                                             ll
EVALUATION SUMOtAR                                                           lv
1.     tINTROUCTION 
II.     PROJECT IDENTIFICATION, PREPARATION APO APPRAISAL                     2
Identification and Preparation                                    2
Appraisal                                                         2
Project Pescription                                               3
III.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION                                                4
Loan Negotiation  and Effectiveness                               4
Implemontation Schedule                                           5
t[pleentation of Individual Project Components                    S
- APPlied Reseorch                                              5
f Farm Oevelo5ment                                              S
- Seed Production                                               I
seed Pricing                                                  I
- Seed Processing and Storage                                   I
* Qusalty Control                                              10
- Input Supoly                                                 11
- Groundnut Pilot Programse                                   11
Training                                                         12
Tochnical Assistance                                             12
Procurement                                                      12
Projoct Cost                                                     13
Proloct financing                                                13
Credit Reallocation                                              13
IV.     INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE AND DEVELOPMENT                            14
Proloct Coordinstion and Management                             .It
ImpleOmnting AgenCes                                             14
Agricultural Credit Institutions                                 i5
Accounting and Roporting.                                        1I
Compliance with Covonants                                        15
V.      PROJECT IMPACT                                                      1i
Intond J Impact                                                  16
Project's Impact and tneromntSl Productier                       is
Farm Income of Seed Growers                                      IT
Operatine Cash Flow of the Seed Program"e                        Is
Vt.     ECONOMtC RE-EVALUATION                                               IS
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authoriation.



-2-
Page No.
Vit.    SANK PERFORMANCE                                                        19
Project Design and Appraisal                                        1
Supervis Lon                                                        20
Vill.   SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS                                                 20
Lessons Learned                                                     21
IM:    Location of central Farms, Seed Processing Plants and
Warehouses                                                           22
CHARTS:
1.      Land Development Schedule                                               23
2.      Construction Work Schedule                                              24
3.      Organization During FY 19IO/79-19$2/S3                                  25
4.      Prosent Organization                                                    26
IAILLI
1.      Project Staff                                                           27
2.      Land Development                                                        28
3.      Buildings Constructed                                                   29
4.      Seed Productio.                                                         30
5.      Overseas Training                                                       31
6.      Formal Training                                                         32
7.      Project Expenditure                                                     33
0.      Comparison of Pro)ect Cost Estimates and Expenditures                   36
9.      Comparison of Project Appraisal Unit Costs and Actual Unit Costs  37
10.     Cumulative Disbursoments                                                38
1,     Allocation of Credit Proceeds                                           39
12.     Quality Rice and Cotton Seed Procurement and Oistribution               40
13.     Major Covenants                                                         41
14.     Financial Prices of Outputs and Inputs                                  43
i5.     Farm Budgets Per Acre                                                   44
16.     Operating Cash Flow of the Seed Programme                               45
1?.     Price Oetivation: Urea                                                  46
1i.     Price Dorivation: tSP                                                   47
19.     Price Dorivation: MOP    .                                              48
20.     Economic Prices of Outputs and Inputs                                   49
21.     Price Derivation: Paddy                                                 50
22.     Phasing of Quality Seed Distributed and Senefited Area                  51
23.     Incremental Senefits and Costs                                          52
1.      Composition of the National Seed Committee                              54
2.      Composition of the Technical Sub-Cosmttese                              55
1.      Comaente of the Borrower on the Project Completion Report               56



-1-
BUm
B       E       RROET OPETIN EPR
This is a completion report for the Seed Development Project in
Burma for which a credit for US$ 5.5 million was approved on November 1,
1977. The loan was closed on December 31, 1984 after having been extended by
two years, and after an undisbursed balance of US$ 0.1 million has been
cancelled.
The project completion report, dated December 15, 1986, has been
prepared by an PAOIWorld Bank Cooperative Prograu_e team which visited Burma
in March 1986.  Its preparatiou has been based on information provided by the
Borrower and IDA, and on a review of the Staff Appraisal Report
(No. 1653a-BA), dated October 10, 1977, the President's Report (No. 2159),
dated October 1977, and the Loan Agreement dated November 14, 1977.
Correspondence with the Borrower and internal memoranda and documents on the
project contained in IDA files have also been consulted.
The project has not been audited by the Operations Evaluation
Department. The draft has been sent to the Borrower for comments on
April 9, 1987 and comments were received in a telex dated May 15, 1987
(attached as Annex 1).



-il-
IAlm
SEED DFVELOEnTmi PRojgcT
(C .redit No. ?45-BA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
CASIC DATA SHET
Key Proect DatA
taiAAl       &"Actuat  Current
~~~~fULU
Project Costs (USS million)                 11.1                      13.7
*.. Overrun (Z)                                                        23
Credit Amount IUSS million)                    5.5                       5.5
Disbursed (USS million)                5.5                       5.4
Cancelled (USS million)                  -                       0.1 l/
Date Physical ComDonents Comoleted:
Land Oevelopment                       1981                     1987
Seed Processing Building &
Warehouse                           1980                      1986
Housing                                1981                     1984
Groundnut Warehouses                   1980                     1986
Closing Date                              31.12.02                  31.12.84
Economic Rate of Return (2)                  ?0                        20.5
Institutional Performance                                          Adequtte
Technical Performance                                              Adequate
Financial Performance                                                  Poor
Number of Direct Beneficiaries             385,000                   150.000
l/ Deletion mainly in the overseas training.
Cumnulati-ve [stimated-and Actual Disbursements (US   IJLjon
Bank FisCAL Yaar
Estimated                     0.30   3.30   5.00   5.50       --
Actual                        0.11   0.48   1.03   4.17   4.28   4.?8   5.38
Actual as t of Estimated       37      15     21      76     is8    07      98



-iii-
t.lyar    IIL.                    &A-       fat of ResoR=
Idontification/    April-Nov. 76
Preparation 1/
Assisting Final    Nov. 76           10        3         6     27 Decmber 19?6
Preparation
Appraisal           Feb-March ?1    16         4         9     10 October 197?
Suba-Tatal                          ]212
Supervision I       April/Nay t7                a     o.7r    23 Nay 1I70
Supervision 21      October 7         5       1 a     0.t1    22 Nov 1976
Supervision Itt   April 19t9         24       1 a      3.43    30 Nay 1979
Supervision IV      August 1979      10       I a      1.43    20 August 1979
Supervision V       Feb/March 00    30       2 O,f    6.57    16 Nay 1980
Supervision VI      Feb/March 01    21       2 i.e    6.00    23 Ns,ch 1981
Supervision VIt    Oct/Nov O1        29       1 g      4.14    4 Doec 1901
Supervision VIII   April/Nay 82    20         1 g     4.00    Is June 1982
Supervision IX      July 63          1t       1 0      t.t1    31 August 1963
Supervision X       Feb/March 84    26        1 a     3.11    15 Nay 1904
Supervision Xi      Febl/arch S5    19        1 a      2.?1    22 May 1985
Sub-Iotal                         ina              3UX12
Completion          December 85      10    3 a,b,e   4.29
total                                              i1.A1
a   Agriculturist;  b a Economist;  e a Engineer;  f a Financial Analyst;
g a Agricultural Economist
1/ The project was identified and prepared by consultants.
First mention in files                           End 1974
Government's Application                         September 1975
Appraisal                                        February/March 1977
Pro-Negotiations                                 August 197?
Negotiations                                     16 September 1977
Board Approval                                   1 Novefber 1977
Loan Agreemont Oats                              14 Novembr 1917
Effectiveness Date                               14 February 1970
Borrower:    The Socialist tepublic of the Union of Ourma
Fiscal Year of the Borrower:   April 1 - Nai.;h 31
Executing Agency:   The Agricultural Corporation, Ministry of Agriculture
and Forests



-iv-
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 745-BA)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
EVALUATION $UM4ARQY
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        Agriculture is the dominant sector of the Burmese economy.  It
employs about two-thirds of the labor force, accounts for about one-half of
GDP, generates over 801 of export earnings and provides raw materials for
more than 601 of the industrial production.
2.        During the 1960. and early 1970. value added in agriculture rose
at a modest rate of 1.61 per annum, well below the 2.21 population growth
rate. Among the factors contributing to this unsatisfactory performance were
changes in land policy, insufficient incentives to farmers, and initial
failures of imported high-yielding varieties (HYV) of paddy which proved
ill-suited to local conditions. In response, the Goveroment introduced a
series of policy reforms beginning 1973/74 to improve incentives to farmers
and increase agricultural output. Among the various initiatives taken by
Government was a conscious effort to increase and improve seed production,
since the main source of seed supplies for planting requirements was grain
saved from farmers' own production, whicb usually was not suitable as seed.
3.        With the launching of an important rural initiative called the
Whole Township Ext:ension Program (WTBP) in 1975/76, a beginning was made with
planning of organized seed production at the national level, provision of
equipment for seed processing, introduction of seed quality control measures,
and strengthening of applied research. The IDA-assisted project contributed
the first major effort to meet the expanded demand for quality seed of HYV of
paddy and medium-staple cotton. The seed development program was also
supported by other donors (USAID, PAO/DANIDA) for additional crops such as
wheat, maize and oilseeds.



-V-
II. OBJECTIVES
4.        The project had the dual objective of improving Burma's applied
research capability and of developing a modest seed program. Activities in
both fields were to be regarded as first-phase efforts, and the projectt'
emphasis on training and technical assistance was to pave the way for future
expansion of seed programs. Major project components were:
* strenigthening of applied research and seed production capacity of
six key ARD (Applied Research Division) farms;
o production of 73:000 tons of paddy seed and 2,900 tons of cotton
seed;
* development of seed processing, ginning, storage and seed quality
control facilities on the six farms;
* on a pilot basis, provision of groundnut seed stores in Lower
Burma; and
a training and technical assistance.
III. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE
5.        Total cost was estimated at US$11.1 M, of which US$5.5 N was to
be financed by IDA over five years. The project was to be implemented, under
the overall auspices of the Agricultural Corporation (AC), by the Applied
Research Division (ARD) as the main executing agency, with some components to
be carried out by the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI), the Extension
Division (ED), the Textile Industry Corporation (TIC), and the Myanma
Agricultural Bank (MAB). The National Seed Committee (NSC) was entrusted
with project coordination and determination of seed policy.
6.        Despite a prompt start in early 1978, implementation of the project
suffered serious delays in procurement of equipment and recruitment of staff.
Coupled with frequent shortages of fuel and construction material, this led
to slow progress in farm development, civil works, and training. As a
result, the credit closing date was extended by two years, to December 31,
1984. Partly as a consequence of these delays, the project had a cost
overrun of 23%. By June 30, 1985 the IDA credit was disbursed to 98%, and
the balance of US$0.1 N was cancelled, mainly due to AC's decision to reduce
overseas training.



-vi-
7,        The NSC met regularly and performed its coordination and seed
regulatory function well. In ARD, which was the main project management
agency, responsibilities between the research and seed activities were not
clearly defined in the initial project years. These problems were resolved
in mid-1982, when the research and seed activities were separated into two
sections, and a project manager was appointed with overall responsibility
for project operations. The Project Management Unit became fully operational
in 1983 and petformed satisfactorily.
8.        The ARI, responsible for all breeder seed and some foundation seed
production performed well.  The ED was quite successful in ct-rying out
demonstrations of new varieties and in organizing seed growers and providing
them with extension advice. It was less successful in seed procurement,
mainly because of insufficient incentives offered to seed producers.
However, it is considered that the ED created a good technical and
organizational base for future seed development in the country.
9.        The TIC, responsible for purchasing of seed cotton, ginning, and
seed distribution carried out its function satisfactorily. Seasonal credit
was provided by TIC for cotton, and by MAB for rice.  Both provided credit to
seed growers timely and had a good recovery rate.
10.       IDA has been successful in adjusting the project size and design to
the country's agricultural development strategy and resources. Supervision
missions, consisting mainly of agriculturists, succeeded in accelerating
procurement, recruitment of staff and consultants, overseas training and
construction of buildings. However, IDA did not succeed in convincing GOB to
provide sufficient incentives to rice seed growers with a view to increase
the amount of seed procured.
IV. RESULTS
11.       Despite a slow start and initial problems related to organization
and management, the project achieved most of its institutional and physical
objectives. These included: the establishment of a seed production unit
in ARD; substantial improvement of six seed farms; procurement cl four and
erection of two seed processing and storage plants; procurement of two small
sawgin stands and an acid delinting plant; establishment of seven seed
testing laboratories; and construction of five pilot air-conditioned,
dehumidified groundnut stores in Lower Burma. About 450 staff were assigned
to the project and a sizeable number trained in various aspects of research,
3eed production and related fields.  However, despite the training program,
lack of trained manpower, particularly in practical farm development and
erection and operation of processing plants has remained a problem. Delayed
supply of construction materials and electric power, and perpetual fuel
shortages were also major constraints to project implementation.



-vii-
12.       The project was designed to produce registered seed of paddy on
ARD farms, to be supplied to contract seed growers who would further multiply
the seed under the supervision of the Extension Division (ED). The
registered seed production on ARD farms of 1,050 tons annually, which has
been regularly ach.eved, was expected to result in an annual production of
73,000 tons (3.5 X baskets) of certified seed, sufficient to plant 3.5 N
acres for commercial cropping. This target was based ou the assumption of
full seed exchange among farmers, as there was no provision for purchasing,
processing and redistribution of such certified seed. The cotton seed
program called for production of 2,900 tons of certified seed, sufficient
to plant 175,000 acres.
13.       Actual production of paddy seed by contract growers was estimated
at 53,700 tons in FY 1984/85, or 752 of the target of 73,000 tons. The ED
reported that it bought 26,000 tons, or about half of the amount produced
for redistribution to the VTEP. However, the anticipated liberal exchange
of the remaining paddy seed among farmers was not very successful, because of
an attractive parallel market for the produce, although Township Councils
exchanged some seed for grain with producers. Certified cotton seed produc-
tion fell below the project's target because of long delays in developing the
farm designated for a major part of the cotton program. As a consequence a
smaller cotton seed program, producing about 1,700 tons in PY 1984/85 was
undertaken mainly on adjoining farmers' plots. Despite some shortfall in
seed production, the project is considered to have achieved its major objec-
tive of laying the institutional and infrastructural base for future seed
development programs, and the Second Seed Developmeat Project (Cr. 1616-BA,
declared effective on December 27, 1985) is designed to make full use of
these investments. The project's re-evaluated economic rate of return of
20.5% is satisfactory.
V. SUSTAINABILITY
14.       Prospects for sustainability of the project's achievements are very
good in Burma, for a number of reasons. First, Government understands the
importance of a well-functioning seed production industry for the
agricultural sector. It has demonstrated its commitment, inter alia, not
only through regular satisfactory budgetary allocations to AC's Seed Section,
but also through requesting IDA's involvement in a second-phase project,
which became operational in late 1985. Second, in the AC's Seed Section the
project created a viable institution that has proven to be capable, in
cooperation with the ED and a large number of small-scale farmers, to produce
respectable quantities of seed of all four multiplication stages (breeder,
foundation, registered, certified). Third, over forty technical and research
personnel received overseas training under the project, and over 902 of them
are still working in ARD and the Seed Section. Fourth, the project created
the basic necessary physical infrastructure for seed production, such as farm
development, storage and some processing capacity. And fifth, the
second-phse project is designed to strengthen the institutions, to expand



-viii-
into new geogrAphical areas, to cover additional crops, aud to improve seed
quality control, processing and distribution.
VI. LEASSNS LIM^j5!
15.       The following lessons have been learned from the project:
(i)  High commitment from Government, strong project management and
close coordination are essential conditions for the success of a
project which requires several agencies for its implementation;
(ii) The institutional capacity of ARD as the main implementing agency
was overestimated in view of its limited facilities and qualified
staff resources. Only after the Seed Section was separated from
the Research Section and got more autonomy, project performance
started improving. Proposed project executing agencies require a
close scrutiny with respect to their implementation capacity;
(iii) Project works depending to a large extent on contractors need close
supervision and monitoring to ensure timely implementation and good
quality of works; and
(iv) It is difficult, if not impossible, to influence through a
relatively small project pricing policies in a country like Burma,
with an economically doubtful but otherwise carefully balanced
pricing structure. As a temporary measure, incentives other than
prices, such as preferential supplies of inputs and various other
goods, have to be used to induce farmers to produce seed, and sell
it back for processing and/or distribution to the seed orgpaisa-
tion.



SEED pEVELgpMENT PeOjEcr
(Credit No. 15-BA)
P4O3ECT COMPLETION REPORT
1.  INTRODUCTLON
1.1      Economic growth in Burma is  closely  linked  to  progress  in  the
agricultural sector which employs 66Z of the labour force, accounts for
about 482 of GDP, generates over 802 of the country's exports and provides
raw material for more than 60X of the country's industrial production.
1.2      Rice  is Burma's major agricultural and export commodity as well as
a significant source of Government revenue through implicit taxation from
Government controlled pricing and export. Paddy is grown principally as a
single, low-land rainfed crop in the  monsoon  period.   Some  12.5  million
acres are sown to paddy annually, representing over 50Z of the gross
cultivated area. In 1982/83, rice accounted for more than one-third of
total agricultural output, and rice and rice products for 37? of all
merchandise exports. Other main crops include sesame, pulses, groundnuts,
industrial crops such as jute and cotton, and cereals other than paddy.
.1.3     During  the  1960s and early 1970s, value added in agriculture rose
at a modest rate of 1.61 per annum, well below the 2.21 population growth
rate.   Among  factors  contributing to this unsatisfactory performance were
changes in land policy, insufficient incentives to farmers, and initial
failures of imported NYVs of paddy which proved ill-suited to local
conditions. In response, the Government introduced a series of policy
reforms beginning 19?31?4, to improve incentives to farmers and expand
agricultural output. Among the various initiatives taken by the Government
was a conscious effort to increase and improve seed production.
1.4      The main source of seed supplies for planting requirements in Burma
is still from grain saved from farmers  own commercial  production.   Up  to
1977/78, small quantities of quality seed of different crops were produced
and distributed directly by the applied research farms under the Applied
Research Division (ARD). The seed production activities were based on the
requirement- of a given development project or other needs on an ad hoe
basis.   No  planning at the national level for organized production of seed
was carried out, nor were there any equipment and facilities available for
seed processing and other quality control measures. With the launching of
the Whole Township Extension Programme (WTEP) in 19?5/76 the need for large-
scale seed supplies Of quality rice seed was recognized. This led to
intensified research and the initiation of an organized seed multiplication
programme.   Subsequently,  the  First Seed Development Project (Seed I) for
financing from the World Bank was formulated in 1977 and became operational
in 1978 (para 1.5) to meet the expanding demand for quality seed of rice and
medium staple cotton. Several externally aided projects for increasing
quality seed of and im;roving applied research capabilities for other
priority crops wore also initiated in 1981. They included li) the FAO/DANIDA



-2-
Project for the multiplitation of wheat, maize and sorghum seed; (ii) the
USAID Project for the multiplication of maize and major oil seeds; and (iii)
the FAO/UNDP Project for strengthening the applied research capabilities for
cotton, jute and sugarcane.
1.5      This completion report of the first IDA financed  Seed  Development
Project is based on a study of the Staff Appraisal Report (No. 1653a-BA for
Seed 1t and 5264-BA for Seed I)), Loan Agreement dated 14 November 1911, the
Sank's Supervision Reports and project files. It also makes use of
information obtained from the Agricultural Corporation (AC) and the other
corcerned agencies during a visit to Surma in December 1985.
II.  PROJECT IDFgTTFICATTON. PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Identification and Premaration
2.1      In  September  1975,  the  Government  of Surma (60B), UNOP and the
World  Bank  agreed  on  a 'Programme  of  Pre-investment  and   Investment
Assistance. The programme had nine components including the preparation of
a Seed Development Project. Accordingly a consulting firm was commissioned
to   undertake   the  feasibility  study  during  April-November  1976.  The
consultant's proposals were considered too large and complex for 609's then
existing implementation capacity and also included components with little or
no research backing. The proposals included the development of 28 central
farms (CF) and seed farms (SF) and the production of 50,000 tons of rice
seed, 2,200 tons of groundnut, 2,000 tons of medium staple cotton and 45
tons of jute seed annually.
2.2      A Bank mission visited Burma during February/March 1977 to appraise
the consultant's proposals. In discussions with GOB it was agreed that:
a) a start needed to be made in the development of a seel programme to
acceolerato the production of improved varieties of rice and cotton
seed by the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) in support of
Burma's efforts to increase production of those two important
crops;
b) in view of inadequate infrastructure, shortage of trained manpower,
and an already strained absorptive capacity, initial development of
a seed programme should be modest and restricted to improvement of
rice and cotton varieties. The initial programe could, howover,
serve other crops later;
c) in  view of 0G's political philosophy, it would not be feasible to
develop a seed industry in the private  sector  as  had  been  done
elsewhero in South Asia, and that in view of its past involvement
with seed production, the Applied °esearch Division (ARD) of the
Agricultural Corporation (AC) should be tho load agency concerned
with the seed programme; and



-3-
d) that Burma's inadequate applied research  capability  was  a  major
constraint  which  could  be  addressed  in  conjunction  with  the
development  of  the  sood  industry  taking   into   account   the
institutions and facilities common to both.
Proaect Descriation
2.3      The project, as appraised, was to:
a) improve the applied research capability of six key Central Farms.
This was to be achieved through the provision of equipment,
increased staff from 36 to 109, provision of 74 houses and of
incremental operating funds. ARO's headquarters would also be
strengthened in order to guide field stsff in the design and
analysis of the applied research programme;
b) increase the seed production capacity of the above six farms
through land development on 3,950 acres and the provision of form
machinery   and  implements,  45  units  of  irrigation  equipment,
vehicles, 110 houses, 13 machinery workshops and shelters, 132
additional staff, and operating funds for land development and seed
production. It would also provide  funds  for  development  of  550
acres at ARI's Yczin Farm;
c) develop programmes to produce and distribute sufficient quality
seed:
i) to rapidly  spread  new  varieties  of  rice  (capable  of
withstanding  moderate  flooding)  over 3.5 million acres;
and
ii) to renew, annually, seed required for planting 175.000
acres of medium staple ({G. ..h.i um) cotton;
d) develop four rice seed processing plants and seven warehouses on
the six farms, one cotton ginnery and 10 warehouses as well as
increse staff by 3? and provide operating funds;
o) develop  a  quality  control  programe,  based  on  seed   testing
laboratories at ARI, by establishing soed laboratories on the six
farms and at cotton ginneries, and in groundnut seed stores;
f) include a pilot project to establish the economic and financial
feasibility of providing five groundnut seed storage facilities in
Lower Burma. Equipment and funds would also be provided for a
groundnut survey that would identify the constraints and potential
for expanding the groundnut area and the impact of such a
programme;
g) provide 690 man-months of overseas training to senior research
staff at master's degree level and various short courses to staff;
and
h) provide about 116.5 man-months of technical assistance to help ARD
in the planning and execution of the research and seed programmes.



-4-
2.4      The six key farms selected for development under the project  were:
Hmawbi and Mandalay as the two most important rice research and seed
production farms: Mahlaing as the most important cotton research farm;
Lungyaw as a large farm suitable for a wide range of crops including cotton;
Magwe as suitable for groundnut research; and Letpadan as a station intended
for jute and groundnut research.
2.5      Project   implementation   was   entrusted   principally   to   the
Agricultural Corporation (AC) and, to a minor extent, o the Textile
Industries Corporation (TIC). The various divisions within AC which were to
be involved in the project included:
i) The Agolied Research Division (ARD) which was to be the main
implementing agency responsible for seed production and applied
research and overall project management;
ii) The  Agricultural  Research  Instituta  (ARI)  which  was   to   be
responsible  for  the  production  of  all  breeder  seed  and some
foundation seed and was to monitor quality control procedures;
iii) The Extension Division (ED) which was to conduct demonstrations of
new varieties, p7ovide advice on their cultivation, participate in
the formulation of research programmes and help organize production
of quality cotton seed through contract growers, and
iv) The Procurement Divisign (PD) which was to distribute seeds
produced by ARD.
2.6      The  Textile Industry CQorpration (TIC) of the Ministry of Industry
I was to own and operate the commercial cottqn seed storage, processing and
packaging facilities,
2.7      A National Seed Comgittee (NSC) was to be formed to provide a forum
for the determination of seed policy; in particular it was to be rosponsible
for: variety release, variety recommendation and quality control standards
and procedures. During the project period it was to monitor and coordinate
project activities. A technical sub-committee was to be formed to hand2e
variety release and variety recoimnendation, and to develop, and keep under
review, quality control standards and procedures. Senior technical staff
from ARI, ARD and the Extension Division were to be co-opted to serve on
this sub-committee.
III.  PRO3ECI IMPLEMENTA N
Loan Ngoatiations and Effectiveness
3.1      Negotiations  for  the  credit  took  place in September 19??, with
approval by the Bank's Board of Directors on 1 November 1977. The credit was
signed on 14 November 197? and became effective on 14 February 1978.



-5-
imolometntation Schadiuli
3.2      At  appraisal  it  was  expocted  that  all  civil  works  would be
completed by December 1980 (Charts I and 2) and that technical consultancies
and  overseas  training  would  be  completed by Decomber 1981.  The credit
closing date was set for December 1982. However, because of considerable
implementation delays these targets could not be achieved as scheduled and
the credit closing date was extended to December 1984.
Imlementation of Individual Pro'ject CoMaonentA
Aoolied ResarAch
3.3      To strengthen the research, an increase in staff of ?3 was proposed
at appraisal for the six resoarch CFs. Of these 21 were to be in the
professional staff grade while 52 were to be sub-professionals. ly the end
of the nroject ?4 staff had boen added (Table 1).
3,4      Out of a total of 40.5 man-months of technical assistance  proposed
for the development of research capabilities, 38.5 man-months were used
during project implementation (para 3.46).
3,5      In terms of facilities  for  research  improvement,  ?4  additional
houses, six laboratories, one in each CF, together with the necessary
laboratory equipment and six pick-ups were provided. Although provision was
also made for field equipment (to supplement farm machinery) to the value of
K662,100, the only purchasel made were eight ultra low volume and three
knapsack   sprayers.   a   sot  of  metoorological  equipment  and  a  radio
transreceiver unit.
3.6      The regional level Research Coordinating Committees fRCCs) and  the
National Research Coordinating Committee (N1CC) were sot up. The former have
been useful as the link between the divisional extension services and their
respective CFs, while the latter has served its purpose as a coordinating
agency for finalizing CF research programmes and extension recommendations.
3.7      Research activities included brooding and  selection  of  varieties
and field trials on yield development, cultural practices, plant nutrition
and crop protection. Owing to the rather heavy work load on the research
staff, very few trials were conducted on farmers fields outside the CFs.
3.8      The  research  programmes  increased  significantly  with time.  In
addition to broeding and selection of now varieties which were given the
highest  priority, the agronomic trial programme increased from 60-70 trials
in the period 1978/79-1980/81 to 160 trials between 1962/83 and 1984/85.
However, some of the results were rather poor and often difficult to
interpret because of weak experimental designs and insufficient
detailed analysis of the results.
3.9      Main  reasons  for tho somewhat poor performance of the field trial
programme under Seed I include:
- hoavy work load of the research staff, consisting of both Drteding
activities and agronomic trials;
- research staff insufficiently trained in experimental design and
technique; 1/
- Lack of trained technical support staff;
1/ The Borrower contends that this was not the case.



-6-
- difficulties  in  the   supply  of  research  inputs,  particularly
chemicals for pest and disease control trials; I/
- limited equipment for research; e.g. no soil moisture and water
motors are available to conduct adequate irrigation trials;
- limited analytical and specialist support at all levels, such as
chemical analysis of soils and plants, statistical processing Of
research results, etc.;
- an almost complete absence of up-to-date international standard
text books and scienti'ic periodicals.
Earm=vanm
3.10     Land  dev eloaen  on  the  six  farms  was  undertaken by the Land
Development Unit (LOU) in ARO with assistance from consultants, while land
clearing was contracted to the Agricultural Mechanization Department (AND).
3.11     Despite  considerable  delays,  most  of the proposed machinery a*d
implements wero procured (para 3 8). However, four trucks and two fuel
tanks were procured instead of a low-loader resulting in difficulty in
moving machinery between farms. Provision of housing, machinery workshops
and shelters and equipment for the six farms is discussed in pars 3.16 and
3.49. A total staff of 30 was recruited for the LOU (Table 1).
3.12     Land development was disappointing. Only 2,390 acres or 60Z of  the
proposed 3,900 acres were developed (Table 21. This consisted of 135 acres
of new and 15S acres of rehabilitated irrigated land and 1,486 acres of dry
land, which represents an incroose of 406 acres or 381 in dry land
development and a shortfall of 1.92? acres or 601 in irrigation development.
Because of the concentration of efforts on land development at the six
farms, the proposed development of 550 acres at Yezin Farm was not
implemented.
3.13     Although 1.200 acres at Lungyow were contracted to AND for clearing
and the work paid for, oventually a nearby township was awarded a contract
to destump 750 acres of the area manually. About 735 acres of irrigated land
were developed at Lungyaw, and this may be increased eventually to 1, 00
acres when pumping stations,, canals and ancilliary works are completed.
Compared with appraisal estim9tes, the achievements in land development at
the various CFs were 61? at Lungyaw. 191 at Mandalay. 37? at Hmawbi, 16? at
Nagwe and 83? at Letpadan. The 150 acres at Mahlaing were not developed
because the farm concentrated only on research.
3.14     The  poor  progress  in  land development was attributed to lack of
management assistance to tho Land Development Unit. The dependence on AND
and uncertainties concerning availability of fuel made it difficult to make
realistic programmes for land development. Another contributing factor was
the unsuitable equipment procured by the project with advice of consultants.
3.15     LuiloAa   Although  60e   permitted  ARD  to  construct buildings
valued at loss than K50.000 by force account, almost all buildings were
contracted out to the Construction Corporation (CC).
1/ The Borrower contends that this was not the case.



3.16     After serious delays, about  216  units  or  902  of  the  proposed
buildings were completed as shown in Table 3. The completed buildings
included 179 houses, five research offices and one research seed warehouse,
sig machinery workshops and seven shelters, three rice seed processing
plants and five warohouses, one cotton ginnery and two kapas sheds, two
cotton seed stores and six seed testing laboratoriesloffices. Construction
of one rice seed processing plant, three kapas sheds and three cotton seed
stores was started in FY 191S/86 and is expected to be completed in early
ISO?. Three climatizedand  two  non-climatized groundnut  seed  stores,  four
laboratories and a drying shed remained uncompleted.
3.1?     The  supply  of  electricity was an additional cause for concern at
several places. A new power line is expected to deliver power to Hyittha by
1988 or even earlier but it has been proposed that until this power line is
completed the acid dolinting plant should make use of sparo generating
capacity in the nearby TIC saw gin plant. However, no agreement has yet been
reached with TIC in this regard. The Electric Power Corporation (EPC) plans
to instal a now transformer at Kysukac from which Lungyaw could be supplied
but no date has yet been  fixed  for  this.   Power  supplies  for  climatized
groundnut stores are still awaited.
3.18     Although  some  materials  used  in  cdnstruction  are  not of high
quality and some building details could have been better designed, the
overall standard of construction was found to be generally satisfactory.
Seed Production
3.19     Farm  machinery  and implements, nine vehicles and nine motorcycles
were procured for the six farms. Fifteen irrigation pumpsets  were  procured
against 45 sets proposed at appraisal (pars 3.41). The required houses were
mostly completed (pare 3.48). A total of 210 staff were assigned for seed
multiplication.
3.20     The  annual  seed  production  of  rice and cotton at all stages of
multiplication including broeder, foundation, registered and quality seeds
is detailed in Table 4. The first three stages were grown on Central Farms
while quality seed was grown on farmers' fields by contract seed growers
without specific quality control and certification.
3.21     RiS.   Production  of  breeder  and  foundation  seed exceeded the
appraisal estimates while registered seed production was according to
targets. Quality seed production, aimed at producing enough seed for a paddy
area of 3.5 million acres, however, developed much more slowly than expected
and reached about 53,TOO tons in FY 1184/65 or 15t of the.target production
of 72,000 tons.
3.22     Sites for growing quality rice seed were selected  by  a  committee
consisting   of  the  Township  People  Council,  the  ED,  AND,  Irrigation
Department; the Land Record bepartment and the Township fanager. The sites
selected were not always in contiguous blocks. Farmors who cultivate the
land in the blocks chosen were obliged to exclusively produce soed on their
whole farm and to forgo the cultivation of local varieties which are highly
valued for home consumption. The procurement price for quality rice seed
paid by the ED to contract growers was the saome as the AFPTC's procurement
price for consumption grain. In the absence of any price incentives for
quality  seed  (psra  3.31)  farmers  were  reluctant  to participate in the
contract seed production programme.



-8-
3.23     Low procurement oi Quality rice se0d was due to  a  combination  of
factors including the organization of contract seed growers, the oxisting
AFPTC's paddy procurement quota of about 301 of the total paddy productiofl
and the absence of any price incentives for toed production, An over-loaded
ED, insufficient storage and logistic problems also contributed to thO
unsatisfactorily  low  procurement.   In  addition,  the anticipated libe,ral
exchange of rice seed among farmers did not happen, It appears that
considerable quantities of this seed were sold as grain on the free market
for higher prices. Registered rice seed produced on ARO's farms was sold
through the ED to seed growers at K12-14 per basket (pars 3.304. In FY
1984/85 about 1,229 tons of registered seed wore sold to growers for
multiplication of quality seed. This produced 53,700 tons of quality rice
seed (pars 3.211. However, the EO was able to buy back only 26,000 tons
(Table 12) or about half the total produced. The rest was used as seed by
producers and their neighbors, and/or sold as grain on the parallel market.
3.24     Cotton    Seed  multiplication for medium staple cotton was planned
for two CFs (Lungyaw and Hahlaing), but the programme was only implemented
on the Lungyaw farm while at Mahlaing only short staple cotton seed was
produced.
3.25     Breeder seed production was accordirg to SAR targets. Production of
foundation seed, however, proceeded slowly because of the late development
of irrigation at Lungyaw farm (para 3.13). This necessitated production
under rainfed conditions in the earlier years resulting in yields lower than
estimated. The cultivation of both breeder and foundation seed under
irrigation started only in 1962. It was anticipated that registered seed
production would start in 1980, mainly on 1,?40 acres of irrigated land on
the Central Farm with a total annual production of 357 tons of cotton seed.
Due to difficulties in land development, however, the registered soed was
also multiplied by contract seed growers in the vicinity of the Lungyaw
farm. Consequently there were wide fluctuations in annual seod production
due to varying climatic conditions. Production ranged from as little as 76
tons in 1981 to 512 tons in 1983; the average yearly production over the
five-year period (1980-1984) was about 200 tons or 56Z of the target.
3.26     Shortfalls  in  the  registered  seed production and organizational
difficulties led to a delay in the start of quality seed production (1982
instead of 1981) and to a much lower annual production. The average
production during FY 1982/83-1984/05 was 1,120 tons or 392 of the target of
2,858 tons.
3.2?     Procurement  of  quality  seed cotton, its ginning and distribution
were undertaken by the Textile Industries Corporation (TIC) which provided
separate facilities for ginning quality sood cotton. Procurement of seed
cotton and distribution of cotton seed wero satisfactory and timoly and TIC
provided interest-free seasonal loans in the form of a. advance purchase
system (APS) to all growers at the rate of K210/acre.
S.ueze  Mh
3.28     Under the project 60  was expected to set the  prices  of  seed  at
levels which would oncouraoge the use of improved seed. The formulae agreed
at appraisal for pricing seed produced under tho project wore:
a? The selling prices of registerod and quality rice seed would bo set
following the Government official procurement prico for grain plus
all additional processing and handling costs. Based on the above
formula a selling price of K16-19 per basket was agreed to;



-9-
b) for cotton seed, it was G08's desire that the selling prices of
registered and quality -cotton seed should remain the sama as
commercial seed. thus the selling price of KC/viss was agreed to.
3.29     The actual selling and procsrement prices of seed are shown below:
Seed Iric2i
Selling Prices              Progurament PricU
Unpr2c2fssfd     Procsse
lice 5ged tKiiiAkIll
Registered                  12             14                   10
Ouality                     12              -                   10
tatton-Seed (KLvissl
Registered                   -              1             * (seed cotton)
Quality                      -     '                      ? (seed cotton)
3.30     The formula  used  for  pricing  registered  rice  seed  was  ARD's
production costs plus processing and handling costs (from ARD to DO's
distribution point). Thus, K12 per basket was fixed as selling price of
non-processed registered rice seed and K14 per basket for procosssed seed
(ARD's production costs of K10 per basket plus K2 per basket for  processing
=nd K2 per basket for handling and transportation). The formula for pricing
of non-processod quality rice seod was the AFPTC's procurement price for
consumption grain plus handling charges. The selling prico of the quality
rice seed was set at K12 per basket (AFPTC's procurement price  of  K10  per
basket plus handling charges of K2 per basket from seed grower to EO and to
ED's distribution point). The same selling and procurement prices wore
applied to all seed cotton whether grown for seed or for commercial sales.
3.31     The  procurement  prices of  quality rice seed produced by contract
seed growers was not sufficiently considered at project design stage, since
it was then assumed that there would be a significant exchange of soed among
farmers. Tho AfPTC's existing official procurement price for ordinsry grade
grain of K10 per basket, which was 301 to 502 lower than prices at free
markets (115-20 par basket) was applied. This has created considerable
reluctance among farmers to participate in the contract seed growing
programme and for those who participate to supply all seed produced to the
ED because of the higher free market price for grain. This in turn resulted
in an unsatisfactorily low procurement of quality rice seed.
Seed proceasina and Staorma
3.32      iSa.  Four 1 ton/hour seed processing plants were  purchased.  Two
were  installed   at  Nmawbi  and  Mandalay and have boen in operation since
1982. The plant at Lungyaw was completed in December 1985 and was expected to
start  operating  In  1986.    The fourth plant planned originally for Yezin
was eventually erected at Aunglan (proposed under Seed I)1 instead of
Lotpadan, whero a three ton/hour capacity plant is being erected. Five seed
warehouses wore also completed. They are of the same size (40 x 00 sq ft)



-10-
and capacity (430 tons). A total of 35 staff and machinery operators woro
appointed. Some of the staff were also assigned to quality control duties.
3.33      The plants at Hmawbi and Mandalay have been working  satisfactorily
and close to full capacity, producing about seven tons of clean seed in an
eight-hour shift. Processing output of registered rice seed from the tvo
plants was about 1,000 tons per season of 120 days. The registered rice seed
from Letpadan was processed at Nmawbi, while seed from Lungyaw was processed
at Mandalay.
3.34     Cotton.   Two  gins were procured for ginning cotton grown for seed
production at Lungyaw. The first one is currently in operation and appears
to be working satisfactorily although driven by a diesel engine. Output is
about one ton per 12-hour shift. A total of 12 staff and a mechanic
presently work in this plant. The second one, under erection, was expected to
be in operation in  1986.          The building for the acid delinting plant at
Myittha is still under construction although the equipment is already on
site awaiting installation. There are uncertainties concerning electricity
supplies at Hyittha (see 3.17). Two cotton seed warehouses with capacities
of 72 tons and 216 tons respectively, two seed cotton sheds and four
laboratories cum offices were completed. Three additional cotton seed
warehouses and one cotton seed shed are currently under construction and
expected to be completed during FY 1986.
Quality Control
3.35     Seed quality control measures introduced by the project included:
i) the establishment of regulations for soed quality control by the
National Seed Committee (NSC). These consisted of defining the
relevant multiplication stages for seed, work procedures (field
inspection, sampling, laboratory analysis, etc.) and minimum seed
quality standards as well as developing a seed labelling system,
phytosanitory regulations and
ii) the establishment of a register of varieties and a list of
recommended varieties; the setting-up of a central seed laboratory
and three regional laboratories at Nmawbi, Lungyaw and Mandalay
Central Farms;
3.36     Seed quality standards and control regulations were established and
published by the NSC. They follow international standards. A national list
of recommended varietios has been drawn up for rice and cotton varieties. In
1985 the list included 22 NYVs of rice of which 13 varieties were at all
stages of multiplication, four varieties were only at the broeder seed stage
and one variety was at the foundation seed stage. Four varieties of cotton
have been released  since  the  beginning  of  the  project  and  are  being
multiplied at all stages of seed production.
3.37     The  central  seed  laboratory,  initially  planned  for  Yezin was
established at ARC headquarters in Gyogon. Small seed testing laboratories
were established in all six project CFs. The central seed laboratory is
operational. It is staffod by one senior quality control scientist, six
t0chnicians and supporting staff compared to one scientist, two technical
assistants and two labourors as estimated at appraisal. tn addition to
testing seed produced under the project, it is now also responsible for seed
control for the UNDP-financed Industrial Crops Oevolopment Project and the
DANIDA-supplied Quality Seed Production Projoct. Sood laboratories at CPF
are mainly concerned with germination and purity tests.



-11-
3.38     Except for  a  few  changes  in  actual  quantities,  most  of  the
equipment for quality control operations was purchased as identified at
appraisal. The main changes were thO increass from 6 to 10 of driers for
bulk and bagged seods and the reduction of moisture testers from 19 to 6.
3.39     For  the  groundnut  programme four office cum laboratory buildings
wore p:ovided but connection of blectricity and  installation  of  equipment
are  awaited  (para 3.43). Thus, groundnut seed procurement and storage have
not yet started.
3.40     The ED provided extension services and inputs in a timely manner to
seed growers and farmers under the Whole Township Extension programme. It
operates  through   about   8,600   extensioc    offices   organized   on   a
state/division, township and village tract basis. At present each Village
Extension Manager is responsible for about 4,500 acres of cultivable land.
For input distribution, ED operates through 675 godowns in 314 townshps. ED
supplied seed and fertilizers to farmers at the following rates:
HYV Bice (lb/mg)              Madium Stacla Cotton alb/ac)
lud           commorl UC                g  *   ,8     C
Produclioa       ProductigD         etnStaifl         trSciio
Seed             46                46                 29                36
Urea            112                64                 56                20
TSP              S6                56                 56                28
HOP              28                26                  20                -
3.41     All seed growers received priority for input supply.  The  TIC  was
responsible for supply of commercial cotton seed.
Groundnut Pilot Proramm
3.42     A  sample  survey  by  the  Central  Statistical  Department  which
commenced in February 1978 had been completed in November 1978. The report
had identified that the unavailability of seed, due to storage difficulties
during the monsoon season and high cost of seed purchased from Upper Burma, was a
significant limitation to the area under groundnuts. It concluded that
farmers were willing to expand areas if groundnut seed was available at a
lower prico. The report supported the establishment of groundnut seed stores
in Lower Ourma. Construction sites wero subsequontly selected in the five
townships of Takkyi, Minhla, Nyounglobin, Yokyi and Ingapu in the divisions
of Rangoon, Pegu and Irrawaddy. Three climatized and two non-climatized seed
stores were proposed.
3.43     To  date  construction  of  the  buildings  has been completed, but
connection of electricity and installation of the refrigerating equipmont
are awaited. The capacity o' those stores is only 12.000 baskets each, and
not the 20,000 baskots as planned, mainly because of stacking height
constraints.   ARD  has  no woll-defined plan for completing and utiliZing
these seed stores at prosent. The five groundnut store managers and 10
supporting staff who were recruited under the project have been assigned to
routine duties at ARD's project farms.



-12-
Training
3.44      Training needs were identified by  ARD  with  assistance  from  tho
consultants.   It  was  envisaged  at  appraisal that 45 staff members would
receive $9O man-months of training abroad. As at present, 374 man-months
have been used for training 42 staff members (Table 5). T.iis training
covered  most  of  the  topics  identified  at  appraisal.  Delays  in   the
recruitment of staff and difficulties in the selection of trainees for
agronomy and soil chemistry led to the cancellation of 72 man-months, and
another  88  man-months  were identified during implementation and provideld
Overall, the overseas training programme has been beneficial 'for the
implementation of the projec:t in spite of the fact that some of the trained
staff were transferred to non-project activities on promotion.
3.45     Several short  formal  and  informal  training  courses  were  also
organized for project staff by ARD and the consultants. These courses were
in  farm  management,  farm  mechanization,  applied   research   and   seed
production, processing and quality control (Table 6). Many of these courses
were too short to cover the subjects in the required depth. Moreover, due to
delays in the procurement of equipment and in recruitment of staff, the
technical assistance component ended before the staff could be properly
trained.
Technical Assistance
3.46     The technical assistance component was financed by UNDP. A total of
116.5 man-months of technical assistance was foreseen at appraisal. During
project implementation, 121 man-months were used. Delays in the procurement
of equipment and in the recruitment of staff caused considerable disruption
in the work schedule of the consultants, but they were able to contribute
signific2ntly   to   the   planning   and  implementation  of  the  project;
particularly to land development, farm mechanization, applied research, seed
processing and quality control and to local training. Earlier appointment of
counterpart staff and greater continuity of the consultants would have
improved the effectiveness of technical assistance.
Procuromeal
3.47     Procurement of equipment was a major problem during the project due
to   substantial  delays  in  obtaining  GO  approval  for  specifications,
responsive bidding, evaluation, opening of letters of credit and clearance
of goods from the wharf.
3.48     Procurement   improved   considerably   in  1981  as  staff  became
acquainted with the administrative procedures. Most equipment was recoived
by the end of that year. Major equipment procured included the following:
i) twenty-one units of heavy machinery and implements, four trucks and
a set of survey equipment for land development; t low-loader was
envisaged undor the project but not procured;
ii) seventy units of farm machinery and implements, 15 sets of
irrigation equipment, workshop equipment, nine trucks and nine
motorcycles for the seed production; two cotton planters were
envisagod in the project but not acquired; and



-13-
iii) most of the necessary equipment for seed processing storage and
quality  control  and  thuse  for  the  groundnut  programme;   one
elevator, five bagging bins and four platform scales for cotton
seed processing were envisaged in the project but not acquired.
3.49     Equipment   procured   for   the  applied  research  component  was
insignificant. It included only six sets of laboratory equipment, six
vehicles and 13 small items.
Project Cgst
3,5t     Table 7 gives annual 'roject exnenditures, while  Tables  8  and  9
present comparisons of app .isal cost e%timates with actual costs. Total
project costs were K96.2 million (or US013.7 million) representing an
overrun of 18Z compared to the appraisal estimate of K81.3 million (US$11.1
million) (Table 13). The overrun was mainly due to implementation delays
resulting in cost escalation for the construction of buildings, land
development and procurement of equipment, Moreover, physical contingencies
provided at 10 for civil works and at 5Z for equipment were too low.
Project Financing
3.51     The Bank was to  finance  the  project's  foreign  exchange  costs,
excluding technical assistance which was to be financed by UNOP, and about
182 of the local costs which together amounted to 58X of total project cost.
608 was expected to finance the balance through annual budgetary allocations
to AC. Credit disbursements during 1979-1981 lagged far behind the appraisal
schedule. Sy June 1981, total cumulative,disbursements were only 212 of the
appraisal estimates (Table 10) despite the fact that most i'nvestments were
made during this period. This was caused by a shortage of trained staff in
ARD  and  resultant  delays  in  submissions  of  applications  for   credit
reimbursements. As staff were recruited, disbursements improved markedly in
1982. However, due to cost overruns, the actual total disbursement by the
Sank of US$5.4 million amounted to only 391 of total project cost. A sum of
US$100,000 was cancelled by the Bank due mainly to reduction of the overseas
training.
Credit Reallocation
3.52     At the borrower's request, credit allocations were changed to  meet
mainly the increasing costs of civil works and the procurement of additional
equipment and  machinery.   Reallocation  between  different  categories  of
expenditure is shown in Table 11.



-14-
IV.  INSTITUTIQAL PERFORMANCE AND DgVELOPMENT
P-rosect Coordination and Nanaoaemnt
4.1      Project  coordination  was entrusted to the National Seed Committee
(NSC) whose main function was to determine seed policy. It consisted of the
Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests as Chairman and representatives
from the Ministries of Agriculture and Forests; Finance and Planning; Trade,
Industry I and the Central People's Peasant Council, the Managing Director
of AC and its divisional "eneral Hanagers and the Project Manager (Appendix
1).. Secretariate support was provided by ARO. The NSC met frequently during
early years of implementation which was the period when the project was
facing its severest problems. Much time was devoted to review and approval
of seed policy and project annual work programmes but the Committee was not
able to completely solve the problems of obtaining timely and adequate
supplies of fuel and construction material due to persistent shortages at
the  national  level.   Although  CC, AND and EPC were responsible for civil
works they were not members of NSC and were therefore not fully committed to
the project completion schedule. The NSC and its Technical Sub-Committee l/
worn also responsible for project monitoring. Since this activity was not
drtailed at appraisal, project progress was only reviewed at irregular
intervals, which adversely affected timely implementation. throughout the
project period no attempt was made to rectify the situation and therefore
required staff skills were not developed.
4.2      ARD had overall management responsibilities of the project.  During
initial years, responsibilities were not clearly defined, resulting in an
overlap of duties between research and seed production and between non-
.project and project activities. These problems were resolved in mid-1982
when the rese¶rch and seed programmes were separated. Two DGM positions were
created:  one for the applied research programme and the other for the seeds
programme (Chart 4), and a pro3oct manager was appointed with responsibility
for the overall operation of the project.
4.3      The  Project  Management  Unit became fully operational in 1983 and
performed satisfactorily over the years. It was instrumontal in planning the
project annual work programmes, carrying out procurement and preparing
project progress reports and reimbursement applications. It also assisted
the project's six farms in carrying out land development, seed production,
processing and quality control.
Imolomontiona  fec
4.4      The  Aariculture ReAaarch InttitA  (ARI) in AC was responsible for
the multiplication of all brooder and of some foundation seed. The
quantities produced by AR? were in excess of project targets. The seed was
distributed to ARD's six central farms for multiplication; however, ARI was
unable to monitor the quality of seed produced by ARO.
I/ See Appendices I and 2 for compositions of the NSC and the Technical
Sub-Committee.



-15-
4.5      The Eixtension DivisLon (ED) in AC was responsible for  coordinating
the selection of sites for seed growing, organizing the contract seed
growers ant! for procurement and distribution of quality rice seed. The EO
encountered  considerabie  implementation  difficulties  (see paras 3.22 and
3.23) particularly with rice seed production and procurement, and could
therefore not achieve the envisaged targets. However, it created the
required base for future seed development in the country. The ED also
successfully carried out varietal demonstrations and provided the seed
growers with advice on rouging.
4.6      The  Textile  IndustyX  Carogration  (TIC)  was   responsible   for
procurement  of  seed  cotton,  ginning,  distribution  of  cotton  seed and
marketing  of  lint,  oil  and  other  by-products.  It  provided   separate
facilities for ginning quality seed cotton and its procurement of seed
cotton and distribution of cotton seed were satisfactory and timely.
4.7      The  Myanma  Agricultural  Bank  (MAB)  has  been  responsible  for
provision of seasonal loans for rice, pulses, oilseed and other industrial
crops, while TIC has been responsible for provision of an advance purchase
system LAPS) for fibre crops (cotton, jute, etc.). MAD and TIC have timely
provided loans and APS to seed growers and farmers with satisfactory loan
recovery. The same rates of seasonal loans and APS are provided to both seed
growers and non-seed growers despite tho higher production costs for
producing seed.
Accounting and Renortlng
4.8      The  ARD  prepared  quarterly and annual project reports. Technical
reports  (on  applied  research,  land  development  and  irrigation,   farm
,nanagement. training requirement, seed processing and quality control) were
mostly prepared with the assistance of the consultants. Preparation and
submission of unaudited and audited accounts were delayed because of
shortage of staff. In general, the accounts and reports were of a
satisfactory standard. However, because of shortage of staff and office
equipment ARO could not maintain separate recurrent expenditure accounts for
applied research and for seed. This would be necessary if ARO wishes to
operate the seed programme on a commercial basis in future.
Comgliance with Covmnoants
4.9      600  complied  with  most  covenants  although  considerable delays
occurred as shown in Table 13. 608 did not carry out the survey on the
impact of the groundnut seed stores in Lower Burma as they have not yet been
completed. GOB also did not fully comply with the requirement for appointing
staff permanently to the project.



-16-
V. PROJECT IMPACT
Intended Imoact
5.1      At appraisal, project benefits were expected to accrue from a rapid
and widespread use of new high yielding rice varieties, and the use of
quality medium staple cotton seed. Yield estimates of local rice varieties
and NYV in the without and with project situations were 1,5t8 lbs per acre
(33 baskets/acre) and 2.346 lbs per acre (51 baskets/acre) respectively or
an increase of 828 lbs per acre t18 baskets/acre). For cotton, the expected
yield of medium staple seed cotton from the use of quality soed was
estimated to increase by 5SZ or 10.8 lbs/acre (3 viss/acre), and seed rate
was expected to be reduced from ?2 lbs/acre (20 viss/acre) to 36 lbs/acre
t10 viss/acre). Annuarl rice and cotton seeds produced from the project at
full development were estimated at 73,000 tons and 2,900 tons respectively;
sufficient for planting 3.5 million acres of rice and 15,000 acres of
cotton.   Although  the  groundnut  seed  stores  were  considered  a  pilot
activity, benefits were quantified and included in the economic analysis of
the  project.   It  was  expected that provision of seed stores would permit
groundnut seed prices to fall by 25l and this would result in an expansion
of groundnut area by 201 or 3,300 acres.
5.2      Based  on  the  above assumptions, annual incremental production in
the project at full development (Tables 1T. 18 and 19) was estimated at
188,000 tons of paddy, 860 tons of seed cotton and 1,350 tons of groundnuts.
The economic rates of return (ERR) were estimated at over 100t for the rice
seed component, 2?Z for the cotton seed component and 25? for the groundnut
compOnent. ERR of the overall project was estimated at about 701.
Progect*s Imoact and Incromental Production
5.3      Overall  imoact.   The  project  was  instrumental  in establishing
institutional and infrastructural bases for future seed development in the
country   and   for  Seed  II  in  particular.   It  achieved  most  of  the
institutional and infrastructural physical objectives. These included the
establishment of a seed unit in ARD; substantial development of six research
and seed multiplication farms; establishment of rice and cotton seed
processing and storage plants; establishment of seed testing laboratories
and quality control standards and procedures, as well as the construction of
groundnut seed stores in Lower Surma. About 470 staff were assigned to the
project and a significant number trained in various aspects of research and
seed technology.
5.4      Tcgh5loaical  imoact.   The  applied  research  programme produced
useful results in methods of seed establishment and the spacing roquirements
for various varieties, in fertilizer application, including the effects of
zinc on rice yields and it made some recommendations on the application of
blue green algae on rice fields. In the field of plant protection, the
population dynamics of the yellow stem borer and the brown plant hopper were
worked out, a number of pesticides were screened and their application rates
established for control of a number of pests. Screening for disesse
resistance was carried out for rice, wheat, sugar cane and maize and
effective herbicides selected for woed control in rice, wheat, maize,
groundnuts and cotton.



-17-
5.5      increases in yields of QAddv and cQtton were only due to the use of
quality seed produced in the project. The expected yield increase from tho
spread of new HYVs of rice had already been achieved before the start of the
project; therefore, no additional benefit from the introduction of HYV
occurred.
5.6      Reliable information on yields is not available.  This  PCR  has
accepted the estimate made for the Seed II project, and assumed that the use
of quality seed would increase the yield of paddy by about 5 over a three-
year period. Since seed is normally retained for three years, this would be
an increase of about 1.7X per year (59 lbs/ac/year) relative to yields using
ordinary seed. For cotton, it is estimated that the use of quality seed
would increase yield by about S. Since seed is replaced annually, the
incremental yield is estimated at 27 lbs per acre per year. No benefit has
been calculated for the groundnut seed store component.
5.7      Actual quantities of quality rice and  medium  staple  cotton  seed
procured and distributed are shown in Table 12. In 1985/86,26,090 tons and
1,718 tons respectively  of  rice  and  cotton  seeds  were  distributed  to
farmers.  This  was  sufficient  for  planting  1,250,000  acres of rice and
105,180 acres of medium staple cotton (based on the seed rates of 46 lbs per
acre  for rice and 36 lbs per acre for cotton). Assuming that the quantities
of seed distributed in 1985/86 represent full development, the annual
incremental production from the project is estimated at 33,260 tons of paddy
and 1,290 tons of seed cotton. About 750 tons per year of cot,;on lint is
also available for processing from registered and quality cotton seed
production.
Farm Income of Seed Growers
5.8      Per acre farm budgets have been prepared for rice and medium staple
cotton to illustrate net incomes of seed growers and commercial growers as
shown in Table 14. A summary of prices of produce and inputs is presented
in Table 15. The current procurement price paid by the ED for quality rice
seed at K10/basket is the same as the AFPTC's official procurement price for
ordinary grade grain. Although there was no price premium for producing
quality rice seed, the ED provided KIO per acre cash to contract seed
growers to meet part of the additional labour requirements for roguing. The
current procurement price for medium staple seed cotton is K?/viss for both
quality and commercial seed cotton.
5.9      Net incomes per acre of seed growers  and  commercial  growers  are
summarized below
Net Income Per Acre (El
1II"          cmme1x&l Lncreme9alA
GIrLQwer  (        2   )
Rice - At K10/basket            492              480             12         3
- At K12/basket           663               480            183       38
Medium staple cotton          3,645            3,232            413        13



-18-
5.10     Net incomes per acre of rice seed growers  and  commorcial  growers
are  based on the assumption that they are obliged to deliver paddy produced
to either the AFPTC or the ED. Income from sale of paddy on free markets has
not been taken into consideration. At existing procurment Prices, there is
no significant difference in not income per acre between rice Seed growing
and commercial paddy growing. However, if the procurement price for quality
rice seed is raised to K12/basket, which is the AFPTC's official procurement
price for first grade grain, the incremental net income per acre for rice
seed growing would be K183, or 380 higher than the net income per acre of
commercial grain production. This would provide a good incentive for seed
growing. The incremental net income per acre for cotton seed growing is
estimated at K413, or 13? higher than the net income per acre of commercial
growing
Ooeratino Cash Flow of the Seed Programme
5.11     Under the Burmese economic and political setting, selling prices of
seeds are kept below actual costs to ensure a high response in the use of
seed with capital costs and operating deficits financed through GOB's
budgetary allocations.
5.12     An operating cash flow of the rice and cotton  seed  programme  has
been prepared based on pro3ect operating costs and revenues from sales of
registered rice and medium staple cotton seed and lint. Costs and revenues
were expressed in 1985 constant prices. The operating costs, including
taxes and duties but ercluding research, were restated in 1985 prices by
using  GDP    deflators.  I/   The operating cost in FY 1985/86 was based on
AR5's budget and has been assumod to remain constant from 1986/87 onwards.
One-fifth of the total operating cost has been assumed for working capital.
Interest on working capital, at 8X per annum (the existing interest rate on
loans from the Myanma Economic Bank) was also charged to the seed programme.
5.13     Revenues  started  in FY 1981/82.  The selling prices of registered
seeds wero K670/ton (K1i/basket) for rice and K612/ton (KI/viss) for medium
staple  cotton.   The  price  of  cotton  lint  is estimated at K15,000/ton.
Production of registered seed during FY 1980181-1985/86 is presented in
Table  4.   The quantity of registered rice seed sold in FY 1985/86 has been
assumed for full development of the project. Sales of cotton seed and lint
in FY 1986/87 and onwards have been based on average sales over the past
three years. Two-thirds of total revenues were from sale of cotton lint
which was considered as a by-product of cotton seed.
5.14     The operating cash flow of the seed programme is presented in Table
16. It indicates that at the existing selling prices of registered rice and
cotton seed and including revenue from sale of cotton lint, the seed
programme has been and continues to be operated at a loss. The seed
programme, including revenue from sale of cotton lint, would be financially
viable if the selling price of registered rice seed was increased by at
least 301 to K18.5/basket. However, if revenue from sale of cotton lint was
excluded, the existing selling price of registered rice seed would have to
be increased to K30 per basket. Thus, the seed production is effectively
subsidized by Government, but the subsidy is more than offset by the low
producer prices paid to farmers for paddy. 2/
1/  GDP   deflators used during FY 1978/79-1984/85 are t 0.83, 0.68, 0.89.
0.93, 0.95. 0.97 and 0.99.
2/ The Borrower contends that this was not the case.



-19-
VI. ECONOMIC RE-EVALUATION
6.1      Because  of  the  overlap  between  rice and cotton seed production
activities, the economic re-evaluation has been undertaken for the project
as a whole. Costs of and benefits from the research and groundnut seed
stores were excluded. Recurrent costs in FY 1985/86 and thereaftir have
been based on ARD's estimates. It has been assumed that there would be no
further investments in land development, irrigation, and buildings from FY
1985186 onwards, but equipment would need replacement. ARO's estimates for
rice and cotton seed production from FY 1985/86 onwards have also been used
for this analysis.
6.2      All  costs and benefits are expressed in 1985 constant prices. Past
expenditures excluding taxes and duties were re-stated in 1985 prices by
using GDP's deflators (para 5.12). The average official exchange rate of
US$1 : K8.5 in 1985 was used in the economic analysis. Local costs and
locally traded goods were converted into border prices by applying the
standard conversion factor (SCF) of 0.80. Replacement costs and residual
value of equipment were included in the cost streams based on the assumed
economic life of 1 years for farm machinery and vehicles and 20 years for
seed processing and quality control equipment. Prices of fertilizers have
been based on the world prices projected to 1990 in 1985 constant prices as
shown in Tables 17, 18 and 19. A weighted average of seasonal wage rates at
K5.6 per man-day was used. A summary of input prices is presented in Table
20.
6.3      The  projected  economic  paddy  price  for  1990 expressed in 1985
constant value amounts to K 657.0 per ton et farmgate as shown in Table 21.
The price of cotton lint is estimated at K15,000 per ton. Phasing of
quality seed distributed and area benefitted is presented in Table 22.
6.4      The analysis has  been  carried  out  over  a  twenty-year  period.
Economic costs and benefits streams are presented in Table 23. The economic
rate of return (ERR) of the project as a whole is re-estimated at2O.5%. The
main factors contributing to the lower ERR are cost overrun, shortfall in
production of registered and quality seed and lower yield and price of
paddy.
VII. BANK PERFORMANCE
Pro,ect Design and Aporaisal
7.1      The  Bank  was been instrumental in aligning, during appraisal, the
project's scope and design to the country's agricultural development
strategy  and  resources.   It  suggested  a  reduction in the project size,
limited seed multiplication to rice and cotton and emphasized the need for
developing infrastructural and institutional bases for seed multiplication
and  linked  these  with  the  improvement   of   ARD's   applied   research
capabilities. The Bank correctly anticipated that a commercially based seed
industry could not be introduced in the private sector within Surma's
political and economic setting. It also suggested that G0B set seed prices
at levels which would induce a response in use and at the same time cover



-20-
production costs plus processing and handling charges. The sanks proposal
for technical assistance was well justified and has beorsi beneficial tO
implemontating  the  pro3ect.   The emphasis on training (including ovorseas
training) has enabled AC staff to implement an expanded seed multiplication
programmo.
7.2      The  sorious  shortages  of fuel and construction material were not
anticipated at appraisal. The need for a separate committee, comprising all
concerned divisions in AC and the other corporations, in particular the AMD
and CC, to coerdinste project implementation was also  not  recognized.   In
addition, sufficient attention was not givon to the need for incentives to
producers of quality rice seed, and to the deficiencies in manpower and
facilities for handling seed procurement and distribution.
7.3      The  Bank  sent   11   supervision   missions   to   Burma   during
implementation. Supervision missions tendod to be less froquent during
periods when the project was facing problems. Nine missions were one-man
missions consisting mainly of agronomists. Participation by civil engineers,
financial analysts, or economists was minimal. Nevertheless, supervision
missions succeeded in accelerating procurement, recruitment of staff and
consultants, ovorseas trainLng and construction of buildings.  However,  the
Bank did not succeed in convincing GO0 to provide sufficient incentives for
quality  rice  seed  growing  in  order  to  increase  the  level  of   seed
procuroment.
VIII. SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
8.1      Despite a prompt start in early 1978, implementation of the project
suffered serious delays in procurement of equipment and recruitment of staff
and the chronic shortage of fuel and construction material hindered the
timely and successful imploemntation of the project. Targets affected were
those relating to procurement of equipment, land development, buildings, and
overseas training.  Therefore,  the  credit closing date of the project was
extended  to  December  1084.   Partly  as  a  result of these delays a cost
overrun of 18? occurred. The project further suffered from an unclear
assignment of responsiailities among staff, weak managment in ARD. and
inadequate coordination and monitoring.l/
8.2      Nevertheless,  the  project  was   instrumental   in   laying   the
institutional and infrastructural bases for future seed development in
Burma.  A  seed  unit  was  established  in  ARD;  six  research  and   seed
multiplication farms were improved substantially; rice and cotton seed
processing and storage facilitios, seed testing laboratories and groundnut
seed stores for Lower Burma wore constructed. In addition, quality control
standards and procedures were developed and staff trained in various aspects
of research and seed technology. About 470 staff were assigned to the
project.
8.3      Annual incremental production at full dovelopment is  estimated  at
33,260 tons of paddy, 1,290 tons of seed cotton as well as I50 tons of
cotton lint obtained from processing of registered and quality seod cotton.
The Production and procuroment of quality rice seed fell considerablY short
of expectation du.Q to lack of incentives tothe produeors. This resulted  in
1/ The Borrower contends that this was not the case.



-21-
a reduction of area planted to less than half the appraisal esti.mate of 3.5
million acres. Despite the low prices paid to seed producers, the seed
programme resulted in financial losses to Government.
8.4      Despite   the  higher  costs  of  the  project,  the  shortfall  in
production of registered and Quality rice and medium staple  seed,  and  the
lower yield and price of paddy, the re-estimated ERR of the project
excluding the research and the groundnut pilot programme is still attractive
at 20.5%.
Lessons Learned
- In view of the deficiencies in trained technical research support
staff and research facilities, the assignment of such a large part
of the seed development programme to ARD limited that institution's
capability. The project did not adequately address the need for
improvement in the applied research programme.
- A large proportion of project staff was appointed on a temporary
basis leading to high staff turnover and disruption of project
activities, particularly land development. Contracts should have at
least covered the project duration to ensure continuity.
- In  designing the organization and management of a seed development
programme, it is essential to establish a sufficiently independent
organization  to  oversee  all  seed  activities from production to
distribution. Spreading related seed activities among several
institutions  whose  primary  resporsibilities  and functions cover
non-seed production activities does not allow for continuity of
seed supplies.
- Since quality seed production depends so much on a large number of
individual contract seed growers, an assurance should have been
obtained at the beginning of the project to get their optimum
cooperation  through  some  form  of  incentives   like   a   price
differential between seed and grain or the provision of adequate
inputs and attractive rouging subsidies. Furthermore, farmers
participating in contract seed growing should be permitted to have
some area for production of consumption or marketable grain.
- High commitment from  Government,  strong  project  management  and
coordination are basic pre-conditions for the success of a project
which requires a number of agencies for its implementation.
- Project works which depend heavily on contractors need very close
monitoring and supervision in order to ensure adherence to quality
standards and implementation schedules.



S       : E   E    '-  oP ME '  PQt_w
LOCATION OF CENTRAL FARMS , SEED PRp,CESSING PLANTS
ANI"W WAREHOUSES
_*-~ INtTERNATIONAL 80,tONDA                              | 
-- D- IVISIONISTATE EOUN9OAAYj                                j
,*RAILWAY                                
s  ^ENT4AL CARtSX  
SEED ,ABORA"ORY\                                                 
- G1O0- ONDUT S'ORE                         -!i
COT-01t SEED WARE-O-SE                     ,_  
,    ^   9OC40CSSING P,^NT           j-0.       -        
A 4-'  ''SL-NT!NtG PIANT     (                                     .
! o       30      2 00     300        '        1                  
<e in{                                       T A2 t E      *
t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ H                                                   N   A     
-  j                 ji v     ,__
|  tn  *  n  \'  -~~~~~~\    ;+ ¢   / ~S   H   A   N                        .    j
\ (    =>   I    i    jw    ,%S   T   A   T £                                         ;
!  -    -- t$s \          tr_<       * \  \ ~~~S T A   
--------       N\   +             
I~~~~~~~~ Al18w   [5;=,J,
S,.U. @               s A    e                 j                             I~~~~~1
.,      ,    ''I  
_  Z--F''A



BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
LAND DEVELOPMENT SCHEDULE
A C T I V I T Y                  1978-79                t979-80                t980-a1               19801-82               1982-83                1983-84                1984-85
_I  I   --T -T--                            r rTF_   , F                                    FF,                  1_r  iF-T~  ,F   -  1-
Torogsaf *vtI  Sur vty         .........           .........               ___  __                                  .=     _                             __      _         _  
Sod $Lrey
..............  .....
(q..w-'-r.t  ct.r                                                   ,-t
*..ind Cteaetnq                                                                                                .
t*rd (,^,~~~~~~~~~~.,9...........                             ...... .....   .     .....    ...... , 
Ptough 1A9
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. . .._____. _._                       _ ____;__. ..........      ... ......_
Pt Jnninu                                                           -                                                                       _  -
*t*ntat'tS  trn tr;WIn-,                    ~~~~......              ......                                                   _-
. f                     .-.-.-----                    ....                    .A. .. .....                                           .                                  -
ANPIiAl.AtA
........... ..... ... _ ....  ............ . ..  ..... . .. ... ...._ 7  ......... ..(.1 .....A 



I3URMA
SEED~ DEVELOPMENT PR~OJUC1
CONSTRUCTION WORK SCHEDULE
8 U I L. 0 1 N G                         9 78a- 79    1 9 79-80  {:9 a4i2. j.:198 >7.    1982 -83    1983 - 84 11984 -85
Gradepr~s1  ItI
- Grade                        ... ... ..   I . . . . . . ... --.......                                     I __   __   __   _ ......__                   __  __
jprr.to~~~~~te$    --   . .-.........    .....................
Libt>orator *es  .................... I ...................~ ~ ~    ~ ~
nice Processing Planit                                      I..          .----                        .-.
Fhetd Shed                                                                                                                                                   I_____
Seed Cotton Shed                                                                                                                                                             -
Cotton Seed Store                                                            -.                                          _______    _______
.--.--. "--.-....--        ----...~ ~..................
Grud4tOffice/Laboratory                                ...............-I--                                                   --r--.-    ~
Store                                 .......i  _______________    I                 I~~~~~... ... ... ...   II              _ __  _ _ __  _ _
.  ....APPR~AISAL
A C TUA L.



SURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION DURING FY 1978179-1982/83
AGRMCUTURE                            SEE
MD FOSESTS                            COMMtEE
CORPORATION
A(GpICULTMjAL       APLE                X rfNSoW        POURM
RESEARCH            RESEARCH           o                oHivs
A.M       * ~DAOM                        As311.I Gu*malAktoGos
I .                                                                 I~~~~~~~~~~I
(s_fA                                                                                                      wafh
OAOM ~   ~     AM                    AAADG
SeEd i_oitietiaa    OiWetn          _
Jv. ,,,4   bd4re    Ttinir4                           ts-X                             *_ tforetion  "O_)
| tlt    l  l~oum  CDhtrl        l Cn   n                 O



BURMA
SEED DEVELOPM4ENT PROJECT
Present Organization
NINISTRY Of ASRICULTURE                        NA_IONAL SEED
---F  ~ CORNITCEE
L ANAND tOpSTS_
r[       AGRICULTURE             --       rF      TE( c ICAIL
C ORPORWIC0N                                .O_- s8CO,UwITIFE 
A6tlCUt TLRE                                                        APPLIED                                 EXTENSION                        PROCUEREN?ti T
RFStARCH INtSl I TUTf                                                     1DV I        _                       DIVISION                           DIViSION
tADRtIt. )tt                                                                                        SE) t*tX} -  (R  E SER)             0' - - __             !t   
RCIA)r                                          t                      Lto
( D.:.h 1II)         ||D.G.Nt. CII)    1G *1
X               -       --    1                            r         _Z        1--- --- ----Z 
A.6.".                         _E"D EA"                                       MEAO              EAID SEED
(ADMIX:                        EAD            StED             SEED            SEED             Qttt tTY
(AtCOUNT) I                                                                     L.O.U.       pDUCTION           PROttSSING     D*stRltjtlE         CONTROL
l                                ~~~~~~~~~~~~TRAlINING)             __                              StORA6E_              _     
D-'              D.. r      - z |DAGz            |DA6F.          r O..A  .Gt.    A6l.1                         Ctt;lRAt               SEED                                   |
AC t ;JL         ACON        l     UGE                                       I  LXIW                  L          aws                  FAXt 1



-27-
Table 1
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Project Staff
Before the        With the 1/
Project
A. Headquarters                                     17               61
Implementation and Administration               -               26
Research                                       17 2/.           17
Seed Production and Processing                  -                4
Seed Quality Control                                            11
Land Development Unit                           -                3
B. Field Staff                                     144              409
Research                                       36              110
Seed Production                               108              210
Seed Processing and Quality Control             -               35
Land Development                                -               27
Cotton Processing Plant                         -               12
Groundnut Seed Stores                           -               15
Total (A + B)                                   161              470
Source: ARD.
1/ As of December 1984.
2/ Including administrative staff.



SURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-8A)
Land Develooment
(acres)
ITtal      Lunvai       Mandalay      fahlana      aRiSe      Ietnapan damank
Aoora1sni
Full Irrigation - New                2.000        2.000           -             -           -
- Rehabilitation    820             -          300            -           -            120           400
Dry Land Development                 Jodo-                                     150          I
Total                             3,900        2.750         300            150         180          120           400
Actual
Full Irrigation - New                  735           735          -
- Rehabilitation    158             -           se                                     100            -
Ory Land Development                 1 486         1200                                     3-                         ISO
Total                             2.379        1.935          58                        *36          toO           150
==5W-    =:3=2=         ==Y                        ===         ===            ===
'Actual as S of Aporaisal
Full Irrigation - New                   37            37          -
- Rehabilitation       19           -           19                       -             83             -
Dry Land Development                   138           160          -                        76            -
Total                                61           70           19                       76            63            37
.==          ===         3=2                      ===          .===3=
1!b



OURMA
=Q£D YLL.QPft"I PROJECT
(Credit No.74S-BA)
Bulld1nns otistructLi
(Mumabos)
LungAY    MandtlaJ   Mab!laiD    Ian"   Lat4adan   Hbawbi   Vezin   Kwaukse    MiUttha   Tot I
Residential Building
Grade I                           6          2          1         3          3         2                                      I
Crade 2                         Ql           5          3         a          7         6
Grade 3                          so          9          3         16        15         10                                    112
Office                              I           I         I          I         I          -                                      S
Laboretory                                      I                    I                                                           z
Workshop - Major                    I           1                                                                                2
- Minor                                         I          I          I         I                                      4
Machinery Shelter                   3 I/        I         I          I         I                                                 4
Rice Warehouse                      I           I                              I          I       1                              5
Rice Processing Plant               I           I                              I f        1                                      4
Kapas Sled                          I                                                                               3           4/  B
Cotton Seed Store                   I                                                                       t        3  2       5
Cotton LsboratoryiOffice                                                                                             3          4
Groundnut Laboratory/Office A/                                                                                       I
Groundnut Store  Al                                                                                                              S
Cinnery                             I                                                                                            I
Gonerator House. Pump House.        I
Water Tank
Groundnut drying Shed. Mintia                                                                                                    I
Acid Oelinting Plant                                                                                                             I
l/  Three Shelters coebined into one structure.
It Under construction. Originally proposed tor Vetin.
af  One under construction.
Al  Located at Tik-Kyi. Nyanglabin. lngapu. Minhis and Yekyt.
I!



...... ....  ........ ....... S... W   .......  ....... M...  5 .......  ....... Om..  t ...... .   ... .tw  .... ... .tZ ...... It
k           Novt imo           b.            9ego$e              os           Pedutift           ka                                           £        M       *     dK        !rNiu
us        M"         2         U   MIMV kmU r_   30  g1 .ti  so  ei.u                                              1   O4   .               ki ,               ktE  Aitte
tacet)        lt)              t               (SWu)             t*9.)          h1ug                              Ttwj tiFf!)  lust)   1ruS)   OtM                       tO        to
he'
b00rw  $n           1.4     6.9  O.i        0.79     6.4   t04      6ri      2.3       0.4      0.6    0.79    0.25     6A      .4      6.       2.34          I.5      2.U       5.2      5.3        l.&   4.
lacklirn tggi       -       -      -        -       u9.0   10.9   a.4    VA.          1.6       6.9   25.4    2.8    19.0   24.6    25.4        31.7          24.6     4.         W13.    10.0       N6       t0t4.4   |
Obeh"im    NW-- -                                                                      we 6          J.        1.63     OU      m 0 , 67M    1,174             736     1.177      6        .12        n9      1.2"2
absit W m            -      -      -        -        -                                                                       34-  -  -  -  -  -  .72 7n ,233   42.7  V.?2  47.  36.11  50 .432    34.4   53,65
ks6 1_   0          2.0    2.9  l.63    2.0    23.6   It.S    1.3    2.4S    2n.a    20.0               .U     2.50   2.6   a.0    1.41         .1           3.6        3.30     50.0      5.3       20.3     3.5
1uo.                -       -      -        -      2.0  270.0    .9    03.              .4   2.6   2.9          6.6   26.6  25.0         .9      9.6        2.0        3.t       27.9l     7.6      093.       3.7
lIWsl                -      -      -        -      M.        -     174.0    -        1.746   2,612     i5s       63   .7. 2.1   U  JD             I          I.0 U       tI b    I.M  t/   u12      2,4        140
0tt0 h               -      -      -        -        -       -       -       -           -       -      -         - ZI.WS        -   2.663        -           an2 U      M      9.26  2    12    16.5Z        0 l.70t
NX de.
it  bslh *O.0 S aid tea Jep sutlt woo a In=h,el  f i m w o rel of cattra  Cov  sib".
if  ON   o w)lOt0 o111.6*t "wbs I1 o t.



-31-
Table 5
WURM4
SEED DEVELUPMENT PROJECT
(credit NO. 745-BA)
Overseas 7raining
A8oraisal Estimates           Actual
=:*06600000 (man-Months) O   * *  e
M.Sc.
Rice Breeder                                       48                     48
Cotton Breeder                                     24                      -
Cotton Entomologist                                24                     24
Groundnut Breeder                                  24                      -
Plant Pathologist                                  24 
Soil Microbiologist                                24                     22
Seed Technologist                                  24                     24
Corn Breeder                                        -                     48
Unidentified Discipline                           168                     _
Sub-Total                                     360                    166
Training Courses
Rice Agronomist                                    12                      -
Soil Chemist                                       12                      -
Cotton Breeder                                     12                     24
Cotton Agronomist                                  24                     15
Groundnut Agronomist                               12                      6
Groundnut Breeder/Agronomist                       12                      6
Plant Pathologist                                   -                     12
Jute Breeder/Agronomist                            12                     18
Senior Quality Control                             12                      7
Groundnut Programme Supervsior                      6                      3
Cotton Programme Supervisor                        12                     12
Seed Specialist                                    48                     38
Junior Research                                    36                     18
Seed Production Staff                              36                     21
Seed Improvement                                    -                     10
Seed Testing                                        -                     18
Unidentified Discipline                            84
Sub-Total                                     330                    20
Total                                             690    .               374
w"U4



-32-
Table 6
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Formal Training
TYPe of Training               Duration   No. of Trainees           Remarks
(days)       Attended
Field Inspection (Rice)             3            15           ARD & ARI staff
Field Inspection (Cotton)           2            13           ARD & ARI staff
Seed Testing (Rice and              2            19           ARO & ARI staff
Cotton)
Field Inspection and Seed           2            61           Extension staff
Testing
Seed Production, Processing,        6            53           ARD & ARI staff
Field Inspection and Seed
Testing
Seed Production, Field Inspec-       4           27           Extension and ARD
tion and Roguing (Cotton)                                   staff
Seed Production, Processing and    2             25           Mandalay, Lungyaw
Quality Control (Rice)                                      & Kyaukse farm
staff
Seed Production, Processing and    2             22           Lungyaw, Mahlaing
Quality Control (Cotton)                                    & Hlaingdet farm
staff
Seed Production, Processing &        2           19           ARD farm staff
Quality Control (Rice)                                      (Lower Burma)
Seed Technology Workshop             5           30           ARD, ARI and
Extension staff



SURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Ciedit No.745-8A)
Prolect Expenditure
Ite"                                 t978/79   t979/80   t980f8t   t981f62   t982/6f3   t983/84   t984f85   Total
..................(K millioi) ................
1. S'uil Works
a. Land Daevlonment                                  -       0.60       1.33       0.55         -       0.42       0.61     3.51
b.  uidldinas
Housing - for Research                          1.51      2.53       4.15       0.54        -        0.17         -      8.90
- Seed Production                      1.79       2.67      6.24       1.69      0.39       0.08       0.12    12.98
Sub-total          3.30      5.20      10.39        02 g.39                       0.12    21.8 
w
Office for Research                             0.19      0.27         -          -          -         -          -      0.46
Laboratories and Cold Stores                    0.04      0.05       0.75       0.49      0.50       0.72         -      2.55
Workshops                                       0.09      0.31       0.25       0.04        -          -                 0.69
Machinery Shelters                              0.11      0.34         -          -         -                     -      0.45
Rice - Seed Processing Plants                     -       0.13       0.63         -         -          -          -      0.76
- Seed Warehouses                         1.02       0.04      0.69         -          -          -         -       1.5
- Field Shed                              0.03         -          -         -          -          -         _       0.03
Sub-total          1.48      t.14       2.32       0.53      L_5I       0_12        _6.6
Cotton - Seed Warehouses                          -       0.17       0.07         -         -        0.18      0.25      0.67
- Seed Sheds                              -        0.03      0.33         -        0.09      0.10       0.10     &J.65
- Ginnerles                               -        0.17      0.07         -          -         -          -      0.24
- L-bototories                            -          -       0.21         -       0.04       0.06         -      0.31
_Ub-total            -_.3               0_16B        -_.1               0.34 -              1.8IA  I?
Groundnut Seed Stores & Lab.                      -       0.97       2.64      0.56       0.32         -         -       4.49
c. Electrification & Water Supply                    -         -        1.16       1.25      0.10         -       0.60      3.11
d. Construction & Improvement of Farm Roads          -         -        0.60      0.33       0.03       O.IS         -      1.31
Total Civil gorks                                 4.78       8.28      19.12      54L  L     I.47       t.88 Z      68    42.66    @
_ Z



SEED DEVELOP ET PROJECT
(Credit No.745-6A)
tro lSct ExoUndgtur6
L.                                   J     A197a/79   19JSi80   t9U0/11   !9ni/ml  19JL2/83   19M3/84   I&L/8S   ltalm
........ .......  ,.. ....  ..       mIllion) ..................
2. £auent
Land Devolopment                                3.29      0.22       0.01       0.03      0.44         -          -      3.99
*,esoerch                                         -          -       0.7l                    -         -                 0.71
Soed Production                                 1.13       1.26      3.40       0.30      2.09                           6.16
Seed Processing - Nice                                     1.20      0.52              -          -               -      1.12 
- Cotton                         -       0.01       0.02      0.13       0.36         -        1.62     2.34
Quality Control                                        -             0.46                    -               -           0.40
Growndnut Swrvey                                  -                  0.04         -          --0.04
Groundnut Seed Stores                             -       0.36       1.2S       0.27         -         -          _       I.8
Orge2niation 6 Usn_gemnt (HQ)                     -       0.04       0.15       0.02         -         -          -      0.21
Sub-total          4 42      3 Q7       0. O75               2.2          __t              19 5a3
Lend Dovolopeent                                0.10         -                    -          -         -
Research                                        0.29         -                    -         -          -
Seed Production 6 Processing                    0.66      0.32       0.02         --
Organtastion & Manage-ent                         -       O.S       0.10       0.20         -         -
o*_~~~~U                                     it                 -_       _ -
4. Overseas Trainin                                     -        0.06      0.16       1.26       1.28      0.33       0.01     3,t4
5. TechnIcal Assistance                               1.59       1.65       1.64      1.50       0.06      0.24       0.33      7.21
Total InvestMnt Costa                             12.04      14.16     27A4       J.A6      5i)        2.4S       3i4     T4.9L
*t Itr
*1



8URtAA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.745-RA)
Pro-lect Expenditure
LItem                                 197a/.z    l979/ io .980/8It 1981/i 2   1982/83   ta3/84   t9a4/85   Total
..................(K million) ................
6. Recurrent Costs
Salarite                                         0.20       0.34      0.72       0.97       0.91       0.92       0.72      4.78
Labour                                           0.2S       0.81       1.08.      1.29      1.4S       1.64       1.09      7.61     I
Inputs                                           0.20      0.33       0.42       0.S9       0.75       1.19      O.S       3.63     L
Fuel                                               -       0.03       0.10       0.20       0.20       0.20       0.14      0.87
Building Mafntenance                               -        0. 04      0.02      0.06       0.07       0.07       0.10      0.36
Machinery Operation & Maintenance                  -        0.01       0.07      0.04       0.06       0.10       0.06      0.34
Miscellaneous                                    0.06       0.29       0.52      0.75       0.63       0.68       0.30      3.63
Sub-total      p     71       1.8s       2.93       3.9Q       4-27   5 .00          2.S       1 .22
TOTAL COSTS                                        12.75      16.01      30.57      13.06       9.97      7.45       6.40    96.21
Srol 



sEE  DE oVELOPMwENT POJ EC T
(Credit No . 745-SAl
Comoarison of Project Cost Estimates and Ex0enditures
1/                                        b  Change Over
Aporaisal Cost Estimates        _Proect Et^andttures                Appraisal Cost
K       US$                      K        USs           Estimates In
OuantitL   Million  Milltin    Q2uatity  I.iwan  li 'lion 2/        tl.ats  IL 2!
1. Land Development                                4.500 ac      5.25    0.72        2.379 ac      3.S      0.49            67     60
2. Buildinas
Housing for Research end Seeds                  184 No.   11.t 5    1.62          179 No.   21.66      3.25           l1S    201
Office for Research                               5 No.    0.78    0.11             5 No.    0.46      0.07             S9     64
Laboratories and Cold Store                       2 No,    0.10    0.01             3 No.    2.55      0.35         2.550  3.500
Machinery Workshops                               6 No.      . 75    0.10           6 No.    0.69      0.10             92    1O0
Machinery Shelters                                7 No.              0.11           7 No.    0.45      0.07             so     64
Rice - Seed Processing Plants                     4 No.    0.41C    0.06            4 No.    0.76      0.12            165    200
- Seed Warehouse and Shead                  7 No.    2.41    0.33             S No..   1.76       0.27            74      82
Cotton - Soed Warehouses                          5 No.    2.10    0.29             4 No.    0.67      0.09             32     31
- Seed Cotton Sheds                       S No.    0.29    0.04             5 No.    0.65      0.09            224    225
- Ginneries                               I No.    0.12    0.02             1 No.    0.24       0.04           200    200          1
- Laboratories/Offices                    4 No.    0.15    0.02             4 No.    0.31       0.04           20?    200
Groundnut  Seed Stores                            5 No.    190    0.53                 No.    4.49,    Q  66           tt5      2S
Sub total                                              23.69    3.25                     34.93      5.16           147    159
3. Electrification and Water Supply                    -           -        -                      3.11      0.43
4. Construction and liprovemen.t of Farm Roads               -     -        -            t           11      0.16
S. Egutgent - Land Development                                   6.26    0.85                      3.99      o.se            64      68
- Research                                         2.33    0.32                     0.71      0.11             30     34
- Seed Production                                  5.71    0.78                     0.16       1.1           143    ISI
- Seedt Processitng                                1.58    0.22                     4.06      0.55            257    250
- Quality Control                                  O.St    0.07                     0.40      0.07             94    too
- Groundnut Programme                              1.04    0.14                      1.92     0.29            165    207
- Organixation and Management                      0.02    0.003                    0.21      0.03          1.050  1.000
6. Vehicle                                            44 No.    1.41    0.19            46 No.    2.45      0.36            174    189
7. Oversee Training                                  i9O mA      3.98    O.S4          37-4        3.14     0.42             79      78
S. Technical Assistance                              116.5 am   7.14    0.97           121 ma      7.21      1.05           101    t08
9. Recurrent Costs                                              223L    3-°S.                     21-22    2Li              _Y
Total Coats                                              81.28   11.09                     96.21      13.71      .   116    124
SC=C>-    CS5se                   *=s~s     ===             ==     a=
I/  Including physical and price contingencies.
A/  The following exchange rate were uset between 1978 acnd 1984:  6.6. 6.6. 8.6. 7.3. 7.8 7.9 and 8.3.



fiUR!J
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Comnarison of Proiect Appraisal Unit COsts and Actual Unit Costs
*                  ~~~~~~~~~~1/ 
AnOraisal Estimates                   Protect Expenditures            % Change Over
Total              Unit Cost           Total             Unit Cost          Appraisal
K       US$                            K       us$                           Estimates is
j11110jn Milion       .tj (USS)  Million  Million    ILL             USSy .wt            mU
Land Development                             5.25      0.72      1.166       160    3.S1      0.49      1.475       206      127       129
Housing for Research and Seeds               11.85     1.62    64.400    3.800   21.88        3.25   122.235   18.150        190       205
Office for Research                          0.18      0.11   156.000   22.000    0.46        0.07    92.000   14.000         S9        64
Laboratories and Cold Store                  0.10      0.01    50.000    5.000    2.55        0.35   850.000  116.700   1.700    2.330
Machinery Workshops                          0.75      0.10   125.000   16,700    0.69        0.10   115.000   16.700         92       tOO
Machinery Shelters                           0.78      0.11   111.430   15.700    0.45        0.07    64.290   10.000         58        64
Rice - Seed Processing Plants                0.46      0.06   115,000   15.000    0.76        0.12   190.000   30.000        165       200
- Soed Warehouses and Shed              2.41      0.33   344.300   47.150    1.78        0.27   356.000   54.000        103      115
Cotton - Seed Warehouses                     2.10      0.29   420.000   58.000    0.67        0.09   167.500   22.500         40        39
- Seed Cotton. Sheds                  0.20     0.04    58.000    8.000    0.65         0.09   130.000   18.000       224       225
- Ginneries                           0.12     0.02   120.000   20.000    0.24         0.04   140.000   40.000       200       200
- Laboratories/Offices                0.15      0.02    37.500    5.000    0.31        0.04    77.500   10.000       207       200
Groundnut Seed Stores                        3.90      0.53   780.000  106.000    4.49        0.66   098.000  132.000        115       125
Electrification and Water Supply                -        -                           3.11     0.43
Construction and improvement of
Form Roads                                  -         -                           1.11     0.16
Equipment - Land Development                 6.26      0.85                          3.99     0.58
- Research                         2.33     0.32                          0.7t     0.11
- Seed Production                 5.71      0.78                          B.16      1.16
- Seed Processing                  t.S8     0.22                          4.06     0.55
- Quality Control                 O.St      0.07                          0.48     0.07
- Groundnut Programime             1.04     0.14                          1.92     0.29
- Organization and Oanagement   0.02        0.003                         0.21     0.03
vehicle                                       1.41     0.19    32.000    4.300    2.45        0.36    53.260    7,825        167       182
Overse- Training                             3.98      0.54      5.768       783    3.14      0.42      6.400    1.120       146       143
Technical Assistance                         7.14      0.97    61.288    8.326    7.21         1.05    59.600    8.680        97       104    c
Recurrent Costs                             223...3.                                21.22     _".i                                            cr
Total   Costs                          61.28    11.09                         96.2t    13.71
I/ Including physical and price contingencies.



-38-
Table 10
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Cumulative Disbursements
A praisal          Actual           in
Estimate
0.*.*....e.* (US$ million) ...........
FY 1979            0.3                0.11             37
FY 1980            3.3                0.48             15
FY 1981            5.0                1.03             21
FY 1982            5.5                4.17             76
FY 1983             -                 4.28             78
FY 1984             -                 4.78             87
FY 1985             -                 5.38 1/          98
1/ As of March 1985. Cancellation of about US$120,000 as
of July 30, 1985.



-39-
Table 11
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(Uss'000)
ExDenditure Category            ADDraisal       Revised}/        A
Di sUisnts
Civil works                     1,600.00       2,310.00         2,306.45
Equipment, machinery and
vehicles                      1,800 00       2,100.00         2,312.84
Incremental operating costs       800.00         385.00           384.66
Overseas training                  500.00        310.00            379.20
Unallocated                       800.00         395.00               -
Total Allocation                5,500.00       5,500.00         5,383.15
Cancel led                            -             -              116.85
Original Credit                 5,500.00       5,500.00         5,500.00
/ March 1985



-40-
Table 12
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Quality Rice and Cotton Seed Procurement and Distribution
1981/82    1982/83      1983/84    1984/85   1985/86
e***Xv*vv**v4v***  tons)X**@v4**
Rice
Procured                  17,740     20,450       23,584      26,089    26,089
Distributed                    -     17,740       20,450      23,584    26,089
Cotton
Procured                       -        142        1,503       1,718      1,718
Distributed                    -           -         142       1,503      1,718



-41-
Table 13
Page I
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Major Covenants
Original   Revised
AGMT   Section   Status      Date       Date      Description of Covenant
CRED     3.02       OK                            Borrower to retain agricul-
tural consultants by
association.
3.03      OK                            Borrower to establish Rsch.
Coord. Cmte. and Natl. Rsch.
Coord. Cmte.
3.038     OK                            Establishment of National
Seed Committee.
3.07      OK                            Borrower to confirm Letpadan
farm is suitable for speci-
fied research.
3.08      OK                            ED to carry out demo pgm. re.
intended distribution of new
or established var. of seeds.
3.09      0K                            Borrower to designate variety
of cotton seed for each town-
ship and supply seed accrdly.
3.10A     OK                            Borrowers to designate suit-
able ginneries for handling
cotton seed.
3.11      OK                            NSC to establish register of
seed varieties and list of
recommended seed varieties.
3.12      OK                            GOB to upgrade status of
Letpadan farm or its alter-
nate.
3.13      OK      04/30/78              GOB to raise aggregate and
annual ceilings for seed dev.
to reflect proj. cost est.



-42-
Table 13
Page 2
Original   Revised
AGM4   Section   Status      Date       Date     Description of Covenant
CRED     4.01C     OK                            Audited Accts./Audit. Reports
due to IDA not later than 6/9
mos. after end of fiscal
year.
4.02      OK                           GOB to establish and maintain
seed pricing formulae for
seed produced under project.
4.03      OK                            Monitoring surveys to be con-
ducted for at least 3 years.
4.04      OK                            ARD to employ 4 managerial
positions.
4.05      OK      03/31/78              GOB to make arrangements for
overseas training.
MINT     2         OK                            Signing of UNDP project docu-
ment for TA component.
3CO       OK     03/31/78              ARD to furnish bldg. prgrm.
and proposed contract with
CC.



-43-
Table 14
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Financial Prices of Outputs and Inputs
1977         1985
Outputs
Paddy - Official Procurement Price (K/basket)            9.5         10 - 12 1/
Medium Staple Cotton (K/viss) I/                          7.0         7.0
Inputs
Seed: - Paddy (K/basket)                               12 - 16       12 - 143/
Cotton seed (K/viss)                             1.0          1.0
Urea (K/lb)                                              0.16         0.16
TSP (K/lb)                                               0.56         0.56
MOP (K/lb)                                               0.27         0.27
Land Tax (K/acre/year)                                   3.0          3.0
Labour (K/man-day)                                      5 - 6        10.0
jj 46 lbs/basket, K10/basket for ordinary grade grain and K12 for first
grade grain.
2/ 3.6 lbs/viss.
7/ K12/basket for quality seed (unprocessed);
K14/basket for registered seed (processed).



-44-
Table 15
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Farm Budgets Per Acre
Rice (HYV)             Medium Staple Cotton
Seed Grower   Commercial   Seed Grower   Commercial
Grower                       Grower
Qty K K Qt&  K           K
Yield (lbs)               3,950          3,450           648            540
Gross Value of Produc-
tion                            8691/3/         750 1/       42536         3,780
(1,040)1/1/
Inputs
Seeds (lb)                 46    14       46    12    29        29    36      36
Urea (lb)                 112    18       84    13    56         9    28        4
TSP (lb)                   56    31       56    31    56        31    28      16
MOP (lb)                   28      8      28      8    20        5      -       -
Pesticides                         3              3            250           100
Sub-Total                      74              67            324           156
Family labour                27      -      27      -    25         -    25       -
Hired labour (m-d)           28   280        18   180    50      500    35    350
Animal traction (day)         8      -        6     -    15         -    10       -
Land tax                      -      3       -      3      -       3      -       3
Irrigation                    -      --             -      -      10      -     10
Interest charges 4/                 13             13              -              -
Miscellaneous j/                     7              7             49             24
Total Production Cost         377             270            891           548
Net Income                         492 1/         480          3,645         3.232
(653) V
1/ At official procurement price of K10/basket fQr ordinary grade grain.
!/ At official procurement price of K12fbasket for first grade grain.
§/ Including rouging fee of K10/acre as non-price incentive.
1/ K140 per acre at 12% over 9 months.
T/ 10% for rice and 15% for cotton, excluding labour, land tax and
interest charges.



SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.74S-BA)
Qoeratina CnAh Flow of the Seed Proqgr-am
t97LALL9  ItZ979JU   1.80QL1   19LL82   19827H3   19I8U34   1I98Uj      19AosiS    t9A.1X    jug?1LU
.............................................      mililo...o) ......................................
doeratina Costa
Salaries and Labour               0.3        1.0        1.6       1.9        1.9       2.0        1.5      1.S         1.S      1.5
material                          0.2        0.4        0.5       0.8        0.9        1.3       1.3       1.3        3.3       1.3
Sutldings and Machinery
Operating & Malten&nce Costs   0.1         0.3        GA        0.1        0.1       0.2        0.2      0.2         0.2      0.2
miacoll-n-oua                     0.1        0.3        0.5       0.7        0.6       0.9        0.9      0.9         0.9      0.9
Incremental Working Capital J/  0.14         0.22      0.18       0.16       0.04      0.14       -        -           -       (0.88)
Interest Charges 2/               0.01       0.03       0.04      0.06       0.06      0.07       0.07     0.07        0.07     0.07        1
U'
Total Operating Cost&           0.JS       2.0§      2*a2       L_12      L.a0       4.61       3-97     3-91        3.Lr      t.ft       I
Roa-nues
Salg of RSeaatered RIca _ead
- ton                           _                    _        1,184      1.174     1,177      1.132    1.229       1.229    1.229
- Value a'                                 -          -         0.7        0.8       0.6        0.8      0 8         0.0
Slof Rnm1taered Cotton Seae
- ton                                                            8 63      76        168       S12       140         280      260
- Value A                       _                               0.05      0.05       0.1       0.3       0.1         0.2      0.2
5^eof Cotton Lint
on ton                                     -         -           52         48       It9        324       89         t77       177
- Value jI                                 -                    0.8        0.7       1.8        4.9      1.3         2.7      2.7
Total Amvpnuea                             -         -          .I-Ss      1.55      2.J0       6.UO    2LD ;0       L.L      31J
Surolum tDetfeitl              (0aii)    t2.05    (LIZ)    (Lii)    (L.2S)            L1) 20 03    (.La27           (Q.22)      Q
J/  Assuaing one-fifth of the above costs and was deducted In the final year.
I/  Interest rate of 8% per annum.
J  At £670 per ton.
XJ  At £612 per ton.
«JAt itis.aci par ton.



-46-
Table 17
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Price Derivation: Urea
(1985 Frice Levels;
Economic Price
1. World Market Price  /                 (USS/ton)              210.0
2.  Plus Freight and Insurance           (USS/ton)             + 90.0
3.  Import Price c.i.f. Rangoon              "                  300
(K/ton) 2/          2,550.O
4. Plus Handling, Storage and
Administration                                          .+ 99.5 3/
S. Plus Transport from Port to
Project Area                                            + + 102.4  /
6.  Plus Transport to Farm i/                                   + 6.0
7.  Farmgate Price                                            2k757.9
(K/lb)                   1.25
1/ F.o.b. Europe, bagged, in 1985 constant prices, World Bank Commodity
Price Projections, July 1985.
2/ At official exchange rate of USS1.004K8.5.
1/ Calculated as K10 plus 4% of value, adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
4/ Road transport of 150 miles from Rangoon to project area at KO.65/mile,
adjusted by CF of 1.05.
g/ Bullock-cart transport average 10 miles at KO.6/mile, adjusted by CF
of 1.05.



-47-
Table 18
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Price Derivation: TSP
(1985 Price Levels)
Economic Price
1990,
1. World Market Price 1/                 (USSton)              129.0
2. Plus Freight and Insurance            (USS/ton)            + 80.0
3.  Import Price c.i.f. Rangoon              Is                 209
(Kt/ton) y          1,776.5
4.  Plus Handling, Storage and
Administration                                          +.75.1 3/
5.  Plus Transport from Port to
Project Area                          "+ 102.4 4/
6.  Plus Transport to Farm 5/                '                 + 6.0
7.  Farmgate Price                                           12960.0
(K/lb)                  0.89
1/  F.o.b. US Gulf, in 1985 constant prices, World Bank Comiodity Price
Projections, July 1985.
2/  At official exchange rate of USS1.00K8.5.
!/ Calculated as K1O plus 4% of value, adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
3/ Road transport of 150 miles from Rangoon to project area at KO.65/mile,
adJusted by CF of 1.05.
i/ Bullock-cart transport average 10 miles at KO.6/mile, adjusted by CF
of 1.05.



-48-
Table 19
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Price Derivation: MOP
(1985 Price Levels)
Economic Price
_390
1.  World Market Price 1/                 (USS/ton)               90.0
2.  Plus Freight and Insurance            (US$/ton)             + 80.0
3.  Import Price c.i.f. Rangoon               "                  170
(K/ton) 0/           1,445.0
4.  Plus Handling, Storage and
Administration                                           + 56.0 3/
5.  Plus Transport from Port to
Project Area                                            + 102.4 4/
6.  Plus Transport to Farm /                  "+ 6.0
.  Farmgate Price                                             10609.4
(K/lb)                   0.73
j/  F.o.b. Vancouver, in 1985 constant prices, World Bank Commodity Price
Projections, July 1985.
2/ At official exchange rate of USS1.00K8.5.
!i Calculated as K10 plus 4% of value, adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
!/ Road transport of 150 miles from Rangoon to project area at KO.65/mile,
adjusted by CF of 1.05.
i/ Bullock-cart transport average 10 miles at KO.6/mile, adjusted by CF
of 1.05.



-49-
Table 20
SURMA
SEED OEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)  -
Economic Prices of Outputs and Inputs
(1990 in 1985 Constant)
Paddy (K/basket)                                     12.7
Seed Cotton (K/viss)                                  8.5 1/
Rice Seed (K/basket)                                 28.0
Cotton Seed  (K/viss)                                 2.1 1/
Urea (K/lb)                                           1.25
TSP (K/lb)                                            0.89
MOP (K/lb)                                            0.73
Labour (K/md)                                         5.6
Animal (K/day)                                        2.4
1/  Estimated based on World Prices and from the Second
Seed Development Project (SAR No. 5264-BA, May 1985).



-50-
Table 21
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Price Derivation: Paddy
(1985 Price Levels)
Economic Price
1990
1.  Export Price Rice f.o.b. Bangkok 1/  USS/ton)                233
20. Export Price Rice f.o.b. Rangoon Y/  US$/ton)                163
K/ton) 3/           1,385.5
3.  Minus Port Charges, Handling 4/                             - 78.4
4. Minus Transport from Mill to
Port  /                                                    95.0
5.  Ex-mill Rice Price                       *                 1,212.1
6.  Equivalent Paddy price  /                                    763.6
7. Minus Milling Cost y                                         - 54.0
8.  Minus Storage and Losses at AFPTC
Procurement Centre
9. Minus Transport from Farm to AFPTC
Centre 8/                                                 -  5.0
10. Farmgate Frice                                               657.3
(K/basket)              12.7
1/ Thai 5% broken rice, f.o.b. Bangkok, for 1990 expressed in 1985
constant prices, World Bank couwodity Price Projections, August 1986.
2/ 30% discount for lower quality export rice, average 28% broken.
Y/  At official exchange rate of US$1.00 * K8.5.
',V Adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
Transport 150 miles average at KO.6/mile adjusted by CF of 1.05.
I   Based on average paddy-to-rice conversion ratio of 63%.
Represents weighted average of official price paid to millers and
milling rate charged to private customers, adjusted by SCF of 0.8.
8/ Bullock-cost transport average 10 miles at KO.6/mile, adjusted by SCF
of 0.80



BURMAt
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No.745-BA)
Phasinn of QualitX Seed Distributed and Benefited Arcea
191SJ79   1979Z80   1980/81   1981/82   1982t83   1983t84   t984/85   Onards
Quality SeeOd Distributed ('000 basket)             -         -          -          -        850        980       1.130      1.250
Benefited Area (000 Acre)                         -          -          _                              980       1.130      1.250
Lfl
Medium Stagln Cotton Quality Seed                                                                                                          -
Distributed ('000 vias)                            -                -         -                87'      920       1.052      1,052
Benefited Area ('000 Acre)                         -          -          -          -           8.7      92         105.2      105.2
Ureeder- FPundation and Reaistered
Cotton Soed Prgduction
('000 visa)                                     1.5       12.5        65        54         140        334         111        t95
Cotton Lint
(Ton) 1,                                        1.0        8.0       40         34          87        207          69        121
I/ Estimated at 38% of seed cotton.
*1Er



WUD  DP9IOP        nOJUcT
Incremental benefits ad cost - Rust Million
1978   1979    1980    1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986   1987   1988
IcONCHIC I3cRJTAL NINIFITS
Incremental benefits from paddy            -       -       -        -    13.60  15.60  18.00  19.80  19.80  19.80  19.80
Incremental benefit from seed cotton       -       -       -        -      -     0.56   5.90   6.70   6.70   6.70   6.70
Incremental benefits from cotton lint       -     0.12    0.61    0.50   2.10  11.67  10.82  11.25  11.25  11.25  11.25
Subtotal incremental benefits            -      0.12    0.61    0.50  15.70  27.83  34.72  37.75  37.75  37.75  37.75
IpXUITomE COSTS
land Dwvelopuient                           -     0.62    1.34    0.53    -       0.36   0.53    -       -      -      -
Building                                   2.78   3.30    9.30    3.10   0.90   1.00   1.28    -         -      -      -
9guipaent                                  3.70   2.20    3.64    0.35   2.10    -       1.30   0.98   1.00   2.70   0.21
Vehicle                                    0.90   0.75    0.08    0.15    -        -      -     0.9'   0.75   0.08   0.15
Technical Assistance                       1.92   2.10    1.84    1.61   0.06   0.25   0.33    -         -      -      -
Overseas Training                           -     0.09    0.20    1.35   1.35   0.34   0.01    -        -       -      -
Salaries                                   0.19   0.31    0.65    0.83   0.78   0.76   0.58   0.58   0.58   0.58   0.58
0 and N for buildings                       -     0.04    0.02    0.05   0.05   0.05   0.08   0.10   0.10   0.10   0.10
Miscellaneous                              0.06   0.26    0.46    0.65   0.70   0.70   0.80   0.80   0.80   0.80   0.80
Seed Production                           0.01   0.05    4.09    4.47   3.76   3.86   5.00   5.00   5.00   5.00   5.00
Seed Processing and Storage                -      0.01    0.17    0.18   0.19   0.25   0.23   0.23   0.23   0.23   0.23
Incr*ee tal Production Cost for Paddy      -       -       -        -     5.10   5.90   6.80   7.50   7.50   7.50   7.50
Iacreweta1 Production Cost for Cotton    -         -       -        -      -     0.01   0.30   3.20   3.20   3.20   3.20
Incremental costs                       9.56   9.72   21.79   13.27  14.99  13.48  17.24  19.29  19. 6  20.19  17.77
13CtSS l& mET IIE"FITS
Total incremental net benefits         -9.56  -9.60  -21.18  -12.77   0.71  14.36  17.49  18.47  18.60  17.57  19.99    a 3
*~~~~~~~~~~~ IS-



SEED DEVILOPNINT PROJECT
Incremental Benefits and Cost - Krat Million
1989    1990-1991    1992      1993     1994     1995      1996     1997
iCoEu c IffsCsRO AI. BEWNFITS
Incremental benefits from paddy             19.80       19.80     19.80    19.80    19.80    19.80    19.80    19.80
Iacr.e _tal benefit from seed cotton         6.70        6.70      6.70     6.70      6.70     6.70     6.70      6.70
Incremental benefits from cotton lint       11.25       11.25     11.25    11.25    11.25    11.25    11.25    11.25
Subtotal incremental benefits             37.75       37.75     37.75    37.75    37.75    37.75    37.75    31.75
Lmd Develoment                                -           -         -        -         -        -        -         -
Buildings                                     -           -         -         -        -        -         -        -
squipmeut                                    1.54         -        1.00     1.00      2.70     0.21     1.54    -1.30
Vehicle                                       -           -        0.90     0.75      0.08     0.15       -       2.00
Technical Assistance                                      -         -        -              -                      -
Overoses Training                             -           -         -        -         -        -        -         -
Salaries                                     0.58        0.58      0.58     0.58      0.58     0.58     0.58      0.58
0 and f for buildings                        0.10        0.10      0.10     0.10      0.10     0.10     0.10      0.10                t
Niacellaseous                                0.80        0.80      0.80     0.80      0.80     0.80     0.80      0.80
seed Production                              5.00        5.00      5.00     5.00      5.00     5.00     5.00      5.00
Seed Processing and Storage                  0.23        0.23      0.23     0.23      0.23     0.23     0.23      0.23
Incremental Production Coet for Paddy        7.50        7.50      7.50     7.50      7.50     7.50     7.50      7.50
Increnatal Production cost for Cotton        3.20        3.20      3.20     3.20      3.20     3.20     3.20      3.20
Incremental Costs                         18.95       17.41     19.31    19.16    20.19    17.77    18.95    14.11
IIICRUSLN IMu  EVITS
Total increaental net benefits            18.81      20.35      18.45    18.60    17.57    19.99    18.81    23.65
vitehina Values at 122
Appraisal     Switching      Percentage
stream                Value          Value         Change
WmOT                 149.26         117.62        -21.202
CTOT                 117.62         149.26         26.912
m0 - 20.52



-54-
ADDendix 1
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-BA)
Compositlon of the National Seed Committee
Deputy Minister, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests (MOAF)    - Chairman
Director-General, Planning and Stdtlstics Department, MOAF        - Member
Managing Director, Agricultural Corporation (AC)                  - Member
General Manager, Agriculture Research Institute, AC               - Member
General Manager, Planning and Statistics Division, AC             - Member
Deputy General Manger, Procurement Division, AC                   - Member
Deputy Director-General, Planning Department, Ministry
of Planning and Finance (MPF)                                  - Member
Representative, Peasant Association                              - Member
Representative, Foreign Economic 14elations Department            - Member
Representative, Textile Industry Corporation, Ministry
of Industry                                                    - Member
Representative, Agriculture Farm Produce Trader Corporation    - Member
General Manager, Applied Research Division, AC                    - Member
General Manager, Extension Division, AC                           - Member
Project Manager, Seed Section, AC                                - Secretary



-55-
Agpendix 2
BUR4A
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Credit No. 745-tA)
ComPosition of the Technical Sub-Conittee
Managing Director, Agricultural Corporation (AG)                   - Chairman
General Manager, Applied Research Division (ARD), AC               - Member
Deputy General Manager (Paddy), ARD, AC                            - Member
Deputy General Manager (Cotton), ARD, AC                           - Member
Deputy General Manager (Seed and Research Section), ARD, AC    - Member
Deputy General Manager  Jute), ARD, AC                             - Member
Deputy General Manager (Rice), Agriculture Research                - Member
Institute (ARI), AC
Deputy General Manager (Fibre), ARI, AC                            - Member
Assistant General Manager, Research, ARC, AC                       - Member
Deputy Assistant General Manager (Fibre), ARI, AC                  - Member
Popresentative, Ministry of Trade                                  - Member
Representat1ve, Ministry of Industry                               - Member
Assistant General Manager, Seed Production, ARD, AC                - Secretary



-56-
-56-                       Annex 1
Page 1
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 745-BA)
Comments of the Borrower
on the
Project Completion Report
Borrower Comments                                    IDA Comments
1.  To correct "overrun (percent)" as 18                Corrected in Evaluation Summary.
instead of 23 under heading (Key Project            page v, para. 6.
Data, page ii) since 18 percent was
mentioned in the text (para 6:III.
Implementation Experience).
2. To rewrite the last sentence under                   Change made in para 3.8.
para 3.8. page 5 as "However. some of
the results were rather poor and often
difficult to interpret because of weak
experimental designs and insufficient
detailed analysis of the results."
3.  To delete the following clauses mentioned           No adjustment called for.
under para 3.9. page 5 and 6:
- research staff....design and technique;
- difficulties in the supply....control
trials;
4.  To rewrite the second sentence under                No adjustment called for.
para 3.11. page 6 as "four trucks and
two fuel tanks were procured instead of
a low-loader."
5.  To rewrite the whole pars 3.12 as                   No change made on basis of (5)
"Land development was not completely                to (7).  The PCR is concerned
accomplished, only 2,730 acres or                   with achievements up to the
70 percent of the proposed 3.900 acres              IDA credit closing date
were developed (table 2).  This consisted           (December 31, 1984). whereas
of 1.000 acres of new and 350 acres of              results mentioned in telex have
rehabilitated irrigated land and 1.380              been achieved after that date.
acres of dry land, which represents an              though with assistance of
increase of 300 acres or 28 percent in              consultants financed under a
dry land development and a short fall of            separate UNDP project.



-57-
Annex 1
Page 2
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 745-BA)
Comments of the Borrower
on the
Project Completion Report
Borrower Comments                                   IDA Comments
1,470 acres or 52 percent in irrigation
development. Because of the concentration
of efforts on land development at the six
farms and because of ARI1s own programme
to develop its land the proposed development
of 550 acres at Yezin Research Institute was
not implemented.'
6.  To replace table 2, page 28 as mentioned          No adjustment called for.
below:
^?#resS~~~aces
Full trriptio  - g2 2000  2000 - 2-      -
-Ubab  820  -  300  -  -  120 400
fl LndDha1m~at10#1  t50  -  150 180  -  -
?akarl         390 275 0 300 10 I8  2  0
Actual
Foll twls*atiou - am  1000 1000  -  -
-lbob  350  -  50  -  -  100 200
n      li    1   1200_ -  -  110 -   -
Actual aPnalat
of Apt,aoat
wull ltrwgatiou - Nw    50  50  -
- R*Mb  43  -   16  -    - 83 -50
Umarkat TfLO?otal, OWV"Luagyav, lYsIhudalay. MlU.laofl*
NtW&I*. L!P-iotpdai, SilfaflWbi
7.  To rewrite third sentence under para 3.13.        No adjustment called for.
page 6 as "compared with appraisal estimates.
the achievements in land development at the
various CFS were 80 percent at Lungyaw,
16 percent at Mandalay. 100 percent at Magwe.



-58-
Annex 1
Page 3
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT (CREDIT NO. 745-BA)
Comments of the Borrower
on the
Project Co2Mletion Report
Borrower Comments                                    IDA Comments
83 percent at Letpadan and 50 percent at
Euavri."
8. To rewrite the last sentence under para 3.14,        Para 3.14 was adjusted.
page 6 as "Another contributing factor was
the unsuitable equipment procured by the
project with the advice of the consulting
firm."1
9.  Para 3.47, page 12 should be rewritten as           No change made in para 3.47
"Procurement of equipment was a major              since procurement regulations
problem during the initial period of                did not improve.
project implementation due to substantial
delays in obtainnlg approval for specifica-
tions, responsive bidding, evaluation,
opening of letter of credit and clearanco
of goods from the wharf."
10.  The last sentence under pars 4.1, page 14           No change made since proposal
should be rewritten as "D.G., and was a            not quite clear.
co-opted member of NSC and had attended
NSC meetings throughout the period."
11.  The last two sentences under para 5.14.             No adjustment called for.
page 18 and also the last sentence under
para 8.1. page 20 should be deleted.



