Domument of
MM o@ECIIAL USIZ ONLY_
Mepr No. P-2159B
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF THE
UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
October 19, 1977
datmoema bi a irogefre  miFlwk am  may be met !r temsu oeDly.§ Ame jrf@nmmw ofi
oinkid ammDX. lb com  SX me  i~      2  isdB   RI    wi  E firll1f1  l@  .



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1         Kyat (K) 7.33
K 1          US$0.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mile (mi)             1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)             0.405 hectares (ha)
1 long ton (lg ton)     1,016 kilograms
Burmese Units          English/US Units          Metric Units
1 viss                       3.6 lb               1.633 kg
I basket rice               75 lb                34 kg
1 basket paddy              46 lb                20.9 kg
1 basket groundnut
- shelled               56 lb                 25.5 kg
- in-shell              25 lb                 11.4 kg
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AC    -     Agricultural Corporation
ARD   -     Applied Research Division (AC)
ARI   -     Agricultural Research Institute (AC)
CF    -     Central Farm
ED    -     Extension Division (AC)
GDP   -     Gross Domestic Product
HYV   -     High Yielding Varieties
NRCC  -     National Research Coordination Committee
NSC   -     National Seed Committee
PD    -     Procurement Division (AC)
RCC   -     Research Coordination Committee
SF    -     Seed Farm
TIC   -     Textile Industries Corporation
UNDP -      United Nations Development Program



F0t1 OFFICIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY
The terms used to describe the seed produced at various stages of
the multiplication process vary considerably between countries and authori-
ties. The following definitions apply only to this project.
Breeder Seed          -    Seed which is produced under the direct control
of the plant breeding institution (Agricultural
Research Institute) and which forms the source for
production of all later generations.
Foundation Seed       -   The progeny of breeder seed which has been handled
to maintain specific genetic purity and identity.
Registered Seed       -    The progeny of foundation seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. In this
project the bulk of the rice seed produced on the
Central Farms has been referred to as registered.
Certified Seed        -   The progeny of foundation seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity and which
is acceptable to the certifying agency. In this
project the term has been used to describe cotton
produced on the Central Farms for distribution to
growers in selected townships.
Commercial Seed       -   The progeny of certified seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. Used to
describe the progeny of certified cotton in this
project.
Quality Seed          -   The progeny of registered seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. The term
is used to describe the rice seed distributed to
farmers in this project.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pi-rformance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World IBaik zzithorization.






SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             The Socialist Republic of the Union of Burma.
Amount:               US$5.5 million, equivalent.
Terms:                Standard
Cofinancier:          UNDP - US$975,000 equivalent, on grant basis, to
finance cost of technical assistance component.
Project
Description:        The project is designed to lay the groundwork for
future development of the seed industry in Burma.
The Project includes: streqgthening of the Govern-
Tent's applied research capability through develop-
ment of six research farms; modest rice and cotton
seed multiplication programs; establishment of seed
processing and storage facilities; initiation of a
seed quality control program; a pilot groundnut
storage program; overseas and in-service training
and technical assistance. Realization of project
benefits will depend greatly on the Government's
setting seed prices at a level which will ensure
responsible use. There are no other serious risks.



Estimated Cost:                                   US$ Thousands Equivalent
Local     Foreign      Total
Major Categories
Applied Research                   760        520       1,280
Farm Development                   380        700       1,080
Seed Production Investments        800        725       1,525
Seed Processing Investments        365        210         575
Production & Processing
Operating Costs                  --         485         485
Commercial Cotton Seed Stores      235        125         360
Quality Control                     10         30          40
Groundnut - Investments and
Operating Costs                  358        182         540
Groundnut - Working Capital        890         --         890
ARD Headquarters                    67         53         120
Training                            -         445         445
Technical Assistance                75        735         810
Total Base Costs          3,940      4,210      8,150
Contingencies:
Physical Contingencies
(6.1%)                         250        250        500
Expected Price Increases
(28.3%)                      1,450      1 2°°      2,450
Total Project Costs              5,640      52460      11,100
Total Project Costs             (4,840)     (5,460)   (10,300)
(net of taxes)
Financing Plan:                                   US$ Thousands Equivalent
Local     Forejin      Total
IDA                              1,000      4,500       5,500
UNDP                                          975         975
Government of Burma              4,625        -         4,625
Estimated                                        US$ Millions Equivalent
Disbursements:           IDA FY              1979     1980     1981     1982
Annual              0.3      3.0      1.7      0.5
Cumulative          0.3      3.3      5.0      5.5
Rate of Return:       Greater than 50%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:              No. 1653--BA dated October 10, 1977



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC
OF THE UNION OF BURMA
FOR A
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed de-
velopment credit to the Union of Burma for the equivalent of US$5.5 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance a seed development project. A cofinancing
arrangement with UNDP to finance the technical assistance component of the pro-
posed project (about US$975,000 equivalent) is about to be concluded (para 80).
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        World War II and the road leading up to independence in 1948
devastated the Burmese economy and divided the country politically. As
a result, the 1950s were a period of turbulence. In 1962, parliamentary
democracy was declared a failure, and the assembly and high court were
dismissed. In their place, a Revolutionary Council was formed with General
Ne Win as its Chairman, and the Burmese Socialist Program Party (BSPP) was
established as the only authorized political party. After eleven years of
government by the Revolutionary Council, a Constitution was adopted in a
nation-wide referendum in December 1973 under which the Pyithu Hluttaw
(People's Assembly) was created with supreme executive, legislative, and
judicial authority.
3.        The guiding philosophy of the present Government, as stated in the
April 1962 document on the Burmese Way to Socialism, is based on a combination
of traditional Burmese values and socialist doctrine. Nationalistic in
character, its economic objectives are set out in the Twenty Year Plan, which
was adopted by the BSPP in 1972 and is being implemented through a succession
of five Four Year Plans. The intent is to fashion a new order for Burma by
reorienting the economy to provide adequate food, clothing and shelter for
the masses and to improve the quality of social services.
4.        By and large, the Government has made notable progress in the
attainment of its social and political objectives. Insurgency is still a
problem, particularly in the hills and border areas, but there is probably
greater territorial control by the Government now than at any time since
Independence. Greater equality in the distribution of economic opportunity
1/   The latest economic report entitled "Development in Burma:    Issues
and Prospects" (1024-BA) was distributed to the Executive Directors
on July 27, 1976. The 1977 Country Economic Memorandum (CEM) is
being finalized and will be distributed to the Executive Directors
in late October 1977.



- 2 -
has resulted from land redistribution which led to a more equal size of
holdings among farm families, and the nationalization of a number of major
economic activities in trade and industry. At the same time, the access of
the population to social services has been expanded particularly in respect
of education and health facilities.
5.        However, the Government's ability to maintain the social well-being
of the population has been eroded by slow economic growth. Per capita income
at present is about $130 and permits little above basic needs for the greater
part of the population. Unemployment is over 10% of the labor force. A
large part of the labor force operates outside the regular economic system
and underemployment is pervasive.
6.        Burma's economic performance over the last decade and a half
reflected to a significant extent the effects of the particular policies it
adopted to prevent territorial disintegration of the Union and to establish
economic independence. Capitalism was considered exploitive, and alien.
Thus State control was established over the means of production and distri-
bution in large parts of the economy and sweeping measures were taken to
reduce the role of the private sector which was regarded as being largely
synonymous with foreign investments. As public policies and public sector
performance did not compensate for the drastic declines in private investment
and production which resulted, economic growth stagnated. Throughout the
period, investment levels were low. Gross capital formation averaged 10-11%
of GNP. Even this limited investment was not directed towards the sectors
having the greatest comparative advantage. With investment in nationalized
industry providing the main thrust in the Government's efforts to reduce the
country's reliance on external transactions, agriculture, forestry and mining
did not receive due attention. The pricing policies of the Government exac-
erbated the problem. They were aimed at keeping the cost of living low for
the masses, but low producer prices discouraged the production of paddy and
other crops and led to dwindling export earnings. Furthermore, State
industrial enterprises, themselves, were not allowed full recovery of their
costs, which led to a decline in their financial surpluses and ultimately in
domestic savings. An increasing share of production was either traded in the
unofficial market or was smuggled abroad at a multiple of official prices.
In both cases, taxable income was siphoned off to the private sector with
little opportunity for private enterprises to invest these resources produc-
tively in the domestic economy. The distortions arising from this system were
compounded by low official interest rates and an over-valued exchange rate.
7.        As a result, value added by the directly productive sectors of the
economy lagged behind population growth, while export volumes declined for
most of the period. The latter in turn reduced the capacity of the economy
to import essential raw materials, spares, and capital equipment which led
to increasing under-utilization of capacity in most sectors of the economy
and severely limited its ability to invest.
8.        In recognition of the practical problems faced in the implementa-
tion of its overall economic policies in the 1960s, the Government began



- 3 -
pragmatically in the early 1970s to evolve a modified approach to the attain-
ment of its basic objectives. More rational pricing policies have been in-
troduced. Procurement prices of a variety of agriculture products have been
raised, to improve the economic position of the farmer, while others have
been decontrolled. The procurement price for paddy was raised by 150%
between 1972 and 1975. It has, however, remained unchanged since then despite
rapid inflation. In industry, the Government has increased the ex-factory
prices of State Economic Enterprises (SEEs) though the adjustments remain in-
complete. New costing schedules were established in 1976 which, in principle,
allow for the first time profit margins at the producing level. The official
exchange rate of the Kyat was reduced by 25% in January 1975 and a further 9%
in 1977, thus partially compensating for the over-valuation of the exchange
rate.
9.        In a policy announcement in 1973, the Government reaffirmed its aim
"to transform the economy of Burma from an agricultural to an agriculture-
based industrial country, and thence gradually to an industrial nation." In
the same statement, however, the Government accorded priority at the present
stage of the country's development to improvements in agriculture, livestock,
fisheries, forestry and mining and the establishment of consumer goods indus-
tries based on the raw material resources of the country. More recently, the
need to increase production for exports has received increasing attention.
In response, a significant shift in public investment in favor of the primary
producing sectors has been effected.
10.       Managerial and organizational reforms of the SEEs have also been
initiated. In 1975, a comprehensive set of guidelines was introduced to
enable SEEs to operate on a commercial basis and to liberate distribution of
their production. The guidelines encourage autonomy in the management of
SEEs; set standards by which their operational performance will be measured;
introduce financial and costing practices to encourage efficiency, and provide
for a bonus scheme under which management and the work force may be rewarded
for successful performance.
11.       A major tax reform was enacted in April 1976.    It included the
introduction of a Commodities and Services Tax and a Profits Tax. At the
same time, revisions in the selling prices of SEEs in 1976/77, accompanied
by improved economic performance, raised the current revenues of boards and
corporations substantially. It resulted in increasing Government revenue
from 9% of GNP in 1975/76 to 13% in 1976/77, in reversing the decline in
domestic savings, and in halting the rapid expansion in money supply that
fueled a high rate of inflation. It represented a major turnaround in public
finance and was perhaps the most important achievement of the Government
in recent years.
12.       These actions have undoubtedly improved the conditions for
accelerated economic growth and thereby contributed in a positive manner to
economic performance under the Second Four Year Plan which is currently being
implemented. Yet, much of the output expansion during the first three years
of the Plan, reflected favorable weather conditions. In 1976/77 GDP is
estimated to have risen by 6% in real terms compared to 4.8% in 1975/76 and



- 4 -
2.6% in 1974/75. After a decline in 1974/75, agricultural output growth
recovered mainly because of the aforementioned favorable weather conditions.
The traditionally important forestry and mining sectors also recorded some
improvement. A welcome development was the expansion of onshore crude oil
production by 21% in 1976/77. With the increased availability of raw material
from the primary sectors and larger imports of intermediate materials and
capital equipment, the growth of the processing and manufacturing sector
increased from 4.2% in 1974/75 to 10.6% in 1976/77.
13.       After stagnating in 1974/75, gross fixed capital formation is esti-
mated to have increased in real terms by 16.2% in 1975/76 and 12.6% in 1976/77,
although the severe problems of implementation experienced during the period
suggest that these estimates will almost certainly be scaled down. Along
with the increase in investment, domestic savings expanded. The improved
budgetary position of the Government lessened its dependence on the banking
system which in turn contributed to a reduction in the rate of inflation.
During 1976 the Consumer Price Index in Rangoon increased by 22% as compared
with 30% in 1975. The consumer price index is projected to increase by about
10% in 1977/78.
14.       The value of exports (in US dollars) grew by 9.8% per annum during
1974/75 and 1976/77 in nominal terms, principally the result of export price
increases for most export products and an expanded volume of rice exports.
This increase in exchange earnings, plus some use of external financing,
enabled imports to rise although Burma's capacity to import continued to be
tight in relation to its needs.
15.       Despite these favorable developments, much remains to be done to
put the economy firmly on the path to sustained, more rapid growth. Fur-
ther progress needs to be made in rationalizing the role of agricultural and
industrial prices in the allocation of resources. At present, investment and
production decisions are still chiefly guided by plan targets rather than in
response to changes in production and market conditions. In agriculture, a
review of product and input prices, in particular for paddy and fertilizer,
is warranted. In this connection, the Government has recently established a
Rice Commission to examine such issues. In industry, further adjustments of
SEE product prices are required to reflect resource scarcities more accurately,
stimulate productivity growth, and generate surpluses for reinvestment in
those industries with a potential for viability. In external trade, the impact
of the present level of the exchange rate needs to be kept under continuing
review given the importance of greater export growth for the development of
the domestic economy.
16.       Together with the use of prices to allocate resources to the most
produc ive activities, a sharpening of sectoral development strategy aimed
at rThu. tating productive capacity and ensuring more efficient use of the
national resource endowment is also required.
17.       The recent r nk agriculture sector survey as well as previous
economic reports have drawn attention to the wealth of Burma's agricultural
resources, its importance for the country's economic development, and the



- 5 -
difficulties in sustaining more rapid growth. Apart from the controlled price
system which militates against fuller realization of potential and timely
adjustments of production to changes in export market conditions, the problems
confronting agriculture include insufficient supplies of essential farm inputs,
inadequate transportation facilities and shortages of basic farm services,
in particular agricultural credit and extension services.
18.       If Burma's agricultural performance is to be improved, intensive
and coordinated action will be necessary to deal with these difficulties.
Along with such action, priority needs to be given to improvements of pro-
ductivity in existing cultivated areas, with emphasis on quick-yielding
projects. To effectively implement this strategy, it is further necessary
that agricultural investment include integrated agricultural development
projects because many of the services and inputs required to increase pro-
duction are interrelated.
19.       In forestry, Burma is estimated to have 75% of the world's remain-
ing teak reserves in addition to extensive reserves of marketable hardwood.
However, the contributions of this sector to national development in the
recent past have been limited. The rehabilitation of existing and the pur-
chase of new equipment; improved maintenance; construction of access and
feeder roads to forest areas; and better management and coordination between
Government agencies are priority requirements if the potential of the sector
for increased production and export earnings is to be more fully tapped.
20.       Burma's reserves of mineral products are similarly impressive.    Al-
though only a few areas of the country have been systematically prospected,
it is clear that Burma has a highly varied and favorable endowment of minerals
-- tin and tungsten, lead, zinc, silver and copper. Their effective utiliza-
tion will, however, require that urgent attention be given to the rehabilita-
tion, modernization and maintenance of existing mining operations, institution-
building and technical training. The benefits foregone by past neglect and
pre-war inadequate management are enormous. A new opportunity is that of
petroleum where current production already permits self-sufficiency.
21.       The primary sectors, in turn, provide Burma with a base for indus-
trial development, provided managerial efficiency is improved and research and
development are promoted. In contrast to this potential, investments in the
recent past have concentrated on industries which have not always been in line
with the country's comparative advantages. Notable cases in this connection
are a number of heavy industries where capacity has been built up over the
years to levels that do not permit efficient production. A review of indus-
trial strategy is needed, given the character of the country's resource endow-
ments and the fiscal and balance of payments implications of capital-intensive
industrial development.
22.       Together with the development of the primary and secondary sectors,
enlarged attention is required for the rehabilitation of the country's physical
infrastructure, in particular transportation. The transport sector is in a
serious state of disrepair for lack of spares, new equipment and maintenance.
Only some 60% of the stock of diesel locomotives, 50% of the fleet of trucks
in the public sector, and 75% of inland watercraft are in running condition.



- 6 -
23.       The transport sector accounted for about 15% of all development
expenditures during 1974/75-1976/77. An expanded share is justified during
the next five years. Within such an allocation, the highest priority needs
to be given to the rehabilitation and maintenance of existing capacity. At
the same time, rationalization of transport pricing policy is essential. To
have any substantial impact, these measures must, in addition, be accompanied
by improvements in operational efficiency and management in the public sector.
24.       The need for institution-building and management development geared
to expanding absorptive capacity by improving the design, administration and
implementation of development programs cannot be overemphasized (para. 43).
The Burmese planning and administrative system, as it now exists, is complex
and rigid in its manner of operation and excessively focused on the formula-
tion rather than the implementation of targets. Streamlining of the entire
planning and administrative apparatus, decentralization of decision-making
and strengthening of the capability of Government entities to prepare and
implement projects are urgently needed.
25.       The Government concurs broadly with the above diagnoses of the prob-
lems it faces and the issues to which attention must urgently be addressed.
If pursued vigorously, and duly supplemented with additional measures, the
Government's new policy orientation should lead to a significant acceleration
of economic growth. In this connection, the newly enacted law on the "Rights
of the Private Enterprise" is to be welcomed. By legitimizing private
sector activity and establishing a clearer set of guidelines for the develop-
ment of the public, cooperative and private sectors, some re-integration of
the economy will take place which can be expected to have a beneficial impact
upon economic performance.
26.       The targets of the authorities for the next five year period entail
GDP growth in real terms of 6.6% in 1977/78 and a minimum of 5.5% per annum
under the Third Four Year Plan (1978/79-1981/82). Agriculture is targeted to
expand by 5.5% per annum, and the processing and manufacturing sector by 8.5%.
Total investment is planned to expand by 25% per annum in real terms. With
public investment growing by 20%, these targets call for a marginal savings
rate and marginal tax rate of about 27% and an increase in the external
resource gap from 1.7% of GNP in 1976/77 to 5.8% in 1981/82.
27.       A more modest view of the intermediate-term prospects of the economy,
however, is forecast in the 1977 Burma CEM, because, unavoidably, it will take
some time before recent reforms and intended new initiatives are fully imple-
mented and begin to have a significant impact. Annual increases in GDP of 5%
in real terms (with agriculture and manufacturing industry growing by 3% and
8.5% per annum, respectively) together with annual increases in investment of
about 13%, constitute a more reasonable set of expectations. The targets,
although modest, are a substantial improvement of performance over the past
decade. The financing of such an investment effort will require that domestic
savings should grow from 9.1% of GNP in 1976/77 to 11.1% in 1981/82, plus
continued substantial foreign transfers of resources into Burma. While the
tasks involved will put heavy demands on the fiscal, administrative and man-
agement capacities of the Government, it should be feasible provided adequate
action is taken.



- 7 -
28.       External assistance is needed for projects which contribute towards:
--   intensified use of existing cultivated areas and the rec-
lamation of abandoned land in agriculture (research and
extension services, supply of essential inputs especially
HYV, fertilizer and light agricultural machinery, improve-
ment of irrigation facilities, in particular tubewell
development, and integrated agricultural development);
--   better utilization of forestry resources (through the
improvement of extraction, and transport facilities);
--   development of known mineral deposits; and
--   development of agro- and mineral-based industries
possessing clear comparative advantage (including food,
fish and wood products and fertilizer production).
Alongside such directly productive projects, external assistance is also
urgently required for infrastructure development, particularly to rehabil-
itate existing capacity in transportation.
While project loans and technical assistance will be justified for most proj-
ects in the above fields, commodity financing also will be required from
external resources to meet Burma's needs for fertilizer, materials, spares,
and equipment in support of its rehabilitation efforts.
29.       Given Burma's low income level and the scarcity of foreign ex-
change, such external assistance should be on concessionary terms and should,
in addition, finance part of local cost requirements which cannot, at present,
be covered adequately by domestic savings. Local cost financing is parti-
cularly needed for the agricultural sector where most investments have a
low foreign exchange component.
30.       Burma's debt service ratio has gradually increased from 10% in the
sixties to about 20% in 1976/77. By the end of March 1977, Burma's external
public debt, disbursed and outstanding, amounted to US$321 million. With
increased foreign assistance, external public debt will rise further, but
Burma should have no major problem in servicing this debt, in view of its
moderately favorable export potential.
31.       Burma is potentially one of the richest countries in South Asia.
Apart from an impressive natural resource base, it is endowed with a healthy
and literate population. The crucial question is the quality with which
these resources will be managed and developed. While there are some signs
that Burma's performance in this regard is now being improved, these need to
be strengthened and broadened. Provided Burma sustains its efforts at utili-
zing this endowment efficiently, and combines them with a positive attitude
towards population planning, it should make the task of economic development
more manageable, and provide increasingly productive employment for its
people in the longer run.



-8-
32.       The Bank Group, in close cooperation with the IMF, will continue
discussions with the Government regarding further improvements in economic
policy which would help Burma realize its promising potential for economic
development. At the Government's request, the Bank has organized an Aid
Group for Burma. The first meeting of the Group was held on November 30,
1976, in Tokyo. The second meeting is scheduled for December 14, 1977, in
Paris.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS
33.       Burma became a member of the Bank in 1952, IFC in 1956, and IDA in
1962. Between 1956 and 1961, the Bank made three loans totalling US$33.1
million, all for transportation projects. One loan for the Port of Rangoon
helped finance the reconstruction of cargo berths and storage facilities, and
the purchase of cargo handling and port equipment. Two loans helped finance
the postwar reconstruction and dieselization of the railways. All three
projects were satisfactorily completed and the loans fully disbursed by FY68.
34.       No lending was requested between 1962 and 1973.    At the request
of the Government, IDA lending was resumed in 1973. Since 1973 IDA has made
nine credits totalling US$158.5 million. About 50% of this assistance,
$78.5 million, was in the agricultural sector, consisting of four projects:
irrigation, forestry, livestock, and paddy development. Three credits,
totalling $43 million (27%), were made to rehabilitate the transport sector
(inland water transport, railways, and a second ports project). The telecom-
munication sector received its first credit, $21 million (13%), and a first
credit was also made to the mining sector for a $16 million tin/tungsten
expansion project (10% of the total). Annex II contains a summary statement
of Bank loans and IDA credits as of September 30, 1977, and also notes on the
execution of ongoing projects. IFC has made no investments in Burma, nor
are any planned.
35.       In the past, lending was partly constrained by incomplete knowledge
of some sectors and the lack of adequately prepared projects. Through our
ongoing projects and sector work, our knowledge of many sectors has improved.
The $2.5 million UNDP Technical Assistance project (Umbrella Project), for
which the Bank is the Executing Agency, has developed a project pipeline suit-
able for external financing in priority sectors such as agriculture, transport,
power and industry (paras 44 and 45). A sum of $0.5 million has recently been
added to the original amount and a second phase of this umbrella project is
now under discussion with the Government and UNDP. Furthermore, the Associa-
tion plans to continue its technical assistance on a project-by-project basis
to help improve Burmese project preparation capabilities, as well as admin-
istrat:ve and managerial skills through in-service and overseas training.
36.       The primary objective of our economic and sector work program is
to continue to assist Burma (i) to design strategies and policies to develop
its sizeable natural ..d human resource endowment within the basic framework
of the Burmese Way to Socialism; and (ii) to identify, prepare and implement



- 9 -
programs and projects to this end. With the resumption of Government/Bank
relations in 1972, our Country Economic Memoranda (CEM) have focused on the
socio-economic policy changes required to remove existing constraints on the
development process. They have thus focused on the efforts required to modify
inappropriate pricing policies, intensify the mobilization of resources, and
strengthen sectoral investment strategy. The 1977 CEM, in addition, focuses
on some of the measures needed to expand the absorptive capacity of the eco-
nomy for new investment, particularly in the public sector. Subject to Gov-
ernment agreement, we intend to send a mission in FY79 to review with the
authorities the efforts being made for the development of administrative and
managerial capacity in the public sector. This will be in addition to tech-
nical assistance provided in the context of our regular project lending or
in the Bank's role as executing agency in UNDP-financed efforts like the
current UNDP Umbrella Project (para. 35).
37.       Our economic and sector work program has emphasized and will conti-
nue to stress the development of Burma's primary producing activities. In
agriculture, a preliminary review of the sector was undertaken in 1974. This
was been followed up by an agriculture sector survey which has now been dis-
cussed with the Government and will be issued in October 1977. This survey
paid particular attention to the potential for increased farm productivity
through dissemination of improved technology and inputs; the framework of
farmers' incentives needed to facilitate the adoption of new cropping systems
and farm practices; and the institutional constraints which needed to be re-
laxed to accelerate agricultural development. A follow-up agriculture sector
mission is planned for FY80.
38.       In mining, the execution of a sector survey is being considered by
the Government. In addition, it is proposed to mount an oil and gas sector
mission in late FY78. Analysis of information on the industrial sector was
initiated by a mission in FY76. A follow-up sector study is proposed for
FY80 -- the principal aims being to review strategy, priorities and the role
of small scale industry.
39.       A Transport Sector Memorandum has been completed and transmitted
to the Government. The memorandum has highlighted some of the key issues
within the transport sector including the role of private transporters, the
performance of public corporations, the allocation of traffic and planning
processes within the sector. Based on our ongoing operations, our knowledge
of most modes is reasonably complete. Relatively little, however, is known
about coastal shipping and pipelines. The transport memorandum will be
updated as more information on these aspects becomes available. In power,
a sector study is under way, financed under the UNDP Umbrella Project, and
will be completed in July 1978. A telecommunications memorandum is planned
for FY78.
40.       In line with the importance attached by the Government, itself, to
the development of the country's human resources, we intend in FY80 to review
with it the policies being taken and proposed to this end. This study is
planned to update the human resources survey undertaken in 1976 in connection



- 10 -
with the CEM for that year. The improvement of water supply and sewerage
facilities would make a useful contribution to improving the quality of life
of the poor in the country. Work has been initiated to update our knowledge
of this sector. A water supply and sewerage sector memorandum is under prep-
aration and will be issued shortly.
41.       The sectoral studies will continue to be supplemented by special
economic studies on such issues as pricing policies, public sector investment
strategies, the planning process, and foreign trade issues in conjunction with
our CEMs. Together, they should make possible the preparation of a Basic
Report in FY81.
42.       The Bank Group strategy is aimed at easing the most immediate con-
straints to growth and particularly at increasing and diversifying production
for export in order to alleviate the shortage of foreign exchange. Within this
overall strategy, primary emphasis is being placed on the development of
agriculture, forestry, and mining. Within this framework and where possible,
priority is being given to quick-yielding projects. At the same time, finan-
cing of infrastructure improvements will continue in such areas as transporta-
tion and telecommunications, mainly to rehabilitate existing facilities. Many
of these are at present inoperable and have increasingly impeded economic
activity in the directly productive sectors of the economy.
43.       The Association intends to assist the Government with the imple-
mentation of these objectives within the framework of the Burmese system of
socialism. However, the extent to which the Association would be able to
provide assistance will depend largely on the pace by which the Government
continues to improve overall macro-economic performance along the lines
noted in paragraphs 15 to 24. In particular, future lending may be con-
strained by the low absorptive capacity of implementing agencies, especially
in the agriculture sector. Thus, the Government's action to improve its
absorptive capacity, in particular to make its administrative machinery
more conducive to development, will essentially determine the scope and
volume of external assistance.
44.       In line with the urgent need'of the country to increase foreign
exchange earnings, most of the projects under active preparation are designed
to have an impact on increasing agricultural surpluses for export. To boost
overall agricultural production, a urea fertilizer project, based on Burma's
reserves of natural gas as feedstock, is being prepared under the UNDP
Umbrella Project. Due to the large size of the proposed fertilizer project,
cofinancing arrangements with F.R. Germany are in progress. A second paddy-
land development project is being appraised: it aims at increasing produc-
tion of rice and other crops in Lower Burma through improving productivity
of existing cultivated land and reclaiming abandoned paddyland. This project
will replicate the first paddyland development project (FY76, $30 million)
in other areas of Lower Burma (about 250,000 acres of existing cultivated land
and reclaim about 60,000 acres of abandoned paddyland). A longer gestation
irrigation project, Nyaunggyat Dam, is also being prepared: it is designed
to increase food production in areas of Upper Burma, as well as to meet the
raw cotton requirements of the domestic textile industry. Due to the large



- 11 -
size of the Naunggyat Dam project, the Association has explored co-financing
with Canada, F.R. Germany and the U.K., who indicated their willingness to
participate with IDA in financing this project. Japan has also been approached
in this regard. Preparation has begun on a Lower Burma paddy storage and
handling project, designed to reduce crop losses after harvest. Increased
exports also are expected to result from a rubber rehabilitation project pre-
pared under the UNDP Umbrella Project and planned for appraisal in November
1977. A second forestry project is also being prepared.
45.       Programs to expand production and exports will need to be supported
by complementary improvements in economic infrastructure. To assist with the
latter, two projects are proposed. A highway rehabilitation and road trans-
port project, prepared under the UNDP Umbrella project, is being appraised.
In addition to the rehabilitation of the road network, the proposed project
includes provision for spare parts, tires, batteries and new vehicles for
distribution to the trucking industry (public and private). In view of the
large size of the proposed project, phasing may be necessary. Cofinancing
will also be required particularly for the road transport component. A second
telecommunications project, prepared by the Government, will be appraised in
early 1978. The latter project will complement the first telecommunications
project (FY75, $21 million) by further rehabilitating the telecommunications
network which is presently inadequate and is a major bottleneck to growth of
productive sectors. The project will help finance improved international
services through a satellite ground station, improvements and expansion of
telex and telegraph facilities and extension of existing telecommunication
facilities to meet demand in Rangoon, Mandalay and other smaller towns and
rural areas.
46.       The Bank Group presently accounts for about 15% of Burma's total
external debt outstanding and about 7% of debt service. In five years, the
Bank Group's share in the total external debt is projected to rise to about
20% and its share in the debt service to fall to about 2-3%.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
47.       Burma's agricultural crop sector accounts for 27% of GDP, employs
66% of the work force and. accounts for 58% of exports. About 60% of the
industrial output is derived from cotton, jute, and sugarcane. During the
period 1964/65 to 1975/76, performance of the sector has been poor with an
average annual GDP growth rate of only 2.3% compared to a population growth
rate of 2.2%. It was the reflection of a set of policies that gave the
farmer no incentive to increase output and provided the sector with little
direct support through services, inputs, and investment. As noted in the
previous section, the Government's view of the role of agriculture in the
development of the country has changed and creation of a healthy, growing
agricultural sector is now seen as being of pivotal importance - as a means
of increasing the income of the majority of Burmese who are farmers, as a
source of foreign exchange through exports, and as a supplier of raw materials



- 12 -
to industry. With this change in attitude have come changes in policies -
prices are used, if not always adequately, as a means of stimulating growth
in output; provision is being made for expansion of services and the supply
of inputs; the share of agriculture in public investment has risen signi-
ficantly and is intended to be about 33% in the forthcoming Four Year Plan.
It is in this context that the proposed project, which addresses seed pro-
duction and distribution, should be seen.
Agricultural Research
48.       Basic research is the responsibility of the Agricultural Research
Institute (ARI), a division of the Agricultural Corporation (AC) under the
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests. Assisted by a UNDP project 1/ started
in 1974, considerable progress has been made in strengthening ARI, though
the rate of development of its farm at the main Yezin station should be
accelerated. With expected staff increases and probable further support
from UNDP and the International Rice Research Institute, it seems likely
that basic research will not, in the short-run at least, be a primary
constraint to agricultural development. It is likely that within three
to four years ARI will have developed high-yielding rice varieties suitable
for medium-deep water areas and jassid resistant varieties of medium staple
cotton.
49.       The Applied Research Division (ARD), also a division of the AC, is
responsible for translation of ARI's basic research into regionally adapted
technologies. This applied research is carried out on 16 Central Farms located
throughout Burma. In addition, ARD is responsible for seed production which
is undertaken on the Central Farms plus 54 widely dispersed Seed Farms. In
contrast to ARI, ARD has not been developed and suffers from a limited budget,
serious shortage of staff, inadequate research facilities, and lack of proper
development of its farms. Early and significant action should be taken to
improve ARD's applied research and seed production capability in order that
proper use is made of the research output of Yezin.
Seed Production and Distribution
50.       The majority of seed used in Burma, as in other developing countries,
is obtained by farmer retention and farmer-to-farmer trade. This traditional
practice has limitations which can be overcome through an organized seed sup-
ply system which would introduce and spread new varieties, maintain varietal
purity, and provide reliable supplies of seed where on-farm storage conditions
are adverse.
51.       The AC does supply considerable quantities of seed, mainly paddy
and cotton. About 90% of the rice seed supplied by the AC is obtained from
farmers and the rest from ARD. Although some of the farmer-suppliers are
1/   See UNDP report "Strengthening the Agricultural Research Institute at
Yezin" (BUR/72/033/A/01/12).



- 13 -
"seed growers," good farmers known to have planted ARD grown rice seed, the
lack of quality control makes their product little better than the grain which
is purchased from regular farmers to meet the balance of AC's needs. The rice
seed produced by ARD itself is small in quantity and poor in quality. The
Central and Seed Farms suffer severely from poor farm development, inadequate
staff and little or no equipment other than traditional implements.
52.       Most of the cotton seed supplied is simply gin-run seed.    Cross
pollination occurs in the field and physical mixture occurs during processing,
resulting in varietal mixing. Also, from harvest to the next planting season,
the seed suffers physical deterioration due to lack of proper seed storage
facilities. The small amounts of seed from planned production programs are
little better in quality, since they, too, suffer from lack of quality control
and handling facilities. Seed processing is not practiced to improve physical
quality.
53.       There are no systematic quality control procedures for field inspec-
tion or laboratory analysis. Furthermore, multiplication is not based on the
recognized hierarchy of generations, i.e., breeder, foundation, registered
and certified. Maintenance of trueness to type is, therefore, not possible.
Important Crops
54.       Rice.  Burma's main crop is rice which accounts for 55% of the total
sown area and is the main export commodity. Production has grown slowly, in-
creasing by only about 2.0% per annum during the last decade, principally how-
ever acreage did not expand and yield increased little. With more adequate
price incentives to induce farmers to use improved technology, yields of tradi-
tional varieties could be increased from the present average of about 1,500
lbs/acre to 1,700 - 1,800 lbs/acre. However, any significant yield break-
through will depend on the widespread production of high-yielding varieties
(HYV). Although the first HYV were introduced in Burma in the mid-sixties,
they are as yet only grown on about 1 million acres (8% of the rice area).
Two characteristics of these HYV contribute to this low utilization: (a) they
can only be grown under good water management conditions; and (b) their eating
quality is poorer than traditional varieties. ARI is conducting a program,
which is well advanced, focusing on these problems and is expected to release
more widely adapted and acceptable HYV in three or four years. If ARD's
regional research and seed multiplication capacities are strengthened, to
enable transfer of the new varieties to the farmers, HYV cultivation could
be expanded to perhaps as many as five million acres.
55.       Cotton.  Cotton is grown on about 530,000 acres in Burma; short
staple, predominantly G. aboreum, varieties account for about 70% of the area
and the longer stapled 1/ G. hirsutum account for the balance. There is a
serious shortfall in supply of cotton to the Government textile mills, and
about 40 million kyat (US$5.5 million) worth of cotton yarn and thread have
1/   The cottons grown are internationally known as medium staple but are
referred to as long staple in Burma.



- 14 -
to be imported annually. Cotton yields in Burma are among the lowest in the
world. Poor productivity of cotton is due to a number of factors, among which
are: (a) use of inappropriate imported varieties; (b) poor seed quality in
the absence of seed handling facilities; (c) poor cultural practices; and
(d) inadequate pest control. ARI has a variety improvement program under way
and is expected to release varieties more suitable to Burmese conditions in
the near future. A seed multiplication system will be needed to enable these
varieties to be dispersed to farmers and to provide for annual renewal of
quality seed.
56.       Groundnut.   Groundnut is grown on about 1.7 million acres and is
used mainly for producing cooking oil, an important component of the Burmese
diet. A shortage of groundnut oil has led to rapid price increases (estimated
at about 50% from 1974 to 1975 and 100% from 1975 to 1976). Supply has res-
ponded sluggishly to the large price increases, as the means for increasing
productivity are lacking. Research on groundnut has been negligible and, in
Central Burma, area expansion is limited by availability of suitable land. In
Lower Burma, land is available, but seed, which is obtained from Central Burma,
is in short supply and extremely expensive. Storage of seed over the monsoon
is impossible there without special facilities and knowledge.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
57.       The proposed project was prepared (September 1975 to December 1976)
under the UNDP "Umbrella Project". It was appraised during February/March 1977.
A report entitled "Burma: Staff Appraisal of the Seed Development Project"
(No. 1653-BA) dated October 10, 1977 is being circulated separately to the
Executive Directors. Negotiations were held in Washington, D.C., during
September 12 to 16, 1977. The Borrower's delegation was led by Dr. Bo Lay,
Deputy Minister, Ministry of Agriculture and Forests.
A. Project Description
58.       The proposed project is designed to address the constraints which
have most hampered development of seed supply in Burma: (i) the absence
of improved varieties for most crops; (ii) inadequate applied research capabi-
lity; and (iii) lack of manpower with relevant skills. Over a period of four
years, the proposed project would begin improvement of the Government's applied
research capability and would lay the groundwork for future development of the
seed industry. The crops receiving the most emphasis from the project would
be rice and cotton, through seed research, production, and processing. Other
crops would also receive attention, namely, groundnut through research and
storage programs, and jute through research on varieties and agronomic prac-
tices. Support for jute research, however, is a very minor part of the project.
Specifically, the project would:



- 15 -
(a) increase the capacity for applied research and seed production
on six key Government Central Farms through land development,
provision of buildings, equipment, and farm machinery and
expansion of research and production staff. In addition, the
research and seed production capacity of ARI's Yezin station
would be strengthened through farm development;
(b) develop seed processing and storage facilities on the six
farms and at two or three ginneries selected for cotton
seed handling;
(c) develop a quality control program based on seed testing
laboratories at ARI, on seed farms and at cotton and ground-
nut facilities;
(d) include a pilot project to establish the feasibility of
providing groundnut seed storage in Lower Burma;
(e) provide for overseas post-graduate training of research
staff and overseas and local short courses for research
staff, farm managers and quality control staff; and
(f) provide about 116 man-months of technical assistance to
train staff and assist in project implementation.
B. Detailed Features
Organization and Management
59.       The main implementing agency for the project would be the Applied
Research Division (ARD) of the Agricultural Corporation, which would be respon-
sible for all procurement and contracting. ARD would arrange procurement and
contracts for the Agricultural Research Institute (ARI), also of the Agricul-
tural Corporation. Commercial cotton seed would be ginned, on behalf of ARD,
by the Textile Industries Corporation (TIC), which owns and operates cotton
ginneries in Burma. To enable ARD to handle these increased responsibilities,
its headquarters would be slightly reorganized structurally and strengthened
by the addition of about 150 professional staff, including a Deputy General
Manager and two Assistant General Managers. This represents a substantial
increase in ARD's staff, there is an adequate supply of agricultural graduates
on which to draw. Government's approval of the incremental posts required
for the project and appointment of suitable officers as Deputy General Manager
(Seeds and Research), Assistant General Manager (Seeds), and Assistant General
Manager (Research), are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed Credit
(Sections 5.01 (b) and (c) of'the draft Development Credit Agreement). It
was also agreed that for a period of five years after the signing of the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement, ARD would employ suitable staff with qualifications
acceptable to the Association in these three posts and in the post of General



- 16 -
Manager (Section 4.04 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A Land
Development Unit would be formed in ARD to undertake the development of the
six project Central Farms and, in the future, to continue work on the farms
not covered by the Project. Costs of strengthening ARD would be covered by
the project.
60.       A National Seed Committee (NSC) would be formed, as a condition of
credit effectiveness, to provide a forum for the determination of seed policy
with responsibility for variety release, variety recommendation, and quality
control standards and procedures (Sections 3.03(b) and 5.01(a) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement). The NSC would also ensure that there is close
cooperation between ARI, TIC and ARD in project implementation. The NSC would
be chaired by the Deputy Minister for Agriculture and ARD would provide the
secretariat. From the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests, the members would
comprise the Managing Director of the Agricultural Corporation, the General
Managers of ARI, ARD, and the Extension and Procurement Divisions, and a
representative of the Planning and Statistics Department. Other agencies
represented on the NSC would be the Ministry of Planning and Finance, Ministry
of Industry I, Trade Ministry, and Central People's Peasants Council. During
the project period, NSC would also be responsible for monitoring and coordina-
tion of project activities. NSC would provide quarterly progress reports to
the Association based on detailed implementation schedules for major activ-
ities to be prepared by the consultants provided under the project.
61.       Research Coordination Committees (RCC) would be established at all
of the Central Farms (Section 3.03 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agree-
ment). The RCC would discuss performance of the previous season's research
and extension programs and would prepare recommendations for the following
season. A National Research Coordination Committee (NRCC) would be formed
(Section 3.03(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement) to review RCC's
recommendations and to decide upon Central Farms' research programs and the
extension packages to be promoted by the Extension Division. Its members
would be the Deputy Minister of Agriculture (chairman), AC's Managing Director,
the General Managers of the ARD, ARI, and Extension Division, and a represen-
tative of the Planning and Statistics Department.
Farm Development
62.       Most of ARD's Central and Seed Farms were established more than
40 years ago. Productive capacity has been low due to poor initial layout
combined with inadequate funding for staff and equipment and generally poor
standards of management. To enable ARD properly to fulfill its research
and seed production roles, six ARD farms would be developed under the project
-- Hmawbi, Magwe, Mahlaing, Mandalay, Letpadan 1/ and Lungyaw. The project
would also assist in development of the land at ARI's Yezin station, where
the slow rate of farm development is a constraint on expansion of research
1/   The suitability of this farm will be determined by consultants provided
under the project (para 79), or an alternate farm selected no later than
July 31, 1978 (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 17 -
activity. A total of about 4,500 acres would be developed, of which 2,550
acres would involve development of irrigation works where none previously
existed, 820 acres irrigation rehabilitation, and 1,130 acres dryland develop-
ment. Farm development would include survey, planning and execution of farm
layouts. Investments would be made in machinery, vehicles, farm buildings,
housing, offices, facilities for seed processing and storage, and special
field and laboratory equipment. As inadequate funds for staff and operations
have been a key constraint to farm performance, the project would also cover
incremental staff and operating costs through 1980, by which time incremental
farm revenues would exceed the operating costs for the seed production and
processing program.
Applied Research
63.       The scope of research programs would initially be modest because of
staffing constraints. Mlajor emphasis would be on varietal improvement of all
crops, with work on cultivation practices also being an important feature.
This would include: land preparation; time of planting; spacing; fertilization
(inorganic and organic); weed, pest and disease control; water management; and
alternative cropping patterns. In rice areas, particular attention would be
given to manipulating variety and to methods of land preparation and crop es-
tablishment to determine potentials for double cropping. In the cotton zone,
first priority would be given to selecting pest tolerant varieties and to
developing an appropriate spraying system. In the Lower Burma groundnut area,
a research program would be undertaken to determine whether nitrogen fixation
could be improved to reduce reliance on artificial fertilizer. On-farm storage
losses and the need for new storage systems would also be investigated.
Seed Production
64.       Seed production under the project would be confined to rice and
cotton, for which significantly improved varieties are expected to be released
by ARI in three or four years. No varietal breakthrough appears imminent
for other crops. Only modest multiplication programs are proposed at this
time, but manpower development under the project is expected to permit larger
programs in the future.
65.       The Rice Seed Program would be developed at Hmawbi, Letpadan,
Lungyaw, Mandalay and Yezin. It would supply sufficient seed, of the new
high-yielding varieties expected to be released by ARI, for their rapid
spread over 3.5 million acres. Breeder and foundation seed would be produced
at Yezin. Registered seed would 'be produced at all five locations; a total
of 800 acres is expected to yield about 1,000 tons, sufficient to plant about
50,000 acres. In order to publicize a new variety, one year before sufficient
seed is available for distribution to farmers, it was agreed that the Extension
Division would plant a dense network of demonstration plots throughout the
region to which the variety was adapted (Section 3.08 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement).



- 18 -
66.       In order to achieve rapid spread of new varieties from a 1,000 ton
annual supply, the seed would be distributed in large numbers of small packets.
Farmers liking the new variety would then be able rapidly to build up their
own seed stock. However, this system, which has worked elsewhere, has not
been tried in Burma. About half the available seed would, therefore, be dis-
tributed in 1 kg packets, the balance in 20 kg packets, which is the quantity
required to plant one acre. It is anticipated that farmers who receive the
large packets would sell and/or exchange some of the produce, thus contribut-
ing to the spread of the new varieties. The program would be monitored to
determine whether 1 kg or 20 kg packages led to more rapid spread of variety.
67.       The Cotton Seed Program.   Unlike rice seed, farmers must replace
their cotton seed annually. The cotton seed program would, therefore, pro-
duce each year a supply sufficient to plant the entire G. hirsutum acreage,
about 175,000 acres. Two or three varieties should suffice to cover the
range of growing conditions. Breeder and foundation seed would be produced
at Yezin, registered seed at Lungyaw and Mahlaing, and certified seed at
Lungyaw. The latter would be sufficient to plant about 22,000 acres and
would be supplied to all cotton growers in two or three areas designated
for commercial seed production (one variety per area). To preclude admixture
of lint from different varieties during processing, which would vitiate the
varietal purity of seed, it was agreed that the Government would designate
the variety of cotton to be grown in all townships producing long staple
(G. hirsutum) cotton (Section 3.09 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Seed Processing and Storage
68.       Rice.   At present, rice seed is processed by traditional methods
which makes it difficult to prevent mixing of varieties and results in lower
germination than would mechanical threshing and rapid drying. Rice seed pro-
cessing plants would, therefore, be established at Hmawbi, Lungyaw, Mandalay
and Yezin. Because of the small quantity involved, rice seed from Letpadan
would be processed in Hmawbi. A small air-conditioned store would be built
for holding basic seed stocks at Yezin. Little staff would be required for
these small plants. Overall responsibility for plant operation would be with
Seed Specialists to be financed under the project; day-to-day operation would
be the responsibility of Technical Assistants who would have a diploma in
mechanics and who would be given in-service training in seed processing,
drying and storage.
69.       Cotton.   A laboratory-size saw gin would be provided at Yezin to
process breeder and research seed stocks. At Lungyaw, a ginnery would be
built to handle the foundation and certified seed grown there. This ginnery
would consist of 6 roller gin stands and aerated stores for seed cotton and
delinted seed. Roller gins are proposed, in preference to the more efficient
saw gins, because they are the only type in use in Burma. Adoption of stand-
ard equipment, for a small unit as proposed, would minimize operating and
maintenance problems. Some certified seed would be produced at Mahlaing Farm
which has a gin. Any surplus could be ginned at Lungyaw.
70.       Seed cotton from the commercial seed generation would be ginned at
existing commercial ginneries where ample capacity exists. Ownership of the



- 19 -
commercial ginneries was recently transferred from AC's Procurement Division
to the Textile Industries Corporation (TIC). It was agreed that the Govern-
ment would designate suitable ginneries for handling cotton seed and that TIC
would operate them in accordance with quality control procedures prescribed
by NSC. Inter alia, they would require that the ginneries handle only a
single variety of G. hirsutum (Sections 3.10 (a) and (b) of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
71.       Aerated stores, for seed cotton and delinted seed, would be built
at designated ginneries to maintain seed condition during storage. The stores
would include a small office and laboratory for quality control operations.
These facilities would be owned and operated by ARD. TIC would purchase seed
cotton from the designated seed production area but collection and storage
would be controlled by ARD. After ginning by TIC, lots of seed suitable for
planting would be purchased by ARD at the oil mill price. Unsuitable lots
would be sold by TIC for oil extraction.
Quality Control
72.       The National,Seed Committee (NSC) formed under the project (para 60)
would issue regulations for seed quality control standards and procedures.
The NSC would also establish and maintain a Register of Varieties and a List
of Recommended Varieties. Seed production under the project would be confined
to varieties on the List of Recommended Varieties (Section 3.11 of the draft
Development Credit Agreement).
73.       A fully equipped central seed laboratory would be established at
Yezin to be run by ARI. Main regional laboratories would be established at
Hmawbi, Lungyaw, and Mandalay, and small laboratories would be established at
the groundnut (para 75) and cotton seed facilities (para 70); all would be
run by ARD. The Yezin laboratory would, inter alia, monitor the work of the
regional laboratories; it would be supervised by a Seed Technologist trained
under the project. Issues concerning quality control work would be brought to
the notice of the NSC. A Senior Quality Control Officer at ARD headquarters
would supervise all ARD quality control operations. The regional laboratories
would initially be concerned with quality control on their respective farms,
and would form the base for an expansion of service as need arose.
Groundnut Program
74.       Because they are unable successfully to store groundnut seed over
the monsoon, farmers in Lower Burma must buy seed at very high cost from
Central Burma. It is expected that, if cheaper seed were available, farmers
would expand their groundnut acreage. Air-conditioned, dehumidified stores
located in Lower Burma would be capable of storing seed from the harvest of
the Lower Burma crop to the next planting season without significant loss of
viability. It is estimated that'such stores could be operated at a cost which,
when added to the price of seed purchased from the harvest of the Lower Burma
crop, would enable seed to be sold at a price much below present levels.
75.       The proposed project would include a pilot program to determine
the technical, financial, and economic feasibility of such storage in Lower



- 20 -
Burma. Five stores would be built, each with a small detached office and
laboratory building. To reduce maintenance problems, spares equivalent to
about 30% of capital costs would also be provided. Incremental working
capital to purchase a stock of seed would be included in project costs.
76.       The stores would be owned and operated by ARD under strict quality
control procedures. Seed would be purchased from farmers in the area sur-
rounding each store at prices competitive with those paid by oil mills.
Sale prices would be set so as to cover costs in full and to give a nominal
return (12%) on investment capital. In order to establish the feasibility
of groundnut seed storage in Lower Burma, the Government agreed to conduct
monitoring surveys for the pilot program, for a minimum of three years from
its commencement (Section 4.03 of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Funds for such monitoring are provided under the project.
Training
77.       While Burma has a large number of graduates with a basic training
in agriculture, very few graduates have received any specialized training and
there is a resultant acute shortage of staff capable of implementing seed
research and multiplication programs. Therefore, provision has been made for
690 man-months of overseas training, ranging from two-year Mlasters of Science
degree courses to three-month short courses such as those conducted by the
international research centers. Most of the training would be in disciplines
essential to strengthening applied research capabilities, such as agronomy,
plant breeding and experimental design and analysis. Also under the training
component, senior farm management staff would be sent on short overseas courses
for training in the latest production techniques for their main crops. The
senior staff responsible for quality control would be sent on 12-month over-
seas training courses in seed technology, with emphasis on field inspection
and seed analysis. On their return these officers would train additional
staff, as necessary, to expand the quality control service. It was agreed
that prior to Mlarch 31, 1978 and thereafter annually until March 31, 1980,
the Government would make arrangements satisfactory to the Association for
overseas training (Section 4.05 of the draft Develop Credit Agreement).
Technical Assistance
78.       Technical assistance would be a key component of the project and
would primarily consist of three main elements - land development, farm man-
agement, and applied research. This would be contracted to one consulting
firm (about 100 man-months) which would take responsibility for coordination
of the total technical assistance program. In addition, short-term specialists
(about 16 man-months) would be hired on an individual basis to provide advice
on the design and operation of seed processing and storage facilities. The
average cost of technical assistance (without contingencies) would be US$6,900
per man-month, of which US$2,800 would be salary, and the balance travel,
expenses and overhead.
79.       The consultants would prepare development plans for the six farms
and for Yezin, and would supervise their implementation. At the same time,



-21 -
they would train a team of Burmese staff capable of planning and developing
the balance of ARD's farms. The consultants would also formulate five-year
management plans for the six farms and would develop farm management capabi-
lity in ARD by training selected staff. The consultants would assist the
Government in establishing priorities for applied research and formulating a
program to be initiated during the project. Specialists in the fields of rice
seed processing, cotton seed ginning and storage, and groundnut drying and
storage, would be hired on short-term consultancies. They would design facil-
ities and prepare tender documents, assist with installation and initial oper-
ation of equipment, and train staff in machinery operation and maintenance.
80.       During negotiations agreement was reached between the Government,
UNDP and the Association that UNDP would finance the Technical Assistance
component of the project (about US$975,000 equivalent over four years) with
the Association as the Executing Agency. Agreement was also reached with the
Government on terms of reference for the consultants. An assurance was ob-
tained that the Government would retain consultants selected by the Association
(Section 3.02 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). The Association has
already taken initial steps to select consultants.
C. Project Costs and Financing
81.       Total project cost is estimated at US$11.1 million, which includes
taxes of US$0.8 million, physical contingencies of US$0.5 million (6%), and
price contingencies of US$2.5 million (28%). The foreign exchange component
is estimated at US$5.5 million (or 50% of total project costs), of which
UNDP would finance about US$975,000 for the technical assistance component.
The proposed IDA credit of US$5.5 million would finance the remaining foreign
exchange costs of US$4.5 million and US$1.0 million of local costs or about
70% of total project costs excluding taxes, duties, the seasonal credit re-
quired for groundnut working capital, and the UNDP contribution. The Gov-
ernment would finance the balance of US$4.6 million equivalent directly and
through Myanma Economic Bank. In order to ensure the timely availability
of local funds, it was agreed that, by April 30, 1978, the Government would
raise the aggregate and annual ceilings for seed development in its Third
Four Year Plan to reflect the project cost estimates agreed during negotia-
tions (Section 3.13 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Project
costs and proposed financing are summarized below:



- 22 -
US$ Thousand Equivalent
Cost Item                      GOB     IDA  UNDP    Total   % IDA
Applied Research                    755    1,050    -    1,805     58
Farm Development                    515      885    -    1,400     63
Seed Production Investments         595   1,375     -    1,970     70
Seed Processing Investments         255     495     -      750     66
Production & Processing
Operating Costs                   360     290     -      650     45
Commercial Cotton Seed Stores       260     290     -      550     53
Quality Control                      10      45     -       55     82
Groundnut - Investment and
Operating Costs                   270     445     -      715     62
Groundnut - Working Capital       1,540       -     -    1,540     -
ARD Headquarters                     65       85    -      150     57
Training                             -       540    -      540    100
Technical Assistance                 -       -     975     975     -
TOTAL                        4,625   5,500    975  11,100     50
82.       Funds for ARI and ARD investment and incremental operating costs
would be transferred as normal budgetary allocations to AC (or to its
successor). ARD would obtain working capital for groundnut purchases from
the Myanma Economic Bank on prevailing terms for short-term loans.
D. Procurement and Disbursement
83.       The majority of equipment, machinery, and vehicles would be pro-
cured after international competitive bidding in accordance with IDA guide-
lines. For some specialized or small items of equipment costing less than
US$20,000 each and less than US$500,000 in aggregate, procurement will be
in accordance with the Borrower's normal procedures, after bids have been
received from at least three suppliers. For each tender package for goods
with an aggregate value in excess of US$200,000, the Government would sub-
mit bid documents to the Association for its review and would seek the
Association's consent on bid evaluations before orders are placed. Con-
sultants would be employed by the Association as Executing Agency for UNDP.
84.       Civil works with an estimated cost of US$2.4 million (net of con-
tingencies) comprise mainly houses, offices, laboratories and stores. The
works are widely scattered and construction is to be phased over three years
and hence would not attract international contractors. There is virtually
no private construction industry in Burma. Some small buildings, each costing
less than K 50,000 (US$7,000), would be constructed by ARD by force account.
However, the bulk of the work would be carried out under contract by GOB's
Construction Corporation. A program of the civil works to be started each
year would be agreed between ARD and the Construction Corporation. These
work programs, and the terms of the contract under which the Construction
Corporation would execute them, would be satisfactory to the Association
(Section 3.05 (a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement).



- 23 -
85.       The proposed IDA credit would be disbursed against:    (a) 100% of
the cost of training and of the foreign exchange cost of directly imported
equipment; (b) 80% of the cost of imported equipment that is procured locally;
(c) 100% of local expenditures (ex-factory) for equipment manufactured locally;
(d) 60% of the cost of civil works; and (e) 45% of incremental operating costs.
86.       Applications for withdrawals from the credit would be fully docu-
mented except that disbursement for civil works under force account and
incremental operating costs would be made against certified statements of
expenditure submitted by ARD; documentation supporting statements of expen-
diture will be retained by ARD for review during project supervision 1/.
87.       The project is a first phase for future seed program development.
Hence, upon completion of the project, any surplus in the credit account
will be used, at the discretion of the Association, for project related
expenditures.
E. Seed Pricing
88.       If full project benefits are to be obtained, seed produced under
the project must be priced to ensure responsible use. Rice and cotton seed
prices would be increased to conform with this principle; failure to do so
would greatly reduce project benefits. In the case of rice, farmers would
sell their genetically superior seed for grain, if they could buy seed at less
than grain prices. In the case of cotton, too low a price would result in a
continuance of excessive seeding rates (currently 72 lbs/acre compared with a
more normal 20 to 30 lbs/acre).
89.       To ensure responsible use of seed produced under the project, it
was agreed that the Government would establish and maintain, for ten years
after the signing of the Development Credit Agreement, seed pricing formulae
satisfactory to the Association (Section 4.02 of the draft Development Credit
Agreement). During negotiations it was also agreed that initial seed pricing
formulae would be as follows:
(i) The selling price of rice seed would basically be set by
reference to the government procurement price plus all
additional processing and handling costs. But to ensure
responsible use of a valuable commodity, rice seed should
sell at a price well in excess of the grain prices.
Separate rice seed prices would be set for rice surplus
and deficit areas. Under present procurement prices,
rice seed prices would, at any rate, be at least 160%
1/   Burma's 1977/78 fiscal year would be the base against which to measure
incrementally; where applicable incremental revenues would be taken
into account in determining net incremental operating costs. The
definition of, and disbursement procedures for, operating costs were
agreed during negotiations.



- 24 -
and 200% of the Ngasein procurement price for surplus
and deficit areas respectively. Rice seed prices would
be announced well before planting time, i.e., in March
of each year. Rice seed prices would automatically be
reviewed after consultation with IDA whenever procure-
ment prices were changed.
(ii) The prices for commercial cotton seed and groundnut seed
would be set annually at levels which would cover: raw
seed costs; operating costs including transport and
handling but excluding interest charges; and a 12% return
on investment capital. Certified cotton seed would be
sold by ARD to farmers at the price being charged for
commercial cotton seed.
90.       The application of the above formulae would result in an increase
in the average price of rice seed of about 65%, sufficient to ensure respon-
sible use. 1/ The cotton seed price would increase by about 200%; this is
a large increase but the cost of seed per acre would remain low at K 9. It
would be necessary to sell certified cotton seed at the same price as com-
mercial seed because it would be difficult to determine accurately the cost
of producing certified seed at Lungyaw and Mahlaing given the overlap of seed
and research activities. Furthermore certified seed would be sold to farmers
in designated seed production areas instead of commercial seed. Since it is
the Government's desire that farmers would not be paid any premium for pro-
ducing the commercial seed, it would be inappropriate to charge more for
certified than for commercial seed.
91.       The formula for groundnut seed would result in an ex-store price
of about K 77 per basket (K 65 for raw seed plus K 12 for operating costs
and return to investment). This would be a considerable reduction from
present seed prices in Lower Burma and should lead to a significant increase
in plantings.
F. Financial and Economic Impact
92.       With the above pricing policies, the ARD seed production and proces-
sing program would be financially self-supporting by the fourth year from
initiation of the project. The costs of research and training on ARD farms
would not be fully offset by revenues from the seed production and processing
program. At full development, four years from the beginning of the project,
ARD would incur an annual project-related deficit of about K 300,000 when the
full costs of research and ARD headquarters development are included. This
is considerably less than the K 1.1 million operating deficit incurred by
the six project farms in 1975/76. The setting of rice and cotton seed prices
1/   The average price paid to ARD would be about K 16/basket; this value
has been used in calculating project costs and benefits.



- 25 -
higher than those proposed further to improve ARD's cash flow, is not con-
sidered feasible. However, any failure to make ARD self-financing would be
more than offset by the incremental revenues which would accrue to the Gov-
ernment through its rice procurement operations. At full development, the
project is expected to increase annual rice production by 188,000 tons.
Assuming a marginal quota rate of 29%, 1/ and a procurement efficiency of 50%,
the Government would annually procure an additional 28,000 tons of paddy as a
result of the project. Most of this would be sold on the export market and
result in additional annual revenues of about K 12 M (US$1.6 M). (The dif-
ference between the export price, net of procurement and handling costs, and
the procurement price is about K 450 per ton.)
93.       The impact of the project on farmers would be considerable.    The
new HYV paddy suitable for medium-deep water regions would permit yield in-
creases of about 50%. Taking into account increased costs of inputs, this
would provide a net incremental benefit of about K 115 per acre sown. At full
development, about 700,000 paddy farmers could benefit from the rice program.
Cotton yields could be expected to increase at least 5% through use of pure
seed of existing varieties which would provide a net incremental benefit of
about K 30 per acre. A further and more dramatic yield increase could be
expected when new varieties are released. The project would also reduce pro-
duction costs of about 11,000 cotton farmers by about 20%, yielding an addi-
tional net incremental benefit of about K 180 per acre.
94.       The economic analysis has been carried out using international
prices with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling and processing and
quality differentials. Apart from rice, all project output would be consumed
in Burma. The kyat has been shadow priced at K 13 to US$1. Unskilled labor
has been valued at a rate intermediate between the prevailing market prices
for periods of near full employment and the slack season rate. Economic re-
turns for the major project components have been estimated using costs specific
to each component plus a portion of the overhead costs (including land devel-
opment, production equipment, housing, and quality control). Since the bene-
fits from the research component are not easily separated from those accruing
to improved extension and increased input use, no return has been estimated
for this component.
95.       The rice seed program would hasten the spread of new HYV.    The
marginal contribution of the project is estimated to be additional coverage
of 0.5 million acres; this would produce an incremental 188,000 metric tons,
valued at about US$43 million per year. The estimated rate of return is over
100% and remains so even if benefits are reduced, or costs increased, by 25%.
96.       The cotton seed program would improve seed quality and lead to sav-
ings in seed use. The seed saved would yield cooking oil worth an estimated
US$1 million per year and the net incremental value of cotton produced on
Government farms would be over US$0.14 million per year. The use of improved
1/   From Appraisal of the Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project (Report
No. 1129-BA), Annex 15 and assuming an average holding of 5 acres and an
average yield of 30 baskets per acre.



- 26 -
seed would increase yields of existing varieties by at least 5%. On this
basis, the rate of return on the program would be about 27%; if costs were
increased, or benefits reduced, by 25%, the rate of return would still be
about 20%. Much larger yield increases and, thus, higher benefits could be
expected following the release of new varieties.
97.       The pilot groundnut program is expected to reduce the seed price
by at least 25%, and hence lead to acreage expansion of at least 20% which
would give a rate of return of about 19%. If costs increased or benefits
decreased by 25%, the return would be about 14%.
98.       Even without the substantial unquantifiable benefits from the re-
search component, the economic rate of return for the entire project is esti-
mated to be above 50% and remains so even if benefits are reduced, or costs
increased, by 25%.
G. Project Risks
99.       The project would be exposed to two general risks:    first, that
the Government would not maintain incentive prices (in spite of recent pro-
mising pronouncements and practice); second, that implementation would be
slower than predicted because of delays in taking key administrative actions.
However, since appraisal, the Government has been alerted to, and has acknow-
ledged, the urgency of these actions.
100.      There are three basic project specific risks.    First, the rice
program anticipates the release of new varieties in three or four years time,
but it is possible that release will take longer. A sensitivity analysis
shows that even if the new varieties take six years to release, the project
rate of return would still be above 50%. Second, in cotton, seed improvement
should be one element of a package of improvements covering extension, credit,
and input supply. The March 1977 agricultural sector mission has recommended
that cotton cultivation be surveyed in detail to establish the feasibility of
launching a comprehensive improvement program. The proposed project has as-
sumed that such a program will materialize and the cotton seed production
program would be a necessary component. Should no complementary investments
be made, however, estimates show that improved quality of seed alone would
result in sufficient seed saving, hence increased oil production, to yield a
return of about 13% on the cotton seed related investments. A third risk is
that groundnut farmers would not expand their acreage sufficiently in response
to lower seed prices to make storage economically viable. This risk appears
minimal, however, given the strong demand for groundnut oil, the apparent large
potential for area expansion in Lower Burma, and the fact that the investments
would have at least a 50% salvage value.



- 27 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
101.      The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Socialist Republic
of the Union of Burma and the Association, the Recommendation of the Committee
provided for in Article V, Section 1(d) of the Articles of Agreement and the
text of a resolution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to
the Executive Directors separately.
102.      Special conditions of the credit are listed in Section III of Annex
III.
103.      I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
104.      I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
October 19, 1977






ANNEX I
TABLE 3A                              Page 1 of 4 pages
BURMA               - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
LAND-----      - ARA  THU  M2BURMA                                                  REFERENCE COUNTRIES (1970)
TOTAL      676.6                                      MOST RECENT
AGRIC.     107.5                       1960      1970    ESTIMAT*E         SRI LANKA      THAILAND      MALAYSIA**
---------------------------         _---
GNP PER CAPITA (USs)                     50.0*      70.0*    120.0  A           170.0*      210.0*     440.0*
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION (MIO-YR, MILLION)           21.8      27.0       30.8 /a            12.5        36.3       10.8
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQUARE KM.                       32.0      40.0       46 0 /a           191.0       71.0        33.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND       204.0     253.0      287.0 X            518.0      263.0       185.0
VITAL STATISTICS
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (/THOU, AV)         43.6      41.3       39.5               33.1       44.3        42.2
CRUDE DEATH RATE (/THOU,AV)          24.4      19.3       1 A.8               8.0        13.7       12.9
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (/THOU)       129.9        ..       40.3               50.0       90.0        40.ae
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YRS)       45.0      47.5       50.1               65.8       55.5        56.7
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                ..       2.7        2.7                2.3         3.2        2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (%)
TOTAL                                 1.8       2.2        2.2                2.4        3.1         2.9
URBAN                                 5.7       3.7        4.6                4.5         4.9        3.2
URBAN POPULATION (% OF TOTAL)          17.1       19.9      22.3               22.0        15.0       26.9
AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0 TO 14 YEARS                       37.1/a    40.0       40.5               40.0       451         44.   a
15 TO 64 YEARS                       58.4 7 ,b 57.0       55.9               56.0       51.8        52.1 a
65 YEARS AND OVER                     4.5 ab    3.0        3.6                4.0         3.1        3*2a
AGE DEPENDENCY RATIO                    0.7        0.8       0.8                0.8         0.9 
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO               0.9/A      1.1/a     1.1A               1.41
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS (CUMULATIVE, THOU)           .-         .         *-              215.3      470.0       222.2
USERS (% OF MARRIED WOMEN)             ..        ..         ..                7.0        10.0        8.0
EMPLOYMENT
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAND)        10600.0   10920.0    11700.0             4100.0    16700.0 l    2900.0/p
LABOR FORCE IN AGRICULTURE (%)         68.0      70.0       67.0               52.0/a      79.0       43.0
UNEMPLOYED (% OF LABOR FORCE)            -          *-      13.0/a              9.0-                   6-a
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
% OF PRIVATE INCOME RECD BY-
HIGHEST   5% OF HOUSEHOLDS           14.6/d       .. .d                      18.8        22.0DA     28.3
HIGHEST 20% OF HOUSEHOLDS            44.7 7       *-      40.0/d             45.6        51.1 c     56.0
LOWEST  20% OF HOUSEHOLDS             6.5        ..        8.0                7.4        5.6/C       3.5
LOWEST  40% OF HOUSEHOLDS            16.5/4       ..      21.0               17.9        14.3 E      1.2
DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
______ ___ __ ___ ________ ___
% OWNED BY TOP 10% OF OWNERS             ..         ..        ..
% OWNED BY SMALLEST 10% OWNERS           ..         ..        ..                 .           .
HEALTH AND NUTRITION
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            12270.0    8970.0     6750.0                  .      7970.0
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON       11310.0    7540.0 A   7240.0 e           2730.0 k   6650.0
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED          1980.0    1200.0     1170.0 /d           330.0 C     890.0      270:0 /a
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF -
CALORIES (% OF REQUIREMENTS)         88.0     101.0      103.0              101.0       103.0       110.0
PROTEIN (GRAMS PER DAY)              43.0      49.0       50.0 /f            50.0        52.0       49.0
-OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           ..      13.0         ..               16.0        17.0/A     20.0 C
DEATH RATE (/THOU) AGES 1-4              ..         ..        ..                  ..         ..         5.5
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIO
PRIMARY SCHOOL                       72.0     111.0      107.0               99.0        81.0       89.0  a
SECONDARY SCHOOL                     10.0      21.0       22.0               51.0/A      16.0       34.0 a
YEARS OF SCHOOLING PROVIDED
(FIRST AND SECOND LEVEL)             11.0      10.0       10.0               12.0        12.0       13.0 a
VOCATIONAL ENROLLMENT
(% OF SECONDARY)                      0.5       0.8        0.8 /              1.0/d      14.0 A      3.0 /a
ADULT LITERACY RATE (%)                58.0/a               67.0                  .        79.0        55.0
HOUSING
PERSONS PER ROOM (URBAN)                 ..         ..        ..                 ..          ./.
OCCUPIED DWELLINGS WITHOUT
PIPED WATER (%)                        ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..       65.0 /ad
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
(% OF ALL DWELLINGS)                   ..        ..         ..                 ..          ..       43.0 a
RURAL DWELLINGS CONNECTED
TO ELECTRICITY (%)                     ..         .         ..                 ..          ..       30.0 /a
CONSUMPTION
RADIO RECEIVERS (PER THOU POP)          6.0       15.0      21.0               41.0        78.0        41.0
PASSENGER CARS (PER THOU Pop)     .     1   IfA    1.o       1.o                7.0         5.0       27.0
ELECTRICITY (KWH/YR PER CAP)           19.0       22.0      25.0               65.0       124.0      382.0
NEWSPRINT (KG/YR PER CAP)               0.5        0.6       0.4                1.5         1.0         4.0
---------------- - -AN- -D- - --------                        - ---------------------------- --------- -----
SEE NOTES AND DEFINITIONS ON REVERSE



ANNEX I
Page 2 of I pages
NOTES
Unless otherwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961, for 1970 boiet,en 1968 and 1970, and firl Mint fecnet Estioate between
1973 and 1975.
- N? per capita dote are baned on World bank Atlas methodology (1974-76 basis).
The onlectlon of Malaysia as sn objective imoctry on based on its ability to coMbine a high rate of ecnoic grow.th with no adequate level of
nelfare.
BRfNA          1960     /a  19541;    A    15-59 years and 60 and over respectively,        /c  Patio of populatio    under 15 and 6i sod over to total labor
for..ce;   /d  1958, Rangoon, urban;       Le  16 years and over;      /f   1962.
1970 /a Patio of populatnon under 15 and 65 and over to totalI labor force, /b Personne on governmnt servicen only,
/4 1964-66.
MO1ST RECEtfT ESTIMATE: A. 1976, A Patio of population under 15 and 65 and over to total labor force; /c Urban only;
/d  1972,     /e   Personnel in government services only,        /f  1969-71 average.
SRI lAIPtA     1970     /a   As percentage of employment,       A   RNegintered anemployedf      /c  Go-rernoet only;      /d  Netwoen 1965 and 1970 the
duration of general secondary education v.es incressed from 4 to 7 Years; data cf vocational education refer to techn-ica
institutes attached to the Moenstry of Education only.
TfHAIlAlfb     1970     A.  Patio of popslatiom under 15 and 65 sod over to econowically ac~tive population aged 11 yearn and over;              Ab  Econonm.ialy
active population aged LI years and over;        /c   Rural only;     /d   196i-66;     /e  Poublic schools, obhibh include technical
education at tie post-secondary level.
!aLAYSTA       1970     /a  Went Mlalynia;      lb   R,glstored applicants for work,       ft  196u-66,     Ld   Piped water inside
R8, August 22, 1977
DRPDITION5S OP SOCIAL INtOICATORJ5
Lsad Area (thou ki2)                                                                      PessIati.a par esrakig psres   - Pop.latisn dtnided by n-abor at practIcing
Total1  Total sorface aren c aprietig iced area end iniand waters,                          mal  and tamal   gradaste moras, "cecimed` er `certified` mosl,sd
Aaric.  M-Ma ras ...   stase      aagricaltusra1 area aed temp--ily em Peem-                assiliar   psrses,1 with traiintg or esp-riesc
namely tar or.pa, pastoral, market a kitchee gardana er ta lits film.                   Ppusl.tias eat hesei tal bad - Pepsiatien dietded by aicber at halpical beds
-milable km pablie and primate general and spciliseid heapital cad
GNP ear ..Pita (VS$) - GN? pat capita estimae at.  orr--t maclet prices,                    r-bbilitatti- casers        eldcc anteing hems   cad eatablIa.e.tss  fsr
-calcalted by eam   -aercier sethed as World Bank Atlme (1973-75 basl.);                  .-atediel cad prevetive acre.
i960, 1970 and 1905 data.                                                               Per caita lately of naere         Pofa ressiret.et) - Capoted ifta esergy
eqaiva leet oftact fod sapplisa ae-ilablc in nestry per capita per day,
P.pslatioa and vital atatietin                                                              avilable sepplise scsprisa desetie prad.-onsa, imprts Ieas esperel, sad
Pp.alatioa laid-eaty   ela)       setil      "toe  dit sat avilable, everage                chamgs   is --5d; set eapplice  eld      animal teed, .eeds, qantciciee used
a.tw   cad year easise        60b,  9197  ad 1973 dta.                                    in tood preslee keg and iosees im dia-tibotion, reot,sawre ascimated
by FAO bae.d as physiological ...cdn tar netaI activity and becieb osn.id-
Peenlatias da...ity - ear assare Mi - Mid-year pepulatian pat equate kil-meter              sting sevireenete1 tnparators, bohdy weights, age and ass dictrihotiana of
(105 betarec)' at;v ree  area.                                                            pop""te,     a    il  n   lot ta  waste at honsheld Icvel.
PepoI.lac   deegity - getesmre     i    sof anti. loasd - foepated as abasPrPer capit!a sanely atf prai                 (gfras pear day) -'Protein netest ot per    apitsa
aginerLelnd anly.                                                                   sa-t sopply et tasd par day; -e teapply at tend ia defined as abve, tqi
met otr all esontries sesabliahed bY USDA cEsamaicRas.earcb Servi.ee
Vital statistics                                                                             prseide tee a mini- .a alloanc   .f 60 grams of total prossle per day, and
Erode kirth rate pear thouan.d, sysrage - AaamaI live bErtha par ibeousand at                20 grosse of animal and poles protein, of which lb gran   abeod be asimal
aid-year papolatia1;tn;  eyer arithanstic averages eedLg Em I960 ned 1970,                 prateis; thece etandcrde are lasr than thess ot 75 gram     of toed1 prateic
cad tin-_yearaverage ceding in 1975 tar most resea t eatimate.and 23 grs                                at ceimal proteim as an avrage Par the unr1d, propesed by FAO
Erode death rate pear theiusand. average - Annual deatha parthebasad ot mid-year             it the Third Woerld road S-rvy.
popsiation; tcn-yaarerithstitaveragaa ending is i960 and 1970 asd fiea-                  Par nas'it.a atati  ese..  trn .sLm-   caed polae - pretein sopply of iood
year -rvrge ending is 1975 tsr east resent estimate,                                       derIved irmaaiml      sod pulses in gram  per day
Isteset mertality rate 1/thas)  A-..nea deaths at isfast   sndar nag year at age          Death rate fishes) anas 1-4 - Annul deaths per ths.....d In age grasp i-4
pertheussd live birtht..                                                                  years, to shildren is chit age ginup, soggeseed aanindictotr of
Liueresease-yeat birth (era) -Averge n-sber at years at bite remaining at-lntritis..
birth, us oally tive-yeer averages ending is I960, 1970 asd 1975 tsr dase1op-
tag sauntries.                                                                          Eduaclati
iroes repredncties rate - average ,asber of lio    dan,ghtere a sun wIll b.ar              AdjustEtd nsrelL,e  ra.tio - erimary echool - Enreilneee t oflI ages ec par-
in her -eema   repredostivePeriodi she espa~ienes Preset age-spacifin                      etage eto primary choul-ags papslatioes; issludes children aged h-li years
terti lity ratna; usually Pica-year av-rgm    ending is 1960, 1975 and 1975               bus adjostad tar ditterems 1engthe at primary eda..etion; Per coumtries siob
tar davelping cnaserrs.                                                                    nsiversal educ..eteo, enra11ne may en...ed 100% skate seIppils are belw
pssainStatr   ats1 (%) -ttea   - Cspaamd casual growth ratec at mid-year               or abase she   fftisia1 eckel age.
p9sats 5er1P-6s. 1960-75 and 1970-75.                                           adilate.di.ertllusat rctio -esssndarv aschool - Campoted eabee; secondary
peaia growth rats  Mt - urban -_C_puted like growth rate at natal1edustian eqoirs                         at leatntutt yers of appra-ed primary ineroeis
popalaties; different de1ili tin    at stbam  areas may aPiece smparability at             praide. gc..era1, vesacienlf ator   ee    training ta-tr-toren  for popils
danta among netritte.                                                                      at 12 ta 17 yeare of ge; sorreapondenc    cstesar      genraly ecided.
irka ppitia       (S of rtcth1  - stein et urban is aural pnpaiutias, different            Ycare ef  chbesling  r-ided (-rt     n   ecn lvl) - Total years at
definitions at   rbaa crea may affect s -prabiliry at data aesog couetries.                asbhonlig     at aenadary  evlvsaialimetrostina may be partisIly or
snuopletely e..sloded.
Ass O$t7trost  eepots..t) - Cbtildree (5-LA yeara), working-ags (iS-hi years),             Vacatikma   erbst(5ascody)- vocati_ml                  anetitationa i.clode
andreired (65 pearl and aver) se percentages oP mid-year pepulatias.                    technical, indoacria1 or other progran which aperate independently atra
One dependency ratio - PRtis of.P.Ipepolam    under 15 and 65 end aver to tbsue              departsa.ts at secondary i-ti-loiona
at ages 15 thr-ogh hi.                                                                   Ad'lt 15teracY rat   5     Lierace ado1te (shin to read and stits) as per-
canemnic depende..cy ratia -sti        at poplation under IS and 65 and evr is               Iaeg    o   sa    ados popoIction ased 15 pears asd aver.
the 1aber Parse in ag   groop et1)h     yers.
tFsily elcsn-    asceetors (coeslaiee      ihaub - .-aslti-e soakr oP onoepiora            H... ia
of birth-central devise nader a..apice. at national family planning pragrm               Pe-ea!mear trn- (orban) - Average soaker at perone per trn in ascupied
since iscptio                                                                              senven tiemaldwel1inga in urban areas ; dwellings e-slde sea-permannt
Fasily rInsing-user         ot a tmariedaas      Per-etsgsa of married   -re   at            sestread usasepiedpre
child-barns5   age (IS-b4 yeara) sh   bs iritb-soutr1 devices to all married               c.psied delmso wtote         dsa    r i t) -occpied conv-etiona1 dwellimge
wusen is esm   age grasp.                                                                  in urban and total ara    sitheat inside er astaide piped water facilities
as prtnentags at all onepied dwellins..
Edeloveset                                                                                 Ae..a. so electricity f5 of all dwellings) - Convastioma1 dwellings with
Tntel laber tace (thausand) - E-oritaIIy active paransa, including aesd                      electricity ie living quartsre as parcent of total dwelinjgs Is urben and
farce and anmlyed hut s-iding heoaseeksa, sdtodta, ate. ; detinitions                      rualaras
inc:i   - smtrise are nt smPatable.                                                    oRaljdwellinga sonnested in electricity (%5 - Coeputed as abase for total
Lab- orcPre in asrisuitus it     - Agri..sleura1 labor ferns (is faceig, toreesry,           delings oly.
boaingad t       n)a    -pratag fe atoteal labor fern.
smemel,y.dave   !ft of lbor tsrtcs)  M- eployad arc u-us1y defined as parlous  ha          Cousmation
are  bIs au     illing to take aJob,- oto      job as a gives day, remined out           Radie raceivare (net thou gee) - All typma of receivers toe rodin broadnaces
at   Jb, andseking sack faro       eaified   M    =m period mat ssceeding one             to gassed1 public per thousanad ot population;   -1cldsa malisen..ed rea eivr
sek, may mat bs etaparable boetwe     coantriea due to different definitions               is conatrisa and in ysre when registration of radio sets was in attest;
ot snemplayedcad emotes. of date, e.g., employtest office eseiteise, sample                data fa~r resent yeara may ass he spareble state esee countries sballahed
su-vya, amopulary aseploysse insurance.                                                    lisemakag.
PI,l:e:2etLcars Peer thou sass - Passenger car coprian noise care ecating
Inema distribution - P.erstnsge oP private Lac-m (both in sah sad kind)                      lesta      ight prsons; eacludee amobulances, hea.a.. and    ilitary
rece.ived by rieheas St. ricesat 201X, p-eset 201, and poorest apt of house-               whisles.
holda.                                                                                   El-etricity fkehs/v netsa) - Aanmal son-aptic       of isdsetria1, -mnrtial,
psoblin and pret     lectricity in kilowatt hours par capia., generall1y
Dietribstian at loand a    -thicp - Percentages at load stond by sealehiese lOt              based ma Pndustifn data, without alasefor lossess in grids hut allo--
and poorest lot of lad sownrs                                                              1mg fcc impart   ca  eats of eletcIty
eNepriet flea/yr ear sans - Per ca   -i na      te-option ia kileg-am
Heslth and Nutrition                                                                         estimated fern dooustic production plus net imports ot newsmprint.
Poeulatian ear physicig     - Population divded by eeber at practicing
physisias   qualifted fern a mica1 school at asiver-ity level.



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA
AREA        2/             POPULATION                                                   DENSITY
678.528  kmr'             31.5 million (1977)                                            46  per km/
Rate of Growth:2.2%    (from 1965 to 1977)                   154  per k/of arable land
POPULATION CHARACTERISTICS 1974                                       HEALTH  1976
Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000)               33.7                       Population per physician      6,760
Crude Death Rate (per 1,000)               11.3                       Population per hospital bed 1,475
Infant Mortality (per 1,000 live births) 55.8
INCOME DISTRIBUTION 1972                                              DISTRIBUTION OF LAND OWNERSHIP
% of national income,   highest quintile   40%                        % owned by top 10% of owners
lowest  quintile    8%                        % owned by smallest 10% of owners
ACCESS TO PIPED WATER                                                 ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY
% of population - urban..                                             % of population - urban.
- rural  ..-- rural
NUTRITION 1972                                                        EDUCATION   1974
Calorie intake as % of requirements     102.2%                        Adult literacy rate %           67%
Per capita protein intake                71.2                         Primary school enrollment %     83%
GNP PER CAPITA inFY 1977:'-    US$130
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN FY 1977                                     ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US $ Mln.        %                     FY1965-70         FY1970-77           FY1965-77
GNP at Market Prices         3,968          100.0                       2.0              3.5                 2.6
Gross Capital Formation        406           10.2                     - 3.7            - 0.8               - 1.9
Gross Domestic Saving           339           8.5                         -                -
Foreign Capital Inflow          67            1.7                         -                -
Exports of Goods, NFS          212            5.3                    - 13.6              4.3               - 3.8
Imports of Goods, NFS          270            6.8                    - 10.5            - 7.8               - 8.2
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN FY 1977
Value Added                         Labor Force                     V. A. Per Worker
US$ Mln.       %                      Mln.        %                     US $         %
Agriculture c/                1868           46.7                 8.4        67.8                   222         68
Industry                       355            8.9                 0.9         7.1                   394        121
Services/Trade                1706           42.7                 2.3        18.3                   742        228
Unallocated   d/                6             1.7                 0-7         6.8                    97         30
Total                    3997          100.0                12.3       100.0                  325         100
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
General Government                            Union Government
(Kyats Mtin.)        % of GDP                 (Kyats  Mln.)        % of GDP
FY77                FY77                       FY77              FY77
Current Receipts                     4803 e/               17.9 !/                    3376               12.6
Current Expenditure                   3854                 14.4                       3762               14.1
Current Surplus                        949                  3.5                      - 386              - 1.4
Capital Expenditures                  1704                  6.4                        400                1.5
External Assistance (gross)            799                  3.0                          -
* All data for FY 1977 are revised estimates of the Government of Burma.
a/ The Per Capita GNP estimate is based on a straight exchange rate conversion using FY 1977TGNP.
b/ Tuta-l labor force: unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
c/ Includes livestock, fishery and forestry.
d/ Mining, power, and construction.
e/ Includes current surplus/deficit of Boards and Corporations.
not available
not applicable



ANNEX I
Page 4 of 4 pages
COUNTRY DATA - BURMA
1970      1971       1972      1973       1974      1975       1976       1977
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES                   Sep.      Sep.      Sep.       Sep.      Mar.       Mar.      Mar.        Mar.
(mln Kyats outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                    2422      2399      2793       3581      4065       5342      6052        6335
Bank Credit to Public Sector             2616      3043      3676       4342      5040       6447      6663        6429
Bank Credit to Private Sector             537       557       668       1000       685        639       956        1457
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as 7, of GDP       23.6      23.0       25.9      30.5      27.7       27.6      25.7        23.7
General Price Index (1972 = 100)         91.0      92.9     100.0      123.5     156.6      206.4     252.6
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                      -4.0       2.1        7.6      23.5      26.8       31.8      22.4
Bank credit to Public Sector              9.1      16.3      20.8       18.1      16.1       27.9       3.4         3.5
Bank credit to Private Sector             3.9       3.7       19.9      49.7    - 31.5      - 6.7      49.6        52.4
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                  MERCHANDISE EXPORTS ( FY 1977)
(US$ mln)
FY75    FY76      FY77                                                US $ Mln     %
(Millions US5 $)                   Rice and rice produces             109      51
Teak                               57       27
Merchandise Trade              -99.9   -30.9      -58.8               Pulses and beans                    9       4
Exports, mainly f.o.b.         176.6   179.9     192.8               Animal feedstuff                     7       3
Imports, mainly f.o.b.       -276.5   -210.8    -251.6               Base metals and ores                 8       4
Services and private transfers 11.4   - 18.7    -  8.3
Official grants (net)           21.2    23.3      30.3               All other commodities               23       11
Total                        213      100
Current account              -67.3   -26.3    - 36.8
EXTERNAL DEBT, March 31, 1977
Long-term capital              117.2    25.0      41.6
Foreign loans                   85.7    39.8      86.7                                                        US § Mln
Debt repaymenc                - 23.5   -23.1     -39.2
Ocier capital (net)             55.0     8.3     - 5.9                Public Debt, incl. guaranteed
Short-term bank credit          32.8   -18.3     -18.8               Non-Guaranteed Private Debt               320.9
Total outstanding & Disbursed
capital account              150.0     6.7      22.8
DEBT SERVICE RATIO for FY77 -
Errors and omissions             9.5   - 9.2      -6.0                                                          %
Overall balance               92.2   -28.8     -20.0               Public Debt, inel. guaranteed
Non-Guaranteed Private Debt                19.6
Total outstanding & Disbursed
Gross Reserves (end year)     172.5    134.9     109.3
Nec Reserves    (end year)     38.9    39.7       40.8
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                               IBRD/IDA LENDING, July 31, 1977    (Million US $):
Through Dec. 27, 1971     From Feb.19,1973 to Jan.25,1975                                            IBRD        IDA
US $ 1.00 = K. 4.76       uS$1.00 = K. 4.81
From Jan.25,1975 to May 1, 1977      Outstanding & Disbursed                           48.7
From Dec.27,1971 to       SDR 1.00 = K. 7.74                   Undisbursed                                      109.8
Feb.19,1973            US$1.00    K.6.67                    Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                    M3T 5
US $ 1.00 = K. 5.35
As of May 2, 1977
SDR 1.00 = K. 8.51
US$1.00 = K. 7.33
a/ Ratio of Deot Service to Merchandise Exports.
not available
not applicable
South Asia Programs Department,
Division C
October 1977



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5 pages
STATUS OF BANK/IDA OPERATIONS IN BURMA
A.   Statement of Bank Loans and IDA Credits as of September 30, 1977
US$ Million
Loan or                                             Amount (less cancellations)
Credit No.  Year  Borrower         Purpose          Bank     IDA    Undisbursed
Three loans fully disbursed                         33.1
413       1973  Burma   Inland Water Transport      -      16.3       0.7
414       1973  Burma    Third Railways             -      16.7        1.0
483       1974  Burma   Lift Irrigation             -      17.0        6.2
493       1974  Burma   Forestry                    -      24.0       15.5
551       1975  Burma   Telecommunications          -      21.0       18.7
597       1975  Burma   Livestock                   -       7.5        7.2
642       1976  Burma   Paddyland Development       -      30.0      29.8
671       1977 Burma    Second Ports                -      10.0       10.0
686       1977 Burma    Tin/Tungsten                -      16.0      16.0
Total                                  33.1    158.5
of which has been repaid             33.1      -
Total now outstanding                    -     158.5
Amount sold                  2.7
of which has been repaid   2.7        -
Total now held by Bank & IDA /a         -      158.5
Total Undisbursed                              105.1     105.1
B.   Statement of IFC Investments
None
/a   Prior to exchange adjustments.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5 pages
C.   Proiects in Execution 1/
Cr. No. 413    Inland Water Transport Project; US$16.3 Million Credit of
July 2, 1973; Effective Date: September 17, 1973; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977; Revised Closing Date: December 31,
1977
Procurement was slow in the beginning because the Inland Water
Transport Corporation's management was not familiar with IDA procedures.
The implementation of the project has been affected by high tender prices for
certain equipment and materials. As a result, the scope of the project has
been reduced and four passenger vessels are being constructed locally instead
of importing six vessels as originally planned. The project is nearing
completion.
Cr. No. 414    Third Railways Project; US$16.7 Million Credit of July 2,
1973; Effective Date: September 17, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1977
The physical execution of the project has made good progress. Ex-
cept for diesel locomotives, whose maintenance backlog continues to be the
constraint on the Burma Railways Corporation's (BRC) carrying capacity, the
rehabilitation of passenger coaches and freight wagons, as planned under the
project, was completed in March 1977. As of April 1977, US$15.9 million
equivalent had been committed which completed the procurement under the proj-
ect. The remaining US$0.8 million equivalent will be used to cover transport
and insurance costs for the procured equipment. The Credit is expected to
be fully disbursed by the Closing Date. Freight tonnage, which declined
drastically during 1972/73-1974/75, shows signs of recovery, but average
haul continues to decrease, reflecting increases in shorter distance traffic.
Passenger traffic continued its increasing trend in long-distance travel,
until 1976/77, when it began to decline substantially. In spite of past in-
crease in passenger traffic, tariffs, and railway control of labor and material
costs, BRC's 1975/76 financial performance was poor, with an operating ratio
of 99.2% and a net deficit of K 15.1 million. This was primarily due to a 98%
increase in fuel cost which, in turn, was due to huge increases in prices of
imported coal used for steam traction. The provisional results indicate a
further deterioration in the financial performance for 1976/77 due to decline
in passenger-miles and freight ton-miles and in spite of a 13.4% (5.4% effec-
tive rate) increase in passenger fares beginning July 1, 1976. The last
project supervision took place in February 1977. A project completion
mission is scheduled for January/February 1978.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution and, in particular, to report any prob-
lems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 483    Irrigation I Project; US$17.0 Million Credit of June 21,
1974; Effective Date: August 6, 1974; Closing Date:
December 31, 1978
The project made a very good start. Within three months of the
signing of the Credit Agreement, the Project Committee was established and
functioning effectively; procurement actions were initiated for US$12.6 mil-
lion equivalent of equipment and spare parts. In January 1975 the contract
for procurement of 10,000 pumps and accessories was awarded and by March 31,
1977, 7,000 units had been supplied. Sales to farmers through March 1977
were about 3,300 units, much less than anticipated, apparently due to sales
in 1976 having been limited to jute cultivators only. The Ministry of Agri-
culture and Forests has been informed that, in line with the Credit Agreement,
pumps be sold without restriction to the type of cultivation. The Ministry
of Agriculture and Forests lifted this restriction in July 1977, as a re-
sult pump sales should improve. Construction and equipment installation
four four jute baling pplants is now underway and plans are being discussed
which would enable completion on schedule. The program for the repair of
Irrigation Department construction equipment is proceeding, still behind
schedule owing to delay in supply of key spare parts purchased under the
Credit. The program to rehabilitate and extend flood embankments, which
was set back by the early arrival of 1976 monsoon, is now back on schedule,
and it is still possible that the entire project will be completed by the
end of 1978.
Cr. No. 493    Forestry Project; US$24.0 Million Credit of July 10, 1974;
Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
Overall project status remains poor with implementation continuing
to lag behind schedule. Principal constraints include; inadequate forward
planning, delayed procurement of equipment, shortages of spare parts and poor
equipment maintenance, and shortages of diesel fuel affecting timber haulage,
road construction and operator training. A bid for logging trucks which was
considered non-responsive by the Association was selected by GOB. However,
following the August review mission and the September discussion, in Washington,
with the Deputy Minister of Agriculture and Forests, GOB has recently decided
to issue new specifications and tenders for smaller size logging trucks. An
August review mission discussed major problems with GOB and identified actions
necessary for improving project status. A new five year plan is to be prepared
by December 77 and a new workshop consultant is expected to be in post by
January 78. A November supervision mission will review general progress, the
77/78 operational plan, and assist in the preparation of the long-term plan.
This mission will also discuss with GOB the preliminary report of the Forestry
Projects Feasibility Study prepared by consultants funded under the project.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 551    Telecommunications Project; US$21.0 Million Credit of May 30,
1975; Effective Date: July 23, 1975; Closing Date: June 30,
1980
The project has had a good start and procurement of equipment items
and coordination with Burmese construction agencies for construction works
under the project are on schedule. Contracts for 90% of the equipment to be
procured under the project have been awarded. The OPEC Special Fund has
agreed to finance the cost overrun of about US$3 million. The Telecommunica-
tions Corporation has consistently earned a good return on assets employed,
and new tariffs introduced in April 1976, as well as improvements to the
accounting system, are likely to maintain this record.
Cr. No. 597    Livestock Project; US$7.5 Million Credit of December 30,
1975; Effective Date: March 2, 1976; Closing Date: March 31,
1981
The project continues to show a mixed performance: vaccine pro-
duction and field services under the Department of Animal Husbandry and
Veterinary Science (DAHVS) are proceeding satisfactorily; the education com-
ponent under the Institute of Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Science has
shown little progress over the past six months due to delays in consultant
recruitment but early action is now expected; the Livestock Development and
Marketing Corporation (LDMC) has devoted most of its efforts to the develop-
ment of a State dairy farm, and has given secondary importance to the support
of village livestock development. This reflects the priority attached by
the Government to milk production on State farms rather than improvement of
draft power in the villages. The project continues to receive close super-
vision and consideration is being given to the transfer of service functions
from LDMC to DAHVS. The Deputy Minister for Agriculture and Forests has
agreed to consider the proposed transfer and the matter is being actively
pursued by Bank staff.
Cr. No. 642     Paddyland Development Project; US$30.0 Million Credit of
June 21, 1976; Effective Date: August 20, 1976; Closing Date:
June 30, 1983
The project Implementation Committee and the Project Unit are
established, and assigning of professional staff is being completed. Con-
struction surveys are nearly completed. Although bids for key construction
and maintenance equipment (about $5 million) were opened in January 1977,
awards have only been made in September 1977. As a result, disbursements
are lagging behind appraisal estimates. Subsequently, supply of key con-
struction equipment for start of next construction season has been delayed and
a large part of the first construction season (November-May) has been lost.
Nevertheless the project may be completed on schedule if no further delays in
the supply of key equipment occur. GOB signed a contract with Hydrological
Investigation consultant (Sir Halcrow and Associates) on September 19, 1977.
GOB invited a short list of consultants for the Paddy Storage and Handling
Study in August 1977.



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5 pages
Cr. No. 671    Second Ports Project; US$10.0 Million Credit of January 13,
1977; Expected Date of Effectiveness: April 13, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
There have been top management changes since the Credit was nego-
tiated (Managing Director and Chief Traffic Manager), but there is no indi-
cation that these will adversely affect the project. The dredging manager
was assigned in January 1977. Burma Ports Corporation (BPC), the executing
agency, appointed Crown Agents in July 1977 to prepare tender documents and
to call for and evaluate bids for equipment and machinery. BPC employed a
consulting firm, in August 1977, to prepare documents and evaluate bids for
dredger rehabilitation and repairs. Orders for some spare parts (about
$100,000) for existing equipment has been placed. The project is slightly
behind schedule on the program for dredger rehabilitation.
Cr. No. 686    Tin and Tungsten Expansion Project; US$16.0 Million Credit
of March 25, 1977; Effective Date: June 13, 1977; Closing
Date: March 31, 1983
Execution of the project has commenced on schedule. The engineering
and project management consultants started work on April 1, 1977, and a project
organization has been set up. Tender invitations for six major equipment
packages totaling about US$7 million (including the dredge, about US$4.7
million) were to be issued in August 1977. However, due to some misunder-
standing between GOB, IDA and the consultants invitations were delayed and
are now expected to be issued in October 1977.   Output of the No. 2 Mining
Corporation, the Executing Agency, is presently at least 20% below appraisal
estimates due mainly to delays in start-up of a new project at its largest
mine and a drop-off in ore purchases from small miners due to increased
smuggling.  The scope of a mineral sector study which is part of the project
is under discussion with the Government, but to date there is no agreement
on the terms of reference.



ANNEX III
Page 1 of 2
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I.     Timetable of Key Events
(a)   Time taken to prepare the project
Approximately sixteen months (September 1975-
December 1976)
(b)   Agencies preparing the project
UNDP-financed consultants and IDA
(c)   Date of first presentation to IDA and date of
first mission to consider the project
September 1975, first presentation to IDA
October 1975, first mission
(d)   Date of departure of appraisal mission
February 1977
(e)   Date of completion of negotiations
September 16, 1977
(f)   Planned date of effectiveness
February 20, 1978
Section II.     Special IDA Implementation Action
None
Section III.   Special Conditions
Conditions of Effectiveness
(a) A National Seed Committee is to be established (para 60).



ANNEX III
Page 2 of 2
(b) The Government is to establish the incremental positions
required for the project and suitable officers are to be
appointed as Deputy General Manager (Seeds and Research),
Assistant General Manager (Seeds), and Assistant General
Manager (Research) (para 59).
Other Special Conditions
(a) A National Research Coordination Committee and a Research
Coordination Committee for each Central Farm will be formed
(para 61).
(b) The National Seed Committee is to be established which will
maintain a Register of Seed Varieties and a List of Recom-
mended Seed Varieties, and seed production under the project
is to be confined to seed varieties on the latter (para 60).
(c) The Extension Division is to carry out a demonstration
program, sufficiently in advance, during the year prior
to the date of the intended distribution of a new variety
of seed or established variety of seed in a new area
(para 65).
(d)  The Government will designate the variety of G. hirsutum
cotton seed to be grown in each township where such
species is grown and supply seed accordingly (para 67).
(e) The Government is to designate suitable ginneries for
handling cotton seed. These are to be operated by the
Textile Corporation in accordance with quality control
procedures prescribed by the National Seed Committee
and each is to gin only a single variety of G. hirsutum
seed (para 70).
(f) by not later than July 31, 1978, the Government will con-
firm that the Letpadan farm is suitable for winter ground-
nut and jute seed research or have selected an alternative
farm acceptable to the Association (para 62).
(g) monitoring surveys will be conducted for the pilot ground-
nut project for a minimum of three years after commence-
ment of the pilot project (para 76).
(h) by not later than April 30, 1978, the Government shall
establish the total and annual estimated expenditure ceilings
for seed development in its Third Four-Year Plan so as to
reflect cost estimates for the project (para 81).






IBRD 12888
94                         96.                         98*                      MAY 1977
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
'Il                        a       \    , 211 Major Groundnut and Medium Staple Cotton Growing Townships
Y eu                                Major groundnut growing townships
S A G_ I N GlC' Major medium staple cotton growing townships
SHW  She~-                           Roads
.  -----+---A-I Railways
M             a               -  s'--Rivers                   2
Division / state boundaries
A                           -   International boundary
S        P E C I A  L               K U
0    40   so    120  160   200
'KILOM'ETER'S
0   20  40   60  o8  100  120  140
unggyi        ~~~~MILES
Touo   '  t    s H  A  T;S T A T E
-20-                                                                                      70 >yi1.S -ge t--   O
Bay~~~~hytycK                                  Y 
of        G o      A      G    haW E -wo-,' - 
-;e                         '                   tt \ I  h  SURMA   j t m t X   G Y a T
J JAO
AraDi   a   H IHAI AD
I awo~~~~~~~~~~I                             Y~
asse~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~, \                  ). o
Anaan                                             Areaafma
-16-                                          16'-~~~~~~~~~~~~~






96- I.b                       ioo 
BHUTArT' p-                                                                   -   hi , h,
INDIA  rl,'rd B-k -d Ji e                                              .
Rur<pt      CHINA .v-/                              \I N D I A  _S
BURMA   _                  ND      ,f-
(|1el  iL g' '  \.  ET NAM  120   -
THAILAND        -26.
¢ -n  VI g  CAMBoOI { t  oo gtb gmvateina X  |   C H I N A
CAMBODIA                             "
D3  <6J            I ito   ~ _z.:.          eB 
T,IRUid  }'          ]                                   -
1            1              WtVA-\XS>115 
B~~~~~~I 4BBE SYA O                                 STAT\Ef,..  !b-,  STT16 
BlHI SPsi     /         |T
,OikO    NonSg  -COiA ." ' 5  n   ~ \PEOPLE'S
OF  EHeisigyob 7 * 31,          '.F M-J'-oo 
-xCVy           I'5 -T~ -.  -,\F
B ~  ~   X8iIM 42 Y\ 0e F                            \
BENGA~$ fI    Q     I\)'(                         \\
8   MAO MEIMSAL                      OTN GRWN ARA  2% \   \
-14° ~ ~ ~ ~   ~  ~  S e3e- PROEC CETA FAMC.ff  'ct                         4
T HA A LAND N   
-1l~~~~~~~~6
Th~~~~~L
'C"  I'~~~~~~j~~~  1~~~e ~ 160
BURMA
S!E~ED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT                           , 
MAJOR GROUNDNLITGROWING AREAS IN LOWER BURMA
MAJOR ME DIUM STAPLE COTTON GROW ING A REAS
IA14 Q   PROJECT CENTRAL FARMS                                                    14-
0 OTHER CENTRAL FARMS
A   PROJECT SEED FARMS
A   OTHER SEED FARMS                                 Too-yh     /    BANGKOKISO
PARED ROADS
GRAVEL ROADS                                            -  / 
DIRT ROADS
--I.-- SINGLE TRACK RAILWAYS
DOUBLE TRACK RAILWAYS
MAIN RIVERS
_80_  ISOHYETSIINCHESI        J
DIVISION/STATE BOUNDARIES                            MOi  "
- ' - INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES  _\
O        100  200  300    400
0     R   S10  150   200  250                                 /                   w
Mil-es                                                                H,FD
I2'                           916'                         loc. .



