Document of
The World Bank                       FILE (UPY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 1653 a-BA
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
October 10, 1977
Agriculture B Division
South Asia Projects Department
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the pefformance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1   =   Kyat (K) 7.33
K 1    =   US$0.14
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 mile (mi)           =      1.609 kilometers (km)
1 acre (ac)           =      0.405 hectares (ha)
1 long ton (lg ton)   =      1,016 kilograms
1 metric ton (m ton)  =      1,000 kilograms
Burmese Units         English/US Units           Metric Units
1 viss                      3.6 lb                 1.633 kg
1 basket rice              75 lb                   34 kg
1 basket paddy             46 lb                   20.9 kg
1 basket groundnut
-  shelled                 56 lb                   25.5 kg
-  in-shell                25 lb                   11.4 kg
BURMESE FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS
AC        Agricultural Corporation
AFPTC     Agricultural and Farm Produce Trade Corporation
AOSCA     Association of Official Seed Certifying Agencies (USA)
ARD       Applied Research Division (AC)
ARI       Agricultural Research Institute (AC)
CF        Central Farm
ED        Extension Division (AC)
GOB       Government of Burma
HYV       High Yielding Varieties
ICB       International Competitive Bidding
IRRI      International Rice Research Institute
M         Mfillion
NRCC      National Research Coordination Committee
NSC       National Seed Committee
PAPRD     Project Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department
PD        Procurement Division (AC)
RCC       Research Coordination Committee
SF        Seed Farm
TIC       Textile Industries Corporation



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
BURIMA
SEED DEVELOPlENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Glossary
Thte terms used to describe the seed produced at various stages of
the nmultiplication process vary considerably between countries and authori-
ties. The following definitions apply only to this project.
Breeder Seed       - Seed which is produced under the direct control of
the plant breeding institution (Agricultural Research
Institute) and which forms the source for production
of all later generations.
Fouuddtion Seed   - The progeny of breeder seed which has been handled
to maintain specific genetic purity and identity.
Registered Seed   - The progeny of foundation seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. In this
project the bulk of the rice seed produced on the
Central Farms has been referred to as registered.
Certified Seed    - The progeny of foundation seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity and which
is acceptable to the certifying agency. In this
project the term has been used to describe cotton
produced on the Central Farms for distribution to
growers in selected townships.
Commercial Seed   - The progeny of certified seed handled to maintain
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. Used to
describe the progeny of certified cotton in this
project.
Quality Seed       - The progeny of registered seed handled to mainta-,.
satisfactory genetic purity and identity. The term
is used to describe the rice seed distributed to
farmers in this project.
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.    THE PROJECT             ........................................    1
Project Genesis  ..... .. ....  .. .. ....*..  ...... .....    1
Project Components - Brief Description ........    2
Project Components - Detailed Description ......    3
A.    Applied Research  .......................... .    3
B.    Farm Development  ..* .......... ...........    5
C.    Seed Production ..7............*o   ........    7
D.    Seed Processing and Storage   ...... o   .......  10
E.    Quality Control  ....... ... ..   .......*0. .0 ....   13
F.    Groundnut Program . ........   .............. .   15
G.    Training                    ...........o......... o.       17
H.    Technical Assistance  ..*                ............   18
Implementation Schedule  ...o                ............o.oooo  21
Cost Estimates  ..0*.0... ...  * **. *.*. . *... 00.... * ... *.   21
Financing  oo......................            ..............   22
Procurement  . ..... .*.o ...... ...o..o.o... .....   23
Disbursement  ........ . .. . . ..*. ......o. . .....  ... .  24
Accounts and Audit  ...*. . . . .o   .* *ooo* *o* * *o** *. * *     *...   25
II.    PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION  .....o..........  26
Implementing Agencies  ...oo  .......ooo.o.....                 26
Project Operations  ............ o.... o... o..*.      ooooo  27
Manpower Development  .  ...........................   29
Monitoring and Evaluation .....o..                 ..............  29
III.    MARKETING .*....               o  ...........o  ............... o  29
Demand  o................... .o..o...oo...o .......... o.oo    29
Seed Pricing and Distribution ....               o ..... o..o    30
This report is based on the findings of an IDA appraisal mission to Burma in
February/March-1977 comprising Messrs. Thornley, Hayes, Sinha (IDA) and Boyd
(Consultant).



-2-
Table of Contents (cont'd)
Page No.
IV.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................  31
Financial Impact ............... ..0...0 ... 0..0.  31
Economic Impact . ...... .o. .... .. ..... .. . ...... .. . 32
Risks ............  *..*...00.0.........*a...0.0.*  34
V.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..... ooo...  34
Tables 1 - 20
Charts I - 4
Annex I - Related Documents Available in Project File
Maps - 12887 - Location of Project Farms
- 12888 - Groundnut and Cotton Areas
LIST OF TABLES
Table 1.       Research Costs:  Central Farms and Yezin
Table 2.       Land Development Costs
Table 3.       Seed Production Equipment Costs
Table 4.       Seed Production Civil Works Costs
Table 5.       Seed Production and Processing - Incremental Operating Costs
Table 6.       Rice Seed Processing - Investment Costs
Table 7.       Cotton Seed Processing - Yezin and Lungyaw Investment Cost
Table 8.       Commercial Cotton Seed Stores - Investment Cost
Table 9.       Quality Control - Equipment Cost
Table 10       Groundnut Program - Investment Cost
Table 11.      Overseas Training Requirements and Costs
Table 12.      Technical Assistance Costs
Table 13.      Project Cost Summary
Table 14.      Disbursement Schedule
Table 15.      Cost of Strengthening ARD Headquarters
Table 16.      Farmer Benefits from Rice Program
Table 17.      Benefit from Rice Seed Component
Table 18.      Benefit from Cotton Seed Component
Table 19.      Benefit from Pilot Groundnut Program
Table 20.      Economic Rate of Return:  Whole Project



BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE PROJECT
Project Genesis
1.01      The Government of Burma (GOB) recognized some time ago that expan-
sion of agricultural output would require, inter alia, the development of an
adequate seed multiplication program. In 1975 GOB agreed to the inclusion of
funds for the preparation of a seed project under the Burma Umbrella Project. 1/
The feasibility study which resulted proposed a seed multiplication program
which was too large and complex for GOB's present implementation capacity and
which included components which had little or no research backing. The propo-
sals were for the development of 28 Central and Seed Farms (CF, SF) and for
the production of 50,000 tons rice seed, 2,200 tons groundnut seed, 2,000 tons
long staple cotton seed, and 45 tons jute seed.
1.02      During the appraisal it was apparent that:  (a) an early start should
be made in the development of a seed program to enable the improved varieties
of rice and cotton, now under development by the Agricultural Research Institute
(ARI), to contribute effectively to Burma's development efforts; (b) in view
of existing constraints in the form of inadequate infrastructure, shortage of
trained manpower, and an already strained absorptive capacity, the initial
steps in the development of a seed program should be modest and should only
include improved rice and cotton varieties although the mechanism could serve
other crops later; (c) in view of GOB's political philosophy, it would not be
feasible to develop a seed industry in the private sector as has been done
elsewhere in South Asia, and that the Applied Research Division (ARD) of the
Agricultural Corporation (AC) should logically become the main agency concerned
with any seed program, given its past involvement with seed production; and
(d) Burma's inadequate applied research capability was a major constraint
which could be advantageously addressed in conjunction with seed industry
development because of common institutions and facilities.
1.03      The proposed project would, therefore, have the dual objectives of
improving Burma's applied research capability and of developing a modest seed
program.  Activity in both fields would be regarded as first phase efforts and
the project's emphasis on training and technical assistance would pave the way
for an expansion of programs in future.
1/   The project document for the "Programme of Preinvestment and Investment
Assistance, Burma" (so-called Umbrella Project) was signed in September,
1975 by GOB, UNDP and IBRD. The preinvestment study for the Seed Project
was one of nine components of the Umbrella Project.



-2-
Project Components - Brief Description
1.04      The five-year project would strengthen applied research in Burma and
would improve and expand seed industry development through modest rice and
cotton seed multiplication programs and a pilot groundnut seed storage program.
Specifically, the project would:
(a) improve the applied research capability of six key
Central Farms through expansion of research staff
and provision of buildings, equipment and incremental
operating funds;
(b) increase the seed production capacity of the six farms
referred to in (a), through land development and provi-
sion of farm machinery, buildings, incremental staff
and operating costs; and ARI's Yezin farm through land
development;
(c) develop programs to produce and distribute sufficient
quality seed:
(i)  to rapidly spread new varieties of rice (capable
of withstanding moderate flooding) over 3.5 M
acres; and
(ii)  to renew annually the seed required for the long
staple (G. hirsutum) cotton area;
(d) develop seed processing and storage facilities on the six
farms and at two or three ginneries selected for cotton
seed handling;
(e) develop a quality control program based on seed testing
laboratories at ARI, on seed farms and at cotton and
groundnut facilities;
(f) include a pilot project to establish the economic and
financial feasibility of providing groundnut seed storage
in Lower Burma;
(g) provide for overseas training of senior research staff to
masters degree level and various short courses for less
senior staff; and
(h) provide about 116 man-months of technical assistance to
help ARD in the planning and execution of the research
and seed programs.



Project Components - Detailed Description
A.   Applied Research
1.05      The development of the Agricultural Research Institute, to provide
a capability for basic agricultural research, is well underway. Further
strengthening is planned. However, for these efforts to bear fruit, the basic
research findings must be "processed" through an applied research program
spread over regional stations, to provide regionally adapted packages of
technology appropriate for extension. The necessary applied research capa-
bility is lacking. The stations exist - the 16 Central Farms - but trained
manpower, land development, buildings, machinery and equipment, and operating
finance, are inadequate. The proposed project would be a first step toward
developing an adequate applied research capability. The project would
strengthen ARD headquarters and would improve the staffing, development and
equipping of six CF. The project would also initiate a seed technology re-
search program which would operate in conjunction with the proposed central
seed laboratory at ARI's Yezin station.
1.06      Six farms were selected for development under the project after
discussions with ARI and ARD officials. These farms include the two most
important rice research and seed production farms (Hmawbi and Mandalay) and
the most important cotton research farm (Mahlaing). Lungyaw Seed Farm (SF)
was selected because it is a large farm with irrigation potential suitable
for a wide range of crops including cotton. Magwe CF was selected for
groundnut research (monsoon crop) because of its location. The sixth farm
has been provisionally identified as Letpadan which is to be used for jute
and groundnut research (winter crop); the consultants (para 1.71 et seq)
would confirm the suitability of Letpadan or select an alternative. Only
six farms were selected for development under the project since inclusion
of more would severely strain ARD's implementation capacity.
1.07      Manpower Development.  A strong, well trained headquarters staff
in ARD is essential. This staff must cooperate with ARI and the Extension
Division in the planning of the applied research program, and must have the
capacity, now lacking, to guide field staff in the design and analysis of
experiments. The present staffing of Central Farms, particularly at the
professional level, is inadequate for both their research and seed production
functions. Few, if any, professional staff have had post-graduate training
in experimentation, hence the poor quality of research. The research staffs
of the six project CF would be increased about threefold, from 9 professionals
and 25 subprofessionals to 32 and 77 respectively. The additional positions
would be filled by promotions of existing staff and the vacancies thus created
at lower levels filled by recruitment of new staff from the relatively large
existing pool of unemployed agricultural graduates. This strengthening should
be viewed only as a first phase; the staff would still not be adequate to
cover the range of multidisciplinary research required at a regional applied
research station. However, all of the senior staff, existing and new re-
cruits, and many junior staff, would attend post graduate training courses.
The proposed staff development program is considered to be the most that ARD
could initially absorb.



1.08      Central Farm Development.  The six CF would be developed to provide
facilities and support for an expanded research staff. The land development
program would improve trial sites as necessary. Houses, laboratory and
office space for the additional staff, and special field and laboratory
equipment would be provided, as would vehicles to enable research staff to
conduct trial programs on farmers' fields (main cultural operations would be
carried out by the farmers). A small seed technology laboratory would be
established at Yezin to provide services to researchers and the seed
production programs. A seed technologist would be trained to run the labora-
tory. He would also be responsible for the quality control aspects of the
laboratory's work. Costs of the program would be modest as laboratory space
is already available at Yezin. Details and costs of research investments are
at Table 1. The project would also finance incremental research operating
costs during the project period, these are also shown in Table 1.
1.09      A Research Coordination Committee (RCC) would be formed for each
Central Farm (para 2.05).
1.10      A National Research Coordination Committee (NRRC) 1/ would be formed
to consider the recommendations from the RCC and to finalize CF research pro-
grams and extension recommendations (para 2.06).
1.11      The scope of research programs would be modest initially because
of staffing constraints. In addition to station trials, each program would
include variety and fertilizer trials, scattered throughout the region covered
by the station, and located on ARD Seed Farms and farmers' fields. Vehicles
would be provided to give staff the mobility to supervise these trials.
1.12      Major emphasis on all crops would be on varietal improvement.  Pro-
mising lines from Yezin would be screened for adaptation in the different
agro-ecological regions. Work on cultivation practices would be an important
feature of all programs. This would include some or all of: land prepara-
tion; time of planting; spacing; fertilization (inorganic and organic); weed,
pest and disease control; water management; and alternative cropping patterns.
In rice areas, particular attention would be given to manipulating variety
and methods of land preparation and establishment, to determine potentials
for double cropping.
1.13      In the cotton zone, first priority must be given to selecting pest
tolerant varieties and to developing an appropriate spraying system. Con-
trolled Droplet/Ultra Low Volume spraying techniques would be tested. Also
in the cotton zone, priority would be given to the cropping pattern and crop
sanitation; present practice, where cotton is grown in three consecutive sea-
sons, aggravates pest problems.
1.14      Groundnut farmers routinely apply nitrogenous fertilizer to the
crop, which suggests that nitrogen fixation is inadequate. A research program
would be undertaken to determine whether nitrogen fixation could be improved
to reduce reliance on costly fertilizer. In Central Burma the acreage of
1/ This would formalize an existing consultative procedure.



erect-type groundnut is restricted because, under present practices, it is
lifted before the end of the monsoon, leading to harvesting problems. Pending
any varietal breakthrough this problem might be lessened by altering planting
dates or by using lifters to speed harvesting and thus reduce opportunity for
seed spoilage through fungal activity. These options would be investigated.
In Lower Burma the major constraint to groundnut production is seed price.
This is compounded by the use of a very high seed rate - 150 lb unshelled nuts
per acre compared with a more normal 100 lb or less. The reasons for this
would be established and trials undertaken to establish optimum population
and plant spacing.
1.15      In Lower Burma the areas in which winter groundnut and jute are
grown coincide to a considerable extent. A determinant of the suitability
of Letpadan Farm for inclusion in the project (para 1.17) would be its suit-
ability for research on jute as well as winter groundnut. The basic research
program on jute, at Yezin, is being strengthened. However, Yezin is not
typical of the main jute areas. The development of a jute program at
Letpadan (or an alternative site), covering variety trials and cultivation
practices, would be an important complement to the Yezin work.
1.16      In the seed technology program, early priorities, in addition to
providing support to research and quality control staff, would be investiga-
tions of alternate groundnut packaging and storing systems, and investigating
on-farm storage systems to determine the magnitude of losses and the need for
new storage systems.
B.   Farm Development
1.17      Many of ARD's Central and Seed Farms were established more than 40
years ago. Poor initial layout combined with inadequate maintenance and
general low standards of management have substantially reduced productive
capacity. Inadequate funding has kept production facilities and staff at
levels well below those necessary for efficient operation. The project would
develop six ARD farms by providing finance for land development, equipment
and buildings, and manpower development. Incremental operating costs would
also be included in project costs through the end of the project period, when
incremental revenues would have increased sufficiently to offset most, if not
all, increased costs (the farms cannot generally be expected to achieve over-
all financial profitability because of their research and training functions).
The farms selected are Hmawbi, Magwe, Mahlaing and Mandalay (CF), and Letpadan 1/
and Lungyaw (SF) (para 1.06). The latter two, in view of their proposed re-
search roles, would be upgraded to CF status by October 31, 1978. The project
would also assist with land development at ARI's Yezin station where the
present slow rate of progress, unless improved, will limit research programs.
It is expected that ARD would subsequently develop other farms using the
equipment and know-how obtained from the project.
1/   The appraisal mission could not visit Letpadan.  GOB has agreed that before
July 31, 1978 the consultants would confirm its suitability for winter
groundnut and jute research in typical Lower Burma conditions or would
select an alternative site for approval by GOB and IDA.



- 6 -
1.18      Land Development.  The total area to be developed is estimated at
4,500 ac of which 2,550 ac would involve full irrigation development, 820 ac
irrigation rehabilitation, and 1,130 ac dryland development. Land development
operations would be carried out by a Land Development Unit within ARD. The
consultants (para 1.71 et seq) would supervise the execution of the work. An
important secondary objective of the project would be to train ARD staff in
land development planning and execution and this would result in some initial
loss of efficiency; an allowance for training has been included in the project
by assuming conservative work output rates.
1.19      Topographic survey maps indicating one foot contour intervals at a
scale of 1:1,200 would be prepared by the Survey Department (GOB).  Soil sur-
veys would be conducted by the Land Use Bureau (Agricultural Corporation) on
each farm and information mapped at a scale of six inches to the mile, or as
appropriate given the variability of the soils. Irrigation design would be
the responsibility of the consultants (para 1.73); layouts should take ad-
vantage of the relatively high capacity development equipment to be procured
and should permit efficient use of the medium size farm machinery proposed.
1.20      Land clearing would be almost entirely at Lungyaw where the unde-
veloped land is covered with light, scrubby forest interspersed with bamboo.
Clearing would be mechanized as clearing by manual labor has proven unsatis-
factory at Lungyaw being more costly and resulting in a poor job. Other
operations such as plowing, levelling, planing and channel opening would use
100-120 HP, two-wheel drive tractors as prime movers. These have the power
and mobility appropriate to the relatively small scale, multilocation, devel-
opment work proposed.
1.21      Equipment for development is shown in Table 2.  The bulldozer with
cutting blade and root rake, is required mainly to clear light forest at
Lungyaw; a low-loader transporter is provided for transport to other sites.
Land levelling would be carried out using large tractors (110-120 HP) with
trailed self-elevating scrapers, rather than self-propelled scrapers since
the former are less complicated to maintain and more flexible in operation.
Simple ditch plows are provided for initial forming of irrigation canals which
would be finished by manual labor. A service truck would serve as a mobile
workshop since there are not adequate facilities for major repairs at any of
the farms. A large inventory of spare parts, equivalent to 30% of the capital
cost, would be identified by the equipment specialist (para 1.74), and procured
along with the equipment since experience shows there would be serious delay
in ordering spare parts when required. Operating costs are summarized in
Table 2; total farm development operating costs including taxes and contin-
gencies are estimated at $0.69 M; an average of about $150 per acre.
1.22      It is proposed that most of the land development (excluding surveys,
design and planning) should be completed over two dry seasons commencing about
March of Year 2; the dryland development at Magwe and Mahlaing would be
completed in the fourth year. If this is to be achieved without excessive
over-capitalization in equipment, it would be necessary to work 12 hours per



- 7 -
day. Land clearing is the slowest operation and it would be necessary to
continue clearing during part of the wet season; this should not present
problems on the lighter upland soils at Lungyaw. The land development
schedule (Chart 1) would be modified according to experience.
1.23      Production Facilities.  Concurrent with the land development phase
the project would provide production equipment, vehicles, housing for incre-
mental staff, and incremental operating costs to improve seed production and
research activities. Research specific investments are described above (para
1.08); details of seed production activities are described below.
1.24      The ARD farms included in the project would be equipped to carry out
all farm operations independent of the Agricultural Mechanization Department,
which presently does much of the work on contract but is overburdened. Farm
operations would be almost completely mechanized although all crops would
be harvested using manual labor. Each farm would be provided with workshop
facilities and expected to maintain its own equipment; major repair work
would be carried out with assistance from the mobile service unit attached to
the Land Development Unit. Each farm would maintain its own stock of spare
parts. Houses for incremental staff would constitute a major cost (approxi-
mately 50% of seed production investments) but are necessary since there are
very few existing facilities on the farms and, for those farms in close
proximity to towns, the poor standard of housing available would deter highly
qualified staff. Tables 3 and 4 give details of on-farm investments.
1.25      ARD's farms currently operate at a loss.  The project would initially
increase these losses as there would be a time lag between incurring higher
operating costs and the flow of increased revenues from improved production.
Project cost estimates include net incremental operating costs for three years
after which seed production revenues are expected to cover seed production
and processing costs (Table 5).
C.   Seed Production
1.26      Seed production under the project would be limited to rice and
cotton since:
(i)  seed supply is currently constraining production of these
crops;
(ii)  plant breeding efforts for these crops are expected to lead
to the release of significantly improved varieties within
the next three to four years; and
(iii)  seed requirements for these crops can be produced at the
six farms to be developed under the project using facili-
ties also required for the applied research program.
Production of seed for other crops was not included since (i) and (ii) above
did not apply and since further expansion of the seed production program would
be beyond the implementation capacity of ARD.



1.27      The Rice Program.  Large quantities of rice seed are distributed by
AC, and rice seed production dominates the activities of ARD farms. However,
this is seed in name only. No meaningful quality control is practiced and the
product is indistinguishable from grain. These present activities are geared
to seed renewal rather than varietal replacement as the past rate of release
of significant new varieties has been slow. ARI is expected to release a new
series of HYV within three or four years. Present, IRRI-type, HYV are short-
statured and non-photosensitive, hence suited only to areas where good water
management is feasible. They currently occupy about I M acres or 8% of the
total paddy area. The new varieties would be capable of stem elongation and
would have a degree of photosensitivity. They would therefore be suitable for
areas subject to medium-deep flooding (1.5 to 4 feet).  The extent of such
areas is not exactly known but could be up to 4 M acres.
1.28      The project would develop a program to supply sufficient seed rap-
idly to spread new varieties over 3.5 M acres which would account for most
of the area suited to medium deep-water HYV. Breeder and foundation seed
would be produced at Yezin, and about 800 acres of registered seed would
be produced at Hmawbi, Letpadan, Lungyaw, Mandalay and Yezin. All production
would be subject to field inspection and laboratory analysis. Annual output
would be about 1,000 tons, sufficient to plant about 50,000 acres.
1.29      Achievement of the objective of rapid varietal spread over 3.5 M
acres, from a 1,000 ton annual seed supply, would depend on farmers bulking
their own seed and on farmer to farmer exchange. There is ample evidence,
from the spread of the 'Green Revolution' elsewhere in South Asia, that
given suitable varieties, this would take place. Rapid spread of new vari-
eties has been achieved by distributing seed in large numbers of small
packets in the Philippines and in India; farmers who liked the new variety
rapidly built up their own seed stock. However, though this system has worked
elsewhere it has not been tried in Burma. Therefore initially only about half
the available seed would be distributed in small (1 kg) packets, the balance
in 20 kg packets sufficient to plant one acre. It is anticipated that farmers
who receive the large packets would sell and/or exchange some of the produce
thus contributing to the spread of the variety. The program would be moni-
tored to determine which system led to the most rapid spread of variety.
Pending release of new varieties the system would be "run-in" on the larger
packet - since there would be nothing to stimulate farmer interest in a new
approach.
1.30      Seed multiplication would start in the final stages of pre-release
trials - benefits from early availability of seed for distribution would out-
weigh the negligible costs incurred by rejection of some selections. GOB
agreed that in the year before the intended distribution to farmers of a new
variety, or of an established variety in a new area, the Extension Division
would be supplied with sufficient seed to carry out a demonstration program
satisfactory to IDA. (Details of the demonstration program were agreed during
negotiations.)



1.31      The varieties of seed multiplied would be determined annually by the
National Seed Committee (para 2.03) guided by feedback from ARI, ARD and ED.
Initially, the program's capacity would exceed that needed for new varieties
and existing HYV would be multiplied. However the program would at all times
be confined to production of varieties on the recommended list (para 1.51).
Seed farms outside the project would continue in production, using some seed
from the project farms as a quality base for their multiplication programs.
Their output would provide reserve capacity to meet unexpected demand, in
particular such as might arise through natural disasters.
1.32      Reliance on informal multiplication of the "certified" generation by
farmers, in contrast to a fully controlled system, would entail some sacrifice
in seed quality, mainly through mixing of varieties. Farmers are aware of
this problem and could be expected to take sufficient care to keep quality
within acceptable levels; Burma does not at present have the manpower to
implement a larger and more sophisticated program, with full quality control
through an additional generation. The proposed project would lay the founda-
tions for an expanded rice seed program. With a pool of manpower trained
in production, processing and quality control, it would be possible to con-
tract with farmers in the neighborhood of the Central Farms for additional
seed production. One of the critical constraints on such a scheme, lack of
manpower for quality control, would have been removed, although the problem of
paying seed growers a premium as an incentive, would still remain. (GOB has
indicated that it is reluctant to pay seed growers a premium over the normal
paddy procurement price; without such an incentive, it is unlikely that far-
mers would chose to grow seed.)
1.33      The Cotton Program.  There is no formal cotton seed multiplication
system at present, the AC distributes gin-run seed to farmers. The seed is
of poor physical quality, due to poor handling and storage, and of indeterm-
inate genetic purity due to cross-pollination and to physical mixtures arising
through poor segregation during processing. Relatively large quantities of
American cotton seed of G. hirsutum varieties (principally Stoneville 213) have
been imported in recent years to compensate for an inadequate breeding program.
Most of this was distributed directly to farmers and because of the lack of a
multiplication system it rapidly became mixed, physically and through cross-
pollination, quickly negating the value of the importations. Because of the
poor physical quality of seed, and its low price (K 0.3 per viss), farmers use
an extremely high seed rate of about 20 viss (72 lb) per acre compared with
a more normal 20-30 lb.
1.34      It is anticipated that within three or four years ARI will have
ready for release G. hirsutum varieties better adapted to Burmese conditions
than the American imports.  These varieties will probably be selections fror
introductions from India. Later, new varieties will be developed through
ARI's crossing program. The principal characteristics of the varieties to
be released will be capacity to yield well under low input technology, with
emphasis on jassid resistance.
1.35      The project cotton seed multiplication program would supply seed of
known genetic purity, and high viability, for the entire G. hirsutum acreage;



- 10 -
the capacity would be sufficient for 175,000 acres, somewhat exceeding the
current acreage, to allow for expansion. Because of cotton's open pollinated
character, annual renewal of cotton seed is essential to maintain varietal
purity and hence lint quality and uniformity; annual renewal is necessary
because farmers cannot retain their own seed but must get it from ginneries,
directly or indirectly. A further prerequisite to maintaining varietal pur-
ity, lint quality, and uniformity, is production in single variety zones. An
assurance was obtained that GOB would designate the variety of G.hirsutum to
be grown in each township where this species is grown and would supply seed
accordingly.
1.36      It is anticipated that, with a reliable supply of good quality seed,
appropriately priced, farmers would reduce their seed use by at least half,
to about 10 viss (36 lb) per acre. Therefore to plant the target acreage,
1.75 M viss of seed would be required. Assuming a seed cotton yield of 150
viss (546 lb) per acre, giving 80 viss of clean seed, about 22,000 acres would
be required for seed production. To achieve production on this scale a system
would be adopted which is used successfully in many important cotton growing
countries. Certified seed would be supplied to all cotton growers in partic-
ular areas designated for commercial seed production. One area would be
required for each variety; two or three varieties at most, would be sufficient
for Burmese conditions. The townships containing these areas would grow only
the particular cotton variety (para 1.35). The cotton from the seed area
would be ginned under strict control (para 1.45). The commercial cotton seed
would be processed, packaged and stored in facilities developed under the
project and located adjacent to ginneries.
1.37      Generations preceding the commercial generation would be grown
under strict control on research farms. The breeding and selection work, and
the production of breeder seed, would be carried out at Yezin. Foundation
seed would be grown at Lungyaw. Certified seed would also be produced at
Lungyaw (1,620 ac of which 1,405 ac irrigated), and Mahlaing (120 ac dryland).
Breeder seed would be delinted in a small gin at Yezin, and foundation and
certified seed would be ginned at Lungyaw.
1.38      The multiplication rate for cotton seed is very low and, in order
to have some seed processed and distributed during the project, it is proposed
that about 13 tons of seed be imported in Year 2. This seed would be multi-
plied at Lungyaw and distributed in selected townships for further multipli-
cation.
D.   Seed Processing and Storage
1.39      At present there is no processing of seed in Burma.  Rice seed is
sun dried, traditionally threshed by bullock trampling, and then wind winnowed.
The chief drawback of these practices is that mixing of varieties is difficult
to prevent. They are also time consuming and thus interfere with other opera-
tions and, finally, the protracted drying, which is a necessary prelude to tra-
ditional threshing, usually results in lower germination than would mechanized
threshing and rapid drying of seed. Storage on seed farms may be in bulk or bags



- 11 -
but storage buildings are usually poor, leading to rodent and insect infesta-
tions. Seed cotton is treated no differently whether it is intended for lint
or seed. Delays often occur in movement from farm to ginnery, and at the
ginnery the seed cotton is stored in large heaps with no ventilation. Heating
occurs and germination is considerably reduced - one reason for the excessive
seed rate which is common practice. Ginneries also handle more than one
variety without precautions being taken to prevent mixing.
1.40      Rice seed processing plants would be established at Hmawbi, Lungyaw,
Mandalay and Yezin. Rice seed from Letpadan would be taken to Hmawbi for pro-
cessing because of the small quantity involved. Plant investment costs are at
Table 6 and summary operating costs at Table 5. The typical processing plant
would comprise two IRRI-type threshers, two IRRI-type batch driers, an air
screen cleaner, a slurry-type seed treater, bagging systems to produce both 20
kg jute bags and 1 kg plastic bags closed by heat sealing, hoppers and eleva-
tors and well-ventilated stores. A small air-conditioned store would be built
for holding basic seed stocks at Yezin. Staff requirements for these small
plants would be minimal. Overall responsibility for plant operation would be
with the project trained Seed Specialists; day to day operating would be the
responsibility of Technical Assistants who would have a diploma in mechanics
and who would be given in-service training in seed processing, drying and
storage.
1.41      Cotton Seed Processing.  Breeder seed would be produced at Yezin,
which would be provided with a laboratory-size saw gin to process breeder and
research seed stocks. All foundation seed, and the bulk of the certified seed,
would be produced at Lungyaw Farm. A ginnery would be built at Lungyaw to
handle this. Basically it would consist of 6 roller gin stands and aerated
stores for seed cotton and delinted seed. Details of investments and costs
are at Table 7 with summary operating costs at Table 5. Roller gins are
proposed, in preference to the more efficient saw gins, because they are the
only type in use in Burma. Adopting standard equipment, for a small unit as
proposed, would minimize operating and maintenance problems. Some certified
seed would be produced at Mahlaing Farm which has a gin. Any surplus could be
ginned at Lungyaw.
1.42      Seed cotton from the commercial seed generation would be ginned at
existing commercial ginneries where ample capacity exists. Ginneries - two or
three depending on capacity - would be selected in important cotton growing
townships, probably from Kyaukse, Meiktila, Myitha, Pyawbwe and Thazi. Final
selection would be based on the recommendation of the consultant and subject
to GOB and IDA approval. Criteria for ginnery selection would be:
(i) standard of cotton production in the township;
(ii)  condition of ginnery;
(iii) ginnery capacity - ideally the ginnery would handle only
cotton intended for seed; and
(iv)  location - from the point of view of seed distribution.



- 12 -
Aerated stores, for both seed cotton and the delinted seed, would be built at
the selected ginneries to maintain seed condition during storage. The stores
would include a small office and laboratory for quality control operations.
Detailed designs and specifications for cotton facilities, equipment installa-
tion and run-in, and operator training, would be handled by the consultant
specialist. Details of investments are at Table 8.
1.43      The Lungyaw ginnery would work 24 hours per day during the season
which is normal ginnery practice in Burma.  This should enable all seed cotton
to be ginned within 50 to 60 days. The ginnery would be scrupulously cleaned
between ginning different varieties. The capacity of the gins is sufficient
to allow adequate down time for cleaning. The commercial ginneries would
handle only one variety, an assurance to this effect was obtained. Should it
be necessary for them to gin material not intended for seed, scrupulous cleanup
would be necessary between lots. A major cause of poor quality seed is deteri-
oration following rain damage when there is a delay between harvesting and
delivery to the ginnery. In designated seed production areas, the ARD would
arrange frequent and regular collection of seed cotton.
1.44      At Lungyaw and the commercial ginneries the seed cotton and the seed
would be stored in bulk. Conditions would be carefully monitored and the bulk
aerated as necessary to prevent heating, hence deterioration. Immediately
after ginning, and at not more than 60 day intervals during storage, the seed
would be sampled and germination tests run. Seed not meeting the prescribed
standard (set by the NSC) would be sent for crushing. Shortly before the plant-
ing season the seed would be bagged and distributed for sale. Bags of 10 viss
capacity would be used with the aim of encouraging farmers to adopt this as the
recommended seeding rate per acre.
1.45      The management of the cotton seed program is complicated by the
fact that the Textile Industries Corporation (TIC) has recently taken over the
commercial ginneries from AC's Procurement Division. Assurances were obtained
from GOB that suitable ginneries would be designated as cotton seed ginneries
and that, in operating these, the Corporation would adopt quality control pro-
cedures prescribed by the National Seed Committee. ARD would own and operate
the aerated stores and the quality control laboratory. Seed cotton from the
designated seed production area (para 1.36) would be purchased and ginned by
TIC. Seed tested and found suitable for planting would be purchased by ARD
from TIC at the oil mill price. Unsuitable seed lots would be sold by TIC
for oil extraction.
1.46      The cotton seed program would be organized by a Cotton Seed Coor-
dinator who would report to the DAGM (Processing, Distribution and Quality
Control) in ARD's Headquarters.  He would be given 12 months training in
seed technology with special focus on cotton seed production, processing and
quality control. A Cotton Seed Specialist would be stationed at each desig-
nated ginnery, each would be given in-service training in quality control and
warehousing procedures. They would organize production and collection of seed
cotton in their designated areas and would manage the storage and quality
control operations. They would ensure that TIC's ginning procedures complied



- 13 -
with NSC requirements. They would be assisted in the laboratories by Technical
Assistants who would be given appropriate in-service training. Because of the
size of the program a Cotton Seed Specialist would also be stationed at Lungyaw
to assist the Seed Specialist who would have overall responsibility for seed
production.
E.   Quality Control
1.47      Currently there is no organized system of quality control.  There
is some awareness among ARD farm management staff that special efforts are
necessary to ensure germination, genetic purity, etc but without specific
guidelines and testing procedures the results are haphazard at best. Farmers
perform rudimentary germination tests on their seed before planting, and they
maintain a degree of genetic purity in self-pollinated crops, such as rice, by
replacing mixed seed with seed from farmers who had more uniform fields of the
desired variety in the previous season. The latter system cannot work with
cotton because it is cross-pollinated, and because virtually all seed leaves
the farm as seed cotton.
1.48      Lack of quality control in cotton has resulted in poor physical
seed quality, hence the custom of planting at least twice the necessary seed
rate to ensure a stand. In addition there has been varietal degradation, most
importantly in cotton seed (Stoneville 213) imported from the USA. In 1972,
10 tons were imported which planted 1,200 acres. Had this been increased to
its maximum potential there should have been enough for 12,000 acres in 1973
and 120,000 acres in 1974. Instead an additional 50 tons were imported in 1974
and 100 tons in 1975. The estimate for actual planting of Stoneville 213 for
1975-1977 is 32,000 acres of about 70% purity.
1.49      Proposed Development.  If the potentials of new crop varieties under
development are to be fully exploited, a quality control system must be devel-
oped and applied to seed multiplication programs. Seed legislation normally
forms the basis of a quality control system. In Burma the formal sector of
the seed trade is entirely government controlled, and hence seed legisla-
tion is unnecessary. It is proposed, as a sufficient alternative, that the
National Seed Committee issue regulations for seed quality control. These
would cover, but not necessarily be limited to:
(i)  definitions of:  seed; variety; hybrid; weeds-common and
noxious; different generations of seed - this should include
a commercial generation 1/;
(ii)  procedures for quality control work:  field inspection, sampling,
laboratory analysis, post control trials, cotton ginnery opera
tion (where seed is handled);
1/   In certain situations, such as the proposed cotton program, a final'com-
mercial' generation of seed would be produced. This would be subjected
to normal laboratory testing, it would not have been field inspected but
it would have been grown in a manner to ensure high varietal purity.



- 14 -
(iii) minimum seed quality standards, for field inspection and labora-
tory analysis - for each generation and crop;
(iv)  seed container labelling requirements; different generations
should be labelled with different colors. Labels would in-
dicate: crop; variety (where appropriate); purity; germina-
tion; weed seed content; lot designation; and
(v)  phytosanitary regulations.
1.50      Definitions, procedures and labelling requirements would be pat-
terned on well-established practice outside Burma, e.g. Association of
Official Seed Certifying Agencies (AOSCA), International Seed Testing Asso-
ciation (ISTA), and the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
(OECD) scheme for varietal certification. However, seed standards should be
developed by Burmese professionals for Burmese conditions, with outside help
as necessary. The immediate adoption of overseas standards could be counter-
productive; standards should be modest initially and gradually raised as seed
production experience is gained.
1.51      A Register of Varieties and Lists of Recommended Varieties would be
established and maintained by the National Seed Committee, working through a
technical sub-committee (para 2.03). Entry to the recommended lists would be
confined to Registered Varieties whose agronomic superiority had been ob-
jectively determined by research trials. Seed production under the project
would be confined to Recommended Varieties. Assurances to this effect were
obtained.
1.52      Seed Laboratories.  A fully equipped central seed laboratory would
be established at Yezin. Main regional laboratories would be established at
Hmawbi, Lungyaw and Mandalay. Small laboratories would be established at
each of the cotton and groundnut stores. Details of investments are
at Table 9. The central laboratory would provide a seed testing service for
Yezin's scientists, and would monitor the work of the other laboratories.
Sub-standard performance, or disputes over performance, would be brought to
the attention of the National Seed Committee. The regional laboratories would
initially be concerned with field inspection and seed analysis for their
respective farms, however, service analyses could be carried out for neigh-
boring seed farms. At a later date these, and similar laboratories, would
provide the base for extension of the quality control system as seed produc-
tion was expanded. The small laboratories, at cotton and groundnut stores,,
would be concerned mainly with germination tests.
1.53      Staffing.  A post of Senior Quality Control Officer would be estab-
lished in ARD Headquarters. He would be responsible for all ARD quality
control operations. Seed Specialists would be responsible for ARD's regional
laboratories. The Seed Technologist would run ARI's central laboratory.
All these senior staff would be given appropriate overseas training (para
1.69).



- 15 -
F.   Groundnut Program
1.54      Groundnut is grown in two seasons in Burma; as a monsoon crop in
the low rainfall, light soil areas of Central Burma, and as a post-monsoon
crop, on residual moisture, mainly in Lower Burma but also on the heavier
soils in Central Burma. The monsoon crop comprises both spreading and erect
types, with the former predominant. The erect-type has higher yield potential
but is of shorter duration and therefore matures before the end of the mon-
soon, which causes harvesting problems. Because of its short duration,
only the erect-type is grown post-monsoon.
1.55      Farmers can retain their own seed for the monsoon crop since stor-
age conditions over the dry (winter) season are good. There are no existing
techniques for successful on-farm storage during the monsoon and farmers must
purchase all seed for the post-monsoon crop. In Central Burma, where some
post-monsoon groundnuts are grown on 'kaing' land (flooded during the mon-
soon), farmers can purchase seed readily from those neighboring farmers who
grow erect groundnuts as a monsoon crop. Cooperatives also supply some seed
although this is generally poor quality since farmers sell the cooperatives
their poorest seed to meet their quota requirements.
1.56      Lower Burma farmers must also obtain seed from the Central Burma
monsoon crop and then it must be transported over considerable distances.
Private traders are the major source of supply. In addition some farmers,
individually and in groups, travel to Central Burma to buy seed, and some seed
is supplied through inter-cooperative sales - again usually of poor quality.
Transport shortages, the distances involved, and the limited time in which to
obtain supplies - this is mainly a cash market and farmers must sell some of
their paddy crop before they have money for groundnut seed - combine to make
groundnut seed in Lower Burma extremely expensive. In 1976, the price was in
the range K 115-130 per basket, compared to an oilseed price of about K 65.
With a seed rate of 6 baskets (150 lb) per acre, the cash outlay for seed is
a major constraint on groundnut acreage.
1.57      Pilot Program.  It is expected that if cheaper seed were avail-
able, Lower Burma farmers would expand their groundnut acreage. Air condi-
tioned, dehumidified stores located in Lower Burma could store seed, without
significant loss of viability from the harvest of the Lower Burma crop through
to the next planting season. It is estimated that such stores could be
operated at a cost which, when added to the price of seed purchased from the
harvest of the Lower Burma crop, would enable seed to be sold at a price at
least 25% below present levels. The project would include a pilot program to
determine the technical, financial and economic feasibility of storage in Lower
Burma. Five refrigerated and dehumidified stores would be built, each with
a small office and laboratory building. The stores would be capable of
maintaining a relative humidity of 50% and a temperature of 65 F.  This is
adequate for carrying groundnut seed from harvest to the following planting
season. Each store would hold about 20,000 baskets (225 tons) of seed in
shell, sufficient to plant 3,300 acres at present seed rates. The stores
would be located in major groundnut growing townships in Lower Burma; these
are arbitrarily defined as having grown over 5,000 acres in each of the past
three years, 1974-76, and are shown on the map. The selection of townships
would be based on the findings of the preliminary groundnut survey (para 1.64).



- 16 -
1.58      Maintenance of refrigeration equipment may present problems although
cold stores, ice plants and air conditioners are commonplace in Burma. As a
safeguard, specifications would require that each refrigeration unit have two
compressors, each with outside motors; thus failure of one motor would not
stop the cooling system, and motor replacement would be easy. In addition,
when purchasing refrigeration and dehumidifying equipment, ARD would purchase
a supply of spare parts and motors equivalent to 30% of capital costs. The
stores' thermal characteristics would be such that they would withstand mecha-
nical failure or power cuts for at least a week without damage to stored
seed.
1.59      Costs.  Estimated investment costs for the stores are at Table 10.
Working capital would be needed to finance the seed inventory.  It would be
tied up for seven to eight months each year or longer if it is rolled over
to finance credit operations as suggested below (para 1.62). This working
capital is included in project costs together with the small initial operating
costs which would be incurred before revenues were earned.
1.60      Operations.  The stores would be owned and operated by ARD.   Seed
would be purchased from farmers in the surrounding area in competition with
oil mill operators and attractive prices would have to be offered. Prices
would be set on a store by store basis. Initially, pricing mistakes would
undoubtedly be made, and would be part of the learning process. Similarly,
only operating experience would determine the size of the supply area for
each store. In some cases it might prove necessary to establish buying
centers away from the store. This could be done in cooperation with the
Extension and Procurement Divisions of AC.
1.61      The stores would operate to strict quality control procedures and
only good, clean, dry lots would be purchased.  These would be tagged, and
tag data would include farmer identification; over time it might be possible
to identify, and contract with, suppliers of consistently good quality seed.
Each lot would be sampled for germination and the lot packed in 50 lb (two
basket) capacity jute bags. Lots with sub-standard germination would subse-
quently be sent to the oil mills. Seed would be sampled twice more for
germination tests, in July and in October/November just before sale. Opera-
tions would be carefully accounted. Just before the planting season selling
prices would be determined for each store. Prices would be set to fully
recoup costs and to give a nominal return (12%) on investment capital.
1.62      The Myanma Agricultural Bank (MAB), or in townships where MAB has
no branch, the Economic Bank (MEB), offers eligible farmers seasonal credit
of K 100/acre for groundnut production. This is very little relative to both
present seed costs and to the lower cost of seed which should result from the
pilot program. It is suggested that GOB consider increasing the credit limit
for groundnut production, in townships where seed stores would be located,
to complement the effect of the pilot program. Such an expansion of credit
activity could be financed from funds provided for seed store working capital,
which would not be tied-up during the planting season.



- 17 -
1.63      Staffing.  A post of Groundnut Program Supervisor would be estab-
lished in ARD headquarters. He would be responsible to DAGM (Processing,
Distribution and Quality Control) and would be an agricultural graduate (B.Ag)
with experience of mechanical equipment operation and maintenance. Specialized
training in warehousing, inventory control and groundnut seed handling would be
provided under the project. Each store would have a Manager who would be a
B.Ag with mechanical aptitude. Again specialized training in warehousing and
quality control would be provided under the project. Managers would be helped
by Technical Assistants who would be diplomates given specialized on-the-job
training in warehousing and quality control.
1.64      Monitoring of the pilot program would be undertaken by the Ministry
of Finance and Planning's Central Statistical Office (CSO), working in close
collaboration with the Ministry of Agriculture's Planning and Statistics De-
partment. The project would provide funds for incremental staff costs, equip-
ment and expendable supplies. An initial survey would be carried out to deter-
mine baseline data against which to measure program impact. It would also
establish the potential for replicability should the pilot program prove
successful. The initial survey would be carried out in January and February
of Year 1 and would cover 15 Townships in the Irrawaddy, Pegu and Rangoon
Divisions. Surveys would continue annually in 10 of these townships, five of
which would contain the stores and five would serve as controls; if GOB agrees
to increase the credit for groundnut production (para 1.62), it would be nec-
essary to extend the same credit limit to those townships used as controls.
Details of survey design have been discussed with GOB and guidelines for
implementation included with the Supplementary Report. GOB gave an assurance
that the surveys would be conducted for a minimum of three years.
G.  Training
1.65      Burma is fortunate in having a large number of graduates with a
reasonable basic training in agriculture. Unfortunately, very few graduates
have received any specialized training and consequently there is an acute
shortage of staff capable of implementing any proposed research and seed
multiplication program. Hence, training would be a key project component.
Provision has been made for 690 man-months of overseas training, ranging from
two year MSc degree courses to three-month short courses, such as those con-
ducted by the international research centers. It is envisaged that most of
the training would be conducted in South East Asia and Table 10 shows the
assumed location of training. In addition to this formal training, a major
responsibility of the technical assistance specialists would be provision of
inservice training to project staff. Overseas training would be timed to give
Burmese staff the greatest possible exposure to the technical specialists;
this would necessitate the earliest possible start to the overseas training
program. Table 11 gives details of overseas training proposals and estimated
costs. The broad requirements for training are discussed below but the
consultants, in conjunction with ARD and ARI, would be required to identify
specific requirements and to recommend institutions which would provide the
required training. GOB has agreed to make arrangements satisfactory to IDA,
for each year's training program, not later than March 31st each year.



- 18 -
1.66      Most of the training program would be directed towards improve-
ment of ARD's applied research capability. Major emphasis in the overseas
program would be on agronomy, plant breeding, and experimental design and
analysis. Specialists would also be trained in entomology - with emphasis
on cotton; plant pathology - with emphasis on rice; and soil microbiology -
with emphasis on nitrogen fixation and pegging in groundnut. Thus, a start
would be made in developing the multi-disciplinary teams needed to develop
technologies adapted to Burma's various agro-ecological zones.  In addition,
one officer would be trained to master's level in seed technology in order to
launch a modest program of seed technology research at Yezin.
1.67      Improving Central Farm management is essential to meet both their
seed production goals and to improve execution of experiments. Senior farm
management staff would be sent on short overseas courses for training in
production techniques for the main crops. Efforts would be made to locate
courses which cover seed production and experimentation. The rice field
experimentation workshop run by the International Rice Research Institute
is such a course.
1.68      Staff responsible for processing, packaging and storage of rice,
groundnut and cotton seed would be given on-the-job training by the respec-
tive specialists. Initially, they would organize short courses at the most
conveniently located facilities. Thereafter, they would supervise the early
phases of operation of the new equipment until staff were familiar with its
use and maintenance.
1.69      Staff responsible for quality control at the main laboratories
(Hmawbi, Lungyaw, Mandalay, Yezin) would be sent on 12-month overseas training
courses in seed technology, with emphasis on field inspection and seed analysis.
On their return they would train additional staff, as necessary, to expand the
quality control service. In particular, they would train the staff to operate
simple laboratories at the groundnut and cotton seed units.
1.70      The logistical problems caused by the withdrawal of staff for
training would be largely overcome by use of project consultants who would
support replacement staff. Later in the project period the more promising
replacement staff would themselves be sent for advanced training. In this
way a nucleus of staff would be trained in anticipation of a second phase
of Central Farm development; finance for this second wave of training would
also be provided in the project.
H.   Technical Assistance
1.71      The shortage of trained manpower in ARD will be addressed by pro-
viding training for Burmese staff, but a technical assistance component is
proposed to achieve results in the short-term. Technical assistance would be
required firstly to establish the basic infrastructure by developing a number
of research and seed farms, and secondly to develop an applied research and
seed multiplication program, together with the management necessary for its
implementation. Achievement of these objectives would require action on many



- 19 -
fronts involving diverse disciplines. Experience indicates that it would be
difficult for GOB to recruit individual specialists as needed. It is therefore
proposed that, except for a few short-term consultancies, the technical assist-
ance program should be contracted out to one consulting firm which would take
responsibility for coordination.
1.72      During negotiations agreement was reached between GOB, UNDP and the
Association that UNDP would finance the Technical Assistance component of the
project (US$975,000 over four years) with IDA as the executing agency; agree-
ment was also reached with GOB on terms of reference for the consultants. An
assurance was obtained that GOB would retain consultants selected by IDA.
1.73      The technical assistance would have three main components; land
development, farm management, and applied research. Short-term consultancies
would be required to provide advice on the design and operation of seed pro-
cessing and storage facilities. In addition, the consultants would work
closely with ARI, ARD and ED, to identify specific staff training requirements
and those institutions capable of providing the required training. A schedule
indicating the technical assistance input is at Chart 2. The costs of the
proposed technical assistance together with estimated time requirements are
presented in Table 12.
1.74      The consultants would plan and supervise the execution of the entire
land development program, primarily using ARD staff but with assistance from
other specialized GOB agencies where necessary. The equipment specialist
would review the equipment requirements proposed during appraisal and modify
these as necessary. The modified requirements would be submitted both to GOB
and to IDA for approval together with detailed bidding documents including
specifications. The farm planning specialist would design irrigation layouts
for Yezin and Lungyaw, and redesign existing layouts as necessary at Mandalay,
Hmawbi and Letpadan. The layouts would be designed to permit efficient mech-
anized operations using medium sized equipment. Plans for mechanized rainfed
farming would be prepared for Magwe and Mahlaing and the uncommanded areas of
the other farms.
1.75      The consultants would supervise the execution of the land develop-
ment program according to the implementation schedule (Chart 1), which would
be modified according to experience. The farm planning specialist would
supervise layout and plan execution; the equipment specialist would supervise
machinery operation and maintenance; both would have executive authority. The
equipment specialist would also assist the farm management specialist prepare
bid documents for farm machinery. Both the farm planning and equipment spec-
ialists would provide in-service training for Burmese staff. Their objective
would be to leave behind a team capable of continuing the planning and devel-
opment of remaining ARD farms.
1.76      The consultants would be required to develop a farm management capa-
bility within ARD and to formulate a five-year management plan for each of the
farms developed under the project. These objectives would be achieved by
training selected ARD staff in all relevant aspects of farm management. Most



- 20 -
of the training would be provided in-service with short courses conducted for
specific aspects as necessary. It is envisaged that ARD staff would work with
the farm management specialist in preparing farm development plans, cropping
programs, etc. and would later carry out the same procedures for other ARD
farms not included in the present project. The consultants would advise ARD
on the establishment of a more formal farm management training course for ARD
staff. The farm management specialist would work closely with, and would be
assisted by, the project team leader and, to a certain extent, their inputs
to farm management could be substituted. The farm management input would be
phased to allow consultants to concentrate on land development in the early
years and seed production in later years.
1.77      The consultants, working through the National Research Coordination
Committee (NRCC) (para 1.10) would assist GOB in establishing priorities for
applied research and in formulating a research program to be initiated during
the project. Program content would be as broadly outlined above (para 1.11).
The consultants would also be responsible for the training of ARD staff to
enable them to implement the project. The project team leader would spend
about six months in Burma developing a thorough understanding of the agricul-
tural situation to enable identification of research priorities. Specialist
research consultants would then be contracted to advise on the formulation and
implementation of research programs in the selected fields. These would be
integrated by the team leader, in conjunction with ARD and ARI staff, into a
recommended program for consideration by GOB (NRCC) and IDA. The research
specialists would be used to initiate the research programs in their respec-
tive fields and would identify the equipment, facilities, and training re-
quirements which would be financed by the project. The specialists would
return to assist in analysis of research findings and subsequent remodelling
of the programs in the light of the results. It is anticipated that about 24
man-months of specialist research input would be required over the first three
years of the project. The expertise required would probably include:
(i) rice, cotton and groundnut agronomy;
(ii) plant pathology, entomology, soil chemistry and soil
microbiology;
(iii) experimental design and statistical analysis; and
(iv) agricultural economics and extension methodology for
research workers.
1.78      Specialists in the fields of rice seed processing, cotton seed
ginning and storage, and groundnut drying and storage, would be hired on
short-term consultancies totalling about 16 man-months. Each would make
three or four short visits to Burma: (a) to design and prepare tender docu-
ments for the processing and storage equipment and buildings; (b) to assist
with equipment installation and run-in; and (c) to train staff in machinery
operation and maintenance. Details of proposed visit scheduling and duration
are at Chart 2.



- 21 -
Implementation Schedule
1.79      Project implementation would take four years.  Preparations for
the selection of consultants are underway. Training requirements have been
agreed with GOB and selection of suitable candidates has been initiated. The
bulk of farm development will be completed over three years with Yezin (ARI)
developed first followed by Lungyaw, Mandalay, Hmawbi, Letpadan, Magwe and
Mahlaing. Procurement of equipment, for land development, seed production,
seed processing, and research, would be completed in the first two years.
Construction of houses and other buildings would be spread over the first three
years of the project. A schedule for implementation of the land development
component is presented as Chart 1.
Cost Estimates
1.80      Total project costs are estimated at K 81.4 M (US$11.1 M) of which K
6.0 M (US$0.8 M) would be taxes and K 40.0 M (US$5.5 M) foreign exchange. The
project costs summarized below, are based on estimates made during appraisal in
March 1977 and updated to July 1977. Physical contingencies, applied as shown
below, amount to 6% of base cost estimates. Expected price increases applied
as shown below, result in a total price contingency of 28%.
Physical - equipment                       5
- civil works                    10
- operating costs                10
1978 and 1979      1980 and 1981
Price    - equipment, technical
assistance and training      7.5                7
- civil works and
operating costs             10                10
Estimated project costs are summarized below and complete details presented
in Table 13.



- 22 -
Thousand Kyats          Thousand US Dollars
Cost Item                        Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
Applied Research                       5,585   3,800   9,385    760    520   1,280
Farm Development                       2,785   5,140   7,925    380    700   1,080
Seed Production Investments            5,875   5,310  11,185    800    725   1,525
Seed Processing Investments            2,680   1,540   4,220    365    210       575
Production & Processing Operating
Costs                                  --    3,580   3,580      --    485      485
Commercial Cotton Seed Stores          1,725     910   2,635    235    125       360
Quality Control                           75     225      300     10      30      40
Groundnut - Investments and
Operating Costs                      2,625   1,340   3,965    358    182       540
Groundnut - Working Capital            6,500     --    6,500    890       --     890
ARD Headquarters                         485      380     865     67      53     120
Training                                  -    3,270   3,270      --    445      445
Technical Assistance                     545   5,380   5,925       75    735     810
Base Cost Estimate               28,880  30,875  59,755  3,940  4,210   8,150
Contingencies:
Physical Contingencies (6.1%)        1,750   1,750   3,500    250    250       500
Expected Price Increases (28.3%)  10,600   7,400  18,000  1,450  1,000   2,450
TOTAL EXPECTED COST OF PROJECT        41,230  40,025  81,255  5,640  5,460  11,100
Financing
1.81      Agreement was reached during negotiations that UNDP would finance
Technical Assistance (US$975,000). The proposed IDA credit of US$5.5 M would
finance the remaining foreign exchange costs of US$4.5 M and US$1.0 M of local
costs or about 70% of project costs excluding taxes, duties, the seasonal
credit required for groundnut working capital, and the UNDP contribution.
The financing plan shown below is based on IDA providing 100% of the cost
of training, and foreign expenditures for imported equipment, 80% of the local
expenditures for imported goods procured locally, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for goods manufactured locally, 60% of the civil works expendi-
tures, and 45% of the incremental operating costs (excluding groundnut working
capital). This covers 50% of project costs.



- 23 -
Thousand US Dollars
Cost Item                       GOB     IDA   UNDP   Total    % IDA
Applied Research                     755   1,050      -    1,805      58
Farm Development                     515      885     -    1,400      63
Seed Production Investments          595   1,375      -    1,970      70
Seed Processing Investments          255     495      -       750     66
Production & Processing
Operating Costs                    360     290      -      650      45
Commercial Cotton Seed Stores        260     290      -       550     53
Quality Control                       10       45     -        55     82
Groundnut - Investment & Operating
Costs                              270     445      -      715      62
Groundnut - Working Capital        1,540       -      -    1,540      -
ARD Headquarters                      65       85     -       150     57
Training                              -      540      -       540    100
Technical Assistance                  -        -     975      975     -
TOTAL                         4,625   5,500    975  11,100       50
1.82      Funds for ARI and ARD investment and incremental operating costs
would be transferred as normal budgetary allocations to AC (or to its suc-
cessor). ARD would obtain working capital for groundnut purchases from the
Myanma Economic Bank on prevailing terms for short-term loans.
Procurement
1.83      Most of the equipment, machinery and vehicles with an estimated cif
cost of about US$2.0 M (net of contingencies), would be procured after inter-
national competitive bidding in accordance with IDA Guidelines. A preference,
limited to 15% of the cif price or the prevailing custom duty, whichever is
lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
Except possibly for some vehicles, water pumps and office furniture, it is
expected that the above procurement would be from external suppliers. To
provide management flexibility, and to allow for purchases of specialized
equipment, some vehicles and small items of equipment for laboratories
and research, costing less than US$20,000 each, would be obtained by inter-
national or local shopping through normal Government procurement procedures,
on the basis of comparing prices from no less than three suppliers.  Such
purchases would be limited to a total of US$500,000. Consultants (US$0.8 M)
would be employed by IDA as executing agency for UNDP, training (US$0.45 M)
would be on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. For each tender for
goods with an aggregate value in excess of $200,000, GOB would submit bid-
ding documents to IDA for review prior to issue and seek IDA approval of
bid evaluation before award of contract(s).
1.84      Civil works with an estimated cost of US$2.4 million (net of con-
tingencies) comprise mainly houses, offices, laboratories and stores. The
works are widely scattered and construction is to be phased over three years
and hence would not attract international contractors. There is no private
construction industry in Burma. Some small buildings, each costing less than



- 24 -
K 50,000 (US$7,000), would be constructed by ARD by force account. However,
the bulk of the work would be carried out under contract by GOB's Construc-
tion Corporation. A program of the civil works to be started each year would
be agreed between ARD and the Construction Corporation. These work programs,
and the terms of the contract under which the Construction Corporation would
execute them, would be satisfactory to IDA.
Disbursement
1.85      Disbursement from the credit account is expected to be completed by
December 31, 1982, approximately six months after the end of project imple-
mentation. The estimated schedule of disbursements is presented in Table 14.
The proposed allocation for the proceeds of the credit is as follows:
Amount Allocated         % of Expenditure
Category            (US$ Million)             to be Financed
I.   Civil Works                    1.6        60% of total expenditures.
II.   Equipment, Machinery           1.8        100% of the foreign expendi-
and  Vehicles                           tures for directly imported
goods or 80% of the local
expenditures for imported
goods procured locally or
100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory) for goods
manufactured locally.
III.   Incremental Operating          0.8        45% of total expenditures.
Costs
IV.   Training                       0.5        100% of total expenditures.
V.   Unallocated                    0.8
5.5
1.86      Applications for withdrawals from the credit would be fully docu-
mented except that disbursement for civil works carried out by force account
and incremental operating costs would be made against certified statements of
expenditure submitted by GOB; documentation supporting statements of expendi-
ture will be retained by GOB for review during project supervision. 1/
1/   GOB's 1977/78 fiscal year would be the base against which to measure
incrementality, where applicable incremental revenues would be taken
into account in determining net incremental operating costs. The
definition of, and disbursement procedures for, operating costs, were
agreed during negotiations.



- 25 -
1.87      The project has been designed as a first phase for future seed pro-
gram development. Hence, upon completion of the project, any surplus in the
credit account will be used, at the discretion of IDA, for project related
expenditures.
Accounts and Audit
1.88      GOB's financing of development and operating programs is governed by
a hierarchy of expenditure ceilings; from implementing agencies, through re-
sponsible Ministries and annual plan ceilings, to the Four-Year Plan ceiling.
Although the Seed Project is included in the preliminary Third Four-Year Plan
(1978-81), only K 13.7 M is provided. An assurance was obtained that by
April 30, 1978, the total and annual ceilings for seed development in the
Third Four-Year Plan would have been raised to reflect the cost estimates of
the project agreed at negotiations.
1.89      Separate project accounts would be kept by executing agencies as
follows:
(i)  ARD - for headquarters expenditure; for the land develop-
ment unit, operating costs would be fully offset by
payments from the farms and from ARI for land devel-
opment at Yezin;
- separately for each farm;
- for local expenditures for technical assistance;
- for the cotton program, accounting each ginnery
separately;
- for the groundnut program;
(ii) AC's Managing Director's Office
- for training (since AC's training budget is
presently controlled centrally rather than
by operating divisions); and
(iii)  ARI - for the seed laboratory, processing equipment, and
land development (ARI would budget for land develop-
ment and pay ARD for the service).
Throughout the project, NSC would maintain summary accounts and a record
of disbursement applications forwarded to IDA. Summaries of unaudited project
accounts would be sent to IDA not later than four months after the end of the
fiscal year. Project accounts would be audited by GOB's Central Audit and
Inspection Office, and sent to IDA, together with the auditor's report, with-,
in nine months of the close of each fiscal year. The audit report would be
required to include, inter alia, a statement that funds disbursed against
statements of expenditure had been used for the purpose for which they were
provided.



- 26 -
II. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND OPERATION
Implementing Agencies
2.01      Project implementation would principally involve the Agricultural
Corporation 1/ (AC) and to a relatively minor extent, the Textile Industries
Corporation. The various divisions within AC which would be involved in the
project are as follows:
(i) The Applied Research Division (ARD) is the main implementing
agency responsible for seed production and applied research
and overall project management. The present structure of
ARD is shown in Chart 3 and the proposed structure in
Chart 4. The proposed changes would separate seed produc-
tion and research functions from administration, budget,
and training, and locate these under a new deputy general
manager.
(ii) The Agricultural Research Institute (ARI) would be respon-
sible for the production of all breeder seed and some
foundation seed and would monitor quality control procedures.
(iii) The Extension Division (ED) would conduct demonstrations of
new varieties, provide advice on their cultivation, partici-
pate in the formulation of research programs and help organize
production of commercial cotton seed.
(iv) The Procurement Division (PD) would distribute seeds produced
by ARD.
2.02      The Textile Industries Corporation would own and operate the gin-
neries at which the commercial cotton seed would be ginned and adjacent to
which the cotton seed storage, processing and packaging facilities would be
constructed.
2.03      A National Seed Committee (NSC) would be formed to provide a forum
for the determination of seed policy. In particular it would be responsible
for variety release, variety recommendation and quality control standards and
procedures. During the project period it would monitor and coordinate proj-
ect activity. The NSC would be chaired by the Deputy Minister for Agricul-
ture. The secretary would be ARD's Deputy General Manager (Seed and Research)
and he, assisted by ARD headquarters staff, would constitute NSC's secretariat.
Membership would comprise representatives of:
1/   At the time of appraisal, GOB was considering splitting AC into two
agencies, one service, the other commercially, oriented. This change
had been proposed because it was clear that AC could not operate as a
financially viable entity if its operations included service functions.
The project has been designed to accommodate this change should it take
place but would operate equally successfully under the present arrange-
ment.



- 27 -
Ministry of Agriculture and Forests:
Planning and Statistics Department
Managing Director of AC
General Managers of ARI, ARD, Extension and Procurement Divisions
Ministry of Planning and Finance
Foreign Economic Relations Department
Planning Department
Ministry of Industry I
Trade Ministry
Central People's Peasants Council
A technical sub-committee would be formed to handle variety release and
variety recommendation, and to develop, and keep under review, quality
control standards and procedures. Senior technical staff from ARI, ARD
and the Extension Division would be co-opted to serve on this sub-committee.
It would be a condition of effectiveness that the NSC had been formed with
composition and powers satisfactory to IDA (the latter were discussed and
agreed during negotiations).
Project Operations
2.04      As the principal implementing agency, ARD would be responsible for
all procurement and contracting. ARD would be closely involved in project
coordination through its provision of the secretariat to NSC. Most of the
applied research would be conducted on ARD's Central Farms (CF). The scope
of the research programs is described above (para 1.11 et seq). The project
Central Farms (ARD) would multiply breeder or foundation seed supplied by ARI
and, after processing and packaging, transfer the seed to PD for distribution.
The PD would distribute seed to villages in those areas suited to the variety
being distributed. ARD would also operate the groundnut and cotton seed stores
and establish regional quality control laboratories.
2.05      Research Coordination Committees (RCC) would be formed for each
Central Farm. They would comprise representatives of ARD, ARI and the Exten-
sion Division. Each Committee would be chaired by the Divisional Manager of
the Division served by the farm. Members would be senior extension staff from
the Division, senior research officers from the farm, and research officers
from ARI in the disciplines relevant to each farm's work. The RCC would
discuss research results, and problems encountered by extension workers. In
the light of these discussions recommendations would be made for the next
season's research program, and for recommendations to be used by the Extension
Division.



- 28 -
2.06      A National Research Coordination Committee (NRCC) would be formed
to consider the recommendations from the RCC and to finalize CF research pro-
grams and extension recommendations. Given the feedback from the RCC, the
NRCC would also be an excellent forum for discussion of additions and/or
changes to ARI's program of basic research at Yezin. The NRCC would comprise
the General Managers of the ARD, ARI and ED, and such of their senior staff
as they coopted for their assistance, plus a representative of the Planning
and Statistics Department; a Secretariat would be provided by ARD. In full
session, at which final decisions would be made, the NRCC would be chaired by
the Deputy Minister for Agriculture. At working sessions the chair would be
taken by the AC Managing Director 1/, or would be rotated among the General
Managers in a manner determined by the full Committee.  During the project
period the NRCC would coopt, and be advised by, the Research Specialist
(Team Leader). An assurance was obtained that NRCC and RCC would be formed
with composition and powers satisfactory to IDA. Annual Reports would be
prepared by April 30. A report from the senior research officer of each CF
would present research results and the recommendations of the RCC. A report
from ARD would present a consolidated account of the year's applied research
work, and record the recommendations of the NRCC. These reports would be
submitted to IDA by June 30 of each year, for information and comment.
2.07      ED would run the rice variety demonstration trials which would be
used to publicize a new variety in the year before seed distribution was to
commence (para 1.30). The Division would help to organize the production
of the commercial generation of cotton seed and would also participate in
seed policy and research planning discussions. The Division would produce
simple advisory pamphlets on production techniques for inclusion in seed
packs.
2.08      ARI would establish a central seed laboratory which would monitor
the quality of work of ARD's regional laboratories. To do so central labora-
tory staff would inspect sample fields, and take samples of seed from ARD's
laboratories and farms for check analyses and post control trials. Sub-
standard performance, or disputes over performance, would be brought to the
attention of the NSC. The central laboratory would also house the seed
technology program to be launched by ARI. ARI also would assist with training
of project staff and would participate in seed policy formulation and in
research planning.
2.09      The Textile Industries Corporation would own and operate the gin-
neries designated for commercial cotton seed operations. ARD would arrange
regular and frequent collection of seed cotton from the commercial seed
growers. TIC would be the buyer of the seed cotton, but it would be stored,
before ginning, in ARD's aerated stores. TIC would gin the cotton accord-
ing to quality control procedures prescribed by the NSC, seed lots suitable
for planting would be purchased from TIC by ARD and held in the aerated
stores. Samples of seed would be tested for quality during storage, rejects
would be sent for oil extraction. Shortly before the planting season ARD
would package the seed for distribution by PD.
1/   Or his successor if the mooted division of AC, into commercial
and service elements, takes place (para 2.01).



- 29 -
Manpower Development
2.10      The proposed project represents a considerable increase in the
responsibilities assigned to ARD and this would necessitate some reorgani-
zation and strengthening of ARD. The changes would result in the addition
of about 150 professional staff to ARD including an additional Deputy General
Manager and an Assistant General Manager. It would be a condition of credit
effectiveness that the incremental posts required for the project had been
approved by GOB and that suitable officers had been appointed as Deputy
General Manager (Seeds and Research), Assistant General Manager (Seed) and
Assistant General Manager (Research). In addition, an assurance was obtained
that, for a period of five years after the signing of the Development Credit
Agreement, the Government would employ suitable qualified staff in these
posts and in that of General Manager, ARD. The cost of strengthening ARD
headquarters is shown in Table 15. Other major components of manpower devel-
opment have been discussed under training (para 1.65) and technical assistance
(para 1.71).
Monitoring and Evaluation
2.11      Monitoring and evaluation would be the responsibility of NSC which
would submit quarterly progress reports to IDA. Report format would not be
established until soon after effectiveness when the consultants would be able
to contribute. In particular they would recommend detailed implementation
schedules for major activities which would form the basis for monitoring
physical progress. The progress reports would contain quarterly summary
accounts to record financial progress on major components. GOB's Project
Appraisal and Progress Reporting Department (PAPRD) would be invited to par-
ticipate in the discussions of report format so that a common reporting system
could be developed to serve the needs of implementing agencies, GOB'and IDA.
Through participation in the monitoring process PAPRD would be prepared to
take the lead, on GOB's behalf, in preparing a Project Completion Report.
2.12      The Central Statistical Office would carry out surveys to evaluate
the pilot groundnut storage program (para 1.64). Similar surveys would be
necessary to evaluate the relative impact of rice seed distributed in 1 Kg
and 20 Kg packs. However the small packs would not be introduced until
new varieties were released. Since this is still several years away it is
considered premature to make detailed proposals now.
III. MARKETING
Demand
3.01      The effective demand for rice seed of existing varieties constitutes
a relatively small portion of total rice seed requirements since most farmers
retain their own seed or obtain seed from their neighbors. The effective
demand for seed of new varieties of rice is very high since there are no



- 30 -
alternative sources of supply. The rice seed multiplication system proposed
is designed to provide small quantities of the seed of new varieties to many
farmers who would subsequently retain part of their own production for use
as seed. It is neither practical nor desirable for the project to attempt
to supply the total rice seed requirement; the project has been designed with
a supply capacity sufficient to cover about 3.5 M ac in the fifth year after
the release of a new variety. The project will only produce HYV of proven
purity and since such seeds are in short supply and would be reasonably
priced, there should be no difficulty marketing the output.
3.02      The effective demand for cotton seed approximates the total seed
requirement since farmers sell all seed cotton direct to the ginneries.  The
project will supply the entire G. hirsutum seed requirement to this captive
market.
3.03      The Lower Burma groundnut growers are compelled to purchase their
entire seed requirement just prior to sowing because groundnut cannot be
stored during the monsoon unless elaborate facilities are available. Hence,
the effective demand for seed would approximate the total seed requirement
provided prices for project seed output are not above free market prices.
The groundnut program proposed is a pilot program and would only supply seed
for about 5% of the total groundnut area.
Seed Pricing and Distribution
3.04      The principle guide to pricing would be to set seed prices at levels
which would ensure responsible use. Rice and cotton seed prices would be
increased to conform with this principle; failure to do so would greatly
reduce project benefits. In the case of rice, farmers would sell their
genetically-superior seed for grain, if they could buy seed at less than
grain prices. In the case of cotton, too low a price would result in a
continuance of excessive seeding rates.
3.05      GOB has agreed to establish and maintain formulae for pricing seed
produced under the project, satisfactory to IDA. During negotiations it was
agreed that initial formulae would be as follows:
(i) The selling price of rice seed would basically be set by
reference to the government procurement price plus all
additional processing and handling costs. But to ensure
responsible use of a valuable commodity, rice seed should
sell at a price well in excess of the grain prices.
Separate rice seed prices would be set for rice surplus
and deficit areas.  Under present procurement prices,
rice seed prices would, at any rate, be at least 160%
and 200% of the Ngasein procurement price for surplus
and deficit areas respectively. Rice seed prices would
be announced well before planting time, i.e., in March
of each year. Rice seed prices would automatically be
reviewed after consultation with IDA whenever procure-
ment prices were changed.



- 31 -
(ii)  The prices for commercial cotton seed and groundnut seed
would be set annually at levels which would cover: raw
seed costs; operating costs including transport and hand-
ling but excluding interest charges; and a 12% return on
investment capital. Certified cotton seed would be sold
by ARD to farmers at the price being charged for commercial
cotton seed.
3.06      The application of the formulae would result in an increase in the
average price of rice seed of about 65%, sufficient to ensure responsible use. 1/
The cotton seed price would increase by about 200%, this is a large increase
but the cost of seed per acre would remain low at K 9. It would be necessary
to sell certified cotton seed at the same price as commercial seed because
the cost of producing cotton seed at Lungyaw and Mahlaing would be difficult to
determine accurately given the overlap of seed and research activities.
Furthermore, most of the seed, the certified generation, would be sold to
farmers in designated seed production areas instead of commercial seed. Since
it is GOB's desire that farmers would not be paid any premium for producing the
commercial seed, it would be necessary to charge the same prices for commercial
and certified seed.
3.07      Applying the formula would give an ex-store groundnut seed price of
about K 77 per basket (K 65 for raw seed plus K 12 for operating costs and
return to investment). This would be a considerable reduction from present
seed prices and should lead to a significant increase in plantings.
3.08      The distribution pattern for rice seed would be determined by the
rice seed production program, which would be the responsibility of the
National Seed Committee. Detailed distribution arrangements would be made
for each farm by the staffs of ARD, PD and ED. Transport from farm to sale
point would be arranged by PD. Contractors would be used, a continuation of
present practice. Cotton distribution would follow much the present pattern,
through the existing channels of PD. The only change of note would be that
seed would only be produced at three or four points, thus transport planning
would require a little more care.
IV. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Financial Impact
4.01      Commercial cotton seed would be priced to ensure full cost recovery,
including interest on capital, in the processing and storage operation (para
3.05). Initially the groundnut program would operate to a similar pricing
policy to allow ARD to fully recover costs. However it is recognized that
1/   The average price paid to ARD would be about K 16/basket; this value
has been used in calculating project costs and benefits.



- 32 -
price relationships could develop when achievement of full economic benefit
from the groundnut program might necessitate some financial subsidy, because
seed price is a major constraint on acreage. Any such need would be identified
by the monitoring survey and price policy could be modified subject to IDA
review.
4.02      Apart from the groundnut program, ARD's activities could not be
operated and accounted with the objective of achieving financial profitabil-
ity.  The costs of research and training, purely service functions, are
inextricable from those of seed production. However, with the pricing
policies described above (para 3.04 et seq), the ARD seed production and
processing program would be financially self-supporting by project year
four. The costs of research and training on ARD farms would not be fully
offset by revenues from the seed production and processing program. At
full development (Project year four) ARD would incur an annual project-related
deficit of about K 300,000 when the full costs of research and ARD headquarters
development were offset against seed production revenues. This is consider-
ably less than the K 1.1 M operating deficit incurred by the six project farms
in 1975/76. The setting of rice and cotton seed prices higher than those pro-
posed, to further improve ARD's cash flow, is not considered feasible. How-
ever, any failure to make ARD self-financing would be more than offset by the
incremental revenues which would accrue to GOB through its rice procurement
operations. At full development, the project is expected to increase annual
rice production by 188,000 tons. Assuming a marginal quota rate of 29%, 1/
and a procurement efficiency of 50%, GOB would annually procure an additional
28,000 tons of paddy as a result of the project. All of this would be sold
on the export market and result in additional annual revenues of about K 12 M
(US$1.6 M). (The difference between the export price, net of procurement and
handling costs, and the procurement price is about K 450 per ton).
4.03      The impact of the project on farmers would be considerable.  The new
paddy HYV suitable for medium-deep water regions would permit yield increases
of about 50% which would provide a net incremental benefit of about K 115
per acre sown (Table 16). At full development about 700,000 paddy farmers
could benefit from the rice program. Cotton yields could be expected to
increase at least 5% through use of pure seed of existing varieties which
would provide a net incremental benefit of about K 30 per acre. A further
and more dramatic yield increase could be expected when new varieties were
released. The project would also reduce production costs of about 11,000
groundnut farmers by about 20% yielding a net incremental benefit of about
K 180 per acre.
Economic Impact
4.04      The economic analysis has been carried out using international
prices with appropriate adjustments for freight, handling, processing and
1/   From Appraisal of the Lower Burma Paddyland Development Project
(Report No. 1129-BA) Annex 15, and assuming an average holding of
5 acres and an average yield of 30 baskets per acre.



- 33 -
quality differentials. Apart from rice, all project output would be con-
sumed in Burma. The kyat has been shadow priced at K 13 to US$1. Unskilled
labor has been valued at a rate intermediate between the prevailing market
prices for periods of near full employment and the slack season rate. All
other salaries and labor charges have been included at market prices.
Economic returns for the major project components have been estimated by
identifying costs specific to each component and allocating these together
with part of the overhead costs 1/ to each component. Since the benefits
from the research component are not easily separated from those accruing
to improved extension and increased input use, no return has been estimated
for this component.
4.05      The rice seed component would supply sufficient good quality seed
to ensure the rapid spread of new HYV. Benefits would accrue from the fas-
ter and wider spread of HYV than would occur with the present system. The
assumptions used in the economic analysis are presented in Table 17; the
economic rate of return is above 100% and would remain so even if benefits
were reduced 25% or costs increased 25%. Incremental paddy production is
estimated at 188,000 metric tons (Year 10) valued at about US$43 million
annually.
4.06      The cotton seed component would improve the physical quality of
cotton seed and provide a system for the rapid introduction of new varieties.
Improving seed quality would enable the very high seeding rate of 72 lb per
acre to be halved. The cotton seed saved would produce scarce cooking oil
worth about seven million kyats (US$1 M) per annum. The net incremental
value of cotton produced on government farms would be over one million kyats
per year. The use of genetically pure, physically sound seed would increase
yields of existing varieties by at least 5%; much larger yield increases
could be expected following the release of new varieties. Since it is un-
certain when new varieties would be released, only the 5% yield increase
expected from existing varieties has been included in the benefit calcula-
tion (Table 18). The rate of return to the cotton seed component is
estimated to be about 27% and would remain above 19% if benefits were
reduced 25% or costs increased by 25%.
4.07      The groundnut component would be experimental.  It is expected
that provision of storage would permit groundnut seed prices to be reduced at
least 25% and that this would result in an expansion of groundnut area by at
least 20%. The economic rate of return under these assumptions would be 19%
(Table 19). A reduction in benefits of 25% or a 25% cost increase would
reduce the return to about 14%.
4.08      The economic rate of return for the whole project is estimated to
be above 50% even without the substantial but unquantified benefits expected
from the research component. The return would exceed 50%, even if benefits
were reduced, or costs increased, by 25%. Details of the analysis are pre-
sented in Table 20.
1/   Overhead costs include land development, production equipment, housing,
and quality control.



- 34 -
Risks
4.09      The project would share the risk, common to all investments in agri-
cultural development in Burma, that GOB would not maintain prices at levels
sufficient to provide incentives to producers. However, recent pronouncements
and practice are promising. There would also be the risk, common to most
projects, that the rate of implementation would be slower than predicted
because of delays in taking key administrative actions such as budget
approval, expansion of staff establishments, selection and dispatch of
trainees. However since appraisal GOB has been alerted to, and has acknow-
ledged, the urgency of these actions.
4.10      There would be several project specific risks.  The rice program
anticipates the release of new varieties in three or four years time; there
is a risk that release will take longer. A sensitivity analysis shows that
even if the new varieties take six years to release, the project rate of
return would still be above 50%. Therefore this risk is acceptable.
4.11      In the cotton sector, seed improvement should be one element of a
package of improvements covering extension, credit and input supply. If
these complementary activities were not undertaken and no improvements in
yield per acre were realized, the economic rate of return would still be about
13% because of the saving of seed.
4.12      In the groundnut program there is a risk that farmers would not
react sufficiently to lower groundnut seed prices to make a storage program
economically viable (technical feasibility is not in question). However given
the strong demand for groundnut oil, the apparently large potential for area
expansion in Lower Burma, and the fact that the amount of investment capital
at risk is small as investments would have at least 50% salvage value for
other uses, the risk is considered acceptable.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
5.01      During negotiations the following major assurances were obtained:
(i)  GOB would designate the variety of G. hirsutum to be grown
in each township where the species is grown and would desig-
nate suitable ginneries as single variety ginneries to gin
project cotton seed (paras 1.35, 1.43 and 1.45);
(ii)  the National Seed Committee would establish a Register of
Varieties and List of Recommended Varieties. Project seed
production would be confined to the latter (para 1.51);
(iii)  GOB would make arrangements satisfactory to IDA, for each
year's training program, not later than March 31st of each
year (para 1.65);



- 35 -
(iv)  GOB would retain consultants selected by IDA (para 1.72);
(v) annual civil works programs, and the terms of the contracts
under which GOB's Construction Corporation would execute
them, would be satisfactory to IDA (para 1.84);
(vi)  Research Coordination Committees for each Central Farm, and
a National Research Coordination Committee, would be formed
with powers and composition satisfactory to IDA (para 2.06);
(vii)  for five years after credit signing, GOB would employ suit-
ably qualified staff in ARD's posts of General Manager,
Deputy General Manager (Seeds and Research), Assistant
General Manager (Seed), and Assistant General Manager
(Research) (para 2.10); and
(viii)  GOB would establish and maintain for ten years after credit
signing seed pricing formulae satisfactory to IDA (para 3.05).
5.02      During negotiations it was also agreed that conditions of credit
effectiveness would be:
(i) the establishment of the National Seed Committee with com-
position and powers satisfactory to IDA (para 2.03); and
(ii)  the approval by GOB of the incremental posts required for
the project and the appointment of suitable officers to
the ARD posts of Deputy General Manager (Seeds and Research),
Assistant General Manager (Seed), and Assistant General
Manager Research (para 2.10).
5.03      With the indicated assurances, the project is suitable for an
IDA credit of US$5.5 M to the Government of Burma.






Table 1
BURMA
Seed Development Project
Research
Project Costs:  Central Farms and Yezin ('000 Kyats)
TOTAL COST YEAR 1-4
No. of                                                                                               % Foreign
Units    Unit Cost      Year I    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4         Local    Foreign    Total    Exchange
INVESTMENTS
Civil Works
Housing
Grade I                               13         92.1          276.2      626.1      294.6                939.0       257.9    1,196.9       21 5
Grade II                              19         46.0          193.3      460.4      221.0                686.2       188.5       874.7      21 6
Grade III                            42          35.8          343,7      787.7      372.4             1,179.7        324.1    1,503 8       21 6
Laboratories                              6         10.2            18.4      30.7       12 3                 48.2        13.2        61 4      21 5
Offices                                  52          10 2          159.6     266.0      106 4                417.4       114.6       532 0      21.5
Site and services                                     -             43.0      45.0         -                  88 O          -         88.0        -
Sub-total Civil Works                                           1,034.2   2,215.9   1,006.7                3,358.5       898 3    4,256.8       21.1
Equipment
Laboratory equipment                      5            -              -       772.5         -                 78.1       694.4       772.5      89.9
Field equipment 1/                        6        154.5              -      662.1          -                 66.9       595 2       662 1      89 9
Furniture and equipment 2/               45           1.6             -        36.7      33.1                 47.4        22.4        69.8      32.1
Vehicles (Pick-up)                        6         47.9           2876          -          -                 90 4       197 2       2R7 6      68.6
Sub-total Equipment                                    -           287.6   1.471 7       73.1                282 A    1,50 9.2   1.792.0        84.2
Investment Base Cost                                     -         1,321.8   3.687.2   1.039.8               3,641.3    2,407.5    6,048.8        39.8
OPERATING COSTS
Salaries (including overhead)                          -           162.0     278.0      302.0      302.0  1,044.0           -      1,044.0        -
Materials and supplies                                 -           116.1      200.5     215.8      215.8    123.3        624.9       748.2      83.5
Machinery operations                               326.9            81.7       98.1      156 9     156.9    104.2        389.4       493.6      78 9
Crop inputs                                        250 1            62 6       75.0     120.0      120 0      72 7       304 9       377 6      80.7
Labor                                              231.0            57 8       69 3     110.9      110.9    348.9           -        348.9        -
Building maintenance 2.5%                              -            25 9       81 3     106 5      106.2    251 2         69 a1      320 7      21.5
Sub-total                                      -           506.1      802.2   1,012.1   1,012.1  1,944.3    1,388.2    3,332.5          41.7
INVESTMENTS AND OPERATING COSTS
Base Costs                                               -         1,827.9   4,489.4   2,051.9   1,012.1  5,585.6    3,795.7    9,381.3           40.5
Contingencies
-  Physical                                            -           170.0      376.2     205.4      101.0    510.5        342.1       852.6      40.1
-  Price                                               -           299.8   1,204.6      901.8      596.7  1,797.8    1,205.1    3,002.9         40.1
TOTAL RESEARCH COSTS                                     -         2,297.7   6,070.2   3,159.1   1,709.8  7,893.9    5,342.9   13,236.8           40 4
Duties and Taxes                                                     159.4      316.9      152.2       38.5    667.0                    667.0
I/ Small plot equipment to supplement farm machinery.
2/ For officers and support staff (clerks/typists).
June 16, 1977.



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Farm Development
Land Development Costs ('000 Kyats)
TOTAL YEARS 1-4
Unit /   Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4                              A% Foreign
Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost         Local    Foreign    Total       Exchange
EQUIPMENT
Bulldozer 110-120 HP                           773.6                 1    773.6                                 154.4       619.2       773 6      80
with fittings
Tractor 100-120 HP                             171.4                 5    857.2                                 171 2        686.0      857 2      80
Disc barrows (heavy duty)                      131 9                 2    263.8                                  52.7        211.1      263 8      80
Self elevating scraper                         131.9                 3    395.6                                  78.9       316.7       395.6      80
(10 cu yd capacity)
Landplane (50-60' span)                        118.7                 3    356.0                                  71.1       284.9       356.0      80
Ditch plow                                       8.8                 3     26.4                                   5.2         21.2       26.4      80
Transporter (low loader)                       307.7                 1    307.7                                  61.5       246.2       307.7      80
Service truck and equipment                    263.8                 1    263.8                                  52.7       211.1       263.8      80
Spares 30%                                      -                         973.3                                 194.3       779.0       973.3      80
Base Cost                                                               4,217.4                                 842.0     3,375.4    4,217.4       80
Contingencies
-  Physical                                                             210.9                                 42.1        168.8       210.9      80
- Price                                                                 806.9                                 161.1       645.8       806.9      80
TOTAL EQUIPMENT COST                                                    5,235.2                               1,045.2     4,190.0    5,235.2       80
Duties and Taxes                                                      1,021.3                               1,021.3                 1,021.3
OPERATING COSTS
Survey                                                      260.0         175.0           -            -        435.0          -      435.0          -
Machinery operation                                            -          608.7         616.4        103.7      227.78     1,051.0  1,328.8         79
Irrigation works
- Channels                                                    -          899.1         588.1          -      1,011 4        475.8  1,487 2         32
- Structures                                                  -          168.9         152.2          -        153.4        167.7    321.1         52
Fencing                                                        -            63.3         68.6          -         63.0         68.9    131.9         52
Base Cost                                                   260.0       1.915.0       1,425.3        103.7   1,940.6       1,763.4  3,704.0         47
Contingencies
- Physical                                                 27.6         193.7         142.8         10 1      160.5        213.7    374.2         57
-  Price                                                    34.9        424.0         444.5         41.5      405.1        539.8    944.9         57
TOTAL OPERATING COSTS                                        322.5      2,532.7       2,012.6        155.3   2,506.2    2,516.9  5,023.1            50
Duties and Taxes                                           -            121.9         101.3          6.8      2.023U1)0
TOTAL LAND DEVELOPMENT COSTS                                322.5       7,767.9       2,012.6        155.3    3.551.1    6.706.9 10,258.3
(including taxes and contingencies)
Duties and Taxes                                                      X,143.2         101.3          6.8    1,251.3               1,25i.3
1/ Includes dL, iej and taxes.
Tune 17, 1977.                                                                                                                                              5



BURMA
Seed Developrent ProJect
Farm Development
Seed Prodiction Emuipasnt Costs ('000 Kyatsi
TOTAL YEARS 1-4
Unit      Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4                                        Z Foreign
Costl/  No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost          Local    Foreign    Total        Exchange
SEED PRODUCTION EQUIPMENT
Tractor 60-70 HP                                88.5   15  1,327.3           -                                    271.8   1,055.5    1,327.3        79.5
Tractor 70-90 HP High clearance                119.8           -     4    479.0                                    98.1     380.9       479.0       79.5
Disc plow 4 disc (reversible)                   42.5    8    339.7           -                                     69.5     270.2       339.7       79 5
Disc harrows                                    31.8    6    190.9           -                                     39.0     1519        190.9       79.6
Inter-row cultivator (attachment)               47.8           -     4    191.2                                    39.2     152.0       191.2       79 5
Ridges                                          26.6           -      1     26.6                                    5.4       21 2        26.6      79 7
Cotton Planter (4 Row)                          27.5           -      1     27.5                                    5.7       21 8       27.5       79 3
Cotton Planter (single row)                      9.5           -      1      9.5                                    1 9        7.6        9.5       80 0
Spray units (tractor mounted                    21.3           -     2      42.6                                    8.8      -1 8        42.6       79.3
30' - 40' boom)
Rotary slasher (6' cut)                         16.0           -      3     47.9                                    9.8       38.1       47.9       79.5
Ditcher                                         12.8    2      25.5          -                                      5 2       20 3       25.5       79 6
Groundnut digger (single row)                   12.8           -      3     38.3                                    7.9       30 4       38.3       79.4
Land plane (30-40' span)                        44.4           -      2     88.7                                   18.2       70 5       88.7       79,5
Spares 30%                                        -           565.1        285.4                                  174.2     676,    8C  5           79-5
Sub-total                                    -        2,448.5      1,236.7                                  754.7   2.930.5    3,685 2         79.5
OTHER EQUIPMENT AND VEHICLES
Truck 5-6 ton capacity                         144.0    1    144.0           -                                     46.6       97.4      144.0       67 6
4-wheel drive vehicle                          157.5    1    157.5           -                                    117.2       40 3      157.5       25 6
Pick-up                                         48.6    2      97.1  5    242.8                                   109.9      230.0      339.9       67 7
Motorcycle                                       8.1    3      24.3  6      48.6                                   29.0       43.9        72.9      60.2
Bicycle                                          1.5    3       4.5  9      13.6                                    7.5      10.6        18.1       58.6
Fuel Storage/handling                            5.3    3      15.9  6      31.7                                   11.9       35.7       47.6       75.0
Generator 15 KVA                                49.1    2      98.2          -                                     25.5       72.7       98.2       74.0
Irrigation pump provision                        6.6   15      98.9 30    197.9                                    79.5     217.3       296.8       73.2
Workshop equipment/tools                          -            -           332.1                                   68.0      264.1       332 1       79.5
Spares 30%                                        -           193.4        256.8                                  162.A      2B7.9      450 2        3- 9
Sub-total                                                833.8      1,123.5                                  657.4   1,299.9    1,957.3        66.4
TOTAL EQUIPMENT
Base Cost                                                   3,282.3      2,360.2                                1,412.1   4,230.4    5,642.5        75.0
Contingencies
-  Physical 57                                              164.2        117.9                                   70.5      211.6      282.1       75 0
-  Price                                                    396.5        492.8                                  222Z.2.    667.1_     B89.A       75.0
TOTAL                                        3.843.0      2.970.9                                1.704.8   5,109-1    6,813.9         75 n
Duties and Taxes                                              915.6        773.6                                1.689 2                1,689.9
1/  Including duties and taxes.
June 17, 1977.



BURMA
Seed Developrent Pro.ject
Farm Develogmet
Seed Produxction Civil Works Costs (t000 Kyats)
TOTAL YEARS 1-4
Unit      Year 1        Year 2        Year 3        Year 4                                        % Foreign
Cost1'  no.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost    No.  Cost          Local    Foreign    Total       Exchange
Buildings
Houses (seed production staff)
Grade I                                      92.5     1   92.5      3   277.5                                  290.6        79.4    370 0         21
Grade II                                     46.2    10  462.4    15   693.6    6   277.5                    1,126.0       307.5  1,433.5         21
Grade III                                    36.0    25  899.2    35 1,258.8   15   539.5                    2,118.8       578.7  2,697.5         21
Workshops
Minor                                        76.0     1   76.0      4   304.1           -                      338.8        41.3    380.1         1
Major                                       126.7           -       1   126.7                                  112.9        13.8    126.7
Machinery Shelter                              76.0     2  152.1      5   380.2--                                474.4        57.9    532.3         lb
Base Cost                                       -        1,682.2        3,040.9         817.0                  4,461.5    1,078.6  5,540.1          19
Contingencies
- Physical 10%                               -           168.1          304.4          81.5                   446.8       107.2    554.0          19
Price                                      -          286.6          907.4         356.8                  1,240.5      300.3  1,550.8          19
Total Cost                             _         2,136.9        4,252.7       1,255.3                 6,158.8    1,486.1  7,644.9           19
Duties and Taxes                                           149.5          277 1          94.3                    520 9                520.9
1/ Includes duties and taxes.
June 17..1977
0H
t-
*1      ,.                                                                            *,si



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Seed Production and Processing   Inremental Oerating Costs
(Thousand Kyats)
Total Years 1-4  _           Foreign
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4       Local     Foreign      Total     Exchange
Production Costs
Base Cost                    684.9      2,041.2   2,755.0   2,755.0    4,259.5    3,976.6    8,236.1          48
Total with Contingencies        826.7      2,696.1   3,988.0   4,370.5    6,142.1    5,739.2   11,881.3          48
Processing Costs (operations)
Paddy Processing
Base Cost                                   9.6     415.0      415.0      415.0       394.6       839.6       47
Total with Contingencies                      10.8      584.3     634.4       676.2      553.3    1,229.5        45
Cotton Processing (ARD)
Base Cost                       4.6         4.6      46.6       81.5       120.3       19.0       137.3       12
Total with Contingencies           5.1         5.4       66.0     126.1       178.3       24.3       202.6       12
Total Processing Costs
Base Cost                       4.6        14.2     461.6      496.5       565.3      411.6       976.9       42
Total Seed Production and
Processing Costs
Base Cost                     689.5    2,055.4   3,216.6   3,251.5    4,824.8    4,388.2    9,213.0           48
Total with Contingencies         831.8    2,712.3   4,638.3   5,131.0    6,996.6    6,316.8   13,313.4           47
Less Revenue from Seed Transfer
Base Cost                                         2,379.0   4,289.2    6,668.2                  6,668.2        -
Total with Contingency                               3,432.9
INCREMENTAL OPERATING COSTS
Base Cost                     689.5    2,055.4       837.6                          1,851.3    3,582.5       100
With Contingencies            831.8    2,712.3   1,205.4                            4,749.5    4,749,5       100
1/  The operating  costs have been included for the period during which the total seed production costs
excluding contingencies exceed seed transfer revenue i.e. years 1 to 3. In Year 3, contingencies have
been applied to the net deficit only. In Year 4, seed revenue exceeds production cost (excluding
contingencies)& The above figures are summaries taken from Tables 12, 14, 19 and 21 of the
.Supplementary Report for Project Operation.
July 26, 1977.



Table 6
BURKA
Seed Development Pro.ect
Rice Seed Processing - Investment Cost
(Thousands of Constant 1977 Kyats)
YhZIN        MANDALAY       HMWBI        IWUNYAW       LETPADAN
-                 -ITOTAL
Unit    ---Year--      --Year--    ---Year--    ---Year--    ---Year--              ---Year----       % Foreign
Eauipment                      Cost    1        2    1         2     1       2    1        2    1        2          1          2      Ebwhange
Air-screen cleaner
(lT/hr)                     90              90            90            90            90             -                   360         74
ELevator (3T/hr.
16 ft dish height)           1'             28            28            28            28             -                   112          82
Working bins with hopper
botton (4'x4'x4')             3              7             7             7             7             -                    28          74
Bagger-scale 1-5 Kg              6              6            17            17             11             -                    51         74
Bagger-scale 25-50 Kg            8              8              8             8             8             -                    32         74
Platform scale (500 Kg)          4              4             4             4              4             -                    20         74
Plastic bag sealer               3              3            10            10            10              -                    33         74
Hand truck - 2 wheel             1.5            1             3             3              3             3                    13         74
Hand track - 4 wheel             3              3             3              3             3             -                    12         74
Thresher - IRRI type            20             40            40            40            40             20                   180         82
Drier - IRRI type               24              24            24            24            24            24                   120         74
E4uipment Base Cost                           214           234           234           228             51                  961          76
Civil Works
iarehouse (40ox80')            465    186    279   186    279   186    279   186    279           -      -        744      1,116         21
Processing Building             87      35     52    35      52    35      52    35       52      -      -        140        208         21
Research Seed Warehouse         88      35     53      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -         35         50         26
Field Shed                      60      24     36      -      -      -      -      -       -      -      -         24         36          -
Warehouse (30'x60')            1L5       -      -      -      -      -  . -        _       .     79   1l7          79        117         71
Base Civil Works Costs                 280    420   221    331   221    331   221    331         78   117      1,021      1,530          20
Total Base Cost                       280    634   221    565   221    565   221    559          78   168      1,021      2,491          37
Contingencies:
Physical                            28      53    23      45    23      45    23      44       8    15        105        202         31
Price                               48    115    37    104    37    104    37    102          13    30        172        455          36
Total Investment                      356    802   281    714   281    714   281    705          99   213      1,298      3,148          36
Duties and Taxes                      24.2   135.6  19.8  120.1  19.8  120.1  19.8  119.0    6.6  36.3             90.2      531.1
/ Includes duties and taxes at a rate of 35% on the value before taxes and duties; and foreign exchange equal to 74% on the
value after taxes and duties (equivalent to 100% on the value before taxes ani duties); except in thresher and elevator
on which the taxes are only 20% and FE is 82%.
/ AU costs are incurred in Year 2.
July 14, 1977



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Cotton Seed Processing - Yezin and Lungvaw Investment Cost
- - - - Year 2 - - - -
Unit      Yezin          Lungyaw             Local    Foreign                  Foreign
Unit     Cost    No.   Cost    No.   Cost              Cost      Cost         Total      Exchange
'OOOK         'OOOK            'OOOK      'OOOK       'OOOK         %
Seed warehouse            No.       348             _       1     348            275         73          348          21
Seed cotton shed          No.        44             -       1      43              34         9           43          21
Ginnery                   No.        87             _       1      87             59         28           87          21
Ginnery M/C               Set       118             -       1     118              28        90          118          76
Saw gin (lab. size)       No.        34      1     34              -                8        26           34          76
Elevator belt
8 bucket, 3 T/hr       No.        14             -      1       14              3         11           14          82
Bagging bin               No.         3                     1       3               1         2            3          76
Platform scale            No.         4                     1       4               1         3            4          76
Bagging scale
20-50 kg)              No.         7                     2      15              4         11           15          76
Aeration Equipment        Set        40             -       1      4n              1Q        30           40          76
TOTAL (Base Cost)                                  34             672            423        283          706          40
Contingencies:                       -
Physical                                         2              57             40         19           59          32
Price                                                                         120         67          190          35
Total Investment                                   42             913             586       369          955          39
Duties and Taxes                                   11             101             112        -           112
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~II0x
J14
june16, 1977



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Commercial Cotton Seed Stores - Investment Costs 1/
Unit 2/    Year 2          Year 3          Local      Foreign                Foreign
Unit     Cost      No.   Cost      No.   Cost        Cost       Cost        Total      Exchange
'OOOK          'OOOK        'OOOK      'OOOK        'OOOK        %
Seed Warehouse             No.      348             -         4   1,393        1,094         299      1,393         21
Seed Cotton Shed           No.       44             -         4     175          136          39        175         22
Office/Lab.               Station    29             -         4     116           90          26         116        22
Aeration Equipment        Set         40      4    159               -            40         119         159        75
Elevator Belt
8 bucket, 3 T/hr.        No.       14       4     56               -            11          45         56         80
Bagging Bin                No.         3      4     13               -             3          10          13        77
Platform Scale             No.         4      4     18               -             5          13          18        72
Bagging Scales
(20-50 kg)               No.        7       8     59               -            15          44          59        75
Motorbikes                 No.         8      4      33              -             9          24          33         73
TOTAL (Base Cost)                                  338            1,684        1,403         619       2,022         31
Contingencies:
Physical                                          15              168         135          48         183         26
Price                                             66              841         673         234         907         26
Total Investment                                   419            2.693        2.211         901       3.112         29
Duties and Taxes                                  98.1            1RR.5        286.6                   286.6                 H
1/  Operating costs are at Table 23 of the Supplementary Report for Project Operations, they are included
in the project cost summary table at para 1.80.                                                                          m
2  Includes duties and tax)es.                                                                                               X
June 17, 1977
43



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Quality Control - Equipment Cost I/
Year 2
Groundnut    Cotton
Unit   Unit       Yezin          hawbi        Lungyaw       Mandalay       Magwe         Program        Program          Total      % Foreign
No.    Cost    Unit  Cost   Unit  Cost   Unit  Cost   Unit  Cost   Unit  Cost            Unit  Cost   Unit  Cost   Unit  Cost   Exchange
Germinator (cabinet type)                 Unit   29.8       1    29.8            -             -             -             -                -             -      1    29.8        74
Germinator (table model)                   "       5.0            -       1     5.0    1       5.0    1      5.0    1      5.0      10    49.6    4    19.8   l8    89.4          74
Scale (2 Kg cap)                           "       1.0      1     1.0    1      1.0    1       1.0    1      1.0    1      1.0      10      9.9    4      4.0   19    18.9        74
Torsion Balance                             '      4.0      1     4.o            -             -             -             -                -             -      l      4.0       74
Purity Board                               "       0.3     4      1.3    1      0.3    1       0.3    1      0.3    1      0.3              -             -      a      2.5       74
Oven                                       "       3.0      1     3.0            -             -             -             -                -             _       1     3.0       74
Dissecting Scope                           "       3.0      1     3.0    1       3.0    1      3.0    1      3.0    1      3.0              -             -      5    15.0        74
Lamp                                       "       1.0      2     2.0    1      1.0    1       1.0    1      1.0    1      1.0              -             -      6      6.o       74
Trials for Bulk and:Bagged                set of
Seeds - Assorted                        four    2.0      1      2.0    1      2.0    1      2.0    1       2.0    1      2.0             -       1     2.0    6    12.0        74
Moisture Tester (Elect.)                  Unit    7.9       1     7.9    1       7.9    1      7.9    1      7.9    1      7.9      10      7.9    4    31.7   19    79.1         74
Wt./Bushel Tester                          "       1.5      1     1.5            -             -             -             -                -             -       1     1.5       74
Divider (Gamet)                            "       3.0      1     3.0            -             -             -             -                -             -       1     3.0       74
Seed Blower                                "      11.9      1    11.9            -             -             -             -                -      '              1    11.9       74
Miscellaneous 2/                          Set      2.3      1     2.3    1       2.3    1      2.3    1      2.3    1      2.3                     -              5    11.5       74
Miscellaneous for Groundnut 3/            Set    12.9             -              -                           -             -         1    12.9            -       1    12.9       74
Sub-total                                                   72.7          22.5          22.5           22.5          22.5            80.3          57.5          300.5       74
Contingencies
-  Physical                                                     3.6           1.1            1.1           1.1           1.1              7.6           2.9          18.5
-  Price                                                       15.0           4.5           4.5            4.5           4.5            30.2           11.4          74.6
Total Cost                                                       91.3           28.1          28.1          28.1          28.1           118.1           71.8         393.6
Duties and Taxes                                                 23.7            7.3           7.3           7.3           7.3             49.6          18.6         120.6
1/  Includes taxes and duty at 35Z of landed value; and foreign exchange at 747. of total value.  All costs in 1,000 Kyats.
2/ Each set consists of 50 sample Bottles, 10 Forceps,_4 Hand Lens, 4 Counting Board, and 20 samples pans - triangular.
3/ Set consists of 100 sample pans - triangular, 500 sample Bottles, 40 Hand Lens, and 20 Counting Board.
July 14, 1977



Table 10
Seed Davelon nt Project
Oroundnat Program - Investment Cost
Unit       Year 1           rear 2           Year            Year 4         Local      Foreign                Foreign
Civil Works                Unit     Cost      No.                              No.   Cat        NO.    Cost      Cost       Cost        Total      3cchange
2/OW N                                         -              .- -                     '     55T5g            Tr        -ooosT
SI.ed       Na2/            ko.      1476      2  /   952      3    1,428                                       1,476         634       2,3B0        27
0ficehoab                 Station     29       2       58      3        87                                        1114         31         145         21
Site & services                        - -            146             220                                          366          -         366         -
Sub-total (base)                                1,156            1,735                                       2,226         665      2,891         23
Contingencies:
Plysical                                           115             174                                         223          66         289        23
Price                                              197             518                                         Sl          164        715         23
Total Civil Works Costa                             1,468           2,427                                       3,000         895       3,895        23
Nouipment
Refrigeration               Set       81                               393                                         102        291         393        74
Dehumidifiers 2'            Set       25                               246                                        614         182         246         74
No.        7                               75                                          20          55          75        73
( Z25-50 kg) )0                                                                                                               5           57
Platform scale              No.        4                                22                                                     17          22        77
Hand truck - 2 wheel        No.        2                                15                                           41 17                 15         73
Hand truck - 4 wheel        No.        3                                14                                           3         11          14        79
Furniture & equipsant       Set        3                                18                                                      14         18         22
Motorbikes                  No.        8                               11                                          17          4.         I1          59
Sub-total (base)                                                   824                                         229         595         824        72
Contingencies:
Phrsical                                                            41                                           11         30          41        73
PriXce                              _7                                                                          148       l2'S    171.J           72
Total Equipment Costs                                               1,038                                          288        750       1,038        72
Incremental Working Capital
Base Cost                                                                            3,250            3,250     6,500                   6,500
Price Contingency                                                                    1.294            3.491    14,78S
Total Incremntal Workirg Capital 7/                                                  4,544            6,7141    1,285                  11,285
Total Inveestmnt Cost
Base Cost                                           1,156           2,559            3,230            3,250     8,955       1,260      10,215
Contingencies:                                                                                                                  . 0
Physical                                          115              215                                          234         96         330
Price                                             197              691            1,294            3JR1      5,284         289      5.673
Total Investmnt                                    1,468            3,465            4,544            6,741    114,573      1,645      16,218
Daties and taxes                                     110              451                                         561                     561
/ Includes duties and taxes.
i/ 3200 square feed per warehouse.
,   400 square feet per station,
Represents the proportion of civil works ccapleted in that year.  2 out of 5 implies
40% of the work will have been finished.
,/ Ircludes 30% for spares and back-up motors.
NEtamate at 15% of building conmtraction cost.
E/ Each warehouse would hold 20,000 baskets at 65 KyatA/basket.
July 14, 1977



Seed Development Project
Overseas TFraining Requirements and Costs
- - - - - - - - - - - Trainee No. - - - - - - - -
m  ^  N  %  z                           Man-Month         Aasumed.lf          Annual Cost 2/
I     e     M     S      C            g     ffi    A       Phasing           Location               '000 K                   Total 3/
Training                                                                    1  9   Year                             Year                    Costs
Position                                Program        a       - i__ __ ___            >_ __            _X          1   2   3   4                  1       2      3      4           '000K
Rice Breeder                            2year MSc             1                               1                    12  24  12   -         A        47      86    47        -          180
Rice Agronomist                         6 month PG 5/         1                               1                    12   -   -   -         A        52       -     -        -           52
Soil Chemist                            1 year PG                                            1                      6   6   -   -        A         24      24     -       -            48
Plant Pathologist                       2 year MSc            1                                                     6  12   6   -         A        24      43    24        -           91
Cotton Breeder                          2 year MSc                        1                                         6  12   6   -         A        24      43    24        -           91
Cotton Breeder                          I year PG                                        1                          6   6   -   -         A         24     24     -        -           48
Cotton Agronomist                       1 year PG                         1              1                         12  12   -   -         A        47      47     -        -           94
Cotton Entomologist                     2 year MSc                        1                                         6  12   6   -         B        39      64    39        -          142
Groundnut Breeder                       2 year MSc                                1                                 6  12   6   -         A        24      43    24        -           91
Groundnut Agronomist                    I year PG                                 1                                 6   6   -   -         A        24      24     -        _           48
Groundnut Breeder/Agronomist       2 x 6 month PG                    1                                              6   6   -   -         A        24      24     -        -           48
Soil Microbiologist                     2 year MSc                                                                  6  12   6   -         B         39     64    39        -          142
Jute Breeder/Agronomist            2 x 6 month PG                    1                                              6   6   -   -         A         24     24     -        -           48
Seed Technologist                       2 year MSc                                                  1               6  12   6   -         B         39     64    39        -          142
Senior Quality Control Officer          1 year PG      1                                                            6   6   -   -         B        39      39     -        -           78
Groundnut Program Supervisor            6 month PG     1                                                            -   6   -   -         B          -     46     -        -            46
Cotton Seed Program Supervisor          I year PG      1                                                            6   6   -   -         A         24     24     -        -            48
Seed Specialist                         1 year PG             1           1                   1     1              24  24   -   -         B       157    157      -        -          314
Junior Research Officers                6 month PG            1      1    1       1     1    1                      -  36   -   -         A          -    155     -        -           155
Seed Production Staff                   3 month PG            2      1    3       2     2    2                     18  18   -   -         A         71     71     -        -           142
Unidentified Discipline 4/              2 year MSc     1                                                  6         6  12   6   -         A         24     43    24        -            91
-  36  72  36        A/B        -    189   322      189           700
Unidentified Discipline 4/              1 year PG      1                                                  6         6   6   -   -         A         24     24     -        -            48
-   -  36  36        A/B        -     -    189      189           378
Base Cost                                                                                                                                          793  1,323   772      378         3,266
Contingency Price                                                                                                                                   91    263   218      t41           713
Total Cost                                                                   __                                                              884  1,586   990       519        3,979
1/ A - Bangladesh, Egypt, India, Philippines.
B - Australia, Europe, New Zealand, USA.
2/  A areas based on K42,9SWper annum plus K 4AY00 pa return airfare.
B areas based on K 64,480 per annum plus K 14,330 pa return airfare.
3/ 100% Foreign Exchange.
4/ Disciplines would be decided during implementation.
5/  PG = Post graduate studies.



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Technical Assistance Costs
-*_------------------------------------------------ (Thousand Kyat) -----------------------------------------------
Year 1              Year 2              Year 3              Year 4                                        Total
Man-                Man-                 Man-                Man-                                         Man-                % Foreign
Months              Months               Months              Months                Local    Foreign    Months                 Exchange
Project Coordination                9       457.6      8        406.7       5        254.2      4        203.3    121.0    1,200.8          26      1,321.8         90
Land Development                    8       406.7    14         711.7       2        101.7      -           -       111.8    1,108.3        24      1,220.1         90
Farm Management                     6       305.0    11         559.2       8        406.7      1         50.9    121.0    1,200.8          26      1,321.8         90
Research                            6       305.0    12         610.0       6        305.0      -           -       111.7    1,108.3        24      1,220.0         90
Crop Specialists                    4       203.3   3.5         177.9   6.5          330.4   2.5         127.1       76.7       762.0    16.5         838.7         90
Base Cost                         33    1,677.6  48.5         2,465.5  27.5        1,398.0   7.5         381.3    542.2    5,380.2   116.5    5,922.4               90
Contingencies
-  Physical                                _                    _                   _                    _          _         _                      _
-  Price                                 193.0                490.6               395.6                142.3    111.9    1,109.6                l1221.5          90
Total Cost                              1,870.6              2,956.1             1,793.6                523.6      654.1    6,489.8                7,143.9         90
June 17. 1977.



Page 1 of 2
BUIM
Seed Development Prolect
Project Cost Summary
(Thousand Kyats)
Total Year 1-4
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Local     Foreign      Total
Technical Assistance
Base Cost                                   1,678       2,465       1,398         381        542       5,380       5.922
Contingencies - Physical                                                -           -          -                       -
- Price                         193        491         396         142       12        1.110       1.222
Total Cost                             1,871       2,956      1,794         523         654       6,490       7,144
Training
Base Cost                                     793       1,323         772         378                  3,266       3,266
Contingencies - Physical                        -           _           _           .          -           -
- Price                          91        263         218         141           -        713         713
Total Cost                               884       1,586        990         519           -       3,979       3,979
Parm Development
Equipment                                        _      4,217           -           .         842      3,375       4,217
Operations                                    260       1,915       1,425         104      1,941       1,763       3,704
Base Cost                                     26a       6,132       1,425         104      2,783       5,138       7,921,
Contingencies - Physical                        28        405         143.         10        203         383         586
- Price                          35      1,231.        445          41         566      1.p ,      1,752
Total Cost                               323       7,768       2,013        155       3,552       6,707      10,259
Applied Research
Equipment                                      288      1,471          33           -         283      1,509       1,792
Civil Works                                 1,034       2,216       1,006           -      3,359         8981      4,2571
Operations                                    506         802       1 012      1,012       1,944       1,388       3.332.
Base Cost                                   1,8281      4,489       2,052       1,012      5,586       3,795       9,381
Contingencies - Physical                      170         376         205         101        510.        342         852
- Price                         300      1,205         902         597      1,799 _  1,205          3,004
Total Cost                             2,298       6,070      3,159       1,71C0      7,895       5,342      13,257
Seed Production Investments
Equipment                                   3,282       2,360           -           -      1,412       4,230       5,642
Civil Works                                 1,682       3,041         817           -      4,461       1,079       5,540
Base Cost                                   4,964       5,401         817           -      5,873       5,309      11,182
Contingencies - Physical                      332         422          82                    517         319         836
- Price                         683      1.400         357           -      1.473         967       2.440'
Total Cost                             5,979       7,223      1,256            -      7,863       6,595      14,458
Seed Processing Investments
Equipment                                        -      1,189            -          -         285        904       1,189'
Civil Works                                 1,021       2.008            -          -      2,393         636       3.029
Base Cost                                   1,021       3,197            -          -      2,678       1,540       4,218
Contingencies - Physical                      105         261            -          -        114         25Z.        366
- Price                         172        645             -         -         294         523        817
Total Cost                             1,298       4,103            -          -      3,086       2,315       5,401
Seed Production and Processing -
Incremental Operating Costs
Base  Cost                                    690       2,055         837           -           -      3,582       3,582,
Contingencies - Physical                        35        102         160           -           -        297         297
- Price                         107;       555         208           -           -         870        870
Total Cost                               832       2,712      1,205            -           -      4,749       4,749
Commercial Cotton Seed Stores
Equipment                                        -        338                       *          83        255         338
Civil Works      -                               -           -      1,684           -      1,320         364       1,684
Operations                                       -           -        238         374         322        290'        612.
Base Cost                                        -        338       1,922         374      1,725         909       2,634
Contingencies - Physical                         -         15         189          19         147          76        223.
- Price                           -          66        892         191         770         379       1.149
Total Cost                                           419       3,003         584      2,641       1,364       4,006
July 14, 1977.



Table 13
Page 2 of 2
BURMA
Seed Development Project
Project Cost Summary
(Thousand Kyats)
Total Year 1-4
Year 1     Year 2      Year 3      Year 4      Local     Poreign      Total
Groundnut Program -
Equipment (including survey)                    43        824            -          -         246         621         861
Civil Works                                 1,156       1,735            -          -       2,226         665      2,891
Operating (including survey)                               92          87          27         152          54         206
Base Cost                                   1,199       2,651          87          27       2,624       1,340      3,964
Contingencies - Physical                       117        220           4           1,        242         100         342
- Price                         201         711         30            8        641         309         950
Total Cost                             1,517,      3,582         121          36       3,507      1,749       5,256
Groundnut Working Capital
Base Cost                                        -           -      3,230       3,256i      6,500           -       6,500
Contingencies - Physical                                                 -           -          -
- Price                           -           -      1,294       3,491       4,785           -       4,785
Total Cost                                  -           -      4,544       6,741     11,285            -     11,285
Quality Control
Equipment                                        -         300                      -          78         222         300
Base Cost                                        -         300           -           -         78         222         300
Contingencies - Physical                         -          18           -           -          5          13          18
-Price                            -          75          -                      20          55          75
Total Cost                                  -        393           -           -         103         290         393
ARD Headquarters
Equipment                                      260           -           -           -         85         175         260,
Operations                                     151         151         150        150         399         203'        602
Base Cost                                      411         15 1        150        150         484,        378         862
Contingencies - Physical                         1           -          -I -                                1           1
- Price                          63          41 _    60             81         138.        109         247,
Total Cost                               475         192,        211         232         622,        488      1,110
11           ~~ Year 1              Year 2      Year 3     Year 4      Local      ForeLgn      Total
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS -
Equipment                                    3,873     10,700           33           -      3,314      11,292      14,606
Civil Works                                  4,893       9,000      3,508            -     13,759       3,642      17,401
Operations                                   1,606       5,015      7,000       4,918      11,258       7,281      18,539-
Technical Services                           2,471       3,789      2,170         759         542       8,647       9,189
Base Cost                                   12,843      28,504     12,711       5,677      28,873      30,862      59,735
Contingencies - Physical                       788       1,820.        783        132       1,739       1,784       3,523
- Price                       1,845       6,682      4.801       4,693      10,595       7,426      18X0Z1
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                   15,476      37.006,    18,295       10,502      41,207      40,074     81,279
lt  The total project costs may differ slightly from the sum of the individual itans, due to rounding.
July 14, 1977.



Table 14
BURMA
Seed Development Project
Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter                   Disbursement (US$M)
In Quarter                Cumulative
FY 1979
1st
2nd
3rd
4th                        0.3                        0.3
FY 1980
1st                        0.7                        1.0
2nd                        0.8                        1.8
3rd                        0.8                        2.6
4th                        0.7                        3.3
FY 1981
1st                        0.7                        4.0
2nd                        0.5                        4.5
3rd                        0.3                        4.8
4th                        0.2                        5.0
FY 1982
1st                        0.2                        5.2
2nd                        0.2                        5.4
3rd                        0.1                        5.5
September 30, 1977



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Organization and Management
Cost of Strengthening ARD Headquarters
(Thousand Kyats)
Unit                                                                       Total Years 1-4             % Foreign
Cost       Year 1         Year 2        Year 3       Year 4          Local     Foreign      Total      Exchange
INVESTMENTS:
Vehicles (pick-up)                      47.9         239.3                                                   75.0         164.3      239.3       68.7
Office Equipment l/                                   21_1                                                   10.1          11.0       21.1        52.1
Sub-total                                        260.4                                                   85.1          175.3     260.4        67.4
OPERATI1IG COSTS:
Salaries 2/                                           80.4         80.4          80.4          80.4         321.6          -         321.6        -
Vehicles Operation                                    54.5         54.5          54.5          54.5          41.6         176.4      218.0       80.9
Office Supplies                                        8.2          8.2           8.2           8.2           6.3          26.5       32.8       80.0
Travel and Subsistence                                 7.5          7.5           T.5           7.5          30.0          -          30.0
Sub-total                                        150.6        150.6         150.6         150.6         399.5         202.9      602.4        33.7
Base Cost                                           411.0        150.6         150.6         150.6          484.6         378.2      862.8       43.8
Contingencies
-  Physical 3/                                         1.1                                                    0.5           0.6        1.1       54.5
-  Price                                              63.2        41.3          60.6           81.8         137.8         109.1      246.9       4L.
Total Cost                                             4i5.3        191.9         211.2         232.4         622.9         487.9   1.110.8         43.9
Duties and Taxes                                        34.8          5.1           5.1           5.1          50.1                     50.1
l/ Typewriting and calculators for six Central Farms.
2/ Includes 10% overheads. Details of staff given in Table 33.
3/  5% on office equipment, zero for operating costs.
June 18, 1977
m
4



Table 16
BURMA
Seed Development Project
Farmer Benefits from Rice Program
Rainfed Paddy Cultivation
Without            With
Project 1/         Project 2/
Kyat/ac            Kyat/ac
Inputs
Seed (traditional) 1 bkt @ K 12/bkt                  12
Seed (new HYV) 1 bkt @ 16/bkt                                           16
Urea @ K 0.16/lb                                      3                  9
TSP @ K 0.56/lb                                       6                 16
MP @ K 0.27/lb                                        -                  3
Farm Yard Manure                                     10                 10
Cultivation @ K 15/day
Ploughing                                          45                 45
Harrowing                                          30                 30
Levelling                                          15                 15
Labor 3/
Transplanting @ K 5/day                            50                 60
Weeding/maintenance @ K 6/day                      12                 12
Harvesting @ K 6/day                               36                 48
Threshing and winnowing @ K 6/day                  36                 48
Cost of Cultivation                                 255                312
Value of Production
33 bkt @ K 9.5/bkt                                314
51 bkt @ K 9.5/bkt                                                   485
Net Crop Value                                       59                173
Net Incremental Benefit                                                114
1/  Traditional variety for medium-deep water regions.
2/ New HYV for medium-deep water regions.
3/ About one-third of labor is hired.
July 27, 1977.



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Benefit from Rice Seed Component
Years
0      1       2       3      4       5       6       7       8        9   10 onwards
HYV Area 1/ (M ac)
- With Project               1.2    1.35    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4       2.0     2.7      3.5     3.5      3.5
- Without Project            1.2    1.35    1.4    1.4    1.4    1.4       1.8      2.2     2.6     2.8      3.0
Incremental Area of HYV
HYV (M ac)                     -       -       -      -       -      -     0.2      0.5     0.9     0.7      0.5
Incremental Paddy Pro-
duction from Incre-
mental Area of
HYV 2/ ('000 metric tons)      -       -       -      -      -       -      75      188     338      263     188
Gross Value of Incremental
Production at Farmgate 3/
('000 kyats)                                                           126,000 316,000 568,000 442,000 316,000
Additional Costs of Pro-
duction 4/ ('000 kyats)                                                 16,000  40,000  72,000  56,000  40,000
Incremental Benefit
('000 kyats)                                                           110,000 276,000 496,000 386,000 276,000
Cost of Rice Seed
Component 5/ ('000 kyats)          3,950  8,750  2,840  1,930  1,880   1,880   1,880   1,880   1,880   1,880
Incremental Net Benefit
('000 kyats)                      (3,950)(8,750)(2,840)(1,930)(1,880)108,120 274,120 494,120 384,120 274,120
Economic Rate of Return about 115% /
1/ Includes short-statured and new HYV's for medium deep water areas.
2/ Yield increment of 18 bkt/ac. Existing traditional varieties yield average 33 bkt/ac and new HYV expected
to yield 51 bkt/ac.                                                                                                -
3/  Farmgate price for paddy K 1,680 per metric ton based on (i) export price 85% of Thai 35% broken (K 2,980    X
per metric ton), (ii) milling yield of 60% rice, and (iii) handling costs of K 375 per metric ton.                I
4/  Assumes urea application increased 56 lb, TSP increased 28 lb, pesticides increased K 10, and labor use            V
increased by three days., i.e. total additional costs of K 80 per acre.
5/ Costs include allowance for land development and quality control in addition to the total cost of rice
seed production and processing.
6/ Based on 15 year analysis period.
August 3, 1977.
.,    ,,                                                               ..      4



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Benefit from Cotton Seed Component
Years
1         2          3         4       5       6       7       8        9   10 onwards
Area Planted with
Project Seed ('000 ac)                                          10      160    160    165      170      175      175
Reduction in Seed Use on
Farmers' Field (viss/ac)                                         5       10     10      10      10       10       10
Seed Saved ('000 viss)                                            50   1,600  1,600  1,650   1,700   1,750   1,750
Value of Saved Seed (K '000)                                     200   6,400  6,400  6,600   6,800   7,000   7,000
Value of Incremental
Production on Farmers'
Field  2/ (K '000)                                             318   5,088  5,088  5,247   5,406   5,565   5,565
Value of Incremental
Production on ARD
Farms 3/ (K '000)                                    657    1,352   1,352  1,352  1,352   1,352   1,352   1,352
Total Benefit from Cotton
Seed Component (K '000)                              657    1,670  12,840 12,840 13,199  13,558  13,917  13,917
Estimated Total Cost of
Cotton Seed Component 4/
(K '000)                      4,484    10,387    6.307    3.042   3.327  3.327  3.327   3.327   3,327   3.327
Incremental Net Benefit         (4,484)  (10,387)  (5.650)  (1.372)  9.513  9.513  9,872  10,231  10,590  10,590
Economic Rate of Return about 27% 5/
1/  Saved seed valued at oil/oil cake price of K 4/viss.
2/ Production increase of 5% (three viss/ac) resulting from use of genetically pure seed and improved plant
population. Extra production valued at K 10.6/viss seed cotton.
3/  Seed cotton valued at K 6.2 per viss corresponding to world price of US$0.66/lb (lint) and lint yield
of 34% less average production costs of K 4.4/viss including opportunity cost of land.
4/  Costs include allowance for land development and quality control in addition to total costs of cotton seed
production and processing.
5/  Based on 15 year analysis period.
August 3, 1977.



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Benefit from Pilot Groundnut Program
Years
1         2         3        4        5        6        7       8        9   10 onwards
Area Served by Stores
('000 ac)                         -      16.7      16.7    16.7       16.7    16.7    16.7    16.7    16.7        16.7
Assumed Expansion in
Groundnut Area ('000 ac)
(i.e. Incremental area) 1/                          1.7      3.3       3.3     3.3      3.3      3.3     3.3       3.3
Value of Production from
Expanded Area 2/
('000 kyats)                                      1,275   2,475    2,475   2,475   2,475   2,475   2,475    2,475
Cost of Groundnut Program
('000 kyats) 3/               1,859     3,877    3,363   3,282           -       -        -        -       -   (9,293)
Net Benefit ('000 kyats)       (1,859)   (3,877)  (2,088)   (807)   2,475   2,475   2,475   2,475   2,475   11,768
Economic Rate of Return about 19%
1/  20% of area served by stores.
2/  Estimate based on an incremental benefit of K 750 per acre of groundnuts.
3/  Working capital and 50% of value of other investments (K 2,793,000) recovered in Year 10 for purposes of
analysis.
August 3, 1977.                                                                                                       0



BURMA
Seed Development Project
Economic Rate of Return: Whole Project
(Thousand Kyats)
Years
Costs                                  1          2          3         4          5          6          7         8        9   10 onwards
Applied Research                          2,436      6,038      2,819      1,425
Land Development                            433      8,381      2,238        164
Seed Production
- Equipment                             4,144      2,901
- Civil Works                           1,971      3,585        953
- Operations                              976      2,890      3,903      3,908     3,908      3,908      3,908    3,908    3,908    3,908
Rice Seed Processing
- Investments                           1,340      2,859
- Operations                                          10        468       509        509        509        509       509       509       509
Cotton Seed Processing (ARD)
- Investments                                        879
- Operations                                5          5         50         91         91        91         91        91        91        91
Cotton Seed Stores (Commercial)
- Investments                                        331      2,109
- Operations                                                    319       520        871        871        871       871       871       871
Quality Control                                        347
Groundnuts
- Investments                           1,829      3,757
- Working Capital                                             3,250     3,250
- Operations                                          76         81          -
- Survey                                   30         44         32         32
Overseas Training                           793      1,323        772        378
Technical Assistance                      1,808      2,656      1,506        411          -
ARD Headquarters                            512        197        197        197        197        197        197      197       197       197
Total Project Costs                    16,277    36,279    18,697    10,885        5,576      5,576      5,576    5,576    5,576    5,576
Project Benefits
- Rice Program                                                                              110,000   276,000  496,000  386,000  276,000
- Cotton Program                                                657     1,670    12,840    12,840    13,199   13,558   13,917   13,917
- Groundnut Program-                                          1,275     2,475      2,475      2,475      2,475    2,475    2,475   11,768
Total Project Benefits                                        1,932     4,145    15,315   125,315   291,674  512,033  402,392  301,685
Net Benefit                           (16,277)  (36,279)  (16,765)   (6,740)    9,739   119,739   286,098  506,457  396,816  296,109
Economic Rate of Return about 70%
1, Year 10 total includes recovery of working capital and 50% of investments
August 3, 1977.



BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Development Schedule
Y ear                  1                                   2                                   3                                  4
Activity           Quarter    1         2        3        4        1        2        3        4        1        2        3        4        1       2        3        4
1. Survey - Topographicl/
2.        - Soil
3. Equipment Procurement                           l  -        -     _
4. Irrigation Desig 
5. Land Clearing                                                                          (540)     .--(1280)                                   (1500)
6. Plowinga/                                                                            (1400)                              (3470)                     (4500)
7. Levellin 41                                                                          (1100)                              (2785)                    (4500)
8. Planing                                                                              (1685)                        -     (3370)
9. Channel and Drains                                                             _    (1685)                               (3370)
10. Structures                                                                       _   (1685)                          _  (3370)
11. Fencing
Note  Figures in brackets are cumulative acres developed
1/   Topographic Survey 250 ac/team/month - 3 teams                                                                                                          World Bank - 16725
2/   Assuming bulidozer operates 1 5 shifts for 32 weeks per year.
3/    Two units working 1.5 shifts/day.
4/   Three units working 1.5 shifts for 150 days.
5/   Three units working 1.5 shifts for 15 days.
Cii
rt
.#~~~~~~~~~~~F
{* 1



BURMA.
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Schedule
Year                     1                          2                        3                         4
Activity                          Quarter         I     II    III   IV       I     II   III    IV    I    II    III    IV            II    III    IV
1.  Team Leader/Research          26 man-months
2.  Farm Management               26 man-months
3.  Irrigation Design             10 man-months
and Supervision
4.  Equipment Procurement         14 man-months
and Training
5.  Research Specialist           24 man-months-- ____.                                                    ------------
6.  Rice Processing                3 man-months
Specialist
7.  Cotton Specialist             74 man-months
8.  Groundnut Specialist           6 man-months
September 22, 1977



BU RMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRESENT ORGANISATION
MINISTRY OF
AGRICULTURE
AND FORESTS
AGRICULTURE
CORPORATION
AGRICULTURE                           APPLIEDH                                 EXTENSION    ll PROCUREMENT l
RESEARCH                              RE DVSEARCH                              DIVISION     il DIVISIONl
ARD        I
GENERAL MANAGER|
DEPUTY
GENERAL MANAGER
Abbreviation
DAGM -Deputy Assistant
General Manager
ASSISTANT
GENERAL MANAGER
DAM       DAGM                DAGM                          DAGM
DAGM                  DAGM                 Central             Seed                BdAgMt              District
Administration        Training             Farms                Farms              BugtResearch
World Bank-17398
,4                                                                                           (i..  



r          r
BURMA
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION
MINISTRY OF                                           NATIONAL
AGRICULTURE                                           SEED
AND FORESTS                                           COMMITTEE
AGRICULTURE
CORPORATION
AGRICULTURAL                 APPLI ED                  EXTENSION                PROCUREMENT
RESEARCH                     RESEARCH                  DIVISION                 DIVISION
INSTITUTE                    DIVISION
AIRD
General Manager
t                                                     |       ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~Deputy l
Deputy                                                                                           Geinerat Manager
General Manager                                                                                (Seed and Research) 
DAGM                              M                     DAGM                                    AssistBnt General                                      Assistant General
Administration                Budget                    Training                                Manager (Seed)                                         Manager (Research)
DAGM                          DAGM                        DG
OAGM                ~~~~~~Processing              Central Farm                 Dsrc
SePrduction             Distribution                  ResearchRearhs
Abbreviation: DAGM -ep ty Assistant General Manager
rt
17?;!~~~~~~~~~~t






ANNEX 1
Page 1
BURMA
Seed Development Project
Additional Documents and Data Available
1.   Preparation Report
Pre-investment Study for Seed Multiplication and
Distribution Project
Bureau Pour le Development de la Production Agricole
2.   Supplementary Report for Project Operations
A self-contained report has been prepared to guide implementation.
In addition to greater narrative detail on Project components it
contains the following:
Tables
Table  I  -    Research - Incremental Field Staff
Table  2  -    Research - Project Costs:  Central Farms and Yezin ('000 Kyats)
Table  3  -    Location and Phasing of Buildings and Equipment for Research
Table  4  -    Land Development Program
Table  5  -    Farm Development - Land Development Costs ('000 Kyats)
Table  6  -    Farm Development - Equipment Operating Costs
Table  7  -    Farm Development - Costs of Land Development Operations
Table  8  -    Seed Production and Research Programs
Table  9  -    Farm Development - Seed Production Equipment Costs ('000 Kyats)
Table 10  -    Farm Development - Seed Production Civil Works Costs ('000 Kyats)
Table 11  -    Farm Development - Location of Seed Production Investments
Table 12  -    Seed Production Costs (Thousand Kyats)
Table 13  -    Seed Production - Incremental Field Staff
Table 14  -    ARD Revenue from Seed Transfers
Table 15  -    Seed Production and Processing:  Incremental Operating Deficit
Table 16  -    Rice Seed Multiplication Program
Table 17  -    Cotton Seed Multiplication Program
Table 18  -    Rice Seed Processing - Investment Cost
Table 19  -    Rice Seed Processing - Operating Costs
Table 20  -    Cotton Seed Processing - Yezin and Lungyaw Investment Cost
Table 21  -    Cotton Seed Processing - Lungyaw Operating Cost
Table 22  -    Cotton Seed Processing - Commercial Ginnery Investment Cost
Table 23  -    Cotton Seed Processing - Commercial Ginnery Operating Cost
Table 24  -    Seed Processing, Storage and Quality Control - Staff Development
Table 25  -    Quality Control - Equipment Cost - Year 2
Table 26  -    Groundnut Program - Investment Cost



ANNEX I
Page 2
Table 27  -    Groundnut Program - Operating Deficit
Table 28  -    Groundnut Sample Survey - Costs
Table 29  -    Overseas Training Requirements and Costs
Table 30  -    Technical Assistance Costs
Table 31  -    Project Cost Summary
Table 32  -    Disbursement Schedule
Table 33  -    Organization and Management - ARD Headquarter Staff Development
Table 34  -    Organization and Management - Cost of Strengthening ARD
Headquarters
Charts
1.   Land Development Schedule
2.   Technical Assistance Schedule
3.   Present Organization
4.   Proposed Organization
Appendices
1.   Consultants Job Descriptions and Qualifications
2.   Groundnut Program - Sample Survey
Figures
1.   Typical Layout of Processing Plant
2.   Typical Construction Detail for Conditioned Storage Room
Maps (2)



IBRD 1288
W )---A:                                                                                                                                                                                                                   M
VI  ~          I 
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O IXt   \VA-'.',.;"'    :                                                           -,<  ,                        
iF~~~~~~~i 
L'llL~~~~~~~~~~~O;                                                                           i                            #g  * r- .........................-.    z,,   ,    
LU ~
LU  0                                                    0~~~~~~~~
.;,   (   ~~~~~~~~>  . . a \>\osX, _ <<~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                                                        Ui                        J I     c  2
<    <~~~~~~~ 
_ =m, !. 5, S ' ; 5' ' ~ '.7 . ,S t:' A.e7 -- * 5- -= G ''  -.J. - --- - --- _,  %//> /,ttlQ v                  :     i          \          i                 . 
0                                                                                               0Y
7:a!-g  






IBRD 12888
94'                             ~~~~~~~~96'                                  9                                      MAY 1977
B UR M A
SEED DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Major Groundnut and Medium  Staple Cotton Growing Townships
j)  !&   kYeuA   /,  .*~ '5<                            . Major groundnut growing townships
:t    S A G Akil N G    atX  fX   6;12  \            \>                i~ ~- ~~ -  Major medium staple cotton growing townships
Roads
i+i-i )*Xi ,Railways
>    .Ma ivonywa                                                                  Rivers
Division / state boundaries               22
-, International boundary
c HI N                                                    yauk/K au se / 
SP E CIAL ':                    ok         yingyan *
DALf 1(.f:   g    9   Y j \             0       40      8E       120      160     200
.   - - (9fJ  /   <   /  A t           r                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~KILOMETERS
f   i  . -2Kyaukpado ~  M la            ).         L0                 20    40    60       80    100    120    140
u ?t25                       Ji - 8 /9 \tnggyt  MILES
.,\~~~~~  SHAN,    STATE/\,t.      & 
-20'
Ir~~~~~~
7 \ Tbi,yetmnyo1                                                    A '~'S      AH
|Sandowayt   \                                  tW           $ ><f                                                te
E W-,\ h~'Mynaun    Papun...-  
o~~~~~~                                                                                                 ~       ~~~~ fe~  TN  onoa 4
"A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~UM
WBasseir4,>/g                         RAN'GOO-u-bin   N   .   g    h,                            l        eTun~A  T
j  . /'      v   r              Syriamn( i\                                              14                     8
\i        Myuga                RANGOON                             N4\                             :e-G-a    - 
1i- IR-, t/ RfJ(vW'A g" <L-K-' ef 71                                                  m6-a                              _"'
.  owayr                          96-                                                                                  da 98-.t
.6'          .2,/U  J\, /                                                                            6'
I-,> I 
I'd'   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~au
96  ~~~~~yonglbi
(;W~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~________________________________ 



