Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 9641-RO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ROMANIA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
SEPTEMBER 4, 1991
Human Resources Division
Country Department V
Europe, Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   Leu (plural Lai)
USS1.00   Lei 60.00
Lou I * US$0.0167
Lei Rer US Dollar
Official Rate"        Interbank Rate,
1990       November   25.000              n.a.
1991       August      60.000          200 approx.
FISCAL YBAR
January 1 - December 31
AAMREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ASMR          Age Standardized Mortality Rate
CBR           Crude Birth Rate
CDR           Crude Death Rate
CEE           Central and Eastern Europe
DRA           District Nealth Authorities
DHD           District Health Director
DMCH          General Directorate for Maternal and Child Health
EC            European Community
PP            Family Planning
FPSEU         Family Planning and Sex Education Unit
GNP           Good Manufacturing Practice
CPS           General Practitioners
HSNI          Health Services Management Institute
IDQC          Institute for Drug Quality Control
-HPH          Institute of Hygiene and Public Health
INCA          Institute for Mother, Child and Adolescent
IMR           Infant Mortality Rate
NCR           Maternal and Child Health
MOF           Ministry of Finance
MOB           Ministry of Health
MOI           Ministry of Industry
NcHPe         National Center for Health Promotion and Education
NCHS          National Center for Health Statistics
" The official exchange rate applies to the purchase of foreign exchange
that is not retained by exporters (one-half oI. their foreign exchange receipts
are subject to retention), the sale of foreign exchange for the importation of
a limited number of goods, and certain government transactions.
v The interbank rate applies to other foreign exchange transactions. The
interbank market for foreign exchange was established in April 1991.
NCO           Non-governmental Organization
OECD          Orcanization for Economic Cooperation and Development
ON            Operational Manual
OTC           Oter-the-Counter
PBNS          Tost Basic Nursing School
PCU            ?roject Coordination Unit
PHC           Primary Health Care
RIC           Rural Health Center
SESM          School of Health Systems and Management
STD           Sexually Transmitted Diseases
TA            Technical Assistance
TFR           Total Fertility Rate
UNFPA         United Nations Fund for Population Activities
UNICEF        United Nations Children's Fund
WHO           World Health Organization



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
BQHMML
HElU2I REHABILITATION PROJECT
Table f Contents
Page
X. T5H MEALTE sECTOR IN ROmANA  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   1
Background                        . . . . . . . . . .1
Health and Population tatus  . .     . . . . . . . . .           1
Health Services organization, Staffing and Physical
Infrastructure         . . . . . . . . . . . . .          2
organization  . . . . . . . .  . . . . . . . . .           2
Staffing .          . . .     . . .                       4
Physical infrastructure.4
Sector Issues .        . . . . .   .. .   5
Management    .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  . .   .  5
Structure and Dellvery of Health Care . . . . . . . . .    6
Health Financing  . . . .   *. .  .  .  .  ...... .  .     7
Pharmaceuticals and Medical Supplies  . . . . . . . . .   8
Pharmaceutical Pricing Pollcy . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Ensuring Provision of PrLmary Health Care . . . . . . .   9
Health Promotion  . . . . . . . .. .  .  .  .    . . .  .    10
Government Health Pollcy and Strategy  .    .  .  .  .  .  ..  .   11
The Bank's Role .                   . . . . . . . . . . . . .  12
II. TM  EALTZ CARD REA5IWLITATION PROJECT . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
Project Objectives  .             . . . . .    . . . . . . . .  14
A. REHABILITATING AND UPGRADING PRIMARY TEALTH CARE.  . . .    15
Upgrado Rural Dispensaries  . . . . . . . . . . . . .    1S
Xmprove Reproductive Health Care Servicea . . . . . . .  iS
Institute for the Mother, Chlld and Adolescent  .  16
The Family Planning and Sex Education Unit  . . .  16
Reproductive Health Centers . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Maternity/Neonatal Referral Units . . . . . . . .  17
Contraceptive Supplies  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
Strengthvtn Pro/In-Service TraLning for Nurses and
Physiclans             . . . . . ...   18
Strengthen Nursing Training.                        18
Improve Continuing Education for PhysicLans . . .  19
Ensure Supply of Essential Drugs, Consumables,
Vaccines and Blood Products . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Drugs and Consumables . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  19
Preparation of a Strategic Plan for the
Pharmaceutical Industry . . . . . . . . . .  20
Vaccines  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
Blood Products . ... . .20
Improve Management of Emergencies . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Improve Health Promotion and Population's
ParticipatLon in Health care  . . . .    . . .    21
National Level .21
Local Level . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21
Envlronmental Health  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by reciplients only in the performance 
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wSithout World Bank authorization. 



Table of Contents -Continued)                     PA-e
B. RESTRUCTURING HEALTH SE,CTO  FINANCE AND MANAGEMENT  . . .  22
Preparation of a New National Health Strategy   . . . .  22
Decentralization and Improved Resource Allocation . . .  23
Development of a Health Xnformation System  . . . . . .  24
School of Health Systems and Management   . . . . . . .  24
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ... ..  ..C...  ..  .      .  .  .  .  .  .   .   25
XII. PROJECT COSTS, FINANCING, KANAGEOENT AND TZnPMNENTTION.  . .  26
Cost of the Project.  . . .                . . . . . . .   26
Project Cost Summaries. . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . .  26
Basis of Cost Estimates.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27
Customs Duties, Taxes and Distribution Costs. . . . . .  28
Contingency Allowances. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Foreign Exchange Component  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  28
Project Financing .....   ........  .  ..  ..  .  ..            .   28
Recurrent Costs . . . . . . . . .   . . . . . . . . . .  29
Management and Implementation ....  .  .  .    .  .   . . . . .  .   .   29
Responsibilities  .....  .  .   ......  .        .  .  .  .   .   29
Project Coordination and Supervision  . . . . . . . . .  30
Architectural Design Services . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Site Acquisition  .....  .  .  ......      .  .  .   . . . . .31
Maintenance .........          .  ..  ..  . . .    .   . . ..   .   31
Procurement . . . . . .................  .   .   31
Background. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  31
Procurement of Durable and Consumable Goods . . . . . .  31
Procurement of Technical Assistance . . . . . . . . . .  33
Status of Preparation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35
Disbursements ......  .. ...   .         . .35
Audits, Reports and Progress Reviews  . . . . . . . . .  36
IV. BEFITS AND RISKS .......... . 38
Project Benefits  ......  ..........             . .  .  .  .  .  . . . 38
Project Risks .......  ..  .   ............  .  .   38
V.CONDITIONALITIESANDRECOIOEDTION  .                                   39
Agreements Reached at Negotiatione  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  39
Condition of Effectiveness.                                      40
Recommendation   . . . . ..40
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Romania in April 1991. The mission comprised J. Schweitzer (Mission Leader),
R. Castadot (Senior Population and Public Health Specialist), S. Sigurdsson
(Senior Implementation Specialist)* D. Broun (Public Health Specialist), L.
Fox (Economist), I. Szemzo (Operations officer), M. Aljbaili (Administrative
Assistant), D. Chernichovsky, D. Caplin and D. de Leeuw (Consultants).
substantive assistance was also provided by D. Pierotti (WHO/UNFPA), F. Donnay
and M. Potts (Family Planning Consultants). The Peer Reviewers were
Messrs. M. Over (PHRHN) and C. Pannenborg (ASlPH). Mr. Ralph Harbison is the
Division Chief and Mr. R. Cheetham the Country Director.



A-uS
A  EXls:  .   ..   .   .   ..........   .............                   41
TABLE lAt Natality and Mortality Trends . .. . . . . . . . . . . .  41
TABLE lBs Life Expectancy by Sex, 1970-1988 . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
TABLE 2:  Romania - Mortality .              . . . . . . . . . . . 42
TABLE 3s Maternal Mortality, 1989-90 . . . . . . . . .  .    . . . 43
TABLE 4: European Comparison of Health Indicators  . . . . . . . . 44
TABLE S  Middle-Income Countries Comparison of
Health & Social Indicators  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
TABLE 6: Health Facilities .               . . . . . . . . . . . . 46
TABLE 7: Romania Health Activity, 1965-88  . . . . . . . . . . . . 47
TABLE 8s  Medical and Auxiliary Health Personnel  . . . . . . . . . 48
TABLE 9:  Romania - Hospital and Ob/GYN Dept.
Utilization by District, 1989 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49
TABLE 10: Physicians Activity in Dispenoaries and
Polyclinics per District  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 50
TABLE 11: Death Rates by Cause, 1960-1989 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 51
TABLE 12: Romania Population Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 52
TABLE 13: Birth Rates in Europe, 1880-1990  . . . . . . . . . . . . 53
TABLE 14: Romania - Birth Rate, Mortality Rate and Natural
Increase by District, 1970-1989 . . . . . . . . . . . . 54
TABLE 15: 1987 Population Groups Estimates (In '000s) . . . . . . . 55
TABLE 16: 1990 Contraceptive t'se . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  56
TABLE 17: Deliveries by Location, by District,
1980, 1985, 1989  ... .  .  .  .  .  .   ......  .  .  .   .  57
TABLE 18: Romania - Distribution of Aids Cases by
Age Group and Sex, October 1, 1990 .   .   . . . . . . . . 58
TABLE 19: Romaaia-Estimated Prevalence of Chronic Diseases
by Distr     ict, 1989 .t.r.ic *    1989. ...  .   . ....   59
TABLE 20: Romania - Expenditures on State Owned Health
Care Facilities by Type of Facllity 1980-1991 . . . . . 60
TABLE 21: Romania - Financing of Health Care Expenditures . . . . . 61
TABLE 22: Romania - Government Financed Health Expenditures
by Category  . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . 62
Attachment 1                                                       63
Figure 1: Maternal Mortality Rate in Selected Comntries,
ca 1970 and ca 1986  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ..... .   . 63
Figure 2t Crude Birth Rate in Romania, 1947-1987 .. ......   . 64
Figure 3:  Age-specific Fertility, Romania, 1987  . . ... .    .  .   . 65
ANNEX 2:  THE DRUG SUPPLY SYSTEMl .     .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  . . . . . 66-75
Attachment 1:
The Romanian Pharmaceutical Industry Proposed Restructuring
Program and Strategic Plan - Terms of Reference  . . . . . . . . . 76-81
ANNEX 3:  PREPARATION OF A NEW NATIONAL HEALTH STRATEGY  . . . . . . . 82-90



ANNES18 (continued
raim
ANNEX 4: THE HEALTH MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM   . . . . . . . . . 91-93
ANNEX 5s  ESTIMATED QUANTITIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 94-98
ANNEX 6: TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE SUMMARY BY COMPONENT  . . . . . . . . . . 99
ANNEX 7: IMPLEMENTATION MATRIX AND INDICATORS . . . . . . . . . . . 100-102
ANNEX 8s SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS  . .           .  .  .  .  . . 103
ANNEX 9: MATERIALS AVAILABLE IN PROJECT FILE  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 104
ANNEX 10: ESTABLISHING A HEALTH PROMOTION FUND . . . . . . . . . . . 105-119
CHART l  SCHEMATIC ORGANIZATION CHART  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120
FIGURES:
FIGURE 1: STRUCTURE OF THE HEALTH SYSTEM . . . . . . . . . . . . . 121
FIGURE 2: NETWORK OF DISTRICT HEALTH UNITS . . . . . . . . . . . . 122
MAP: IBRD-23250



EALT= REMADZLITAUION PROJECT
HEAL-TH AND POPULATION- DTA 1HEET-U
A. General Country Vata
Year
1.   Population Estimate (millions)                          23.3         1990
2.   Population Projections (millions)                       24.5         2000
25.6        2010
27          2025
3.   GDP per Capita (US$)                                    1,450        1989
4.   Urban Population (% of total)                           49           1990
5.   Male Literacy Rate (% of Male 12 + years of age)        >95          1985
6.   Female Literacy Rate (% of Fema'e 12 + y4bare of age)  >95           1985
7.   Total Prilary School Enrollment                        97           1987
8.   Female Primary School Enrollment                        98           1987
9.   Total Secondary School Enrollment                       79           1987
10.   Total Tertiary School Enrollment                        10           1987
11.   Area (Km2) (in 000)                                     238
12.   Population Density (per Km2)                            98           1990
13.   Babies with low birth weight (%)                        6            1985
14.   Daily calorie supply per capita                         3,373        1986
15.   Average index of food productinn per capita             117          1986
B. !IJjAk.iOn
1.   Crude Birth Rate (per 1,000 population)                 16           1990
2.   Crude Death Rate (per 1,000 population)                 11           1990
3.   Annual Rate of Natural Increase (%)                     0.5          1990
4.   Net Migration (oooes)                                   -30          1990
5.   Total Fertility Rate                                    2.1          1990
6.   Infant Mortality Rate (per 1,000)                       26.9         1990
7.   Under-5 Mortality Rate                                  30           1990
8.   Life Expectancy at Birth (years)                        70           1990
9.   Population Age Structure (%)
0-4   years                                          7            1990
5-14  years                                          16          1990
15-64   years                                        66          1990
65+   years                                          10          1990
10.   Dependency ratio                                        50.7         1990
11.   Women in Childbearing age
(15-49 years of age in 000's)                        5,610       1990
12.   E of Women Using Modern ContraceptionX                  1.1          1990
13.   Maternal Mortality (per 100,000 live birth)             84           1990
1 Unless otherwise indicated, are World Bank estimates.
Z Romanias Ministry of Health, DMCH.



(ii)
C. Health Sector kegources?
1.   Population per physician                                552          1989
2.   Population per nurse                                    171          1989
3.   Population per Hospital Bed                             112          1989
4.   Dispensaries                                            5,186        1989
Territorial                                          3,629        1989
Enterprise                                           1,557        1989
5.   Polyclinics                                             541          1989
6.   Hospitals                                               425          1989
Territorial Hospitals                                400          1989
Enterprise Hospitals                                 25           1989
7.   Sanatoria                                               32           1989
8.   Orphanages                                              65           1989
9.   Maternities                                             590          1989
10.   Pharmacies                                              1,935        1989
11.   Percentage of Government Expenditures on Healths'       5.5          1989
7.3         1990
12.   Total Expenditure on Health as S of GDP'                2.4          1989
3.0         1990
13.   MOH Budget as % of Total Governmental Budgety           7.6          1990
D.  Hosoital UtLiLzation
1.   Admissions per 1,000 Population                         230          1988
2.   Total Patient days per 1,000 Population                 2,497        1988
3.   Average Occupancy Rate (%)                              74           1988
4.   Average Length of Stay (days)                           10.9         1988
' Romanias Statistical Department, MOH, Bucharest.
# IBRD: Romania - Accelerating the Transitions Human Resource Strategies
for the 1990s. Report Nos 9577-RO



(iLL)
DEFINITIONS OF MEAMLT. POPULAIXON AND NUTRITION TERMN
Adult Literacy Rate     The percentage of persons aged 15 and over who can
read and write.
Child Mortality Rate    Annual deaths of children 1-4 years per 1,000 children
in the same age group.
Contraceptive           The percentage of married women of reproductive
Prevalence Rate       age who are using a modern method of contraceptive
at any time.
Crude Birth Rate        Number of live births per year per 1,000 people.
Crude Death Rate        Number of deathe per year per 1,000 people.
Dependency Ratio        Population 14 years or under and 65 years or over as
percentage of population aged 15 to 64 years.
Incidence Rate          The number of persons contracting a disease as a
proportion of the population at risk, per unit of
time; usually expressed per 1,000 persons per year.
Infant Mortality Rate   Annual deaths of i.fants under 1 year per 1,000 live
births during the same year.
Life Expectancy         The number of years a newborn child would
at Birth                live if subject to the age-specific mortality
rates prevailing at time of birth.
Low Birth Weight (LBW)  Infant welght at birth less than 2,500 gr. LBW may be
associated with either pre-term (less than 37 weeks
gestation) or full-term but small-for-dates (38 weeks
or more) of gestation.
Maternal Mortality      Number of maternal deaths per 100,000 live births in a
Rate                  given year attributable to pregnancy, childbirth or
post-partum.
Morbidity               The frequency of disease and illness in a population.
Mortality               The frequency of death in a population.
Prevalence Rate         The number of persons having a particular dieease at a
given point in time per population at risk; usually
expressed per 1,000 persons per year.
Rate of Natural         Difference between crude birth and crude death rates;
Increase              usually expressed as a percentage.



(Lv)
Total FertliLty Rate    The average number of children a women will have if
she experiences a gLven set of age-specifLc fertllity
rates throughout he} lifetLme.



(V)
HEALTH RGEABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Loan and Prnct1 8S  arI
3frQcmWrSg           Romania
Amounts              USS 150.0 million
$ rass3              Fifteen years, including a five year grace period, at the
IBRD standard variable rate
Protect
Obiectivecs          The project would have two principal objectives: (a) to
rehabilitate and upgrade the primary health care delivery
system which is collapsing through want of equipment,
spare parts, drugs and medical supplies; and (b) to
support the first steps of a major restructuring of health
sector financing and management to ensure a sustainable,
cost-effective health care system in the medium term.
]ProJect
gscriPtion:          Rehabilitatina and uoaradin2 Krimarv health care would be
achieved bys (a) upjrading rural dispensaries according to
criteria of demographic coverage, local needs, community
support and availability of medical staff; (b) improving
reproductive health care services, focussing on maternal
and child health and increasing access and choice in
family planning servicas; (c) strengthening training for
nurses and physicians in key aspects of primary health
care; (d) introducing a health promotion program to
provide a greater focus on preventive medicine; (e)
ensuring the supply of essential drugs, consumables,
vaccines and blood products (including preparing a
restructuring plan for the Romanian pharmaceutical
industry); and (f) upgrading the communication/transport
system for emergencies.
Restructuring 29 health sector financina and manaoement
would be facilitated by: (a) preparing and implementing
the first phase of a major reform of: health finance; the
roles of the public and private sector; the legal
framework; organization and management of health care; and
institutional development. In addition, a pilot project to
decentralize health care management and improve resource
allocation would be supported; (b) developing a Health
Information System to assist Ministry, district and local



(vi)
managers uet objectives, allocate resources, anticipate
needc and monitor performance; and (c) developing the
Health Services Management Institute as an institution
able to provide the health system with well trained health
care managers and policy analysts.
The project's major policy actions would include: support
for the restructuring of health care finance and manage-
ment; supporting the restructuring of the Romanian
pharmaceutical industry; shifting some of the patient load
from the tertiary hospitals to the primary care etructure,
thereby lowering unit costs of health care; shifting the
emphasis of contraception from abortion to modern methods
of family planning; renewing emphasis on continuing
education for medical staff; and increasing attention to
preventive, rather than curative medicine to address the
country's high morbidity and mortality rates.
Benefits
and Risks:           Benefits.  ImDroved orimarv health care delivery would
lead to: a reduction in morbidity and mortality in infants
and under-fives; improved ac-iss and choice for women in
the field of reproductive health services. The consequent
decline in the number of unwanted pregnancies would
diminish abortions and the flow of children into institu-
tions; a reduction in mortality and morbidity from such
causes as cardio-vascular disease and accidents; and lower
unit costs of health care through improved utilization of
lower cost health services. Better blood oroducts and
ensured suPolies of vaccines would help reduce the
incidence of AIDS and Hepatitis 8, and morbidity from
infectious diseases. Strengthening of health education and
gromotion would encourage a switch in focus from curative
to preventive medicine, with major benefits to the cost-
effectiveness of health care delivery. Restructurina
studies of the health care system and PharmalejqUtI&ca
industry and subsequent implementation of reforms would
provide the basis for systemic reform and a sustainable,
cost-effective health care delivery system in the medium-
term.
Rinks. The major risk concerns the institutional
weaknesses in the sector which could conru-rain
implementation and meaningful reform. The project's
structure (investments to improve primary health care and
providing the institutional basis to carry out a medium-
term reform program) is designed to minimi le this risk by
providing immediate assistance for critically affected
parts of the health sector, while at the same time
building the i.stitutional base for meaningful reform. The
second risk concerns Government capacity to provide the
oecebsaepources during a time of economic crisis. To
reduce this risk, the project has been designed to
minimize incremental recurrent costs ae a result of new
Investments. In addition, the restructuring studies will



- vii -
point to diversified sources of financlng and propose
efflciency galns whLch will alleviate the pressure on the
central budget.
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



viii
Es-ti-mated4 RoRist GROWt
Jo!1   Iorania    Total
- US$ Million -
Upgrade Rural Dispensaries                    10.9      14.5    25.4
Reproductive Health Care Service               8.1      27.5    35.6
Training for Nurses & Physicians               0.5       0.9     1.4
Drugs, Consumables, Vacc. & Blood Prod.       21.3      71.9    93.2
Management of Emergencies                      5.8       3.1     8.9
Health Promotion/Participation                 0.9       3.9     4.8
Sub-Total Rehabilitations                        47.5    121.7   169.3
RESTRUCTURE MEITH SECTOR
National Health Strategy                       0.7       2.5     3.1
Health Information System                      0.7      2.4      3.2
School of Health Systems & Mgmt                0.4       2.7     3.1
Sub-Tot Health Serv. Delivery:                   1.8        7.5     9.4
Total Bass Costs                                 49.4    129.3   178.6
Physical Contingencies                            4.9      12.9    17.9
Price Contingencies                              3.2        7.8    11.0
Total Project Costs                              57.5    150.0   207.5
a/  Detailed numbers may not add to totals because of rounding.
Financina Plan:
Local   Eoreign  Total
USS Million-
Government                                       57.5       0.0    57.5
IBRD                                              O.0    150.9   150.0
Total Financing Requirements                    ,57.5    150.0   207.5
ast i-' Disbursements:t
IBRD FY                                 FY92     F3        FY94    FY95 
Annual                                  32.0     68.0      28.0    11.0    11.0
Cumulative                              32.0    100.0    128.0   139.0   150.0



OMXANIA KEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
I. THE HTALTH SECTOR IN RONAN1A
backaround
1.   The new Government which assumed power in December, 1989 has placed a
high priority on improving the harsh social conditions imposed by the
Ceaucescu regime. Amongst these, inadequate health services and unhealthy
living conditions have left a serious legacy of health problems. The ban on
contraception and consequent reliance on illegal abortion resulted in high
maternal mortality and morbidity. Life expectancy has declined over the last
decade, infant mortality has risen and infectious diseases are still
relatively widespread. Drugs and medical consumables are in extremely short
supply and much equipment is obsolete or stands idle for lack of spares.
Further, during the last decade, medical staff and policy makers have been
isolated from external developments and there are now serious technical and
institutional weaknesses.
2.    Attempts to improve the population's health status are taking place
against a background of economic crisis. GDP is estimated to have fallen by
10% in 1990 following a 6% decline in 1989. Industrial production fell 20% in
1990 and inflation rose to 8, from 1 in 1989. The combLned effect of the
decline in domestic output, the diversion of exports to the domestic market to
ease severe consumer shortages, and the Gulf crisis has led to a 41% decline
in convertible currency exports and a resulting convertible currency deficit
of about 5% of GDP. Economic performance in the first quarter of 1991 appears
to have deteriorated further, with industrial output declining 17% compared
with the same period in 1990, and convertible currency exports more sluggish
than anticipated. Since pharmaceutical and medical supplies are heavily import
dependant, the health sector has been badly affected. At the same time, the
economic crisis has given added emphasis to the need for reforms which can
improve targeting and resource utilization in the sector. These issues are
discussed in more detail below.
gealth and Pooulation Status
3.    Improvements during the last three decades in the health status of the
Romanian population have recently slowed or started to reverse (Annex 1,
Tables 1A and 13)1. Life expectancy at birth rose to 69.9 in 1984, but had
declined to 69.2 by 1988, with a particularly steep decline for males.
I      The veracity of data copitled during the Ceaucescu regime (I.e. prior to 1990) is often
questionable, and time-series conparisons oust be treated cautiously.



Although adult life expectancy compares favorably with the average for all
lower middle income countries, it is amongst the lowest of the Central and
Uastern European (CEE) countries, and is five years below the Western European
average. The age standardized mortality rate, at over 1200 per 100,000
population, is the highest in Europe. Infant mortality has increased from a
1986 low of 23 per thousand live births to over 27 in 1990. This is 50
percent higher than the CEE average, higher than a number of countries with
lower incomes (Chile, Costa Rica, Jamaica), and the deteriorating trend is
cause for concern. The mortality rate of children in the 1-4 age group has
also risen in the last decade, and at 2.2 per thousand, is now amongst the
highest in Europe. Respiratory diseases, perinatal problems, diseases of the
digestive system, and infectious diseases are the principal causes of death
amongst infants, and acute diarrhoeic diseases and respiratory infections are
frequent among children in the 0-4 age group. Although '-he exceptionally high
maternal mortality has been reduced by 60% since abortion was legalized in
late 1989, at 84 per 100,000, it is still nearly eight times that in Poland.
4.    In common with other European countries which have undergone the
*pidemiological transition, cardiovascular diseases, oiseases of the
respiratory system, cancers and accidents account for an increasing (now
almost 80 percent) share of adult mortality. The highest rates ^f increase
have been for cardiovascular diseases and lung cancer, pointing to gains which
could be realized from curtailing cigarette smoking and excess consumption of
animal fats. The incidence of Tuberculosis has also increased in recent years
and the shortage of blood testing facilities and disposable syringes means
that the spread of AIDS and Hepatitis B has yet to be controlled.
S.    One of the Government's first steps following the revolution in
December, 1989 was to rescind the 1966 decree which banned contraception and
strictly limited abortion. The decree had been promulgated to reverse the
preceding lecade's rapid decline in fertility, but had unintended effects.
following a spectacular fertility rise in 1967, women turned to any means
possible, including a large number of self-induced abortions, to control their
fertility. Since 1967, the birth rate has been in almost persistent decline
until the present day. The crude birth rate (CBR) and total fertility rate
(TFR) are now 15.5 and 2.1 - about replacement level for Romania's population
of 23.2 million.
6.    The impact of the 1966 decree on maternal and infant mortality was
disastrous. Largely as a result of complications following self-induced
abortions, the maternal mortality rate reached 159 in 1989 - about ten times
th. CEE average. The incoming Government has also faced a major crisis of
150,000 children in orphanages and other institutions, many unwanted or
abandoned by their parents because of poor social conditions. Poor living
conditions in the institutions have also contributed to high mortality amongst
the 0-5 age group.
ealth Servieas Organuxation. Staffina and Physical Infrastructure
7.    2zanAaatAM.t Health care is almost exclusively managed and financed by
central government, under the supervision of the Ministry of Health (MOH) and



- 3 -
41 district health authorities (DHAs). All citizens are guaranteed access to
health services which are largely free. The MOH ie responsible for health
policy, setting standards for health care and public hygiene, epidemiological
surveillance, certifying health professionals and training of some para-
medical staff2, procuring and distributing drugs, and health education and
promotion. The MOH and DHAs directly manage most health facilities and staff
and set standards for health facilities under the supervision of other
ministries. The DHA is managed by the District Health Director (DHD),
assisted by an administrative council. The district is divided into 3-5
territorial units for integrated primary and secondary health service delivery
(in patient and ambulatory care, dispensing of drugs, etc.), with at least one
hospital, several polyclinics and a network of dispensaries (Figure 1). Each
district also has a public health unit to monitor water and air standards and
for epidemiological surveillance, as well as a health education laboratory.
8.    Patients usually receive initial care through one of the 5,500 primary
health care (PHC) facilities (termed dispensaries) which are situated in
towns, rural communes and enterprises (Annex 1, Table 6). The dispensary is
meant to deliver prenatal care, growth monitoring and care of newborns and
infants, basic curative care, some disease prevention, and home care after
hospitalization or childbirth. Dispensaries normally include a number of
doctors (a general practitioner, a dentist and a pediatrician), at least four
paramedical staff and a treatment room. Most medium or large enterprises also
have a dispensary, with the MOH usually providing the medical staff, supplies
and equipment. Smaller enterprisees may contract with a nearby enterprise for
this service, or group together to share one off-plant facility. Enterprise
dispensaries are also meant to monitor occupational health and safety and
issue sick leave certificates. Some enterprises have a variety of facilities;
some 3.5% of all hospital bede, 10% of polyclinics and 30% of dispensaries are
located in enterprises. Employees usually use their work-place dispensary,
with community dispensaries serving those who are not employed (e.g children,
and the elderly). Under new legislation, some 4,000 licenses have been issued
to doctors for private practice, but only about 400 private offices have yet
been opened.
9.    Patients with more complex problems are referred to the 541 polyclinics
and 424 hospitals, the latter being nominally responsible for technical super-
vision of the dispensaries. The most complicated cases are referred to
district, specialized, or university hospitals. Following discharge, super-
vision is meant to be resumed at the dispensary. The polyclinics handle mostly
ambulatory cases. Some polyclinics charge fees. Doctors (primarily
specialists) and nurses work at these fee-for-service clinics during their
off-duty hours. Budgeting and management is autonomous from the DHD, whose
main responsibility is quality assurance by, for example, ensuring that
specialists are certified in the area in which they are offering services.
2      The Ministry of Education is responsible for certifying physicians and some para-medical
staff.



10.   The MOH manages the procurement and distribution of drugs. Foreign
imports have in the past been handled by a specialized trading company. An
autonomous central warehouse in Bucharest distributes imports to 17 regional
distributors. Domestically produced drugs are delivered either to the central
warehouse, or directly to the regional distributors, which distribute the
drugs to the 1,500 retail outlets throughout the country owned by the MOH, or
tO the 450 hospital pharmacies. The government plans to privatize the retail
outlets and regional distribution systems.
11.    Sfla1iima.  With about one physician per 560 inhabitants (a 28% increase
over the last decade - see Annex 1),  Romania compares favorably with coun-
tries at its income level. However, in 1978 the Ceaucescu regime eliminated
all specialist medical training, as well as nurse training except at the most
basic level, and there are now growing shortages of specialist doctors and
nurses. Specialist training was resumed in 1990 and nursing schools have been
opened in each district to ensure local coverage. The Government is also in
the process of reestablishing a training school for nurse trainers and
specialiets. Owing to Romania's past lsolation, and because in-service medical
training is not required, physicians have often not kept abreast of medical
advances. In additlon, there has been a focus on curative, rather than
preventive medicine (para. 33). There ia also a dearth of health sector
policy analysts, hospital managers and health administrators. Other health
professionale in short supply include epLdemiologists, psychologiets,
psychiatrists, and soclal workers, as tralning ln these disciplines was halted
in the 1970a.
12. Average salaries ln the health sector are a low 94% of the economy-wide
average. However, salarLes are often supplemented by perquLsites and
gratuities. Untll 1990, health care personnel, especially doctors, were
assLgned posLtLons by the MOH, wlth new doctors required to undertake a three
year tour of duty ln a rural area. These rules have now been relaxed and
there has been some exodus of doctors from the rural areas, wlth many applying
for speclallt traLning. The problem has untll now been less severe for
nurses, who were locally trained and often llve in the area in which they
work.
13. Physical Infrautructure. In terms of quantity, RomanLa's facillties are
adequate compared with OECD countries or developing countrles at lts lncome
level. The number of beds per capita has increased steadily since 1965, as
have the number of outpatient visits per capita. The average length of stay
has declined slLghtly during thli perlod. Average hospital occupancy is about
70 percent, pointlng to some overcapacLty. However, hospital utillizatlon data
have to be treated cautlously because: (a) many beds are ln poorly equipped
and maintalned facilLtLes, so utilizatlon is low; (b) there are wide regional
variatlons (average length of stay varles between 7 and 54 days, average bed
occupancy between 128 and 308 days per year); and (c) some beds are ln
enterprise cllnice, where they are only available during working hours, or to
selected members of the population. Consequently, some hospitals are
overcrowded, with beds in the hallways, while other facillities go unused.
DesLgn and malntenance of buildings is a problem throughout the system (some
have been irreparably damaged by earthquakes) at times compromising the



quality of health care because of difficulties in disinfecting operating
theatres and other sterile areas. District hospitals also tend to be very
large (700-1200 beds), with high running costu. However, the scope for cost
savings through closing facilities and increasing bed occupancy rates may be
limited in the short run, as it would require substantial new investment.
SOetor Issues
14.   Although the Romanian health care system is mature in terms of its
coverage of the population, it has increasingly failed to deliver a reasonable
level of health care, as evidenced by poor and in some cases deteriorating
health indicators, chronic shortages and the reported widespread dissatis-
faction of consumers. Addressing this legacy will require a carefully
sequenced and thoroughgoing reform involving management, structure, finance,
delivery and training. At the same time, immediate efforts will be needed to
rehabilitate key components of the system to ensure a basic provision of
health services to the population. These two issues - beginning the process
of reform while ensuring the maintenance and improvement of basic services,
will be addressed in the proposed project (Chapter Is).
15.    bnaasMent. Central planning and rigid management have driven the
development of the Romanian health care system. Inflexible norms determined
the volume, location, size, type and equipping of health care facilities,
without regard to consumer needs, or cost-effectiveness. Rigidly applied
budget and staffing rules which allocated resources according to production-
style input ratios left little flexibility for local administrators. For
example, all hospital departments were required to have a minimum of 50 beds,
with the result that there is now excess capacity in some specializations,
while others cannot be catered for.
16. The results of this management system were predictable. Local managers
had little incentive to uee resources wisely, and in fact had virtually no
authority to do so because all important decisions were made centrally.
District and hospital managers had little say in determining priorities, with
resultant mismatches of resource allocation and needs. Staffing decisions,
even at a relatively junior level, were made centrally. Information collection
and monitoring were highly centralized. Although the districts provided the
MOH with a substantial amount of data, the data were often collected without
regard to operational objectives, and there was (and still is) little feedback
to the diotricte, and health facilities. Consequently, managers have little
objective basis on which to allocate resources or compare performance. The
lack of a management oriented information system is a significant impediment
to improved health sector management and better use of resources.
17.   The centrally managed system did not take into account the nebde of
either the consumers or the providers of health care. Patients had little
choice as to their health care provider. Draconian policies such as the
compulsory examination of women for pregnancy and the ban on family planning
(para. 5) reduced trust in the system. Patients were treated with little
respect for personal needs or dignity. Wcmen were particularly badly
affected, and the continuing lack of alternatives to abortion remains an issue
(para 31). Information and education campaigns are needed so that consumers



become better informed about health care and risk factors. Health care
providers were also mistreated. Doctors were assigned to posts without regard
to preference, aptitude, or skills and could be punlihed for failing to meet
unrealistic targets. The nursing profession was downgraded, and all medical
personnel were relatively unrewarded for their skills. In order to improve
quality and efficiency in this labor intensive sector, it will be essential to
introduce incentive systems - financial, career, training etc.- which
encourage staff in the health sector to perform well.
18.    Finally, because there are few adequately staffed institutions or
trained professionals (para. 11), policy analysis and advice to Government on
critical health issues exists only in rudimentary form. This is a major
constraint on Government efforts to introduce systemic reform. In response,
the MOH has created the Health Services Management Institute (HSMI), whose
functions include training of health managers and policy makers, and providing
advice on health policy to the Government. The HSMI has been instrumental in
assisting the MOH prepare initial plans for reform.
19.    As a first step in the reform of public sector management the new
public finance law allows for significant decentralization and flexibility in
resource allocation. However, in the absence of detailed regulations to apply
the new law, the previous inflexible system often prevails.
20.    8tructure and Delivery of Health Care. The health care delivery system
described above is intended (a) to control costs by treating patients at the
least expensive facility possible, and (b) to improve access by offering
primary health care services close to patients. In practice, the operation of
the system is wasteful and inefficient, for a number of reasons: (a) as
discussed below, the extreme shortages that have plagued the Romanian health
system over the last few years have resulted in a breakdown of PHC. Tertiary
health care facilities have been accorded priority for supplies, equipment and
drugs at the expense of the dispensaries and local drug stores. PHC staff
often have no choice but to refer their patients to the hospitals, where
supplies are usually better. This is wasteful of resources because: (a)
hospital unit costs are higher and there are underutilized staff and physical
capital in the dispensaries; (b) the integration between levels of care and
types of facilities is poor; (c) the system focusses excessively on
institutional care (e.g. in hospitals, homes for the disabled) instead of on
more cost-effective community-based care, for which there is a dearth of
services; and (d) tie rigid allocation of the population to specific
dispensaries prevents efficient use of resources and eliminates choice and
competition.
21.    Data on utilization by district, facility and location are difficult to
interpret. Generally, the average daily number of visits per dispensary
physician is somewhat higher in urban than in rural areas, and larger
hospitals have higher occupancy rates than smaller ones. An improved
information system will be needed for more refined analysis (see Chapter II).
22.    Many primary health facilities are located in industrial enterprises,
which were given responsibility by the previous regime for a wide range of



services to the local population, including housing, district heating and
electricity. These enterprise health facilities are often not optimally sited
for use by the general public. Their continued existence contributes to poor
utilization of facilities, inhibit. the development of family-based care and
could impede the industrial restructuring process if closure of an enterprise
resulted in a reduction in health care to the local population. In addition,
saddling the emerging private sector with the responsibility for running
health care clinics could discourage venture capital.  Thus, high priority
will need to be placed on the difficult task of relocating, closing, or
phasing out enterprise health facilities, and limitLng the responsibility of
enterprises to occupational health according to rules which safeguard workers
and the environment.
23.    Realth rinancina.  Both current and investment expenditures are
financed out of central government revenues. Between 1985-89, public current
expenditures on health averaged about 2.2% of GDP. Since health care was
regarded as an "unproductive" sector, it was starved of financial and physical
resources, so that, unlike virtually all other countries in its income group,
public expenditures on health care grew more slowly than GDP throughout the
1980s.3 Public expenditures rose in 1990 to 2.9% of GDP, with the increases
mainly used for salaries, maintenance and food (Annex 1)4. However, this
percentage is still well below other CEE countries (e.g. Poland, 3.7%, Hungary
5.4%)s. During the last decade, there have been virtually no new investments
in equipment or facilities, and maintenance expenditures were at very low
levels. Because of chronic shortages (para. 25) expenditures on drugs and
supplies as a share of total health expenditures declined from 18% in 1980, to
13% in 1989. Taking into account household health expenditures, it is
estimated that health care and related services comprised about 3.3% of total
GDP in 1989, of which about one-fourth were private expenditures. The
proportion of private health expenditures is relatively high for a country
with supposedly free health care, highlighting the important role that private
purchase of drugs, fee-for-service polyclinics and gratuities comprise in
total health expenditures.
24.   Total expenditures on health, including user fees, are shown in Annex
1. Current expenditures are primarily for personal health care (89% of total
expenditures), and 69% of these expenditures fund hospitals and polyclinics.
Expenditures are reasonably well distributed across districts. The urban bias
(the 45% of the population which live in rural areas receive directly only 13%
of health expenditures) is partly explained by the fact that the high cost
3      The large JUng In expenditures as a share of GDP in 1989 was primarily caused by the fall
in GOP.
4      Until 1989, 1nvestents were financed out of district budgets and no data are avaflable on
expenditures during this perfod. However, these investments were amll, particularly during the last decade.
s      International comparisons of Romanian health care expenditures must be treated cautiously
becoume current, distorted, prices bfas health expenditures downwards, particulerly in conparison with
market econormies.



- 8-
facilities which serve both rural and urban areas (e.g. ditrict hospitals)
are located ln the towns.
25.    The lack of now investments, systemic shortages of domestically
supplied products, and the unavailability of foreign exchange for w.he health
sector during the last decade have combined to create a crisis. Drugs ard
consumables are in extremely short supply, much equipment is obsolete or
stands idle for lack of spare parts and buildings and equipment are in a
dangerous state of dierepair. For example, leakages and excess dosages from
some X-ray machines are threatening the health of patLents and medical etaff.
Basic equipment such as autoclaves is lacking in many dLipenearies. Laboratory
equipment is old and difficult to maintain and sterilizatLon equipment is
often too old to repair. Transportation of emergencies is made difficult by
shortages and breakdowns of ambulances.
26.    Pharmaceuticals an  Medi ual  uoOlie-s. The shortage of essential
medicines and supplies is particularly critical6. The Romanian pharmaceutical
and medical supplies industry has suffered over the last 15 years from lack of
access to modern technologles, shortages of foreign currency for imports of
raw materials and inadequate capltal investment. In addition, the previous
regime pursued a mliguided policy of self-sufficiency in pharmaceuticals. The
resulting unrealietLcally wide product range (over 1200 finished products and
200 active compounds) is spread over a relatively small tonnage and has
engendered high unit costs of production for many products. Domestic output
declined by over 25% between 1988-1990 and the industry is now unable to
satiefy the domestic market with even the most basic pharmaceuticals. For
example, three quarters of the country's requirements of lnfusion packs have
to be imported. Production quality is poor and rarely meets World Health
Organization (WHO) Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP) standards. The
technologies used and the products available in the antibiotics fleld are in
particular in need of improvement. Drug packaging facilities are also
primLtive and need urgent upgrading.
27.     To safeguard the welfare of the local population, the industry needs
restructuring so that it can produce at least a minimum of basic pharma-
ceuticals competitively and at international quality standards; meanwhile
baesc drugs of appropriate quality must be imported until the industry has
carried out much needed reforms. However, imported drugs are scarce because
of the acute shortage of foreign exchange. The position in 1991 has been
alleviated somewhat by grants from the European Community (EC) of about 18
million ECU to import essential drugs. In 1992/93, there will be a need for an
incremental US$50 million in foreign exchange to meet basic needs for imported
drugs (mainly for PHC), with additional foreign exchange requirements of about
US$12 million for essential consumable items. Increased supplies of
disposable syringes are particularly important to combat the spread of AIDS
and Hepatitis B.
e      A more detailed description of the issues concerning drugs manufacturing, pricing and
distribution is provided In Ainex 2.



-9-
28.     Ptoxgu>     ak Ptricin@ Policy.  Market oriented reforms of industrial
and pricing policies which encourage economically juatified import substitu-
tion should improve the supply of pharmaceuticals and consumables in the next
few years. In April, 1991, the Government decided to charge consumers the
full cost of imported drugs; at the same time, in an effort to improve
quality and restore financial stability to the domestic industry, producer
prices were raised by an average of 250%. However, domestic producer prices
will still need to rise by a further factor of five to reach parity with
import prices, and for some drugs, producer prices would have to rise even
higher to make domestic production worthwhile. In such cases, local demand
would be better met from imports -.ther than from domestic production.
29.    The local pharmaceutical industry should not be expected to subsidize
the consumer by accepting producer prices below the cost of production.
However, if the necessary increases in producer prices outlined in para. 28
were passed to the consumer with no increase in subsidy or insurance coverage,
the average household would have to spend about 8% of household income on drug
purchases - a very high amount by international standards.  The Government has
therefore begun to review the issue of consumer subsidies.  Until recently,
certain groups (e.g. hospital in-patients, children and the elderly) received
free medication, while the rest of the population received no direct subsidy.
Following the price reforms described above, social insurance contributions
(compulsory for all state employees and voluntary for others) were raised by
2% to finance rebates for the covered population amounting to 50% of the new
drugs prices. An EC financed study expected to start in late 1991 will assist
the Government address further the issues of drug prices and consumer
subsidies, including the financing of drugs used in hospitals. The findings
of the Study will be reviewed with the Bank.
30.     Ensurina Provision of Primary Health Care.  The crisis in management,
structure and financing of health care described above has particularly
affected PHC, which is now collapsing. Many dispensaries lack even the most
rudimentary supplies of drugs, syringes, and equipment. It is reported that,
because disposable syringes are in short supply, they are often reused. In
the absence of functioning sterilization equipment, reusable equipment is
often not properly disinfected. Dental equipment is unusable for want of
spare parts and supplies. Treatment of childhood infections is delayed through
shortages of antibiotics. Some rural dispensaries lack any means of communi-
cation with district hospitals, or transport for emergency cases. In part
because of the lack of opportunities to practice their profession and in part
because of poor living conditions, rural doctors are seeking to leave their
posts.
31.     Within primary health care, actions to improve maternal and child
health (MCH) are a particularly high priority. Although the high infant
mortality rate (para. 3) is caused in part by poor social conditions, improve-
ments in PHC, in particular better availability of drugs, vaccines and emer-
gency transport, as well as training for management of Acute Respiratory
Infection (ARI), high risk pregnancies and diarrhea would certainly bring
about a reduction. Immediate actions to legalize abortion dramatically
reduced the maternal mortality rate in 1990, but the overall rate remains high
(para. 3), caused, in order of importance, by abortions and post-partum
hemorrhage. In 1990, there were about one million legal abortions in Romania



- 10 -
(i.e. three abortLons for each delivery)7. In contrast, there were only about
58,000 acceptors of modern family planning methods (1.1% of women of
reproductive age (WRA)) for the same period. Even allowing for some unrecordod
family planning (FP) acceptors, this is a very low rate. The reasons include
the poor quality and unreliable supply of contraceptives, a lack of FP
services (at present there are only about 100 poorly equipped centers In the
count-y), inappropriate and poorly trained FP providers (VP is mainly provided
by c*necologists, rather than general practitLoners and trained lay
covAsellors), and cultural attitudes which militate agsinst contraceptive use.
32.    I.tensive efforts have begun to improve MCH. There includes (a)
preparation of an MCH strategy in collaboration with the World Health
Organization (WHO); (b) strengthening the Institute for the Mother, Child and
Adolescent (INCA); (c) establishing a Family Planning and Sex Education Unit
(FPSEU) within the MOH; (d) improving diagnostic and curative capacity; (e)
upgrading and establishing reproductive health facilities; and (f) preparing a
training plan. In addition, in an effort to encourage a switch from abortion
to modern family planning methods, the Government has increased the price of
an abortion relative to other forms of contraception.
33.    Realth Promotion. Health promotion as a means of reducing mortality
and morbidity was neglected by the previous regime. While the new Government
recognizes the importance of efforts to promote healthy lifestyles and provide
information on risk factors to the population, these efforts are hampered by
institutional weaknesses in the present administration of health promotion
activities, ignorance among health providers of the importance of health
promotion (a consequence of past distortion of health promotion efforts) and
the small numbers of NGOs working in the field. To promote health education
activities, a committee on health promotion has been established in the MOH,
and in addition, the Government has created an inter-ministerial committee
responsible for coordinating health promotion amongst several ministries
(Health, Education, Labor and Social Protection, Youth and Sports, Culture,
etc). The Government also plans to establish a National Center for Health
Promotion and Education (NCHPE) which would provide public information on
disease prevention and health promotion, support the development of good
practice in district health education laboratories and develop training
programs for health wor'ars and other professionals engaged in health
promotion.
7      This corresponds to about one abortion per five WIRA in each year.



. 11 -
OcyarnagBt Health PolLav and ftrategl
34.    The Romanian authorities are acutely aware of the crisis of management,
structure and resources which faces the health sector, and have begun the
process of reform. Actions which have already been taken includes a) placing
emphasis on primary health care and family health within the highly
constrained budget situation; b) rescinding the ban on FP, and initiating
reforme in the provision of FP which include encouraging NGO involvement; c)
licensing doctors for private practice; d) taking the first oteps to
decentralize the budget process; and e) eastabliehing or strengthening insti-
tutions such as the HSMI and IMCA which can play a key role in management
training and policy formulation.
35.    In preparing a systemic reform of the health care system, the
Government is emphasizing certain broad policy goals includings (a) equity;
(b) efficiency - reallocation of resources to health promotion, disease
prevention, and reduction in morbidity; (c) improved quality of care focussed
on individual and family needs; and (d) individual choice and participation.
36.    Achievement of these goals has implications for the initial direction
of the reform. Since private insurance is almost non-existent, development of
a private insurance sector offering universal health coverage would take a
long time, and for the next decade at least, the Government will need to
ensure equity through a public financing system with universal coverage.
Issues for reform include how the financing is to be collected (general
revenues, earmarked taxes, co-payments, etc.), managed (centrally or locally)
and allocated (per capita, fee for service, etc). Improved efflicency will
requtre elements of competition, and hence decentralization, with private
ownership of some health facilities, or public ownership with autonomous local
management for larger facilities (e.g. hospitals). Private management of
public facilities is also an option. It will a:so require incentive systems
which reward good performers and sanction bad ones. This in turn implies a
much improved health information system. Improved quality will require better
training, diffusion of new technology, improved facilities and supplies, a
greater emphasis on family practice and a revised role for the government and
private associations (e.g. medical societies, NGOs) in ietting standards and
assuring quality. Indlvidual cholce and particlpation will require multiple
providers, who will need careful regulation to reduce inefficiencies
associated with excess capacity. An active program of health education and
information will be needed 20 that Romanians become informed health care
providers and consumers.
37. The constrained economic environment and critical balance of payments
position (para. 2), severely limits the options for quality improvement and
reform in the short-term. The Government has therefore decided to focus the
first phase of its reform program on two high priority objectives, whose
successful achievement would provide a firm basis for a more systemic medium-
term reform. These are: (a) rehabilitating and improving PHC, with a special
emphasis on MCH and reproductive health; and (b) restructuring the
organization and finance of health care to provide a system which is
sustainable, efficient and responsive to patient needs.



12 -
Dh * anks Rol-
38.   The Government is placing hign prlority on two key areas of hk an
resource development during the early phase of the tranoition to a market
economy: improved health care is vital on reverse the deterioration in the
population's health over the lst decade; an:d an adequate social safety net8
in essential to protect from povorty those most adversely affected by
inflation and unemployment. The Bank is assisting the development of the
social safety net through Economic and Sector Work9 and the FY91 Technical
Assistance-Critical Imports loan (Report No. P-5584-RO).
39.   In the health sector, the Bank has aosisted the Government articulate
its priorities over the next 3-5 years. These includes (a) rehabilitating
primary health care to provide a cost-effective means of reducing mortality
and morbidity; (b) restructuring the financing and management of health care
to improve access and delivery; and (c) rehabilitating the tertiary health
care system. The proposed Bank loan would focus on items (a) and (b), which
are the top priorities and the most attainable in the current economic
sltuation. A major justification and result of the loan would be the
development of a health strategy and program to ensure a sustainable, cost-
effective health care system in the medium-term. The project would also
support a number of important changes in strategy and policy: assistance for
the restructuring of the Romanian pharmaceutical industry; shifting some of
the patient load from the tertiary hospitals to the primary care structure,
thereby lowering unit costs of health care; shifting the emphasis of
contraception from abortion to modern methods of family planning, thus
improving the health of women; renewing emphasis on continuing education for
medical staff; and increasing attention to preventive, rather than curative
medicine as a more cost-effective method to address the country's high
morbidity and mortality rates.
40.   The severe ece.omic contraction and loss of foreign exchange earnings
provide little oppoztunity for any significant new investments at least in the
next year or two.  To improve the supply response, the country's primary needs
are for foreign exchange to import raw materials and spare parts. Within the
health sector, foreign exchange shortages have resulted in acute scarcities of
esential drugs and medical consumablea (para. 30) to the extent that primary
health care is now collapsing. The proposed loan would therefore finance
imports of these items as well as equipment for primary health care, technical
assistance and training.
S/    The term social safety not Is used here to deffne the package of policies and programs
whose primary purpose Is to protect from poverty those who are adversely affected by inflation and
urmiployment. OECD experience demonstrates that the social safety net is a permanent feature of a welt
tunc:ionfng market economy.
9/     A recent Bank report (9577 RO) provideos recommendations for the social safety net, health,
education and training. A study of the fncidence of poverty and targeting of benefits is planned for FY92.



- 13 -
41.   Given the neglect over the last decade, the health sector will need
considerable assistance and the proposed project is intended as a first phase
of Bank support. A second health sector loan would support the structural
changes begun in the proposed project. Other Bank operations in the human
resources sector would provide further support to the social safety net, as
well as assistance for education and training. In preparing the project, the
Bank has collaborated closely with other donors and No3s which are assisting
the health sector in Romania.



- 14 -
II. *- HEflLT CARU RGHRAlLIATION PROJECW
Prolect Obiectives
42.   The proposed project has two pringipal objectLvess
(a)   to rehabilitate and upgrade the primary health care (PHC) delLvery
system which is collapsing through want of equipment, spare parts,
drugs and medical supplies. By focussing on maternal and child
health (MCH), increasing access and choice in family planning
(PP), and HIV/HepatitiL B preventlon, the project would (i)
decrease maternal and under-S mortality and morbidity, as well as
adult mortality and morbidity, and (ii) reduce the flow of
unwanted chlldren into institutlons. Shifting the patlent load
froui the tertiary hospitals to the primary care structure would
lower unit costs of health care by improvLng utilization of lower
cost services; and
(b)   to support the first steps of a major restructurlng of health
sector financing and management to ensure a sustainable, cost-
effective health care system in the medium term.
43.   The PHC obiective would be achieved by:
(a)   upgrading rural dispersaries and attracting physicians to work
there;
(b)   improving reproductive health care services (MCH and FP);
(c)   strengthening pre/in-service training for nurses and physicians;
(d)   introducing a health promotion program focuseing on key
health priorities;
(e)   ensuring the supply of essentlal drugs, consumables, vaccines and
blood products;
(f)   upgrading the communicatlon/transport system for emergencLes.
44.   The restructurina objective would be achieved byt
(a)   preparing a national health strategy, based in part on pllot
experiments in decentralization and improved resource allocation;
(b)   developing a Health Informatlon System; and
(c)   developing the Health Services Management Institute (HSMI).
45.   A summary of project costs by component and sub-component and a
description of implementation arrangements ia provided in Chapter 3 and Annex
S. A breakdown of technical assistance (TA) and fellowships by component and



- 15 -
sub-component can be found in Annex 6. Working papers available in the
project files provide deacriptions of each project component, as well as
details of equipment to be procured, collaboration with other agencies etc.
A.  EARAILITATING AND UPGRADING PRIMARY HEALTH CAR$.
Uoorad- Rural DieMnsarigs  (estimated project cost US$25.4m.10)
46.   The project would assist the Government's first phase of PHC system
rehabilitation by upgrading some 420 rural dispensaries (about 8E of total) in
the country's 41 districts. This first phase is targeted toward rural areas
because: (a) owing to their isolation, the lack of PHC takes a higher health
toll on rural residents; and (b) these dispensaries are the least well
equipped and supplied. Rural dispensaries have been selected using the
following criteria: demographic coverage (each center would serve about 4500
inhabitants); local needs (e.g. those communes with the highest infant
mortality rate); community support (e.g. willingness to provide cash or in-
kind support); availability of paramedloal staff; and location in the four
pilot decentralization districts (para. 79). Using these criteria, 102
dispensaries have be/in selected for upgrading in 1992, and a further 160
dispensaries per year would be included in 1993 and in 1994. A health map of
each district has beon prepared, showing the physical relationship between the
dispensary and the referral center. The project would supply clinical and
dental equipment, and educational materials. In a parallel project, the EC
would finance laboratory equipment and renovation for the selected
dispensaries. To encourage their active participation, the dispensary
physiciane would select equipment that meets their needs from a model
equipment list which has been prepared. The project would also provide
fellowships for district staff to learn about PHC developments abroad and TA
to assist with implementation of this component.
47.   The Government recognizes that additional incentives over and above
better professional opportunities will need to be provided by the commune,
district or central government to attract and retain physicians in rural
areas. Based on a working group report, the MOH is preparing an incentive
plan to attract health personnel to work in rural areas which includes
measures to be financed by the MOH, district, commune and patients.
IXmrove Reoroductive Realth Care Services (estimated project cost US535.6m.)
48. High infant and maternal mortality, the prevalence of infant diseases
such as ARI and the high number of abortions and related complications clearly
demonstrate the need to strengthen reproductive health services and
pediatrics. The objective of this sub-component is to improve delivery of a
range of these services, and by providing greater access and choice, increase
10    Estfmated project costs in this chapter are provided without physirst or price
contigencries.



- 16 -
the number of FP acceptors. WHO (which has aosisted the MOH prepare a medium-
term MCH plan), UNICEF and UNFPA have cooperated closely in project
preparation, and intend to provide TA, fellowships, local training, and
limited amounts of equipment in support of the project. In addition, a number
of NGOs and bilateral agencies were also consulted. The project would support:
(a) the Institute of Mother, Child and Adolescent (INCA); (b) The Family
Planning and Sex Education Unit (FPSEU) in the MOH; (c) reproductive health
centers; (d) maternity/neonatal referral units; and (e) contraceptive
supplies.
49.   Institute- for the Mother. Child and Adoloscent. The INCA is one of the
country's major teaching and research institutes in MCH. It assists the MOH in
setting MCH standards and also participates in health education programs. The
institute has five sections: a) pediatrics; b) maternity, high risk pregnancy
and neonatal intensive care; c) a polyclinic for handicapped children; d) an
orphanage; and e) a laboratory for early detection of gynecological cancers.
Both equipment and highly trained physicians and paramedical staff are in
short supply. A key objective of the IMCA is to improve standards in high
risk maternity and neonatal care by training obstetricians and neonatologists,
supervising midwifery and neonatal nurse training, organizing epidemiological
surveys, and setting staffing and equipment standards in perinatology. The
IMCA is also in charge of national efforts to reduce genital and breast cancer
mortality.  It also advises the KO0 on the FP program and trains reproductive
health personnel. The IMCA would also assist in the coordination of the MCH
program to be supported by the project.
50.   The project would provide equipment in support of: (a) the High Risk
Pregnancy and Neonatal Intensive Care Dapartment, so that lt can (i) become a
referral facllity for hlgh rlsk pregnancLes, and a training unit for
obstetrLcLans and midwives, and (li) train nurses, pedLatricians and new-born
intenslve care specialists, wlth a view to reducing the early Lnfant death
rate; (b) the cancer detection center, which will be-ome a country-wlde
referral center for pap-smears, and organize and monitor early detection and
treatment of cervical and breast cancersl and (c) MCH training programs for
general practitioners (9?s), specialists, mid-wives and nurses. Fellowships
wlll be provided for IMCA staff for instructor trainLng, tralnlng in public
communications, new s5pcializations and for management training. WHO will
provlde TA for the launching and organization of new activities and to develop
institutional management.
51.   The Family Plannina and Sex Education Unit.  The FPSEU has been
established in the DMCH of the MOH to: (a) coordinate, evaluate and provide
quallty control of the MOH's reproductive health activities; (b) organize
training; (c) manage an information center in collaboration with one of the
national reproductive health reference centers (see below); (d) plan
operational research; (e) coordinate with NGOs; and (f) assess national
contraceptive requirements and prepare marketing and distribution plans. The
FPSEU staff would be strengthened with two additional professional staff to
carry out these tasks. In addition, the reproductive health reference center
in Bucharest (see below) would be provided with at least three additional
specialist staff to support the FPSEU. A 24 hour telephone service, would be
installed at the Reference Center to provide counselling.
52.   The project would support audiovisual equipment for the information
center, fellowships to assist FPSEU staff learn about FP activities in other



- 17 -
countries and TA to assist the FPSEU carry out its functions as described
above. During negotiations, the Goverfent confirme" that it would provide a
total of five additional qualified staff for the FPSmE and the Bucharest
Reproductive Health Centor by December 31, 1991.
53.   Roroductive Health Centers.  The project would provide equipment,
educational materials and suppliee to upgrade 10 reproductive health reference
centers at the six University Hospitals and in four major cities (Arad, Satu
Mare, Sibiu and Constanza). The centers would train health providers, provide
information and counselling, FP and abortion services, and cancer screening.
Patients would be referred within the same institution for more comprehensive
services. TA would be provided for staff training in specialized topics such
as laparoscopy, with additional training for the gynecologists, reference
center managers and counsellors provided by WHO/UNFPA1". With support from
WHO, UNFPA and the continuing education section of the MOH, the reference
centers would train annually about 400 gynecologists, provide FP certification
training to about 125 GPs, and a one week PP initiation course for 4,000 GPa
and nurses. Outline training plans have been prepared.
54.   The project would provide TA to develop training materials and
sDecialized training for physicians. The project would also provide equipment
and minor renovations to open 130, and upgrade a further 100 reproductive
health centers in district hospitals, urban hospitals and polyclinics. The MOH
has prepared a staff training plan to be implemented by the FPSEU and staff
from the 10 reference centers.
55.   MateritvlfN.otagl Referrail Units.  The project would improve the
diagnostic and curative capacity of 50 maternity/neonatal referral units
located in each district and in the university hospitals by upgrading
equipment in the labor and delivery rooms and neonatal units. TA would be
provided to prepare training modules for the staff of the referral units. The
training would be provided by the INCA. WHO and UNICEF will support a survey
of maternity care professionals, staff training, books and materials, and
studies including: a) the institutionalization of children; b) staff training
needs in children's institutions; c) nutritional and immunization status of
children; and d) genetic disorders among institutionalized children.
56.   Contracentive_ 8unolies.  The project would support efforts to increase
the number of FP acceptors from the current 1.1% of WRA (para 31) to about 18%
by the end of 1994. The MOH has estimated the annual import requirements for
condoms, oral contraceptive cycles and IUDs to meet these targets, and the
potential volume of supplies from foreign donors and NGOe. The project would
supply the shortfall in oral contraceptives and IUDs. (The MOH estimates that
there will be a sufficient supply of condoms from other sources). The
contraceptives would be distributed to the 10 reproductive health reference
centers and the 230 reproductive health centers, and in order to encourage
acceptance, would be supplied at low cost to women using the centers. During
1992, the FPSEI would prepare, with local NGOo and TA supplied by the project,
a marketing and distribution plan for contraceptives with a view to
establishing appropriate marketing, pricing and distribution policies to
encourage as wide as possible acceptance of modern FP methods. During
It    To be fnaltized. If UNFPA/WHO fuwds are uLavaiteble, this training will be provided by the
Project.



- 18 -
negotiations, the Governsent agreed: (a) to prepare a contraceptive marketing
and distribution plan by June 30, 1992 and to review the plan with the Bank by
September 30, 1992; and (b) to continue to adjust annually priceo of
reproductive health interventions to encourage the use of contraceptives.
Strongthen Pro/Xn-Service Training for Nuroes and Physicians (estimated
project cost US$1.4m.)
57.   The Government has recognized that reestablishing nurse training,
improving nursing career opportunities and providing continuing education for
physicians are essential elements of health system reform and improved
resource utilization. This sub-component would strengthen nurse training and
physician continuing education in primary health care topics. Since it will be
necessary to reestablish nursing as a worthwhile career, the Governmnt
agreed during nagotiations: (a) to prepare for Bank review by July 1, 1992 a
career plan for nurses, including training, certification, quality control and
incentives to reward improved qualifications and standards, and begin to
implement the agreed plan by January 1, 1993; and (b) to add two positions in
the XOB Directorate of Human Resources to coordinate pre- and in-service
training by December 31, 1991.
58.   Strennthen Nursina Training.  The project would assist (a) efforts to
develop the Post Basic Nursing School (PBNS) in Bucharost, and (b) in
cooperation with UNICEF, improve the 41 new nursing schools recently
established in each district to provide local-level training.
59.  The PBNS provides annually one to four week courses to 3,000-4,000
nurses, laboratory, pharmacy, physiotherapy and radiology technicians and
maintenance staff. The school has limited and obsolete facilities and over
half of the faculty lack relevant qualifications or experience. The Government
intends the PBNS to assume national responsibility for developing training
programs for nurse tutors, nursing specialists (community health, MCH,
psychiatry) and nurse managers, for which virtually no training has been
provided during the last 15 years, and to assist improving nursing standards
throughout the country. The School is currently receiving limited assistance
from a number of bilateral donors. In collaboration with UNICEF and WHO, which
would assist in identifying suitable international experts, the project would
finance TA and fellowships, office equipment and software to design and
develop training programs. However, development of the PBNS has been
constrained (a) by regulations which made it ineligible to award professional
diplomas, and (b) by inappropriate staffing. The Government has suitably
modified the legal and administrative status of the PBNS and plans to staff
the institution with nurse trainees who will shortly return from overseas
training.
60.   In collaboration with UNICEF, which will provide TA and teaching
materials to develop appropriate nurse training curricula, the project would
supply audio-visual aids, additional teaching materials and office equipment
to the 41 nursing schools which would be used for both pre- and in-service
training. In-service training would include: (a) the "bridge" program
(organized in all districts to permit nurse technicians who graduated from
high schools to upgrade their skills); and (b) a program of continuing
education. The KOH has prepared a training plan including: identification of
priority subjects (FP, high risk pregnancy, child health maintenance,



- 19 -
community health, health education, simple laboratory techniqueo); an
implementation program (18 regional workshops followed by secondary workshops
in each district); and requirements for training materials (250 kits). The
project would support the production of the 250 kits and running costs of the
training programs. Development of the 41 nursing schools has been constrained
by jurisdictional issues between the Ministry of Education end the MOH
concerning management of the schools. However, the two ministries have
recently drafted a decree wtich transfers jurisdictions to the MOH, with joint
issuance of diploma. during a suitable transitional period.
61.   improve Contiugina Nducation for Physicians.  In addition to the
training in reproductive health described in paras. 50 and 53, the project
would support PHC training in ARI, cardio-vascular diseases, cancer prevention
and detection, child health maintenance, community diagnosis and health
education, management of consultation and emergency transfer, and sterili-
zation of medico-surgical equipment for 650 OPe and nurses working in the
upgraded dispensaries. Training would be provided by the Continuing Education
Unit in the MOH via four one-week courses over a two year period. The project
would provide training equipment, books and materials, fellowships and TA for
development of training modules and support local costs.
Enoure Suoulv of Essential Drucs. Consunables. Vaccines and Blood Products.
(estimated project cost US$93.2m.)
62. This sub-component woulds (a) provide essential drugs and medical
consumablesl (b) prepare a strategic plan for the Pharmaceuticals industry;
(c) provide equipment to ensure the continued production of vaccines; and (d)
provide equipment to ensure the production of safe blood products.
63.   DRuAsg  and ConsumabLe& The acute shortages of essential drugs and
medical supplies described in Chapter I have contributed to the collapse of
PHC and the consequent overburdening of the hospital system, as patients have
been forced to use hospital out-patient facilities to obtain essential
medication. To support the rehabilitation of the PHC system and to ensure
critical supplies for hospitals and polyclinics, the project would finance
certain essential drugs and medical supplies during the first two years of the
project (1992-93). This would be the period when the shortage of foreign
exchange is expected to be most acute as the transition to a market economy
takes effect, and when the Romanian pharmaceutical industry would begin
restructuring to improve domestic production (para. 65). A list of drugs and
consumables to be procured under the project is available in the project files
(a national drugs formulary for the public sector is being drafted). The list,
which covers the gap between Romania's minimum needs and supplies from local
productlon, domestically financed imports, and projected donor assistance
includes: (a) for nriMarv health care, essential drugs to address (i) the main
causes of mortality and morbidity in infants and children; (ii) communicable
diseases such as tuberculosis; and (iii) maternal mortality and morbidity; and
(b) for hosoitals and  olvclinics, certain essential drugs for clinical and
surgical purposes. In support of its current policy concerning the wholesale
price of imported drugs (para. 28), the government confirmed during
negotiations that drugs procured through the project will bo sold to health



- 20 -
institutions and pharmacies at least at the CIF price converted into Lei at
the market exchange rate, plus a suitable distribution margin. The Goverment
also confirmed that it would finalise the national drugs formulary by March 1,
1992.
64.    TA and computer equipment would be provided to assist the regional
distributLon systems in stock management, warehousing, distributlon and
accounting. The project would also provide equipment for the Instltute for
Drug Quality Control-IOQC (in charge of drugs registration) and TA and
fellowships to the MOH Directorate of PharmaceutLcal ServLces for the design
and lmplementation of a new purchasing policy for drugs and consumables. The
IDQC is now able to use hard currency earnLngs from charges to drug
manufacturers for reglitering new drugs to purchase materLals needed for drugs
testlng.
65.    PrgnaratLon of a strutegig Plan for the Pnhaaceutical Industry. To
assist the restructuring and rehabllitation of the domestic drugs lndustry,
the project would finance TA to develop a strateglc plan for the industry.
The study would: (a) analyze the problems faced by the six major pharmaceu-
tical companies with respect to quantity, quality, flnancial viability of
product llnes, management of operatlons, research and development, product
distribution and marketlng, and lnvestments to rehabllitate the Lndustry; (b)
prepare a strategLc plan to restructure the subsector as a whole and the
individual production enterprises, with a view to their ultimate privatization
if appropriate; and (c) prepare preliminary feaeibillty studies to estimate
the total capital Lnvestment required to implement the restructurlng plan.
Terms of reference for the study are attached in Annex 2, Attachment 1.
During negotiations, the Government agreed to prepare a Strategic Plan as
described above, review it with the Dank by December 31, 1992 and begin
implementation shortly thereafter.
66.    Vaccines.  The project would provide replacement equipment and spares
to ensure continued productlon of vacclnes at the Cantacuzino Institute in
Bucharest (the sole domestic producer of vaccines). Essential replacement
equipment to be provided includes equipment for aseptic conditioning of biolo-
gical products, deep-freezers, a freeze-dryer, a large steam sterilization
unit, and a large volume filtration unit. The Institute has established links
with the Pasteur Institute in Paris, which will assist with upgrading
production and research.
67.    BloodlProducts.  The EC, the Red Cross, and French Cooperation will
provide equipment for eight blood transfusion centers, fractionation and
production of blood derivatives and TA as part of an urgent effort to provide
safe blood products and prevent blood-transmitted AIDS and Hepatitis B. The
project would supply laboratory equipment and reagents for the National
Reference Laboratory in charge of monitoring the quality of blood control by
the 41 blood transfusLon centers. The National Reference Laboratory would
provide the centers with technlcal expertise and access to sophisticated
technology for AIDS testing and detection of Hepatltis. Depending on the
level of assistance which may be proposed by a forthcoming WHO mission, the
project would also provide advanced fellowship training for laboratory
techniclans, biochemists and center managers.



- 21 -
Ig2rove Managgment Of Emerasucieo  (estimated project cost US$8.9m.)
68.    The mortality rate from the first cause of death in Romania (cardio-
vascular diseases), as well as from accidents would be diminished with
improved emergency transport and communications. Inadequate emergency communi-
cations and transportation often prevent PIC staff seeking consultation from
specialists, obtaining rapid transportation, or notifying referral centers of
incoming emergencies. The project would provide communications equipment for
the 60 dispensaries included in the project presently without services, and
ambulances and spare parts for the district emergency transport systems. In
addition, TA would be provided to review the emergency transport system at the
district level.
Imorovo Health Promotion and Population's PartLcipation in Health care
(eotimated project cost US$4.8m.)
69.    This sub-component would improve health promotion activities at the
national and local level, and would finance a small environmental health
research project.
70.    National Level.  The project would strengthen national planning,
coordination and management of health promotion and education by developing a
National Center for Health Promotion and Education (NCHPE) in the Institute of
Hygiene and Public Health. The Center would provide public information on
disease prevention and health promotion, support the development of good
practice in district health education laboratories and develop training
programs for health workers and other professionals engaged in health
promotion/education. Detailed objectives and staffing needs for the Center are
under preparation with assistance from WHO. Early priorities for activities
would be selected from the following topics: hygiene and sanitation; coronary
heart disease; HIV/AIDS; FP; cancer prevention and early detection; accidents;
healthy lifestyle; and environment. During negotiations, the Government agreed
that by December 31, 1991, it would: (a) set up and appropriately staff the
Center; and (b) prepare for Bank review a development plan for health
promotion and public participation to include training of district health
education workers and involvement of NDOs for the years 1992-94.
71.   In cooperation with WHO and UNICEF which would provide complementary TA
and fellowship training, the project would support the Center with: (a)
fellowships for advanced training in public health /health education including
placements with a foreign health promotion agency; (b) TA for management
development, evaluation and monitoring; and (c) equipment to produce health
promotion and training materials. In addition, to promote public trust and
participation in the health system, the project would provide TA, fellowships
and office equipment to develop an ethics unit in the KOH to monitor patient-
physician relationships.
72.   Loca Levol.  The NCHPE would develop training programs for staff
working in district health education laboratories attached to the DHD. The
district health laboratories would in turn train health staff at the periphery
and encourage efforts by local health Fersonnel to establish a health dialogue
with the local community. The project would provide equipment for district
health promotion laboratories to produce local health education and promotion
materials. The project would also finance a health promotion fund which would
be used to support NGO and local government initiatives such as FP services



- 22 -
for special groups (e.g. adolescents)* health promotion activitieo in schools,
and fostering dialogue between health providers and local groups of consumers.
The organization of the Health Promotion Fund and criteria for its use are
included in Annex 10. An Organizational Manual (O) for the fund, as well as
guidelines for the fund's monitoring and administration are being developed in
association with the Bank-wide Learning Exercise on Popular Participation.
73.   2gLlronaental Health.  There is concern in Romania about the impact of
the Chernobyl disaster on children born in parts of the country which were
affected bjy radio-active fallout. The project would finance a study of the
endocrine system of children born in 1986 in Botosani and Suceava districts
(the areas worst affected) as well as in Bucharest. For comparison purposes,
children born in the same year in Timis district (the area least affected)
would be surveyed. A sample of women of reproductive age would also be
studied. The study would examine the impact of increased radioactive iodine
absorption on the thyroid function and on reproductive endocrinology. The
project would finance TA, fellowships, equipment and consumables.
B. RESTRUCTUR NO MEALTH SECTOR FINANCE AND MANQAEMENT
74.   The Government recognizes that improving health outcomes requires
fundamental reform of health care finance and delivery to: (a) provide more
autonomy to public providers; (b) develop private provision of medical
services; (c) diversify sources of health care financing; and (d) offer more
consumer choice and participation. Careful design of the reform will be
needed to ensure achievement of the policy goals described in para. 35. The
project would support three key building blocks in the reform effort: (a)
preparation of a new national health strategy based in part on pilot
experiments in decentralization and improved resource utilization; (b) an
improved health information system; and (d) development of a School of Health
Systems and Management within the HSMI.
Preparation of a New National Health Strateov (eetimated project cost
US$3.1m.)
75.   The health system needs fundamental reform in order to perform its
functions efficiently and effectively in a market economy. To assist the
Government design and implement a reform program, the project would (a)
support the preparation of a set of policy studies and reform options; and (b)
assist implementing the first phase of the reform. A special committee
comprising representatives from the Ministries of Health and Finance and
specialized institutes has been appointed to manage the studies and first
phase of implementation, using the HSMI as the executing agency. The expected
outcomes are as follows.
(a) A Series of Pagars and a Summary Reoort. with Detailed Reform
Propogals, These would include proposals for:
(i)    financing, including the role of private finance and
private-public mix in finance;



- 23 -
(il)   the delivery system: the roles of the public and private
sectors; private-public mix in delivery; and the legal
framework and institutions governing public and private
delivery;
(iii) criteria for allocation of public funds and compensation of
health providers (e.g., budgeting, fee for service,
diagnostic related groups, capitation);
(iv)   organization: roles for the MOH, DHD, local governments etc.
in policy making, monitoring and evaluation, manpower
planning, investment and technology adoption, and quality
control;
(v)    new institutions, and change in governance of existing
institution.;
(c) Precaration gf the First Phase of Reforms. After the summary report
has been distributed and widely discussed in Romania, the initiation
and implementation of the first phase of reforms would be directed
by the Special Committee (para. 75). The Committee would be
assisted by consultants appointed for the expedient implementation
of the reform. The committee woulds (i) prepare a time-phased plan,
including required legal and institutional changes, with deadlines;
and (ii) specify resources, equipment, training, TA etc., necessary
for implementation.
76.    Details of the policy studies and the implementation plan are attached
in Annex 3. During negotiations, the Government agreed to carry out the
studies, review with the Bank the proposed reform program by December 31,
1992, and begin implementation by July 1, 1993.
77.      Decentralization and Improved Resource Allocation.  As part of the
reform process, the project would support Government efforts to decentralize
management and control of the health system in order to improve resource
utilization, increase the responsiveness of the system to local needs,
encourage local decision making and establish accountability. Two types of
actions would be undertaken: (a) the Government would modify outmoded
regulations which unnecessarily restrict local initiative; and (b) there woule
be pilot decentralization experiments in four districts. The experience gained
would feed into the preparation of the national health strategy.
78.   The MOH, with the active collaboration of the four pilot districts (see
below) is preparing a list of regulations which need to be modified. For
example, the current rigid norms for staffing, expenditures etc. would be
replaced by a set of hospital standards and incentives to encourage greater
efficiency. At the same time, new rules would be issued to provide more
consumer choice. Examples include allowing all doctors to certify sick leave,
and permitting patients to choose their PHC facility within the district.



- 24 -
During negotiations, the draft proposals from the four districts were
discu&sed and the Government agreed to introduce suitable operational
procedures by January 1, 1992.
79.    Based on draft decentralization proposale submitted by a number of
districts, four districts have been selected to participate in a two-year
pilot decentralization program. The districts are now finalizing plans which
will includes (a) qualitative and quantitative targets (e.g. decreasing infant
mortality); (b) priority actions (e.g. privatizing or switching to an
autonomous financial regime existing fee-for-service units; restructuring of
health facilities); (c) financial decentralization and autonomy (e.g.
transferring financial reeponsibility for as many enterprise clinics as
possible to enterprises; allowing hospitals and health facilities to retain
revenues for activities such as renting unused space to NGOs for FP
activities); (d) experimenting with new financing schemes (e.g. fee-for-
service with global expenditure controls, or capitation fees for primary
health care); and (e) contracting out some services (e.g. laundry,
maintenance) following a competitive bidding process.
80.    The project would provides (a) TA to assist the four districts finalize
and implement their action plans and evaluate progress; (b) fellowships in
health facilities management for the district health director or a designated
unit manager in the district; and (c) equipment and materials to be selected
by each participating district to improve management procedures, or for
equipping district health facilities. The district plans were reviewed at
negotiations, and the Government agreed to begin implementation of the plans
by January 1, 1992, to send progress reports to the Bank at six-monthly
intervals thereafter, and a final report by December 31, 1993, which would
include plans for introducing successful decentralization actions on a
country-wide basis.
Development of a Health Information 8ystem (estimated project cost USS3.2m.)
81.    To assist the MOH, district and local managers to set objectives
efficiently and effectively, allocate resources, anticipate needs and monitor
performance, the project would support a first phase development of a national
health information system. The system would take advantage mainly of existing
data. The project would finance: (a) TA to design the system and train staff
in its use; and (b) equipment  the National Health Statistics Center and  the
districts. A more detailed description is provided in Annex 4. A working
paper outlining objectives and a description of the system, as well as TA
requirements and job descriptions is available in the project files.
School of Health Systems and Manaaement (estimated project cost US$3.1m.)
82.    To provide future trained health care managers and policy analysts, the
project would support the establishment of a School of Health Systems and
Management (SHSM) in the Health Services Management Institute. The School
would improve policy making, management, and evaluation in health care
institutions by: (a) improving understanding of principle and methods of



- 25 -
public health, finance, economics, law, decision-making and managements (b)
training existlng and new health care managers; (c) identifying and
researching pollcy and operatlonal lssuea, and disseminating the results; (d)
fostering international cooperation ln health economLcs, management and
adminLetratLon; and (e) trainlng of trainers.
83.    The project would provide TA, fellowships and equipments (a) for
curriculum development; (b) to enable the School to provide advanced pre-
service education to at leart 60 professionals during the period 1992-1994;
(c) to enroll at least 200 professionals - distrLct health directors,
directors of hospitals and lower level staff - in the continuing educatlon
program during the same period; and (d) for academic staff training overseas.
A working paper is available in the project files which provides: a detailed
course description and implementation schedule for the proposed advanced
program in health systems and management; an outline for a continuing
education program; a framework for operational research; job descriptions for
international experts to assist the development of the school; a fellowship
program; and an equipment llit. During negotiations, the Governsent agreed
that by March 1, 1992 it would ensure the necessary academic certification of
the School's programs, and pass a resolution that the graduates of the
academic program are recognised as holders of a professional specialty. The
Government also agreed that by March 1, 1992, lt would prepare for Bank roview
a set of incentives (both monetary and non-monetary) which will make
specialLsation in the management of health services an attractive career in
Romaia.
C- * NIRONMENTAL XMPACT
84.     The project has several positive environmental features: (a) as part
of the evolving health strategy, appropriate attention will be paid to better
protection against infection and proper medical waste disposal in project
supported institutions; (b) the strategic plan for the pharmaceuticals
industry (Annex 2, Attachment 1) would contain explicit measures to control
pollution associated with these industries; (c) new equipment to be supplied
for the production of vaccines (para. 66) would minimize risks of virus
infection and contamination; and (d) the environmental health study (para. 73)
would determlne the impact of, and measures needed to deal wlth, radiation
pollution.



- 26 -
iI. POJET COS, P MCG. NME     AM WMPRAI.
C:OSt f ghe Prolect.
85.         Project Cost  ummari,s.  Project costs by project item (US$207.5
million) are shown in Table 3.1 below. Details of thege costs (including
expenditure type and timing) are shown in Annex 5.
TABLE 3 . 1  PROJECT SUURY BY PROJECT ITW  a/
K of   K of
Lei Miltion ----      .. USS Million  -- Base  Foreign
Locat  Foreign    Totat   Local Foreign   Total  Costs Exchange
REHABILITATE & UPGRADE PHC
Upgrade Rural Dispensaries                656.7    867.9  1,524.6    10.9    14.5    25.4         14X      57X
Reproductive Health Care Servc.           486.9  1,650.5  2,137.4       8.1    27.5    35.6       20X      7rx
Training for Nurses & Ph nicians           29.9     51.2      81.1      0.5     0.9      1.4       1X     63X
Drugs, Consum, VacC. & Stood P.         1,277.9  4,312.7  5,590.6    21.3    71.9    93.2         52      77X
Management of Emergencies                 348.4    186.9    535.3       5.8     3.1      8.9       5X     35X
Health Promotion/Participation             52.4    234.5    286.8       0.9     3.9      4.8       3K     82K
Sub-Total Rehabilitation:         2,852.1  7,303.7 1O,155.9    47.5   121.7   169.3         95K      72X
.....    .....       .      .....   .....  . . .....   ----   ... -----............ ........  .. 
RESTRUCTURE THE HEALTH SECTOR
National Heatth Strategy                   41.0    147.2    188.2       0.7     2.5      3.1       2K     78X
Health Information System                  44.1    146.0    190.4       0.7     2.4      3.2       2K     77K
School of Health Systems & Mgmt            24.6    159.4    184.0       0.4     2.7      3.1      2      87X
Sub-Tot Restr Health Sector:            110.0    452.6    562.6       1.8     7.5      9.4       5K     80K
Total Base Costs:                          2,962 2  7,756.3 10,718.5    49.4   129.3   178.6    100l         7n
Physicat Contingencies:                   296.2    775.6  1,071.8       4.9    12.9    17.9       10     72K
Price Contingencies:                      190.8    466.9    657.7       3.2     7.8    11.0        6K     71X
... .......    .; ; ..... ........ ... ..... . ...... . .....   ...... . . .... .   ....... ........... .....
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                        3,449.2  8,998.8 12,448.1    57.5   150.0   207.5    116K          72X
n232     uu         UUU i~m num    aua    iu
a/ Includes taxes In the amo4mt of:   $18.9 Mitlion
86.         Project costs by category of expenditure are shown in Table 3.2 below.
These costs include TA, equipment, vehicles, software, books, medical
supplies, spare parts, building facilities (including government financed
rehabilitation and furniture), and incremental recurrent costs for the
project.



- 27 -
TABLE 3.2:   PROJECT COST SUMARY BY CATEGORY OF EXPENDITURE
Xof    X
- Lef Million ----    ----  USS Million  -- Base Foreign
Local  Foreign   Total  Local Foreign   Total  Costs Exchange
........  .........  ---  . ....  .....  ....    ...... ......... .... ...... ....
A. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE COSTS
Fellowships (Foreign)                     179.0   179.0             3.0    3.0      21   100X
Consultants (Foreign)             79.6   329.2   408.7    1.3    5.5    6.8          41    81t
Training (Local)                   4.5              4.5    0.1              0.'    0O
Consultants (Local)                5.2              5.2    0.1              0.1    0O
-- -        ...  ...  .....  ..... .. .....  -----.. ..... ..................
Sub-Total Technical Assistance:    89.3   508.2   597.5    1.5    8.5   10.0          6%    852
-----~~~~ ~~ ----    .......---...
B. EQUIPMENT, SOFTWARE, SPARES AND VEHICLES
Equipment                        716.5  2,388.2  3,104.7   11.9   39.8   51.7    291    77X
Software                          23.4   118.3   141.7    0.4    2.0    2.4         1X    84X
Spare Parts                      122.5    34.2   156.7    2.0    0.6    2.6          12    221
Vehicles                          48.6   162.0   210.6    0.8    2.7    3.5          21    771
.....    .......    .......  -----. .... ..... .  ----- . .... .. ...  ---....-......... ..........
Sub-Total Eqt, Spares & Vehicles:   910.9 2,702.8 3,613.7   15.2   45.0   60.2    34X    75X
....     .......     .......  -----. .... .  .... ......  -----  ... . ... ...----.. ..... .
C: MEDICAL SUPPLIES
#SSVSI#:":D~~~~as             I     SS##S=# -----   -----  - ...----....... .....  ..... ......  ----.-
Drugs                            873.5  2,911.6 3,785.1   14.6   48.5   63.1    35X    77X
Contraceptives                   141.8   472.8   614.6    2.4    7.9   10.2         61    77X
Disposable Materials             348.3  1,161.0  1,509.3    5.8   19.4   25.2    14X    772
Medical Supplies: Sub-total  1,363.6 4,545.4  5,909.0   22.7   75.8   98.5    551    77X
,--    . ......    ............ -----.  -----.... .....  ... ... . .... .   .
0: BUILDING FACILITIES
s#s#=n#wasuas===zlasns.....   ...    .....--   - --     -- -- ------ ..   ....    - --   - -- -
Building Rehabilitation          344.8            344.8    5.7              5.7     31
Furniture                         58.1             58.1    1.0              1.0     1X
, i....... ........ .....   ----... ....   .............. 
Building Facilities: Stb-tot   403.0            403.0    6.7              6.7     41
,.................   ....... .. .....   ....  ......   ....  --    ---
E: INCRENENTAL RECURRENT COSTS
195.4            195.4    3.3             3.3      2X
. ...   .....  .    -----  ..... .. -----  ..... . . ---.  ...... ......... ...
Incr. Rec Costs: Sub-total     195.4            195.4    3.3             3.3      2X
Total Base Costs:                 2,962.2  7,756.3 10,718.5   49.4  129.3  178.6   1001    721
Physical Coantingencies:         296.2   775.6  1,071.8    4.9   12.9   17.9    102    722
Price Contingenies:              190.8   466.9   657.7    3.2    7.8   11.0         62    71%
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS               3, 449.2 8, 998.8 12,448.1   57.5  150.0  207.5   1161    721
l:3S:S#  == ##=== ##IuSX=tm  a===   u=u=   ==-==   u===  =====
87.         Basis of Cost Estimates.   All project costs have been estimated in
US$ terms, and converted into Lei at the official exchange rate of 60 Lei per
US$'2/. Technical assistance costs (about 7 percent of project total) are
based on recent costs for comparable TA in the Third Industrial Restructuring
Project in Hungary  (Loan 3020-HU),  adapted to costs in Romania.   The monthly
costs are averaged"3/ as follows: (a) foreign consultant costs of US$11,000
(foreign cost) and US$3,000 (local cost); (b) Romanian consultants US$500
12 All project costs have been estimated in US$ because of uncertainties about the market value of
the Loi between the official rate (currently about Lei 60 per USS) and the inter-bank rate of about Lei 200
per U5S.
13 There are considerable variations within this average, and these have been taken into account in
the details of project costs where appropriate (e.g. management consultant costs are estimated at about
twice the average unit cost).



- 28 -
(local cost); (c) foreign fellowships US$6,500 (foreign cost) and (d) local
training US$500 (local cost). Costs of consumable and durable goods are based
on detailed lists of unit costs and requirements which have been prepared for
the project components described in Chapter II. Building refurbishment costs,
furniture costs and local costs of spare parts are based on the estimates of
local officials of the coste for these items.
88.      Customs Duties. Taxes and Distribution Costs.  The costs of imported
items include a 10% allowance for import tax (US$18.9 million). An allowance
of 20% (local costs) over CIF costs has been added to account for inland
transportation, handling, warehousing and distribution.
89.      CotinQencx Allowances.  Project costs include a contingency
allowance for unforeseen physical additions (US$17.9 million), equal to 10% of
the estimated cost of all project items. Price contingencies (US$11.0
million) between negotiations (September 1991) and the end of project
implementation are estimated at about 6% of base cost plus physical contin-
gencies. In the absence of forecasts for annual local price escalation, price
increases have been applied to both local and foreign costs in USS terms at
3.4% throughout the project period.
90.        Forsion Bxchanae Comoonent.  Taking into account the costs of taxes
and local distribution (para. 88), the foreign exchange component was
estimated as follows: (a) overseas fellowships - 100%; (b) foreign
consultants - 81%; (c) local training and consultants - 0%; (d) consumable and
durable goods - 77%; (e) building rehabilitation and furniture - 0%; and (f)
incremental recurrent costs - 0%;. Including contingencies, the resulting
foreign exchange component is estimated at US$150.0 million, or about 72% of
total costs.
tro1ect Financing.
91.      The Bank would finance all foreign costs and the Government would
finance all local costs, including refurbishment of buildings, furniture, fuel
for operations and maintenance. The EC, UNICEF and WHO are providing
resources (including refurbishing of buildings) which are closely coordinated
with and complement the proposed project, but because of timing differences,
these risources are not considered as a part of the financing plan. In order
to facilitate the hiring of external procurement agencies for the proposed
project, and to permit early importation of essential drugs, retroactive
financing of up to US$10.0 million would be included to cover the initial cost
of these items. Retroactive financing would be limited to expenditures
incurred prior to loan signing but after April 30, 1991. Project financing by
year is shown in Table 3.3 on the following page.



- 29 -
TABLC 3.3s
Financing Raguireoaets by year
.......    .... .;   ......... ... .. ---..... ..... ........ ...... ....... ....... .......... ..
1991  192   1993  1994  1995  1996 Total
S-=11gwt5-1B3-3t1:=---a...t . -:-l .......  --  or_---- a---  5=- 1|- -----    =a==_
Local Funds                      15.5  27.8  12.5  1.7      57.5
Foreign Funds                   42.1  78.4  28.0  1.5       150.0
..........  -------.    ....... .   . .... .......    ........... .......    ........... ... ...............-
Total Finarsfng Requirements   57.7  106.2  40.5  3.1     207.5
====   X3-SSI^fl     ====   a==::= UU:U=  *--S =: V *
92.     Recurrent Costx.  In view of the serious economic situation facing
the country (para. 2) the project has been designed to minimize recurrent
costs associated with new investments financed by the project. These are
estimated at 2% of project base costs over the lifetime of the project and
include running costs of new equipment, local training programs etc.
93.     Drugs imported inder the project would ensure improvements in PHC by
filling the gap between minimum requirements and other sources of supply
(domestic and external) during the period 1992-93 (para. 27). Project
financed drugs would represent about 15% of total requirements in 1992,
falling to 10% in 1993. Thereafter, it is anticipated that structural reforms
in the pharmaceutical industry (para. 65) and improved pricing policies (para.
28) would enable the country to cover its minimum requirements.
Manausment and XZolementation.
94.     Responsibilities.  The MOH would implement the project, with the
exception that the restructuring study of the pharmaceutical industry would be
implemented by the Department of Chemical Industry in the Ministry of Industry
(MOI). Because of its interest in the results of the restructuring study, the
MOH would collaborate with the MO0 in implementing the study. Responsibility
for implementing the other components of the pruject would rest with the
directly involved ministerial departments and affiliated MOH Institutes.
These responsibilities are indicated in the following chart:



- 30 -
Chart 3.1  Chart of Pro isat IbDzleatation R4snosibilitiLs
Coeconent A Sub-CAenent                 Resaon ible Ainey & Deoertumnt
IEMBILITATE & UPADE PRIMARY WEALIT CARE
Upgrade Rural Dispensaries                    Directorate of Medical Assistance
INCA                                          Institute for Mother Child and Adolescent
FPSEU                                         Genoral Directorate of Maternal & ChIld Health
Reproductive Health Centers                   General Directorate of Maternal & Child Health
Maternity/Neonatal Referral dts               Genoral Directorate of Maternal  Child Health
Contraceptive Supplies                        Generat Directorate of Maternal & Child Health
Pre/ln-Service Training for Nurses/Physicians  Directorate for Hu_mn Resources
Drugs Supply                                  Directorste of Pharmacy
Medical consLambles                           Directorate of Medical EquIpment
Strategic Plan for Pharmaceutical Industry    MOI Dept. of Chemical Industry
Vaccine Production                            CANTACUZIMO Institute
Blood Products                                Dire:torate of Medical Assistance
Management of Emergencies                     Directorate of Medical Assistance
Health Promotion/Participation                Health Education Coordinator
Envirornmental Health                         Institute of Endocrinology
RESTRUCTURE NEALTH SECTWR FIIAU  AMU NAISIEfT
National Health Strategy                      National Steering Comittee/HSMI
Heatth Information System                     Directorate of Health Statistics
School of Health Systems and Management       Heatth Services Management Institute
95.     Proiect Coordination and Sunervision.  A Project Coordination Unit
(PCU) attached to the office of the Minister of Health ha. been established to
deal with the coordination of project procurement, maintain project accounts,
administer disbursements and act as a general liaison with the Bank for
project administration and supervision purposes. This unit would be staffed
by at least the following personnel: a project coordinator, a deputy
coordinator, a procurement coordinator, an accountant and a secretary. The
project coordinator and one staff have been appointed. The PCU would
coordinate programs and activities supported by the project, which would be
implemented by the responsible MOH technical departments. To assist the PCU
in coordinating and supporting the procurement functions of the var'.ous line
departments, technical assistance would be included to hire the services of
external procurement agencies to: (a) assist in the details of carrying out
procurement; and (b) train MOH staff in procurement. When appropriate, the
PCU would also tap the services of suitable local trading companies to assist
in those aspects of procurement (consistent with World Bank procurement
guidelines), which are common across diverse goods and different sectors of
the economy. Adequate staffing of the PCU is a Condition of Bffectiveness.
96.     The project will require more intensive Bank supervision than the
normal nine to ten staff weeks per year. This will be particularly true for
the first two years during which several policy oriented components will be
implemented. These include the preparation of a new national health strategy
and the restructuring and privatization study of the pharmaceutical industry.
However, other social sector projects, including a second health project are
being considered for Bank financing and wherever possible, staff will cover
preparation and supervision in the same missions. In addition, agencies such
as WHO and UNICEF are likely to provide support for project supervision.



- 31 -
97.     Architectural Dsian9 Services.   Existing provincial public works
departments would design the facilities to be built or refurbished. The
extent of the required work has been established. These services would be
financed by the Government, with some assistance from the EC.
98.       Site ALcamuition.  All project items would be housed in identified
existing facilities. Consequently there is no need to acquire sites.
99.      Maintenange.   Despite frequent lack of basic utilities, such as
piped water or electrical power, project institutions (including in particular
their equipment) have been well maintained in the past. MOH's policy and
practices in this respect are expected to continue.
Procureent.
100.       backqroun.  The MOH is negotiating a contract with UNICEF to help
procure drugs and some equipment. Under the proposed contract, drugs and
equipment that are normally stocked in UNICEF's warehouse would be supplied
directly by UNICEF to project institutions. Other goods, eummarized in para
103, would be procured by UNICEF on behalf of the Borrower in accordance with
procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Procurement of remaining project goods
would be carried out as per para 104, and in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.   Table 3.4 and its associated explanations provide
details of the proposed procedures.
101.      In order to leave appropriate procurement expertise behiL i upon
project completion, UNICEF would arrange for the training of key MOH staff in
procurement activities, through on-the-job training and internship. Terms of
reference for this training have been prepared.
102.      Procurement of Durable and Consumable goods.  The project components
would be grouped into several packages, the contents of which could be
supplied by one vendor and would be suitable for International Competitive
Bidding (ICB), in accordance with the Bank's "Guidelines for Procurement Under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" (May, 1985). Procurement of this nature would
account for about 60% of the total value of project goods. The remaining 40%
of the value of project goods would be procured under procedures other than
ICB. These procedures would include international shopping (a comparison of
at least three quotations from at least two different countries), sole source
purchase and direct procurement from UNICEF and UNFPA. These procedures are
summarized in Table 3.4 and further explained in para. 107. The bidding
documents for the procurement of goods under the project, would be based on
the Bank's "Sample Bidding Documents -- Procurement of Goods" (March 1986)".
103.      UNICEF's principal MOH procurement counterparts (for activities such
as the preparation of bid specifications and evaluation of bids) are listed
below. They would be assisted as appropriate by the PCU and local trading
companies. UNICEF would act as a procurement agent for the following:



- 32 -
(a)    Drugs and Consumables.  A comprehensive list of essential drugs
(usually generic products) and consumables and the relevant bid
specifications have been finalized. Within the MOH, the
Pharmaceutical Department would help procure drugs and consumables
much am solvents and dressings. The Medical Equipment Department
of  OH would help procure the remaining consumables (e.g. syrLnges
and needles). Deliveries of drugs and consumables would be made
directly to the 17 regLonal pharmaceutical depots.
(b)    Equipment for the Dispensaries.  Withln the MOH, the Medical
Equipment Department (assisted by trading companles where
appropriate) would help procure equipment for the dispenearies.
Deliveries of diepensary equipment would be made directly to the
41 reglonal centers. The dLipensary equLpment types are as
follows:
(i) Standard Equipment List. A standard equlpment list has been
prepared, from whlch each dlipensary would choose its
prlorlty items, based on each dLipeneary's budget allocatlon
and preference. The budget allocations (based on the size
of catchment areas) would be made at the central and
dLatrict level in accordance with establlshad criterLa to be
developed prior to negotiations.
(iL) Specialised Equipment for the Dispensaries. The MedLcal
EquLpment Department would help procure already identified
specLalLed equLpment for the dLspensarLes, such as
emergency transportation equLpment (ambulances) dental
equlpment, simple telecommunLcations equLpment (radLos), and
spare parts.
(C)   Equipment for the 230 Reproductive Realth Centers and the 10
Reproductive ealth Reforance Centers. The MedLcal Equlpment
Department would be the procurement counterpart for these Centers.
104.      Because of their specLalized nature, UNICEF would not be involvlng
in procuring the following project items:
(a)    Complex medical equlpment for the INCA and for the Referral
Hospitals. The INCA would be responslble for procuring these
items. Detailed bid speclflcations have been prepared.
(b)    Complex bio-sedical equipment for the Cantacusino Institute would
be procured by the Institute, using a recently concluded technlcal
assistance agreement with the Pasteur Instltute ln Paris to help
prepare appropriate bld speciflcatlons and to assist ln bid
evaluatlon.
(C)    Contraceptives for the Centers described in para. 103.(c) would be
procured by the Directorate of Medical Assistance wlth assistance
from UNFPA.



- 33 -
(d)    Health Information System Hardware and Software. The National
Health Statistics Center (NHSC) would procure the Health
Information System. Bid specifications are under preparation.
(e)    Regional Warehouse Management and Stock Control Equipment. The
NHSC would assist in preparing bid specificatLons for these items.
(f)    Building Facilities and Furniture. Small, locally financed
rehabilitation of buildings and furniture procurement would be
carried out under local procedures (for justification, see para.
107.(f) below).
105.      Procurement of Technical Assistance.  The KOH would obtain
specialist services and fellowships through four large, and a number of small,
or lndividual contracts, based on the summaries in Annexes 5 and 6.  Three or
four well qualified institutions have been invited to submit proposals for the
four large contracts, which the responsible MOH (and MO0) departments will
evaluate on merit in accordance with an agreed merit point system. For the
remaining TA, consultants would be recruited individually through specialized
medical inetitutions. The selection of consultants would be carried out in
accordance with principles and procedures acceptable to the Bank, on the basis
of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
the World Bank as Executing Agency", dated August, 1981. Standard technical
asistance bidding documents have been prepared for the proposed project,
based on the Bank's "Sample Form of Contract for Consultants' Services" (March
1989).



- 34 -
106.        A tentative summary of the proposed contract award methodologies is
shown in Table 3.4 below.
Table 3.4: Procurement Arrangaeents 
US$ million
Category of Expenditure          ICB  Shopping Sole Source 0th. Local   N/A   TOTAL
Technical Assistance                                     11.6                 11.6
...................                 ......                          .       .......  -  (9.9)  (9.9)
Durable Goods:
..............
Equipnmnt                      52.0    4.8      1.2    1.8b/               tS.s
(40.0)   (3.7)   (0.9)  (1.4)              (46.0)
Software                                        2.7                         2.7
(2.3)                      (2.3)
Sparo Parts                                     3.0                         3.0
(0.7)                      (0.7)
Vehictes                        4.1                                         4.1
(3.1)                                      (3.1)
Consunable Goods:
.................
Drugs                          44.0     5.9     1.5   22.0b/               73.3
(33.8)   (4.5)   (1.1) (16.9)              (56.3)
Contraceptives                  4.9     2.4     1.2    3.6b/               12.1
(3.7)   (1.9)   (0.9)  (2.8)               (9.3)
Disposable Supplies            17.4    1.9      1.0    8.7b/               29.1
(13.4)   (1.5)   (0.8)  (6.7)              (22.3)
Building Facilities:
...................
Construction/Rehabititation                                   6.7           6.7
(0.0)        (0.0)
Furniture                                                     1.1           1.1
(0.0)        (0.0)
Incremental Recurrent Costs                                             3.9   3.9
...........................                         ~~~~~(0.0)  (0.0)
~~~~~~~~~.......   .......   .......   .. .....   ........ .......   ......0 ( 0
Total Financing Requirements   122.4    15.l    10.6   47.7    7.9    3.9 207.5
Total Bank Financing     (94.1)  (11.5)   (6.?) (37.7)   0.0   (0.0)(150.0)
n=u==== u==n=u  uum=um= uMMU= u=usu=  ==n:um a uuz
a/ Figures in brackets are the respective notmts financed by the Bank Loan
b/ Procureent, directly from UNICEF and UNFPA.
107.        Contracts of goods to be awarded under procedures other than ICB
would normally cost less than US$200,000. Exceptions to ICB and direct
procurement from UNICEF and UNFPA would be as follows:
(a)     Technical Assistance (US$11.6 million) would be procured in
accordance with para. 105.
(b)     International Shopping Procedures (totalling USS15.0 million and
less than US$200,000 per contract) could be used for procuring
equipment of diverse nature (US$4.8 million), drugs (USS5.9
million), contraceptives (US$2.4 million) and disposable supplies
(US$1.9 million).
(c)     Sole source supply of items of proprietary nature (totalling
US$4.9 million) could be used for procuring equipment (US$1.2



- 35 -
million), drugs (US$1.5 million), contraceptives (US$1.2 million)
and disposable supplies.
(d)    Software (US$2.7 million) would be procured directly from
publishers.
(e)    Spare parts, required for compatibility with existing equipment
(such as ball bearings for dental drills, spares for ambulances,
and heating elements for autoclaves) would be procured after
direct negotiations wlth suppliers (US$3.0 million ln the
aggregate and loes than US$200,000 per contract).
(f)    Construction (US$6.7 million) of locally financed minor additions,
refurbLhment of and furniture (US$1.1 milllon) for existing and
geographLcally widely dispersed health clinics, would be carried
out through existing local procedures.
108.      In comparison of bids for equLpment to be procured through ICB,
domestLc manufacturers would be allowed a preferential margin of 15%, or the
exieting customs duty appllcable to non-exempt lmporters, whichever is lower
over the c. l. f. prices of competing lmports. Under lCB procedures,
invitations to bid and the proposed award of contracts exceeding US$200,000
would be reviqwed by the Bank prior to final award decisions.  The remaining
contracts would he subject to selective post award reviews.
109.    jtatug .A  Poaration.  This project is in a state of preparation that
would permit tiiely implementatLon becauset  (a) all lists for durable and
consumable goods have been prepared and bid specifications for about 90% of
the value of the goods have been completed; (b) all TA packages have been
fully defined, including terms of reference, and proposals for four large TA
packages have already been invited (Aug. 1991); and (c) construction of
buildings (often a time-consuming process) would be limited to minor,
government financed refurbishment of existing facillties. Project completion
would be December 31, 1995 and the Closing Date would be June 30, 1996.
Disbursements.
110.      Because of its advanced preparation, the proposed project would be
implemented over a four year period and disbursed over about four and a half
years. Disbursements would be made against:
(a) 100% of the foreign expenditure for TA;
(b) 100% of the foreign expenditures for directly imported durable and
consumable goods; and
(c) 100% of the ex-factory expenditures for locally manufactured
durable and consumable goods, procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with ICB procedures;
111.      Diabursements would be administered by the PCU.  Withdrawal



- 36 -
applications would be fully documented, except for expenditures under
contracts valued below $150,000 equivalent which would be made on the basis of
certified statements of expenditures. Supporting documentation in theme cases
would be retained by the PCU for at least one year after receLpt by the Bank
of the audit report for the year in which the last dLebursement was made.
This documentation would be made avallable for review by the auditors and by
Bank staff on request. The minimum amount for wlthdrawal applLcations would be
$100,000.
112.     To facillitate project implementatLon, the borrower would establLih a
Special Account in US dollars in the Romanian Bank for External Commerce to
cover the Bank's share of eligible expenditures. The authorized amount of the
account would be $10 million equivalent (reproesenting the average of four
months of eligible expenditures). The Special Account would be reploniLhed
monthly, or at the latest every four months, or whenever one third of the
authorized amount has been withdrawn, whichever takes place earlLer.
Documentation requirements for replenishment applications would follow the
procedure described in para. 111. In addition, monthly bank statements which
have been reconciled by the borrower would accompany all replenishment
requests.
Tabte 3.5: Finntfng PtW aSy Dis1hrsent category
USS Nillon
wold  Gwverneet of  Total
17-Ju-91    ank     Romna    Finrwe
09:49 -so
Category of Expwdfture           MU st    I   bmst  Z  Amunt Totat
Tecfhnial Asistarwe              9.9    86  1.7   14  11.6    6
Equipt, Softu, Spares and Vehcles  52.1    75  17.5   25  69.7   34
Nbdfcal Suppties                88.0    77  26.4   23 114.4   55
Sutldfnj uW Furniture                        r.9  100  7.9    4
Incrmtatl Recurrent Costs                    3.9  100  3.9    2
...__..___.    _ ._         ..  . _..__   ....... ............     .......
Total Finmncin                 150.0    72  57.5  27 207.5  100
....................          ....... ....... ....... ....... ....... .......
113.      A_dit.. Regortsand Proanes Rekiews.   All lnetitutlons and KOH
directorates participating in the project would submlt seml-annual reports to
the PCU, whlch would ln turn prepare summary progress statements. The PCU
would also monltor project impact annually by reference to the lndlcators in
Annex 7. Project accounts lncludlng the Speclal Account (para. 111) would be
audlted by an audltlng agency acceptable to the Bank ln accordance wlth the
March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reportlng and Auditing of Project.
Flnanced by the World Bank". The Bank would be provlded within six months of
the end of each fiscal year wlth an audit report of such scope and detail as
the Bank may reasonably request, including a separate opinion by the audLtor
on disbursements made under statements of expenditures. During negotiatlons,
the Government confirmed that: (a) progress reports would be aubsitted *mi-
annually and a report on project impact would be submitted annually; (b)
annual audLts would be carried out by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank La accordance wLth the March 1982 Bank "Ouidelines for Financial
ReportLng and Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"; (c) annual



- 37 -
audits reports for the preceding fiscal year would be made available to the
Dank no later than June 30th each year; and (d) a mid-term review of tho
project's progress would be carried out jointly with the Bank no later than
June 30, 1993.



- 38 -
IV. DEN3VI!B AND RIBKS
Ptrojet 3onefitu.
114.      ImDroved orimary health care delivery would lead to: (a) a reduction
in morbidity and mortality in infants and under-fives; (b) improved access and
choice for women in the field of reproductive health services, leading to a
reduction in maternal mortality and morbidity and improved reproductive
health. A decline in the number of unwanted pregnancies would diminish the
number of abortions and flow of children into institutions; (c) a reduction in
mortality and morbidity from such causes as cardio-vascular disease and
accidents; and (d) lower unit costs of health care through improved
utilization of lower cost health services. Better blood Products and ensured
supDlies of vaccines would help reduce the incidence of AIDS and Hepatitis B,
and morbidity from infectious diseases. Strenathening of health education and
promotion would encourage a switch in focus from curative to preventive
medicine, with major benefits to the cost-effectiveness of health care
delivery. Restructurina studies of the health care system and the
nharmaceutical industry would provide the basis for systemic reform and a
sustainable, cost-effective health care delivery system in the medium-term.
Project Riks.
115.       The major risk concerns the institutional weaknesses in the sector
which could constrain implementation and meaningful reform. Romania's
isolation from the outside world has left a dearth of skilled staff in the
sector, particularly in management, finance and policy analysis. The project's
structure (investments to improve PHC and providing the institutional basis to
carry out a medium-term reform program) is designed to minimize this risk by
providing immediate assistance for critically affected parts of the health
sector, and at the same time building the institutional base for meaningful
reform. The second risk concerns Government capacity to provide the necessary
local resources during a time of economic crisis. To reduce this risk, the
project has been designed to minimize incremental recurrent costs as a result
of new investments. In addition, the restructuring studies will point to
diversified sources of financing and propose efficiency gains which will
alleviate the pressure on the central budget.



- 39 -
V. CONDZT!TONAIUZWES UR RU I ATIO
Agromuents Reached At Nenotiations
116.      During negotiations, the Government agreed that it woulds
(a) provide a total of five additioiial qualified staff for the FPSEU
and the Bucharest Reproductive Health Center by December 31, 1991
(para.51).
(b) prepare a contraceptive marketing and distribution plan for the
years 1993-95 by June 30, 1992 and review the plan with the Bank
by September 30, 1992; and continue to adjust annually prices of
reproductive health interventions to encourage the use of
contraceptives (para. 56).
(c)  prepare for Bank review by July 1, 1992 a career plan for nurges,
including training, certification, quality control and incortivhs
to reward improved qualifications and standards, and begin to
implement the agreed plan by January 1, 1993; and (b) add two
positions in the MOH Directorate of Human Resources to coordinate
pre- and in-service training by December 31, 1991 (para. 57).
(d)   sell drugs procured through the project to health institutions at
the CIF price converted into Lei at the market exchange rate, plus
a suitable distribution margin (para. 63).
(e)   finalize the national drugs formulary for the public sector by
March 1, 1992 (para. 63).
(f)   prepare a strategic plan for the pharmaceutical industry, review
it with the Bank by December 31, 1992 and begin implementation
shortly thereafter (para. 65).
(g)   by December 31, 1991: (a) cat up and appropriately staff the
NCHPZ; and (b) prepare for Bank review a development plan for
health promotLon and public particLpation to include trainLng of
district health education workers and lnvolvement of GaOs for the
years 1992-94 (para. 'O).
(h)   carry out the preparatory studies for a new national health
strategy, review the proposed reform program with the Bank by
December 31, 1992 and begin implementation by July 1, 1993 (para.
76).
(i)   introduce new regulations to decentralize health care management
by January 1, 1992 (para. 78); begin implementation of the
decentralization plans by January 1, 1992; send progress reports
to the Bank at six-monthly intervals thereafter, and a final
report by December 31, 1993; and begin implementation of
successful decentralization actlons on a country-wide basis
immediately thereafter (para. 80).



- 40 -
(j) by March 1, 1992, ensure the necessary academic certification of
the programs of the SHSM, go that graduates of the academic
program are recognized as holdere of a professional specialty; and
prepare for Bank review a set of incentives (both monetary and
non-monetary) which will make specialization in the management of
health services an attractive career in Romania (para. 83).
(k)   (i) suLmit semi-annual progress reports and an annual report on
project impact; (ii) carry out annual audits of acceptable quality
by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank in accordance with
the March 1982 Bank "Guidelines for Financial Reporting and
Auditing of Projects Financed by the World Bank"; (iii) make
available to the Bank annual audit reports for the preceding
fiscal year no later than June 30th each year; and (iv) carry out
jointly with the Bank a mid-term review of the project's progress
no later than June 30, 1993 (para. 113).
Condition of Effectiveness
117.      The following would be the only condition for loan effectiveness.
(a) Adequate staffing of the PCU (para. 95).
Recomoendation
li.      Subject to the above, the proposed operation would provide a
suitable basis for a loan of US$150.0 million to the Government of Romania.



ANNEX 1
- 41 -                          Page 1 of 22
ROMANIA
HEALTH   REHABIUTATION   PROJECT
TABLE 1A: NATAUTY AND MORTAUTY TRENDS
YEAR   CBR*       CQR*      INFANT      NEO-NATAL
MORTAUTY   MORTAUTY
1970    21.1       9.5        49.4       14.1
1975    19.7       9.3        34.7       18.6
1980    18.0      10.4        29.3       11.1
1985    15.8      10.9        25.6        8A
1986    16.5      10.6        23.2        7.8
1987    16.7      11.1        28.9        8.2
1988    16.5      11.0        25.3        7.7
1989    16.0      10.7        26.9        7.2
1990    13.6      10.7        28.9        8.0
(*) CBR   =  Crude Birth Rate
CDR   -  Crude Death Rate
ROMANIA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 1 6: UFE EXPECTANCY BY SEX, 1970-1988
Ufe Expectancy
y!Ar      Iuta      Male   Female
1970      68.0      65.7      70.3
1980      69.2      66.6      71.8
1981      69.5      66.7      72.3
1982      69.7      67.0       72.4
1983      69.7      66.9      72.5
1984      69.9      67.1       72.7
1988      69.2      66.4      72.2
SOURCE:  ROMANIAN AUTHORITIES



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 22
- 42 -
EZMROIEC
TALE 2: ROMANIA- MORTAUTY
Percentaae gf Five Leadin  auses   Death by Aa Group. I969
1. NiaM        TAIY
1.1    Diseases of Re tpiratoy System             35.3
1.2    Congentl alorms                            18.9
1.3    Perlnatal Causes                           143
1.4    Di8eases of Dwetive System                  8.5
1.5   In1fts ad ParsasitI Disas                    7.9
2. CXpLMORTAL11XA4 g ohd):
2.1    D aes of RsPory System                     33.5
2.2   InJuries and Accident                       22.8
2.3    Congenital MalformatIo                     13.1
2.4   Infecus & Parasic De                         6.1
2.5    Disa    of Nenvous System  & Sense Ogans    6.1
3. CZNIiAMKQR1L1IM
3.1    Diseas of Circulatory System               57.8
3.2    Neopbans                                   13.3
33    Dease of Respiratory Syste                   9.9
3.4   Injures and AccIderns                        7.0
3.5    Dbeases of Digestve System                  5.0



ANNEX 1
43 -                       Page 3 of 22
lalALSI RMBLISTATg  ER=
Table 3is NAJT3UL NORTILITY 1929-90
Number of Maternal Death.:            588           249
due to abortion                    513           171
due to obstetrical causes:          75            78 (100%)
Hmorrhages                                    31 (40%)
Postpartum hemorrhage                      18
Abruptic Placentas                          6
Placenta Praevia                            5
Ruptured Uterus                             3
Infection                                     18 (23%)
Toxemia                                        10 (13%)
Amniotic fluid embolism                         9 (11%)
Pulmonary embolism                             8 (10%)
Anesthesia                                      2 (2%)
Maternal Mortality Rate               159            84
Reduction in 1990/1989                              58s
due to abortion                                  66%
due to other cauoes                               0%
Source: Directorate for Maternal and Child Health, MOH, Bucharest.



ANNEX 1
44 -                   Page 4 of 22
RQMANIA
HEALTH REHABIUTATION PROJECT
Ta*4: Europen Comparbon of Health Indkaor'
Under5      Inhfnt    Matenal       Llb        Total
GNP per  Motaty      Motaly    Mortality E becncy at  Futlity
CapltaW    Rate       Rate        Rate       Birth       Rate
Romania  1,4501       34         27        150         70           2.1
Poland    1,800       18         16         11         72           2.2
Hungary  2,460        17         16         26         70            1.7
Yugoslavia 2,520      27         24         22         72            1.9
Portugal  3,650       16         13         12         74            1.7
ltaly    13,330       11         10         10         76            1.3
Austri   15,470       10          8          7         75            1.4
B'Uwu 0awhe hilmd. UmCi: Th so" of do Wm's ChM  1"91. Odfd UnIati Pan. U 1991.
1W" BLWDR 1990.
Z'Wo,M Bk  _



ANNEX 1
- 45 -                     Page 5 of 22
ROMANI
HEALTH REHABIUTATION PROJECr
Tabe 5: Mlddi4noomne Countrie Comparbon of Health & SocialIndaoo1'
Total Adult   % Infnts   Infan       Ufa       Matea        Total
GNP per    Uteracy    wih Low    Mortaty   Be4Mny   Moality           Fet
CapitP'      Rate    Blh Weigt    Rate        at Birh      Rate        Rats
Romania         1,45e        95          6          27          70         150         2.1
Twtkey          11280        76          7          73          65         210         3.6
Costa Rica      1,690        92          10         18          75          36         3.2
Alria           2,360        49          9          70          65         130         5.2
Argentina       2,520        95          NA         31          71          69         2.9
Korea Rep. of    3,000       95          9          24          70          26         1.5
LowrMklddle-
Income Countrs  1,380        73          NA         57          65          NA          3
Upper-Middle-
Income Counties  3,240       76          NA         42          68          NA           UP
-UnIeu omerb  b&ied. UNICEP MmY Sot s dom WoWs ChiMm 1991. Ozx-d U9iveM  Pi UK. 1991.
1Wed R-cWDR 1990.
1Wi Bi1k E1Io,&



ANNEX 1
- 46 -              Page 6 of 22
ROMANIA - HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 6: HEALTH FACILITIES, 1960-1989
1960    1970        1980     1985     1989
Facilities
Hospitals                       604      587        416      424      425
Territorial Hospitals          525      522        390      400      400
Enterprise Hospitals            70       65         26       24       25
Polyclinics                     407      385        418      520      541
Dispensaries                            5,807      5,702    5,440    6,246
Territorial Dispensaries      3,400    3,848      3,828    3,862    3,629
Enterprise Dispensaries        560    1,052       1,450    1,516    1,557
Smaller Facilities for Children  327     424        272       193      176
Smaller facilities for Adults   187       40         53       56       54
TB Sanatoriums                   59       42         19       17       16
Observation Sanatoriums          43       38         18       17       16
Nurseries                       306      430        902      884      847
Orphanages                       26       42         62       64       65
MaterrIlties                   1,851    1,693       932      560      590
Pharmacies                     1,726    1,744      1,857    1,922    1,935
All kinds                    133,850  168,115    208,213  212,953  216,295
- per 1,000 population          7.3      8.3        9.4      9.4      9.3
Source: Statistical Department MOH, 6ucharest



ANNEX 1
Page 7 of 22
- 47 -
ROMANIA - HEALTH REHABILrTATION PROJECT
TABLE 7: ROMANIA - HEALTH ACTiVi-TY s1965-s
1965     1970      1975      1980     1985      1988
Visits per capita                   3.6       4.1       4.8       4.9      5.0       5.5
Treatments per capita               2.1       2.5       3.4       3.8      4.0       4.5
Admissions to hospital (thousand)  2,636.0   3,794.0   4,690.1   5,103.3   5,283.1   5,300.3
Incident per 100 population  13.9   18.7      22.1      23.0     23.2      23.0
Bed days per capita             34,952.2  43,833.0  52,534.0  56,253.1  57,528.1  57,556.0
Incident per 100 population    183.7    216.4    247.3    253.4    253.2    249.7
Average length of stay(days)       13.3      11.6      11.2      11.0     10.9      10.9
Bed utilization (days)            301.8    304.4    296.8    283.5    276.3    270.1
'(A)       _827                   83.4     81.3      77.7      75.7      74.0
Source: Romanlan Authorities



ANNEX 1
- 48 -               Page 8 of 22
ROMANIA - HEALTH REHABITTMON PR1OJgCT
TABLE 8: MEDICAL AND AUXIUARY HEALTH PERSONNEL
1970     1975    1980      1985     1989
PhysIians                25,906   28,004   32.762   40,050   41,938
Pop. per physcian        782.0   759.0    876.0    568.0    556.0
Denfsts                   4,053    6,051    7,029    7,340    7,116
Pop. per dentst         5,000.0  3,510.0  3,152.0  3,100.0  3,274.0
Pharmacis                 4,684    5,376    6,451    6,558    6,432
Pop. per pharmacist     4,323.0  3,951.0  3,434.0  3,469.0  3,622.0
Technical personnel 1/  100,840  121,322  139,912  133,932  135,664
Pop. per technical       201.0    175.0    167.0    170.0    172.0
Non-tech. personnel 2/   54,724   64,843   58,100   58,837   62,115
1/ Nurses, laboratory assistants, medical technicians, etc.
2/ Orderiles, nurses aides, service personnel
SOURCE: National Committee of Statisfics



ANNEX 1
- 49  -                             Page 9 of 22
ROMANIA - HELTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE 9: ROMANIA - HOSPITAL AND OD/OYN DEPT. UTILIZATION BY DISTRICT. 1989
Uban Hoitls        District Hosmltaa    Rual lospitala      peot. of OD/GYN
Occupany  Length    Occupancy  Length    Occupacy  Length    Occupancy  Length
Distict          Rlt.    of Stay     Rate   of Stay     Rpae    of Stay       Ra      of Stay
Alba               237      10.5       271      10.6        208     29.2        248       7.4
And                283      12.0        287     11.7        229     14.8        29S       7.0
Arg..              266      9.1         31S      8.7        214     13.2        284       5.9
BACAU              264       9.3        299      9.2        212     12.8        251       S.8
Bihor              270      12.6        296     11.2        288     21.4        243       6.9
BirMita-Nasaud     288      11.4        302     11.2        172      8.4        338       7.2
Botroani           272      10.7        290      9.2        208     12.8        2S8       8.2
Brasov             269      10.1        31S     11.2        304     58.4        247       S.0
Bragla             287      11.5        296     18.0        297     S1.9        252       8.1
Buzau              305       9.1        280      8.9        208     17.1        23S       5.8
Calle-Severif      242       9.9        279     11.0        220      9.7        245       7.1
Calarasl           246       8.9        254      9.4        304     37.6        2S6       6.0
Cluj               240      11.8        296     10.9        274     23.4        2S9       7.3
Cnastfnta          287       9.2        307      8.3        201     20.7        301       S.2
Covamna            279      12.4        274     11.2        248     26.7        235       6.7
DImbovita          296      9.2         323      9.9        264     16.4        28S       6.2
Dolj               235      1 1.5       303      9.2        208     16.9        289       6.3
Oaiatl             274       9.0        308      8.2        260     23.9        268       5.3
3iurglu            293       7.4        293      7.4        219     13.4        226       6.5
Goti               258       8.4        291      8.S        218     14.9        289       6.3
Hu,ghit            272      10.6        290     11.6        292     42.2        257       8.0
Hundan             246      10.8        265     11.4        266     32.0        236       7.1
lalomla            265       7.4        272      7.3        136      8.1        293       S.0
ali                264      11.9        298     12.1        248     45.6        249       5.0
Maramurcs          268      11.5        29S      9.6        214      8.5        27S       7.4
Mehadinti          260      11.3        300     11.1        128      6.9        236       6.9
Mum                249      13.8       261      12.4        158     11.9        225       7.0
Neamt              247       9.4        261      9.4        261      9.7        245       6.9
Olt                26S       8.8        285      9.1        231     24.9        280       6.5
Ptahova            260       9.6        288     10.8        181     11.8        226       5.0
Saw-Mae            277       9.8        289      8.3        299     19.0        189       4.5
Salaj              241      10.0        226      9.7        190      7.2        206       6.9
Slbiu              237      11.4        254      9.8        n.a.     n.a.       225       6.7
Suceava            295      11.3        310      9.5        237      9,1        28S       5.6
Tdelorman          269      10.1        287      9.8        235      18.6       259       7.6
Timla              249      15.2        311     10.1        302     40,3        270       7.6
TuICl              238       9.6        263     10.2        n.a.     n.a.       270       5.7
Vaului             257       8.5        245      8.9        193     14,0        240       S.8
VIlosa             285       9.5        328     10.5        234     12,3        263       5.6
Vranc              254       8.5        291      8.8        171      9,0        270       S.9
Munic. Bucurct     275      10A        n.a.     n.a.        247     21.5        307       6.S
TOTAL             264.5     10.4                          239.5     18.7       259.6      6.4
Source: Romanian Autborlti



ANNEX 1
- 50 -                 Page 10 of 22
ROMAINIA HEALH REHABILITAON pROJEC
TABLE 10: PHYSCANS ACnIVIKY IN DISPENSARIES AND POLYCJNICS
PER DISTRICT
vW per       physcan p        vws per
nhWwr         10,000 Inhab.   physician
(260 woiklnp days)
ALBA                   5.1           66               23
ARAD                    6            9.4              25
ARGES                  5.3           9.3              22
BACAU                 4.8            7.2              26
BIHOR                 6.5            9.9              25
BISTRITA-NASAU        4.4            8s               20
BOTOSANI               3.5             6              22
BRASOV                  6            9.1              25
BRAILA                 7.3           9.6              29
BUZAU                 4.7            7.5              24
CARAS-SEVERIN          6.3           9.5              26
CALARASI               4.4           &2               21
CLW                    7.1           8.6              32
CONSTANTA              5.3           9.2              22
OOVASNA                7.2          10.4              27
DCMBOVITA              4.9           7.7              24
DOLJ                  4.5            7.4              23
GALATI                 4.2             8              20
(IURGIU               4.7            9.1              20
SORB                   3.8           8.8              17
HARSHITA              67             &4               31
HUNEDOARA              67              9              29
iALOMrrA              5.4             89              23
IASI                  5.5            7.8              27
MARAMURES             5.6            7.9              27
MEHEDINIl             6.1            69               22
MURES                  6.6           7.8              33
NEAMT                 4.9              a              24
OLT                    4.1           67               18
PRAHOVA               4.9            8.8              21
SATU-MARE              5.6           83               26
ALAJ                   5.4           7.7              27
SIBIU                  6.2           9.3              26
8UCEAVA                5.1           6.9              28
TELEORMAN              3.6           7.7              18
TlItS                  63            9.5              26
TULCEA                 3.8           &2               18
VASLUI                 3.3           6.8              19
VILCEA                 5.6           9.6              22
VRANCEA                 4            7.2              21
MUN. BUCtURESTl        6.4           7.8              32
S80URCE Stca DOepatme MOH, Bucharest 1969



ANNEX I
- 51 -                       Page 11 of 22
OM_ANIA - HEALTH REHABILTATION PROJE
TABLE II: DEATH RATES BY CAUSE, 1960-1989
(per 100,000 population)
Cause of Death                     1960     1970     190      1985     1987     1989
Total                               873.3    954.2  1,044.4  1,085.5  1,108.5  1,068.2
Tuberculosis (TB)                    35.1     18.5      3.7      4.2      4.7      6.6
Infectlous & Parasitic Diseases      19.6     19.2      7.1      6.4      7.4      6.1
Cancer                              108.9    123.3    135.0    136.7    138.1    141.6
Circulatory System Diseaes          368.8    468.1    588.0    630.6    640.6    617.6
of which:
Crebro-vascular diseae             89.1    130.8    143.7    159.4    178.2    168.4
High blood pressure                n.a     48.6      71.3    89.8    68.7       83.5
Acute myocardial stroke            n.a      33.8     42.1     46.5     48.4     45.3
Other schomic cardlopathologles    n.ea    39.0      77.5    114.7    127.2    130.8
Diseases of Respiratory System      118.5    1615.    188.7    127.1    118.1    106.7
of which:
Pneumonla                          n.a.     81.6     64.7    47.8      46.6     42.4
Chronic ObstructieO pulmonary      n.a.     n.a      19.      30.9     31.4     29.8
Digeslvo Tract diseua                489      38.0     46.4     52.      57.0     58.5
Compileations of Pregnancy & Birth    0.8      1.2      1.3      1.4      1.6      1.7
Perinatal causes                     n.L      22.3     11.2      7.2      7.4      8.1
Acidents, polsoning, trauma          43.7     O.7      87.1     67.8     70.3     74.7
Share of Total (Percent)            100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Tuberculosis (C)                      4.0      1.9      0.4      0.4      0.4      0.5
inmctious & Parauitic DOeas           2.2      2.0      0.7      0.8      0.7      0.6
Cancer                               12.5     12.9     12.9     12S      12.5     13.3
Circulatory System Dlsaes            42.2     48.0     56.3    658.1     5113     57.8
of which:
Corebro-vascular diseae            7.9      13.7     13.8     14.7     16.1     15.8
High blood preasure                n.a.     5.1      6.6      8.3       8.0      7.8
Acute myocardili stroke            n L      3.5      4.0      4.3      4.4       4.2
Other schemic cardlopathologles    n.L      4.1       7.4     10.6     11.5     12.2
DlseotfRepiratorySystem              13.6     17.4     13.1     11.7     10.7      9.9
of which:
Pneumonia                          n.       8.6       5.2     4.4      4.2       4.0
Chronic obstructive pulmonary      n.L      n.a.      1.9      2.       2.8     o28
Digestive Tract dIseases              5.6      38       4.3      4.8      5.1      5.0
Compilcatlons of Pregnancy & Birth    0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.1      0.2
Perinatal causes                     n.a.      23       1.1      0.7      0.7      0.6
Accidents, poisoning, trauma          5.0      6.6      6.4      6.2      6.3      7.0
Source: Ministry of Health Statistical Department



ANNEX 1
- 52 -                      Page 12 of 22
ROMANIA HEALTH EABIUTATION IROJECT
TABLE 12: RO                       POPULAON DATA 1/
2. Projections  - NRR-1  by 1985
DIP.                C                                       00         S 0
Yor  Popaetimn   retio    pfoiad          rate      CaIFr 0ai C0iis    In _x:1000
1990      355        50.7    M199094     0.52      16.0      10.5     2.13      68.3      73.9       22        26
1995     ZSJSS       50.5    99.-92      0.53      15.9      10.3     2.12      69.4      73.0        Is       2
2000     24511       53.2    2000-04      0.49      15.2      10.0     2.11      70.5      76.3        1S       Is
2005     25122       55.6    2005.09      0.39      14.3      10.3     2.10      71.5      77.3        13       16
2010     2  13       53.9    2010-14      0.35      14.0      10.3     2.10      72.6      78.4        11       14
2015     26070       53.3    2014-19      0.37      13.9      10.1     2.09      73.6      79.5         9       11
2020     26557       55.1    2020-24      0.38    1U.8         9.9     2.09      74.8      80.7         7        9
2025     27070       57.3    ZM-49        0.29      12.9      10.1      2.03     77.3      83.3         4        6
20S0      29085      65.9    2050-74      0.12      12.3      11.1      2.0?     79.8      86.0         3        4
2071     2991        69.5    2071-99      0.07      12.0      11.3      2.07     81.1      87.6         2        4
2100      30535      72.2    2100-24       0.05     11.8      11.3      2.07     U.0       68.8         2        3
2123     3090        73.4    2125-49      0.02      11.7      11.5      2.07     62.4      89.3         2        3
2150     31067       74.2
3. Age structure (percent): 1990 and 2025
75,
-8|3                        70.74
65-a,
6044
55SlgS               SkN55.9
5549
44
5  404
35-39
30.34
25.29
20.24
==3          ~          ~~~~ ~~ 15.19    
10.14
0.4
10 8  6  4  2  0  2  4  6  8 10                             1  8  6 */2  o  ax    6  a 
Ma.te    Female                                                Male Female
4. Comparison of Country with Region and income Group, 1985-90
TFR                                    *0                          Growth rate
_ _    _   _    _   _   _   _        ..                                     .4 
C oA c r   Regi n   Imc w gr "coum ry    Reg io n  rmo m gr oa       Coim try   R egion  Inc  s
'/ SOURCE: IBRD-EMENA Pooueatnon Projections. 1990.91 Edition



ANNEX I
Page 13 of 22
ROMANIA - HEALTH REHABILTQTION PROJECT
TABLE 13: BIRTH RATES IN EUROPE, 1880-1990
Blith Rate
(Birth per 1,000 Population)
1880   1900   1930    1960    1970    1980   1985   1990
Albania              -      -      -      43.4    32.5      -    26.2   26.0
Bulgaria            33.7   42.2  31.3    17.8    16.3    14.3   13.2   13.0
Czechoslovakia      37.4   36.6  22.7    15.9    15.9    16.2  14.6   14.0
German Democratic
Republic          37.6   35.5   17.6    17.2    13.9    14.6   13.7   13.0
Hungary            43.1   39.3  25.4    14.7    14.7    13.9   12.2   12.0
Poland               -      -    32.3    22.3    16.8    19.5   18.2   16.0
Romania             38.5   38.8    35    19.1    21.1    18.6   15.8   16.0
USSR                49.7   39.3  30.1    24.9    17.4    18.3   19.7   19.0
Yugoslavia          40.7   42.4   35.5    23.5    17.8      17   15.9   15.0
Westem Europe        -      -    21.1    18.4    16.2    13.4   12.0   12.0
Source: Populabon Bulletn. Vol. 36. No. 6, February 1982, page 12.
Washington. DC: Populadon Refernce Bureau



ANNEX I
Page 14 of 22
- 54 -
ROMAJ41A - HEALTH aMHADl=KT101 PROJECT'
TABLE 14: ROMANIA - BIRTH RATI. MORTALITY RATE AND NATURAL INCREASE
BY DISTRICT. 1970-I9
(per L.ow0 popclaUbo)
1970                       1910                      191                        1989
DMzIo        Birth MotUBty Ntitul       Sim   MoaUnty Nacuu        fAth  Mu"  Nctwi           fAth  Mortaliy Natual
Rate   Rato   lccae       Rat     Rate  Inorai       Rate    Rate    mew..      Ratw    Rate  lcroaw
TOW                 21.1     9.5    11.6       16.0    10.4     7.6       35.3    10.9     4.9       16.0    10.7     5.3
AIba                20.4    10.3    10.1       17.7    11.3     6.4       15.7    10.9     4.3       15.9    10.8    5.1
And                 15.7    13.0     2.7       12.3    14.9   -2.1        12.7    14.8   -2.1        13.4    14.8   -1.4
Aro.                23.1     9.8   12.3        17.6     9.7     7.9       35.0    10.3     4.7       14.5    10.1     4.4
8Sul                25.0     6.0    17.0       21.S     8.6    15.2       33.6     *.7     9.9       19.1     3.5    10.6
DEBar               19.9    11.4     8.5       16.7    IL7      4.0       14.9    ILS      2.4       13.1    12.9     2.2
Digatf-Nasud        24.5    10.1    14.4       21.7    10.2    13.S       19.2     9.3     9.4       18.4     9.8     9.6
saw                 25.7     3.4    17.5       21.3     91.    12.0        3S    10.5      3.0       3.0    10.3      9.7
DBmsv               19.7    3.6    11.1        17.1     3.6     I's       34.2     3.5     5.7       14.0     3.7     5.5
muIgi               20.1     3.5    11.6       17.6     9.3     3.5       14.4    10.6     5.3       1s.2    10.1     5.1
lau                 22.3     9.3    15.5      13.0    10.5      7.5       155    11.5     4.2       35.4    11.2     4.2
Ca-Sevein           35.6    32.6     5.0       U5.2    13.0     2.2       15.9    32.6     1.5       35.3    12.5     I.3
cali                                  -        17.3    10.4     7.4       17.5    11.9     5.4       1.7  II.5        7.2
Cluj                s19.5   3      10.7       17.1    10.6     O.s      13.9    10.9      5.0       15.3    11.0     2.3
c3mtaa              20.6     7.1    13.5       13.0     3.5     9.5       15.3     9.0     6.d       36.5     9.5     7.2
Covama              23.4    10.4   IS50        20.3    11.0     9.3       17.5    10.7     6.6       I7.0    10.4    7.4
DIMbovlit           21.7    10.0    13.7       33.1    10.4     7.7      36.2    10.3      5.4       16.9    10.9     5.9
al0i                17.5    10.0     7.S       16.1    11.4     5.7      14.2    12.4      3.3       14.6    32.2     2.4
Oa3aU               25.7     3.2    1.S        20.5     3.3    33.5       17.5     *.9     3.4       36.9     3.8     &J1
Ok1&u                -        -       -         5s.3    32.     LS5       14.9    14.1     0.3       15.9    14.1     1.3
1                   253.      5 11.  122       17.S    13.2     6.5       17.0    12I      4.9       13.1    11.1     7.0
Ha.ot               22.6    30.6    32.0       19.5    10.4     3.9       15.9    10.7     5.2       16.0    10.3     5.7
tinlu               19.7     9.5    10.2       13.1    10.6     5.        15.0    10.3     4.2       15.6    10.9    4.7
ialeslaa            24.9     9.0    15.9       13.4    30.6     7.3      17.1    10.9      6.2      13.6    3l.o      7,6
ad                  25.3     7.6    IU2        25.7     3.2   I1.S        20.6     as    l.         20.0     3.2    11.3
Mamma               25.0     9.4    13.6       20.7     9.6    3l.3      13.5      9.5     9.2       17.9     9.6     8.5
Mdhdint             19.1    12.S     6.6       16.6   13.5      5.5       14.8    15.7     1.1       15.4    13.2     2.2
Mu                  21.6     9.0    12.6       17.9    10.6     7,5       14.7    11.2     5.S       IL$.   10.3      5.0
Namt                25.2     7.6    37.6       20.7     8.5    32.4       17.1     L.3     1.5       17.4     3.S     1.9
Oil                 222    10.6    11.6        16.8    10.3    6.0        I5.7    12.1     5.6       15.7    11.7     4.0
Pbaova              22.6     9,0    1s.6       17.1     9.9     7.2       14.4    10.4     4.0       15.3    10.0     5.3
Sia-Mar             22.9    10.5    12.6       19.0    11.4     3.6       17.1    13.C     5.5       17.3    11.6     S.7
Salsi               22.3    11.2    11.6       17.9    12.2     5.7       16.3    11.6     5.2       17.2    11.9     5.3
Sub"a               22.1     9.4    32.17      IS       9.9     9.6       I5.4     9.4     6.0       I5.l     9.5     5.6
SNucsv              25.5     3.2   I.5        20.5     3.9    11.6       13.3     9.4     3.9       18.6     9.3     9.3
TSeom               19.2     9.9     L.S      135.1    12.0     3.1       15.6   13.7    0.1         14.5    13.1     1.2
TAt                 16.1    12.4     5.7       14.4    13.0     1.4       13.3    15.0     0.3       13.2    12.6     0.6
Tulab               23.3     9.4    14.4       19.9    10.3     9.6       17.9    11.2     6.7       17.2    10.3     6.4
Vaiad               23.7     9.0    19.7       24.7     9.7    35.0       21.0     9.3    11.2       20.9     9.2    11.7
ViUu                25.1    10.3    12.3       17.2    10.5    6.4        15.l    11.4     4.4       16.1    10.7     5.4
Vuaea               23.3     9.0    14.5       19.5    10.2     9.3       17.0    30.5     6.5       18.0    10.0     8.0
Matipu Buclut   13.1         3.7     4.4       14.5    10.2     4.3      13.0    11.1      1.9       11.8    11.2     0.6
Seoie: Mbilty of Health Statads    Dqep t



- 55 -                   ANNEX I
Page 15 of 22
RQ',IMANILHFALT -REHABILUITAIN PROJECT
TABLE 15: 1987 POPULATION GROUPS ESTIMATES (IN '000s)
Province/                                             Expected       Children
District              Population         WRA           Births        Uader-5
Alba                        426             102               7             32
Arad                        505             121              8              38
Arges                       672             161             11              50
Bacau                       718             172             11              54
Bihor                       658             157             11              49
Diatrita-Nasaud             323              77              5--            24
otoesani                    460             110              7              35
Brasov                      695             166             11              52
Braila                      401              96              6              30
Buzau                       523             12S              8              39
Carar-Severin               407              97               7             31
Calarasi                    347              83               6             26
Cluj                        741             177              12             56
Constanta                   726             174              12             54
Covauna                     233              56              4              17
Dimbovita                   564             135              9              42
Doli                        772             185             12              58
Galati                      635             132              10             48
Giurqiu                     325              78              5              24
Gorj                        381              91              6              29
Harghita                    359              86              6              27
Hunedoara                   S60             134              9              42
lalomita                    30S              73              5              23
Iasi                        793             190             13              59
Maramures                   546             130              9              41
Mehedinti                   327              78              5              25
Mures                       616             147             10              46
Neamt                       570             136              9              43
Olt                         531             127               8             40
Prahova                     89             208             14              65
Satu Mare                   412              98              7              31
Salaj                       268              64              4              20
Sibiu                      S'8             121              8              38
Suceava                     686             164             11              51
Teleorman                   50             121              8              38
Timis                       732             175             12              55
Tulcea                      270              65              4              20
Vaelui                      458             109               7             34
Vilcea                      427             102               7             32
Vrancea                     390              93               6             29
Hun. Bucuroati             2298             549             37             172
Romania                   22940            5483            367            1721
SOURCE:  Central St, *,   . cal Board Yearbook



ANNEX 1
- 56 -                           Page 16 of 22
RO_ANIA HEALTH REHABILrrATIONPROJECT                            0103191
TABLE 16: 1990 CONTRACEPTIVE USE
Family
Province/         WRA    Planning       Pill       IUD        LOCal    Steil-   Other     Abor-
Dltrict          (000'S)   Acceptors   Acepors  Accceptors  Methods  iatlon   Methods   tion
AIba                103       748        190        538                   20               11651
Arad                121        97         97                                               14783
Arges               161       584        421        163                                    34284
Eacau               172       422        122        300                                    27725
Bihor               157         -          -                                               15959
Bltdta-Nasaud       77       612        262        350                                     9364
Botosanl            110       372        200        112          60                88      12791
Braswv              166         -          -                                               29545
Braila               96        92         12         80                                    20628
Buzau               125         -          -                                               21608
Caras-Severin        97         -          -                                               15680
Calarasi             83       111         22         89                                    18250
Cluj                177      3820        851       2969                                    20600
Constanta           174         -          -                                               41685
Covasna              56       835        423        405                    7                7335
Dimbovita           135         -          -                                               31584
Dol                 185         -          -                                               41058
Galati              152       296        216         80                                    32071
Glurglu              78         -          -                                               15652
Gori                 91       186         86        100                                    23194
Harahta              86       601        372        212                   17                8067
Hunedoara           134      104         294        750                                    22863
alomita              73       587        170        326          50       39        2      18889
-asi                190       756        281        455          10       10               39145
Maramures           130       939        506        422                   11               12738
Mehedinti            78         -          -                                               12719
Mures               147       242        132         69                   41               16254
Neamt               136      3530       2440        640         450                        19636
Olt                 127       244         41        203                                    2813!
Prahova             208       355        108        247                                    41900
Sau Mare             98       645          -        645                                     7716
SalW                 64      1582       1089        493                                     5325
Sibiu               121      1274        393        854          27                        16877
Suceava             164       810        318        492                                    19711
Toleorman           121      1287        860        373          50        4               18392
Tlims               175      2134        683        434        1000       17               30344
Tucea                65      1016        706        308           2                        11837
Vaslul              109       140         49         90           1                        18291
Vicea               102      1191        780        393          18                        21352
Vrancea              93     10309        850        950        3500        9    5000       17266
Mun. Bucurestl      549    21481        3702       4458        4862       24    8435      159364
Romania            5486    58342       16676      18000       10030      199   13525    992265
SOURCE: Family Planning Unit, MON



ROMANIA - HEALTH REHAII.ITATION OC
TAKE 17: DELIVERIES BY LOCATION. BY DITIRICI. 1980, 195. 198.9
1980                                                           1983                                                           I9S9
Sucv2                                                          S~e~m                                                          Sqa1
in       in        In        tn     u bc by                    in       in        In        in     a tm1  by                  In        In        In        In         1i  by
TOW     CIli    TmD          Rwul   Mestuniy Physidin A        TOWa     fiml    Town        Rual   Maeraiy ryiyan &           Thai    CiLm        Tow       Ew      Maw y Ahy         a
DbSt1v                 liuc-botb   Hqala H  cqi HNal  HaoilA    H         Wd_-4iva    Lrn-bam  How"   Hobs   Hostls   Ho=    Mid-,wm                 Liva-bon  Hwtuls  HoNa   Hsptb    Hum             AdM 1
TOTAL                   398.904    47.854   306,633    18.885    19.354      4.278      318.797    51.702   281.107    15,609    6.998      2.685      369.44    JI.93   301.327    11.228      2.795       1.727
AJU                       7.414        --     7.128        40       137         93       6.683        -      6.503        54        44         69       6.879        -      6.763        33        61         20
Aad                       t 460        --     5.841       4413      142         22       6.254        -      5.813       403        --         31       6.626        --     6.312       265        --         17
An"                      11.462        --     9.803       967       595         66        0.020       --     9.052       873        67         20       9.843        --     9.138       662        22         16
BMW                      15.464        --    14.648       98         --        143      13.672        --    13,069       444        --         93       14,522       --    13.842       528        --         t0
B                        10.856        --     9.764      272       714         60        9.769        -      8,972       395       343         47      10.014        --     9.690       10t       160         43
&iaft-NNmnd               6.655        --     5.332        --     1.196         70       6.179        -      5.165        --       362         90       6.136        -      5.397        -        658         53
DCmmi                    10,753        --     9.247       589       849         42       9.204        -       ,302       520       333         36       10,056       -      9.274       677        57         37
Ibs,                     10.154        --     9,774       143       136        40        I.926        -      3,716        66        64         42       9.037        -      3.957        --        26         39
Bulk                      6.902        -      5.892      261       676         67        5.717        -      5.423       168        71         40       6.116        --     5.396       134        52         26
1_0                       9.609        --     7,800     1.312      376          90       3,269        -      6.920     1.230        73         42       3.317        --     7.723       533        40         17
u-san                     5.928        -      5.472       284       SO          50       5.459        -      5,173       242         1         36       5,508        -      5.266       218         7         12
(hkui                     6,153        --     4.612     1.363        --        220       6.051        -      4.962     1.008        --        53        6.677        --     6,635        -         --         29
0.j                      12.293     7.403     4,454       192       103        123       10.204    6,254     3769         86         4         65      10.169     6.045     4,079        --        -          32
Cconm                    2411.148      -     10.636       294       67         101      10,473        -     10.179       299        -         77       11.695        -     11.349       223        --         s
C _                       4.435        --     4.385        -         --         19       3923         --     1.882        --        --         36       4.191        --     4.172        --        -          13
Dinibovi                 10.001        --    3,414      1.193       178        152       9.120        -      7.788     1.109        48       149        9.700        --     3.455     1.058        19        157
Dcli                     12.299     4.350     5.379     1.179      655         IS2      10f.90     7.459     2.231      8S7       266         97       11,316    7.80S      2.531       839        54         66             1
a(i                      12,144        -     11.046       751       258         35       10.80S       -     20.141       623        --         31       10,97        --    10.315       555        --         n               n
Glrau                     6.125        --     2.40      3.189      284         192       S.238        -      3.004     2.112        --        102       5,36         --     3,468     1.737        --         66
CGoi                      6.313        -      5.556       250        --        391       6.339        --     5.756       305        -         239       6.986        -      6.484       331        -         146
Hbzhits                   6.598        --     6.159       --       401          16       5.646        -      5.521        --        94        20        5.12         --     5.7          --        62         16
Hunem                     S.494        --     8.,I8      204        62          77       3.142        -      7.975       210        39         13       8.716        -      S.622        68        17          6
h1ousits                  6,078               5.687       176       69         104       5.346        -      5.091       178       20          38       5.958        -      5.787      213         -          49
ui                       17.938    10.56     4.224      362      2.701        57       16.328     9.563     5.606       260      834          50      16.452    10.356     5.433       258       298         St
10.813       --     9.899        --       799         61       10.131       -      9,692        -        417         17       10.104       -      9.865        -        225          8
Mdob                      5.5,5        --     4.8,2       271       113       IS2        4,918        -      4,510       200        36        161       5.223        -      4.738       223        41        205
Mm                       11.115        --    10.359      494       161         44        9.172     4.129     4,463      472         -          34       9.949    4.534      5.003       335        -          21
N                        I1.871        --    10.291       140     1.280        119      10,145        --     9.592        -       448         84       10.6086       -     10.176        --       368         55
Oli                       9.111        -      8.090       346       367        216       8.589        --    3.132        292        --        124       8.646        --     8.O5         -         -          52
Pnlm                     14.396        -     13,076       594      248        386       12.353        -     12,075       127        -         133      13.444        --    13.161       170        -          81
SeaMue                    7.789        --     7.030        --      693          33       7.105        -      6.650        --       410         40       7.280        --     7.195        -         63         21
Sabi                      4.965        -      4,281       298      351         23        4.653        -      4.292       216       112         22       4.769        -      4.487       194        71         it
Sibiu                     8.998        --     7,891        --      976          73       7.619        -      7.038        -        549         28       7.495        -      7.199        -        280          9
Sum                      13.770        --    11.702        --     2.019         43      12,697        -     11.558        --     1,076         47      13,303        1- 13.282           --                   14
Tdeloin                   8.125        --     6.615       469       876        143       7.164        __    6.711        211       176         61       7.467        -      7.174       241        __         4S
ras                       9,606     5,314     3.536       497       277         38       8.829     5.239     3,073       454        25         26       3.828     5.426     3.033       319        12         23           (IQ
Tukim                     5,322        --     4.565        --      650          88       4.884        --    4,558         --       262         57       4,793        --     4.695        --        83         I8 s
Vs                       2,860         --    10.749       351      662          77      10.236        --     9.648       277       321        78       10.444        --     9.854       411       129         40
VDi=                      7,443        --    6.536        383       152        288       6.915        --     6,338       392        --        161       7,163        -      6.668       438        --         47
Visam                     7,720        --     6.485       980       151        S4        6.833        --     5.944      S47          3         35       7.3S3        --     6.833       532        -          14            0
Mnic.Buumb               28.809   20.219      8.370       --        --         103      27.823    IS.992     7.813      939         --        61       25.85,    17.754     8.036        --        --        S0
Sooom Romnia Auhor1im



ANNEX I
- 58 -                       Page 18 of 22
ROMANIA HEALTH REHLABLITATON PROJECT
TABLE 18: ROMANIA - DISTRIBUTION OF AIDS CASES BY
AGE GROUP AND SEX, OCTOBER 1, 1990
Agp group              Male      Female   Unknown   TOTAL
0-11 months                208       148          0       356
1-4 yes                   316        259         0        575
S-9 yeas                     0         1          0         1
10-12 years                  1         2         0          3
Unknown podiatric            0         0          0         0
Total Pediatric            525       410         0        935
Total Adult                 38        26          0        64
Total Cases                563       436          0       999
Source: WHIO/EURO



ANNEX 1
- 59 -                     Page 19 of 22
ROMANIA- HEALTH REHAB-LITATiON PROJET
TABLE 19: ROMANIA-ESTIMATED PREVALENCE OF CHRONIC DISEASES
BY DISTRICT, 189
Hypenensive   Isehemia
Tuberculosis  Hean Disease   Cardiac   Ulcer
Population    No. of Est.   No. of Est.   No. of Est.  No. of Est.
District              In '000s    Cases Prev.   Cases Prev   Casms Prov  Cases Prev
TOTAL            23,151,564     45,693       594,477    249,2 '1    134,570
AIba                     428,246        703        18,252       8,953      4,696
Arad                     506,683      1,231        39,752      23,230      6,142
Arges                    676.731      1,061        16,585      8.875       3,519
Bacau                    731,052      1.548         9.553      4,710       2,744
Bihor                    660,256       843         38,521      13,819      7,660
Blstrita-Nasaud          327,523       428          4.368      2,081       1,520
Botosani                 467,644       802          6,159      2,791       2,349
Brasov                   694,510      1,013         5,131      3,021       1,688
Braila                   404.252       550         17,692      6,419       3,811
Buzau                    524,439       869         33,218     16,441       3,602
Caras-Severin            407,940        921        21.226      7,276       3,280
Calarasi                 351,183      1,290         5,500      2,150       1,043
Cluj                     742,787      1,026        16,068      8,819       5,6S9
Constanta                736,860      1,740        10,928      4,154       4.189
Covasna                  237,918       223          5,301      2201         970
Dimbovita                569,746      1,339         8,828      3,432       2,108
Dolj                     772,451      1,616        26,385      10,356      6,234
Galatl                   642,211      1,221        13,112      4,363       3,960
Giurgiu                  324,927        763         6,367       1,992      1,043
Gorj                     387,528        637         9,991       3,856      2,202
Harghita                 362,962       270         10,106      4,794       2,302
Hunedoara                567,455        949        38,303      7,041       6,380
lalomita                 309,193       592          6,154      2,072       1,059
lasi                     809,892      1,973        17,759      6,782       9,195
Maramures                556,063        851         7,927       3,3831     2,449
Mehedinti                328,665      1,206        16,572      4,998       i,664
Mures                    621,246        899         7,181      3,562       2,656
Neamt                    580,237       940          8,532      5,014       2,463
OI t                      34,828      1,246         6,042      3,403       2,016
Prahova                  877,359      1,561        10,899      5,704       4,753
Satu-Mare                416,723      1,007         6,574      2,557       1.672
salaJ                    269,086       613          7,996      3,106       1,860
Sibiu                    508,647       660         24,524      7,763       4,935
Suceava                  698,724      1,198         9,905      5,118       3,238
Teleorman                503,771      1,092        27,682      11.8I0      4,417
Tlmis                    725,588      2,034        17,944       8,714      3,039
Tulcea                   275,078        8  .        4,908       1,885       986
VasIul                   468,398        933         6,904      4,064       3,822
Vilcea                   430,263        767         7,971      2,932       1,750
Vrancea                  393,710        711         6,771       3,547       741
Munic.Bucurestl        2,318,889      5,544        30,88       11,955      4,774
Source: Ministry of Health Statistical Department



- 60 -                                     ANNEX I
Page 20 of 22
RIU COP RONA  - HEA R3IABIWATN 
TAMBL   ROMANI - WCPUIDItUR ON STATE OWt HEALTH CAR FACINiI
BY TM  OPF FACILSY. 91-I9M
Id"~~~~~~~p4"
P-a
L Pe.ml Hcalft Cm                  12U139.1  15.649.5  16,142.9   15.65-   IS.U9.4  17,076.8  21.016.S
Ra11 i  en"mutm                   1.199.7   1.412.2   1,451.1    1.443.3   1.48.6  132.7   1.789.0 21
Ud _ DiVum_                       2561.8   3.697.0   3.791.3   3,659.3   3,726.2   S.983.5   45$41.5
Rwl      b HeAl                    503.7    606.8       620.0     662.3      680.3     719.5     83.0 31
Uid  Hosptab _cum                 6.73    3VU13.4   9.13&S    1803.S   8.928.    9.643.4  12o019.
Sai1ea (M. of.)                     214.2     1962      189.8      172.2     17S.8     177.3     2383
Oe_dOa.IU=hMig&sjUs                9.3       11.3       9.6       9.6        89       11.0      10.2
Now Colcum C _                      132.4     165.7     163.8     166.3      161.1     163.9     203.9
Ambwlo St_tIm                      499.S      S26.7     327.9     319.0      S11.2      44.7     759.S
- P?jIs                                    130.2      205.0     227.7     243.7      250.0     302.1
-Othte                                                 4S.9      41.6      36.1       30.8
IM QL Cas                             984.3   1.099.7  12101.2   1.071.7   1.070.0   1.117.7    1365.9
N,uie  (1-3 yan)                   725.0      762.6     747.9     722.3      713.6     733.2     889.1
Oqmfh s (0-3 yean)                  239.3     337.1     353.3     349.4      356.4     384.3     476.8
IlL                                 1.317.9   1.6U.3   1,489.2   1,438.0   1.47?.6   1.324.9   1.847.8
son .4 Race Tguab                   153.4     227.6     200.4     195.3      201.2     208.8     253.3
Noa-_apdss  ROL"" eadvli             6.7       4.2        4.7       3.6        5.3       3.6       3.0
oth whftui                        1125.8   1.44.7   1,254.1    1,237.1   1.264.1   1.310 S    1,389.3
TolI  Halt Uxp_mIu                 14.441.3   U.39.7  15733.3  1J.193.3  18.21.0  19,719.4  24,230.2
Sorn ci Tata EapaRs
L Frmm_l}l IlhCm                       54.1      85.1      86.2       86.2      86.3      86.6       867
Rwi DspeuAs                          8.        7.7        7.7       7.9        8o        7.8       7.4
Ud D         _ 'ieasc                29.3     20.1       20.2      20.1       20.1      20.2      20.0
Rl HQop_al                           3.S       3.3        33        3.5        3.7       3.6       3.S
U&w Hosabl. E Clii                 46.3      48.3       48.8      484        48.2      489       49.6
Suamoda (.a tle.)                    1.3        1.1       1.0       0.9        0.9       0.9       1.0
o    nq,damlT uapyinMeius            0.1       0.1        0.1       0.2        0.0       0.1       0.0
Blood Coloiads Ceat.                 0.9       0.9        0.9       0.9        0.9       0.8       0.8
Ambulm Salom                         3.3        2.9       2.4        2.9       2.8       2.$       3.1
-PallcIie                                    0.!        1.1       1.3        1.3       1.3
- Olr                                                  Q0.2       0.2       0.3        Q.3
IL ChI Can                              6.8       6.0       5.9        3.9       5.8       3.7        S.6
Nwaetil (103 Yea)                     3.0       4.1       4.0       4.0        3.9       3.7       3.7
Osphaages t03 yeau                    1.8       1.5       1.9        1.9       1.9       1.9       2.0
mL O<                                   9.1       9.0       7.9        7.9       7.9       7.7        7.6
8puad Re a T _                        1.3       1.2       1.1        1.1       1.1       1.1
N-Cqmiu_op uuld actIviIe             0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
o68  Ralathm                         7.3       7.7        6.9       6.8        6.8       6.6       6.6
Tota Healb  _E m                      100.0     100.0      100.0     200.0     100.0      200.0     200.0
SWl Flsw   RatImo (ai
TQta Health    _                  1.4       2.9        3.4       3.6       3.8        3.0
1 - Pe  l HRalt Can               0.0       O.8        1.3       1.3       1.6        1.2
i - CndCam                       19.6      36.9      43.2       44.4      44.S       35.4
M-ath                             0.4       0.S       0.4        0.4       0.4        0.5
RElA pdiva p_ bmi da 
21 AIJ dlUMdW
3/ AD hbspals ad ale
8owe hlauy of F&PO



ANNEX 1
- 61 -                                    Page 21 of 22
ROMANIA - HELTH REHABILIATION PROJEC
TABLE 21: ROMANIA - FINANCING OF HEALTH CARE EXPENDITURBS
(Mill Li ot Prent)
199D      1935     19a         7      19U1 a            190
L Ceral Budpct
Mblnly of NealSt                            577.4  13,775.6  13,905.6  133517.3  13,716.6  143626  22.164.0
Minisby of Tnqot                             304.5    390.1    387.3    376.9    382.2    405.1    554.2
Min. Labor & Social ProL                      13.0     23.9      23.9     23.2     23.9     24.0     23.7
Odher Units (Amy. etc.)                     519.S    667.2    679.2    656.4    66D.5    676.1    753.5
SAotal CENTRAL Budget   1.419.7  14.356.8  14.996.5  14.574.3  14,853.2  15,967.9  23500.4
IL lal Budget                                12,515.6   3.012.6  3.094.8  2,951.5  2,970.3  3.W7.3
Toal      _ Governmet Health Ependiturc      14.235.3  17.869.4  11,091.4  17,532.3  17,323.5  18,975.2  23,500.4
mL Other Sour_
acnic of State and Coopertive Jstims          16.0    114.4    243.2    m.o    289.6    303.7    367.3
Of which.
Pee for Sevce Polyclbes                    0.0     150.2    205.0   2W7.7    243.7       314    302.1
Icome of Civic OrganizAtions and Eatersc     23.0      27.0     29.5      27.9     34.7     34.3
Of whAch.
Romanka Red Crs                                     95.4     29.5              110.9
Social Activity FPnd                         167.0    314.9    269.2    362.3    373.2    415.7    362.5
Of wbichl wneries                          141.9    231.1    323.0    320.9    317.5    364.7    316.0
Of whlcb. Pareus Cotbutbos                          99.3     46.2     41.9      55.7              94.8
Private Puheac of Dnrg 1/                  2648.5    406D.2   4444.7   4650.6   4923.8   4637.0   4657.0
Show of Total Expenditures (Pecent)
1. CtRl Budt
Minluty of Reath                              4.1      77.1     76.9      77.1     77.4     78.3     94.3
Mlnistry of Tansport                          2.1       2.2      2.1       2.1      2.1      2.1      2.4
bUn. Lsbor& Social Pro.                       0.1       0.1      0.Q       0.1      0.1      0.Q      0.1
Other Units (Army. de.)                       3.7       3.7      3.8       3.7      3.7      3.6      3.2
Subtotal CENTRAL Budget      10.0      33.1      2       3.1      33.3     84.2    100.0
EL Local Budget                                 90.0      16.9     17.1      16.9     16.7     15.8
Tosi Govemment Health Expenditures             100.0    10D.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0    100.0
Mmoundun Items:
GDP (billon Ie)                            604.4    792.4    813.3    823.7   t37.9    791.8    784.2
Populatlon(inthousands)                     22.201    22.725   22.824   22.940   23.054   23.211   23,250
Totl Governmcat Eenditrs                      n.c.     375.5    378.6    366.0    334.1    341.1    310.3
(bllion Ici)
Health Expenditures as ahare ofGDP           2.36      2.26     2.21      2.13     2.13     2.40     3.00
Heath Expel duir per Capiuta (i)            643.2    736.33   792.65   764.29   773.12   t17.51  1010.77
Health Expnituares s sare of Total
Govemument Expenditu                                  4.76     4.73     4.79      5.33     3.56     7.57
31 Soce: Mtiiy of Helth
Souce: Miity of FPmnc
r



ANNEX 1
- 62 -                              Page 22 of 22
ROI4ANI/ - HELTH REKAD1fIMATION PRO
TABLE 22: ROMNIA - COVERNMI4T FINANCED HEALTH WENDITURS BY CATWORY
190, 19, 31-1991
Pmiima   Pla
1910     1913     19S5    16       117      198       3989    19P0 1/  1991 V
Val (miln lehi
Penumel                            3,227.1  9,914.0  11,082.4  11,258.5  11,223.8  11.527.0  12.54.6  16,311.4  17,533.7
Sakla                           6,289.7  7,592.9  6.562.2  3,703.7  3,670.9  1900.7  9,664.3  12,339.6  12,920.8
Saiy Taz & Coouibusll           1.937.4  2,321.1  2,520.2  2,554.9  2,552.9  2,626.3  2,884.3  3,971.8  4,615.9
Food                                945.4  1,096.7  1,116.2  1,131.2  1,096.0  1,105.2  1,111.3  1,329.0  1,941.0
Dmp md Se rvic  upply              2,571.4  2,655.0  2,670.8  2.031.3  2,494.4  2.4622   2,53.0  3.059.2  3,912.0
Opeting Eqpn                       1,034.4  1.244.3  1,167.3  1,177.4  1,103.0  1,067.4  1,078.0  1.30.6  2,167.0
Heati                            271.4    424.0   424.0   441.1    426.0    417.4
EletuicIty                        77.3    107.6    106.4   106.1    98.0       9.5
Wter mad eweange                  112.9    140.9    146.9    149.0    145.1    150.7
Ode                               572.3    571.8   490.0   461.2    433.2    403.8
SypUe                               426.6   411.0   500.5    528,4   551.7    591.1    651.9    603.2    50.0
Cm" Repar                           305.9   2S7.2   306.5    316.0   297.1    235.0    274.2    544.7    525.0
Caital Repir                         67.4     14.7    49.2    35.1       15.2     35.0                      250.0
Odher Hapdli                        657.1    759.1    776.5    793.S    7$1.6    743.6    768.2    152.3    738.3
Toeta GOv't Financed Expeodi t-ua  14.235.3  16,352.0   711.69.4  18.091.4  17.532.8  17,t23.5  18,975.2  23.500.4  27,700.0
Sham of Ttl met    (eurcent)
Puuauml                              57.8     60.6    62.0    6L2        64.0     64.7     66.1     69.4     63.3
Sdais                             44.2    46.4    47.9    48.1    49.5         49.9     50.9     52.5     46.6
Sabmy Tax & Ca _irhe               13.6    14.2    14.1      14.1     14.6     14.7      15.2     16.9     16.7
Food                                  6.6      6.7      6.2      6.3      6.3      6.2      5.9      5.7      7.0
Dnq mad Service Spply                18.1     16.2    16.1      15.6    14.2      13.8     13.4      5.7     14.4
Opmt  SEy_.                           7.3      7.6      6.5      6.5      6.3      6.0      5.7     13.0      7.8
Hatl                               1.9      2.6      2.4      2.4      2.4      2.3
8eaticity                         0.5      0.7      0.6      0.6      0.6      0.5
Watef and S ewage                  0.8      0.9      0.3      0.8      0.8      0.8
Otar                               4.0      3.5      2.7      2.7      2.5      2.3
S8Ill                                 3.0      2.5      2.6      2.9      3.1      3.4      3.4      3.4      2.0
Cancal Rqein                          2.1      1.6      1.7      1.7      1.7      1.6      1.4      2.3      1.9
Capiftl Repal                         0.5      0.1      0.3      0.3      0.1      0.2               0.0      0.9
OWer EPnItur                          4.6      4.6      4.3      4.4      4.3      4.2      4.0      0.6      2.7
Total Gov't Financed xpenditur      100.0    100.0    100.0    300.0    100.0    10.0    100.0    100.1    100.0
orowtbohAt 910P"mamcCDI
Pcloomi                                       2D2.     11.8      1.6    (0.3)      2.7      6.9    30.0       7.5
SablrIs                                    20.7     12.3      1.7    (0.4)      2.7      8.6    27.7       4.7
Salry Tax * Condbutlone                     19.8     8.6      1.4      (0.1)    2.9      9.6     37.7     16.2
Food                                          16.0      1.8      1.3    (3.1)      0.8      0.6     19.6    46.0
DmndServle9Supply                              3.3      8.1     (1.4)   (11.9)    (1.3)     3.3     20.3    30.2
Operatig Expeam                               2.3    (6.2)       0.9     (6.3)    (3.2)     1.0     20.6    66.6
Heating                                    56.2      0.0      4.0     (3.4)    (2.0)
Beetricity                                 39.2      (1.1)    (0.3)    (7.6)    (2.6)
Water and Sewcer                           24.8      4.3      1.4    (2.1)      3.4
Othr                                        (0.2)   (14.3)    (1.8)   (30.0)    (6.6)
Splies                                         (3.7)    21.1     5.6      4.4      3.4      9.0     23.2    (30.3)
Caruc Repirs                                 (15.9)    19.2      3.1     (6.0)    (4.1)    (3.3)    93.7    (3.6
Caital Repair                                (76.2)   234.7     12.0    (72.4)   130.3   (100.0)
0lhwrexeawdturea                              15.5      2.3      2.2     (5.3)    (1.1)     3.3    (10.2)   384.8
To7blovFt FancedlxpEadltrws                   14.9      9.3      1.2     (3.1)     1.7      6.5     23.8    17.9
I/ Fcbnuy 1991 estmstes these numbers are inconsIst  with Tables 21. 22 ad 23A
21 1991 isn IM90 Lei
&wuo: Mlilstry of Finane



- 63 -                   ANNE  !
Attacnmen'
Page 1 oi 3
ROMANIA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
FIGURE:I
Maternal Mortality Rate in Selected
Countries, ca 1970 and ca 1986
Rate our 100.000 livebirtha
140
 40  . -_
120
100
so
eo_ - ,I.   ,_________________..________________ I
60           _. _            -. ..
40          -    ' v   -   -   .    _   ..         ----
20     1.--
Romania  Yugo.   France.  Coh        Italy    U.K.   sweasn
Country
eoa 170     m 3 ea 1986
sourest WHO



- 64 -             A~~~~L WEX I.
- 64 -                    Attacnment I
Page 2 of 3
ROMANIA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Crude Birth Rate in Romania, 1947-1987
30
25
20- 
ia                                                                        ;
1947    1952    1967    1962    1967    1972    1977    1982    1967
Obsetrv  points               -    Tred 1947o07
T tend 1947-66                     -0- Trend 1167-67



- 65 -                 ctacnienX   1
Page 3 of 3
ROMANIA
HEALTH REHABIUTATION PROJECT
E:CE. 3
Age-specific Fertility, Romania
1987
SIX
200                                        -
150
100
50                       -
15     20     25    30      35      40     45      50
Age



- 66 -
AN..L.2
Page 1 of 10
1.          The Romanian drug supply system is basod on the public sectort
purchases are made by the state from state owned entorpriocs (for locally
produced drugs), or state owned trading companies (for imported drugo);
warehousing and wholesale distribution are made by stats owned unLts, which in
turn own retail distribution facilities. The price of drugs to the public is
also fixed by the stats, at a level that used to be much below international
standards. The Government has begun Lntroducing reform.: some private retail
facilities have been authorized; private warehouses have appearedi a privati-
zation project for distribution companies has been drafted; drug
manufacturers have been encouraged to seek joLnt-venture agreements with
foreign firms  and wholosalo prices of drugs have been raised to more
realistic levels. These measures have increased medlcine prices, and the
pressure on health care budgets.
2.          Since the 1989 revolutLon, the availability of drugs and medical
consumable (syrLnges, needles, etc.) has not slgnifLiantly improved, and there
are severe shortages, wlth hospitals slightly better off thanks to interna-
tional ald. At presente domestic industry productLon is low and the lack of
forolgn currency prevents Romania from importing much needed pharmaceuticals.
The resulting scarcity of drugs and consumables constraLns reform of the
health system and hampers its effLoLeney at all levels, sopecially in primary
health care. The project would therefore finance the supply of pharmaceuticals
and medical consuwAblem Ln order to fill the lap between public health basic
needs and purchasing and producing capacity of Romania during a two year
transition perlod. This supply will be complemented with measures of
adjustment for the whole pharmaceutical system.
Selectios
3.          Romania does not have an esoential drugs list as such. The list of
medicines authorized for sale in the country contains both essential and non-
essential drug., and there is no special formulary for primary health care or
for hospitals. Consequently, the Direction of Pharmacy of the MOH has begun
preparing a formulary of essential drugs for use in the public sector. Romania
has a national formulary, in which each drug is described by its generic name,
its commercial name, lts galenic form and the manufacturing practice its
manufacturer abides by. This formulary is updated yearly, with a list of the
drugs withdrawn and added during the year. This has allowed for the
disappearance of some locally manufactured obsolete compounds. The formulary
does not include data on drug indications, contraindications, side-effects,
etc. Doctors have to look these up in pharmacology manuals, of which too few
copies are printed and no easy-to-use pocket version is to be found.



- 67 -
Page 2 of 20
4.          All pharmaceutical products have to be registered before they are
marketed. However, but the registration of oome products is not advertised by
the MOH becauee of their high costs (they are then procured in small
quantities when the need arises in a hospital). The registration process is
the responsibility of the MOH Drug Committee and in handled technically by the
Inetitute for Drug Quality Control (IDQC). The procedure for registration is
efficient, with foreign firms having to present evidence of registration in
other countries (with a detailed dossier on clinical trials) and of compliance
with Good Manufacturing Practices. The IDQC performs quality control analysis
on samples. New domestic products have to follow a slightly more complete
procedure when they are based on fully tested molocules, or to present a
complete registration file when they are a product of local research. Oi. o,
registered, medicines are included into one of three categories (A, B and C)
according to the way tkey are prescribed. C category medicines are OTCa (over
the counter drugs) and do not need a prescription. Categories A and B are only
delivered upon presentation of a prescription, which has to be in two copies
(one of them remaining at the pharmacy) for A category drugs, which include
such products as antibiotics, hormones, etc.
5.          Much of the equipment of the IDQC is obsolete, and this slows down
the registration process. A fee of U.SJ 300 is charged by the Institute to
foreign firms for the registration process; thL amount being now remLtted to
the MOP. International manufacturers of generLes hardly ever register theLr
products Ln Romanla, as the drug market L not stabilized and procurement
technLques tend to be more in favor of manufacturers of non- generic products.
in order to improve the regLtration process and to support the import of
gonerics, the project would provide supplementary laboratory equLpment to the
IDQC. The MOH has Lntroduced a Past Regietration Procedure for imported drugs
(les than 60 days). The price of regLetration will be raised to U.S.$ 1,000,
and foreign currency will be kept by the IDQC for the purchase of spare parts,
additional equLpment and reagents.
Drus Providers
6.          Until recently, health system procurement comprised about two
thirds local manufactures and one third imports. Most impo;rts were procured in
Rubles from COMECON countries, and hard currency Lmports remained exceptLonal.
The collapse of the COMECON trading system has compelled Romania to spend more
hard currency on drug purchases, thus opening prospects to western European
firms (mostly German, SwLss and French). The 1991 EC grant for the supply of
essentLal drugs has opened the way for the import of generics, and this trend
would be supported by the project. However, Lt Ls certaLn that some expensive
"brand" products that have to be imported (such as anti-cancer drugs, Lnsulin,
anti-viral compounds) will remain scarce during the transition period.
7.          The Romanian pharmaceutical industry has suffered over the last
fifteen years through Lts lack of access to ;iodern technologies, shortage of
foreign currency for Lmports of essential raw materLals and inadequate capital
investment. In additLon, the Government pursued a mLguided policy of



- 68 -
hIOhEK 2
Page 3 of 10
directing the domestic industry to attempt to make Romania self-sufficient in
pharmaceuticals. This has resulted in the industry manufacturing an exces-
sively wide product range, with approximately 200 active compoundo ard over
1,200 finished products. Spread over a relatively small tonnage, this has
resulted in relatively high costa of production. To exacerbate the situation,
the industry has been so starved of funds that it has insufficient capacity to
satisfy the domestic market with even the most basic pharmaceuticals, although
some essential products were still exported at the expense of local patients.
For instance, three quarters of the country's requirements of infusion packs
have to be imported. In many cases, product quality is variable and lower than
in equivalent generics available on international markets; Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP) hardly exists in the six major pharmaceutical production units.
The technologies used and the products available in the antibiotics field are
in particular need of improvement. Drug packaging facilities are also primi-
tive and need urgent upgrading. To safeguard the welfare of the local popula-
tion, there is an urgent need to restructure the industry so that it can
produce at least a minimum of basic pharmaceuticals competitively and at
international quality standards; meanwhile basic drugs of appropriate quality
must be imported until the industry has carried out much needed reforms. The
project would finance a restructuring study to assist the Government design
a medium term strategy for the pharmaceutical industry (see Annex 2,
Attachment 1).
Procurexent and Distribution
8.          Procurement of foreign drugs by the MOH is still characterized by
the absence of competitive bidding and by opaque procedures, although the
situation has improved lately. Procurement techniques are different for
domestic and imported drugs. Locally manufactured products are purchased
directly from the factories by 17 regional distribution companies, while
imported drugs are procured through a trading company, and warehoused in a
cisntral storage facility (the Central Pharmaceutical Office, which recently
became an autonomous public company, UNIFARM) before being released to the
regional distribution companies. The KOH decides on the list of drugs to be
imported, using a single state-owned trading company (FARMEXIM) to procure
them according to availability of hard currency, with a markup of about 2%.
The MOH is not exempt of the 10% custom tax on the price of imported pharma-
ceuticals. Procurement by FARMEXIM is made through direct negotiations, and
drugs are stored at UNIFARM, which sells them to the regional distribution
companies with a 3% added commissLon. This procurement procedure is ineffi-
cient, as it stretches delivery time without the advantage of good warehous-
ing; UNIFARM's facility being unfit for adecuate drug storage. Due to currency
shortages, imports fall short of the actual requirements by about 60%. During
the first months of 1991, imports mostly came from China and Egypt, financed
by barter trade contracts. New orders were not honored for want of foreign
exchange. The project would provide technical asristance to the MOH for the
implementation of more cost efficient procurement techniques: tender organi-
zation; better identification of suppliers7 and improved conditions for
manufacturers of generic drugs. To facilitate procurement under the project,



- 69 -
ZNNlEX 2
Page 4 of 10
the MOH has requested the assistance of UNICEF for essential drugs and UNFPA
for contraceptives.
9.          Regional distribution companies usually have a regional warehouse.
The companies own a network of retail pharmacies (over 1,500 for the whole
country). They also deliver drugs to hospital pharmacies. Each company
operates in a particular territory, and assumes the logistics of drug
distribution within this territory, which can be small (city of Bucharest,
District of Bihor) or large (Timisoara company covers the Districts of Arad,
Carae-severin and Timis). The covered population varies between 660,000
inhabitants and 7,200 hospital beds for the Oradea company and nearly 2
million inhabitants and over 15,000 beds for the Ploiesti company (see Annex
2, Table 1). One company covers the city of Bucharest (2.3 million people and
over 27,000 beds). On the whole, regicnal warehouses are in a poor condition,
with over half of the cold rooms and most of the vehicles out of order. The EC
project is at present upgrading the . ld storage facilities and the truck
fleet. The transportation problem is rendered critical by the need for the
companies to distribute domestic drugs production from the factories. Stock
management is poorly organized and no computers are used. Retail facilities
are r.t best resupplied once a month. The project would provide computer
equipment and software, and technical assistance in order to improve the stock
management and accounting of regional distribution companies, and the quality
of their logistice.
10.         Regional distribution companies sell drugs to the public (through
retail stores) and to hospitals, with a distribution margin of 18% for
domestic drugs, and 15% (as UNIFARM already charges 3%) for imported drugs.
The financial position of the regional companies is weak and they recently
requested an increase in their distribution margin, which is much below
Western standards (31% to 45%). The recent increase in drug prices (see below)
has solved the problem to some extent as fixed costs of these companies should
now be covered, and the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has therefore delayed a rise
in the distribution margin. This question will probably appear again in the
future, as privatization of drug distribution is on the agenda of economic
reform.  Experience of other countries has shown that "pro rata distribition
margins" tend to push the sale of expenaive drugs over that of generice, for
which the profit is smaller. This issue will be addressed in the retail price
study undertaken by the EEC project.
Drua Pricina and Financing
11.         Until April 1991, the retail price of drugs in Romania wao among
the lowest in the world. Depending on the exchange rate used, retail prices
were on average one eighth to one twentieth of world retail prices, with some
products (such ao acetylsalicylic acid, paracetamol, streptomycin) very
heavily subsidized. As prices were not adjusted with time, drugs that had
been registered in the 1960s were priced much lower than more recent
formulations. Since retail prices were linked to wholesale prices (the
difference being the 18% distribution margin), wholesale prices were also very



- 70 -
Page 5 of 10
low, with the Government subsidy far from the end user. Imported drugs were
sold at the same administered price whatever their international cost, so that
imports had to be more and more heavily subeidized over time. The result was a
system in which pricen were very low, both in absolute and relative value
(household. spent around 1% of their income for drugs), with little incentive
for doctors to optimize prescri-:ions, or for households to restrict
consumption.
12.         In April 1992, the Government began to reform drug priceo.
Wholesale prices for imported drugs are now based on their CIF price,
expressed in Lai at the official exchange rate. Medicines imported under the
project would be sold to health institutions at the CIF price converted into
Lei at the market exchange rate, plus the approved distribution margin.
Prices of domestically produced drugs were increased by between 110 and 300%
in April 1991. The price adjustments did not take into account present
distortions in the prices of inputs, such as power or depreciation. In
addition, imports of raw materials are accounted for at the official exchange
rate. A 300% increase has been set as a ceiling for the adjustment; however,
greater increases may be required to provlde incentives to domestic
manufacturers to increase production.
13.         Distribution margins have not been changed (para. 10).  However,
the financial position of the dlitribution companies will need to be monitored
carefully as they learn to adjust to a more market-oriented environment.
14.         The Lsue of drug financing cannot be separated from the overall
problem of health financing, and will be addressed in this context during the
design of the new Health Strategy. At present, hospital inpatient. receive
medication free of charge, and this may have led to some unnecessary use of
hospitals. Ambulatory care drugs are free for children, elderly (pensioners),
pregnant women and indigent people. All other ambulatory patients pay a state
controlled price for their drugs. The insurance scheme currently in use
covers only 80% of the labor force (and their families), but the inclusion of
other categories than state-employed workers is being discussed.  Under this
scheme, patients pay 50% of the new price of drugs (their new out-of-pocket
expenditure still corresponding 'o a 50% to 200% increase on former prices),
and the other 50% is reimbursed to the distribution company by the insurance
scheme.
15.         Hospital drug budgets for 1991 were increased by about 250% to
compensate for the rise in drug prices.  However: (i) this may be insufficient
to cover the increased price of imports;  (ii) imports are valued at the low
official exchange rate and foreign currency allocations may not be sufficient
to meet the increasing need for imports caused by the decline in domestic
production; and (iii) the new budget attempts only to preserve the meager
purchasing value of hospital drug budgets.  Drugs supplied through the project
would help overcome the shortage of foreign exchange duriig the transition



- 71 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 10
period. However, appropriate allocation of drugs to hospitals will only be
achieved in the future with the implementation of a new hospital financing
system, which would be designed within the context of the new National Health
Strategy.
Drua Prescriptions
16.         Because Romanian doctors have been cut off from the international
medical community for several years, and have had very limited access to
information and innovations in therapeutics, obsolete drugs and product
combinations are still prescribed. Due to price distortion an1d ignorance, the
cost effectiveness of drugs is rarely considered. Pharmacology manuals are
scarce. Use of generic drugs is not widespread. Generic drugs would
therefore be procured through the project wherever feasible. The EEC project
will be providing a specific manual of therapeutics in order to improve the
prescribing practice of doctors.
17.         Patients' compliance with prescriptions is reported to be
insufficient, particularly in rural areas, partly because of the difficulty in
finding available products, and partly because public education on drugs is
limited. Patients usually tend to demand from their physician a long list of
prescribed products, mostly with the idea that some of them will not be
available at pharmacies. When drugs cannot be found at their district
pharmacy, patients usua.iy go to some other retail store, thus losing the
advantages they may have (such as free drugs for children). With over 1,500
retail pharmacies and one pharmacist for about 3,500 inhabitants, Romania
provides a sufficient access to pharmacies for the population. However, major
towns alone have pharmacies open round the clock. By improving access to
drugs in rural areas and improving the primary health care system, the project
would improve patients' compliance and the efficiency of treatments.



ANNEX 2: TABLE 1
DRUG EXPENDITURE
___________________
(in million Lei)
1980  1985  1986  1987  1988  1989
Population (x 1,000)                                          22,201   22,725   22,824   22,940   23,054   23,211
Total MOH expenditure                                          2,671    2,871    2.831    2,494    2,462    2.543
Private expenditurti                                           2,649    4.060    4,445    4,606    4,924    4.637
Public expenditure: share of total expenditure                   49%      41%     39%      35%      33%      35%
Total expenditure / inhabitant (i, L-ei)                         235     305      319      310      320      309
Household expenditure / inhabitant (in Lei)                      119      179     195      201      214      200
Total drug expenditure: share of GDP                           0.86%    0.87%    0.89%    0.86%    0.88%    0.91%
0



- 73 -
ANN15 2
Page 8 of 10
AMNNX 2 t TABLE 2
THE 17 REGIONAL DRUG DISTRIBUTION NETWORKS
Clientele identification
Number of    Number of      Percentage     Percentage
inhabitants   hospital beds    inhabitltotal    beds/total
Bucharest 1       2,318,889      27,207          10.1%        13.3%
Bucharest 2       1,137,891       6,916           5.0%         3.4%
Bacau             1,311,289       9,487           5.7%         4.7%
Brasov            1,441,075      12.861           6.3%         6.3%
Cluj              1,339.396      13.574           5.8%         6.7%
Constanta         1,011.938       7,314           4.4%         3.6%
Craiova           1,588.644      12,976           6.9%         6.4%
Deva                995,701      10,488           4.3%         5.1%
Galati            1,440.173      10,786           6.3%         5.3%
lasi              1,278.290      13,576           5.6%         6.7%
Oradea              660,256       7,135           2.9%         3.5%
Pitesti           1,641,822      12.376           7.2%         6.1 %
Ploiesti          1,971,544      15,236           8.6%         7.5%
Satui Mare          972.786       7,797           4.2%         3.8%
Suceava           1,166,268       9,132           5.1%         4.5%
Timisoara         1,640.211      16,705           7.2%         8.2%
Tirgu Mures         984,208      10,233           4.3%         5.0%
TOTAL            22,900,381     203.799         100.0%       100.0%
'Does not include facilities directly managed by MOH
Source: M.O.H.



ANNEX 2: FIGURE I
EVOLUTION OF ROMANIAN DRUG EXPENDITURES
Between 1980 and 1989
8
7
-J         6
c
0
C         5
0          4
CD
a1        3
1980         1985          1986          1987          1988          1989     ,
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Years
O  MOH expenditure     +  Private purchase     O  Total expenditure



ANNEX 2: FIGURE 2
ROMANIAN DRUG MANUFACTURERS
Evolution of production  1988 - 1990
7
6
-1          5
0
. 0
c       ~~4
0
U
3
2~~~
1988                         1989                          1990 
yeaa                                                   $
0b ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~o
Buch. Drugs Ent.            \QBuch. "Biofarm"         Buch. "Slntoform"            Iasi Antibiotics
Cluj "Terripia"    /        Tg Mures t'Arrniedico"



- 76 -
AMNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 1 of 6
TOR ROMANIAN PLAHMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY
PROPOS82 RESTRUCTURING PROGRM AND STRATGIZC PLAN
TERMS OF REERANCM
Backaround
1.         In common with the rest of Eastern Europe, Romania is undergoing
profound social and economic changes. Currently, indigenous industry is unable
to satisfy domestic demand in many subsectors. Damage to infrastructure during
the December 1989 revolution, lack of access to modern technologies, shortages
of foreign currency for imports, inadequate capital investment over a long
period and the absence of efficient mechanisms which  oauld have allowed
enterprises to receive supplies and initiate contracts with other organiza-
tions after the fall of the Ceaucescu government are just some of the factors
which have contributed to the shortages now being experienced throughout the
Romanian economy.
2.         The pharmaceutical industry is no exception to this situation.
Although all products on the WHO essential drugs are available in greater or
lesser degree, there are severe and worsening shortages of other pharmaceu-
ticals; items most in demand are CNS drugs, anti-ulcerants, cardiovasculars,
anti-allergics, hypolipaemics, antibiotics and antimicrobials.
3.         In the past, Government policy has been to direct the industry to
attempt to make Romania self-sufficient in pharmaceuticals. This resulted in
the industry manufacturing a very wide product ra. ge,with approximately 200
active compounds and over 1,200 finished products. Such a wide product range,
spread over a relatively small tonnage, has resulted in rather high unit costs
of production. In many cases, product quality is variable and not as high as
that in equivalent products produced by companies operating in Western Europe,
USA and Japan.
4.          Apart from investment in  new plant and equipment, there is also
an acute need to upgrade drug packaging facilities. There are as yet no direct
investments nor joint ventures with %aftern companies, although some major
drug companies now have representatives stationed in Bucharest.
5.          Romania has environmental problems as serious as those in other
countries in Eastern Europe; the pharmaceutical industry is not free of blame
in this regard and remedial action is called for in a number of cases.
6.          Pharmaceutical manufacture is dominated by six state enterprises,
which were coordinated until the December 1989 revolution by the Industrial
Center for Medicinal Drugs; with the dissolution of the Center, there is no
longer any central coordinating body, although the Department of Chemical
Industry in the Ministry of Resources and Industry continues to give guidance
to the enterprises. There are also thirteen smaller organizations which



- 77 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 2 of 6
develop medicines and produce them on a small scale; these institutions report
directly to the Ministry of Health. The six state enterprises ares
(a)   Intreprinderii de Antibiotice, Iasi-Manufactures 200 products,
including antibiotics (such as penicillin, tetracycline,
erythromycin), griseofulvin, corticouteroid hormones, ergot
alkaloids, digital glucosides and veterinary products. This plant
currently requires major rehabilitation.
(b)   Terapia Works, Cluj-Napoca-Manufactures steroids, anesthetics,
analgesics, anti-rheumatices, vasodilators, calcium gluconate,
glutamic acid, calcium pantothenate, chloramphenicol, nicotinic
acid.
(C)  Sintofarm Works, Bucharest-Produces anesthetics, analgesics,
anti-rheumatic, antidiabetice, oalicylic acid derivatives,
nicotinamide, nicotinic acid,idosept, sodium sulfacetamide,
paracetamol, sodium cyclamate and meclofenoxate.
(d)   Intreprinderea de Medicamente, Bucharest-Manufactures about 600
finished products, including infusions, antibiotics, anti-herpes,
anti-inflammatory, cardiovascular and anti-ulcer drugs and
Vitamin C.
(e)   Biofarm, Bucharest-Specializes in extracts from plants (Anghirol,
atropine, scopolamine, digoxin, papaverin, and belladonna) and
animals (vitamins A,D,E and F and hormones); veterinary drugs are
also produced.
(f)   Armedica, Tirgu Mures-Commenced production in 1988, and
manufactures anti-rheumatice, anti-pyretics, anti-epasmodice, and
animal extract products.
Objectivel
7.          The issues facing the Romanian Pharmaceutical Industry need to be
addressed at two levels - at the subsector level and at that of the individual
enterprises. The objectives of formulating a strategy for the subsector as a
whole are to:
(a)   develop explicitly stated goals and objectives for the efficient
restructuring of the subsector, which in turn could be linked to
the country's overall objectives; examine the best strategic
direction for the industry, including its choice of products and
markets; and



- 78 -
ANNEX 2
Attachment 1
Page 3 of 6
(b)   recommend specific action programs for restructuring and future
development of the subsector (including privatization, if
appropriate) which could render it internationally competitive
and in a position to meet a significant proportion of
domestic demand through economically viable operations. The
objectives of the technical assistance provided by the task force
to individual enterprises are to:
(i)   support the overall objectives of the industrial
restructuring program and subsectoral strategy;
(ii)  identify and carry out preliminary feasibility studies of
projects aimed at import substitution, meeting domestic
demand for new products, developing direct and indirect
exports, and increasing the efficiency of existing
operations;
(iil) improve the organization and management effectiveness of the
enterprises to meet the above mentioned objectives; and
(iv)  identify opportunities for joint ventures with foreign
companies and for privatization of individual enterprises,
or the whole subsector.
scone of Works
8.           In order to meet the objectives specified above,the study should:
(a)   include an analysis of the past development of the subsector,
including reference to product groups, markets (both public and
private sectors),production,trade (imports from and exports to
former CNEA and non-CNEA markets), value added, employment and
invest.nents.
(b)   examine the structure of the industry, identifying:
(i)   access to raw materials;
(ii)  location of production;
(iii) type of production facilities available;
(lv)  quantity and quality of each intermediate and active
Lngredient produced;
(v)   quantity and quality of each class of formulation
produced from the above active ingredients, whether Lmported
or manufactured locally;



- 79 -
ASX 2
Attachment 1
Page 4 of 6
(vi) critical problems in packaging machinery, quality
and design of packaging materials, including glass
vials and ampoules;
(vii)   available production capacity;
(viii)  purchasing organizations and the
efficiency of their operations;
(ix)    problems associated with distribution channels as
currently organised;
(x)     current inventor- control policiesL
(xi)    conformity by the subsector as a whole, as well as
individual plants, to international standards,
particularly good manufacturing practice (OMP), good
laboratory practice (GLP) and good clinical practice
(GCP)F
(xii)   capabillty and adequacy of the industry's R&D facilities;
(xiii)  major constraints affecting the growth of the
pharmaceuticals subsector.
Through discussions with the Ministry of Finance, identify any
fiscal and other measures (taxation, import duties, export
incentives etc.) which can affect the profitability and
performance of the industry, and which should be taken into
account when formulating the restructuring program and strategic
plan.
(c)   perform an environmental audit of the industry, identifying any
current environmental problems and the cost and time required to
clean them up.Provisions for toxic waste disposal and the cost of
upgrading production and R&D facilities to meet local and EC
environmental regulations ahould also be examined.
(d)   A strategy should be recommended with regard to specific product
groups in which Roman a should develop its production and upgrade
its current manufacturing facilities to meet the future demand,
and the markets in which Romania should seek to compete, based on
considerations oft market trends, trade agreements, quality of
finished pharmaceuticals, process technologies available,
productivity and competitiveness of the current and potential
product groups, profitability of different markets etc. Products
should be identified for which the potential exists to reach
international levels.



- 80 -
MNNES 2
Attachme.it 1
Page 5 of 6
(a)   In view of the above strategy,and the current status of the
subsector, a structure should be recommended towards which the
subsector should develop, with regard to the number and location
of enterprises, respective size and scale, degree of integration
and specialization etc. which would enable the subsector to make
the highest possible economic contribution, in view of the
objectives and prevailing conditions.
(f)   Within this strategy and proposed structure, consultants should
prepare a product and market strategy for each enterprise, based
on the past and present activities of the company. An analysis
should be performed of current and potential competitiveness of
major product groups in the domestic public and private sectors,
as well as exports, so that recommendations can be made am to the
major product groups and markets which should form the
enterprise's focus. As far as possible, the analysis should
include detailed study of product groups, market share of the
enterprise, the impact of quality differences of competing
products, and a break-down of cost comparison by major product
categories.
(g)   An analysis should be made of the organization of each enterprise
under the economic reforms currently being introduced, and the
estimated effect of the latter on the existing organization
structure. An assessment should be made of the present status and
future need of management skills in various areas of activity,
including strategic planning, marketing and market development,
pricing, product and production technology, quality control,
financial planning and cost accounting etc. Specific
recommendations for the eventual installation of MIS systems
should be included.
(h)   An evaluation should be made of product and process technologies
of the existing and proposed product mix, with special emphasis on
raw materials  licensing and know-how arrangements should be
reviewed and, where possible, recommendations made for know-how
acquisition. The present production facilities should be reviewed
and areas for upgrading, replacement and improvement should be
identified.
(i)   Recommendations should be made on capital expenditure  priorities,
and preliminary feasibility studies made in order to show the
impact of the proposed restructuring strategy on the development
of the industry until the year 2000. Only investments which reach
technological capability and enterprise efficiency and
competitiveness at international level should be considered; and



- 81 -
ANNEX 2_
Attachment 1
Page 6 of 6
(j)   The opportunitiei for meeting thio program through joint ventures
or privatization of some or all of the enterpriaes obould be
explored or assessed.
R"omoneo
9.          Consultants should note that the study will be carried out by a
joint task force of Romanian experts drawn from the pharmaceutical industry,
the Department of Chemical Industry (Ministry of Resources and Industry) and
the Ministry of Health, who would be led and advised by the international
consultant team. An essential element of the assignment will therefore be to
impart to the Romanian members of the task force the skills necessary for
future strategy updates to be performed with the minimum of input from
international consultants. The project is expected to start in January 1992.
10.         The response to this invitation to tender should describe:
(a)   how the study will be carried out;
(b) who will perform the study;
(c) the qualifications of the responding organization to perform the
study, including descriptions of recent relevant work;
(d) the number of consultant man-months required, broken down by
grade, the monthly rate of fees for each grade, estimated
additional expenses, leading to an estimate of the total foreign
exchange cost of the study; and
(e)   a timetable and work plan for the assignment.



- 82 -
Page 1 of 9
PMI2PRRATI  OF A  MUT9XA&E -eSRTG
1.          The project will assist the Romanian 9overnment to reform the
health care system during the transition to a marcot economy. The expected
outcomes are as follows.
(a)   a series of background reports dJicribing the weaknesses of the
current situation, identifying the reform issues in the context of
relevant international experience, and proposiog reforms and
implementation plans in specific areas. These reports which would
make use of existing documents by Romanian experts and external
agencies, would provide a thorough analysis of the Romanian health
sector, and the basis for a systematic reform of health services
finance and delivery.
(b)   a summary report presenting: (a) a synthesis of the above reports;
(b) proposing an integrated and comprehensive set of reforms; and
(c) an overall implementation plan.
(c)   initiation of the first phase of reforms.
The individual reports are outlined below.
2.          The summary report, containing detailed reform proposals, would be
synthesized and integrated azound the following major themes:
(a)   legal framework to organize the health care sector that will
include references to consumer rights, and quality of care;
(b)   the financing of the system, including the role of private finance
and private-public mix in finance;
(c)   proposals for regulations of private, not-for-profits, and self-
governing health and public institutionsa
(d)   the delivery system: the role of the public sector, the role of
the private sector, and private-public mix in delivery;
(e)   rules and institutions governing public and private health care
delivery;
(f)   allocation criteria for public funds (e.g., budgeting, fee for
service, ca,L.itation);



- 83 -
ANX 3
Page 2 of 9
(g) criteria and rules governing the compensation of providers; (e.g.,
fee for service, DRGe, capitation);
(h)   the general organization of the systems roles for the KOH and
district health offices in policy making, monitoring and
evaluation, manpower planning, investment and technology adoption,
and quality control;
(i)   now institutionu, if needed;
3.          The report would review, for their applicability to Romania,
current approaches in relevant OSCD and middle income countries. Specific-
ally, the preparation of proposals for reform would reflect concerns raised in
recent national proposals for reform in countries such as the United Klngdom,
Israel, and the Netherlands.
4.          After the summary report has baen distributed and widely discussed
in Romania, the initLation and implemntation of the first phase of reforms
would be directed by a special Romanian implementation commlttee. The
committee would be assisted by consultants who would be appointed fc' the
expedient implementation of the reform. The committee woulds
(a)   prepare a time-phased plan, including required legal and
institutional changes, with deadlines; and
(b) specLfy resources, equipment, training, technical assistance etc.,
necessary for implemntation with cost estimates.
Resort 13 The9 Meath Piciffr., of oMania - Present andf Zm%t&re Mss
and PriorL&LMj
5.          The report would identify and define health objectives for the
next decade, priority areas of medical and non-medical health interventions by
socioeconomic groups, geography, and work place, and set intervention
alternatives. The report would address at least the following issues:
(a)   the current epidemiology of the Romanian populations mortality and
morbidity patterns by age and sex, socloeconomic group and
location;
(b)   risk factors associated with morbidity and mortality patterns;
(c)   projected epidemiological developments on the basis of demographic
development over the next decade; and also on the basis of
alternative scenarios concerning the developments of key risk
factors (mitigated by various interventions) over the next decade;
(d)   priority areas of intervention by population and location;
(e)   alternative optLone for medical and non-medical interventions in
each priority areal



- 84 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 9
(f) the role of preventive public health and health education in
handling key risk factors.
The Steering Committee already appointed by the Government to oversee
preparation of the National Health Strategy would nominate a team to prepare
this report under their supervision. A first draft should be completed so that
it can be reviewed during loan negotiations at the end of August, 1991.
Reogrt 2: Hsalth Financinc
6.          The objective of the report is to propose reforms of health
financing in Romania. This report should lead to the recommendation of policy
options that would promote equitable access to care, efficiency in delivery,
and cost containment. The report should address at least the following
issues:
(a)   sources of finance:  general zevenues, earmarked taxes (social
insurance), user fees, and private &nsurance, taking into account
curren- private financing (drug purchases, gratuities, etc.), the
current tax structure, budgetary law and practice, and tax reforms
under preparation;
(b) mechanisms for reimbursing providers, including direct budget
financing, fee-for-service, capitation fees; discussing the issues
asociated with applying different methods for different types of
care and providers;
(c) required institutional and regulatory changes for different
options; and
(d) efficiency and equity implications of different options.
The report should be completed in 6 months.
Regogt 3:  Health Delivery
7.          This report would lead to proposals concerning the ownership and
management of health care institutions and the delivery of care, including
public health and preventive care, primary and other community care, and
institutional care. The report would: (a) describe the current system; and
(b! identify efficient and equitable options to foster continuity and quality
of care through vertical and horizontal integration, while promoting consumer
choice and satisfaction. Special attention would be given to transferring
services from the government to private and not-for-profit institutions.
This report would address at least the following issues:
(a) description of the current system -- availability and quality of
services, efficiency of service delivery;



- 85 -
AMEXZ 3
Page 4 of 9
(I)   public health and preventive care, including health
education, and environmental and occupational preventive
health inetltutions;
(ii)  primary care, emergency and other community care servie;
(iLL) institutional care by speciflc type of services,
specialLation., types of instltutions (including long term
care for children, elderly) hospital wards, specializet
outpatient services, ete.;
(iv)  inetitutional and legal arrangomnts guiding the current
system;
(v)   service utilization patterns and factors inhibiting
utilization;
(vi) the "grey* market for care;
(b)   identification of major iesues in the current system, including:
(i)   deficiencies and redundancies in delivery institutions and
resourcese
(ii) total cost and unit cost (ineluding some estimates of cost
of time and trouble to clients) of exieting health services
and inetitutions;
(C)   options for system reform, (including private delivery):
(i)   the ambulatory care (primary health care) system;
($i) the ownership, organization, fLnancing, and management of
hospitals;
($LL) preventive health and health educatLon;
(iv)  inetitutional responesbllities, by ministries and sectres,
for interventLon especially in areas related to behavioral,
onvironmental, and occupatlonal risk factors.
(v)   autonomy and accountabilLty in decentralized public units;
(vi) issues in privatization Ln the health sector.
This report should be completed in 4 months.



- 86 -
ANNJX 3
Page 5 of 9
Re2ort 4 :  fanqaemsnt of 7sehnoloov
S.          The objective of this report is to assist the Romanian system tos
(a) close the technological gap with the West, and (b) thereafter maintain the
system on par with modern health care systems through prudent choice and
adoption of new technology in view of both quality and cost of care. This
report would address at least the following issuess
(a)   the current state of Romanlan medical care technology --
qualitative assesment of methods of clinical diagnostic and
treatment -- from an international perspective in view of current
and projected needs in priority areas;
(b)   the institutions, rules and processes governing adoption of new
technology;
(c)   financial, institutional, and regulatory needs to close the
technological gap between Romania and the west through
modernization of equipment and tralning of health profeosionals in
required technologies withln thLs docadet and
(d)   proposals for adoptions of new technologies -- principles,
institution&.l require ants, regulations, and processes (Consensus
conferences etc.).
The report should be completed within 3 months.
Recort A:  DevelogMent and Manaagant of RumaL Resources
9.          The objective of this report is to develop proposals that would
enable the Romanian system to assure availability, through adequate and
quality training and worker compensation policies, of qualified staff that
would provide efficient care both in the private and public sectors. This
report would address at least the following issues:
(a)   the current state of the Romanian health staff by main professions
and specialties -- numbers and quality -- in view of current and
projected needs;
(b)   the determinants of supply of health personnel -- training
facilities and migration;
(c)   the determinants of the quality of personnel -- certification, re-
training, continuing education etc.
(d)   manpower projections and planning in view of need; and
(e)   proposals for assuring adequate supply of qualified and
independent health professionals, while considering the paramount
effect on health care cost of supplier induced demand.



- 87 -
Page 6 of 9
The report should be completed in 3 months.
Oroaizaionof  traeowForulaionand Initiation of Imolexen-tatio
10.         An agreed with the government, the reports will be closely guided
by a steering comuittee which will include a foreign expert, as manager of the
reports.
(a)   Government ReB2onsibilities
The government needs to provide all assistance in terms of local
resources, including local experts in the amount that is at least
equal to that provided through technical assistance, for the
prompt execution and implementation of the reports as outlined in
the following implementation schedule.
(b)   Report No. 1 - The Health Picture
of Romania                 first draft by August 15
(c)   Report No. 2 - Health Financing           6 months after signing
contract with consulting
firm
(d)   Report No. 3 - Health Delivery            4  months
Ce)   Report No. 4 - Management of Technology  3  month   n
(f)   Report No. 5 - Development & Management
of Human Resources               3  months   "
(g)   Summary Report - Proposals for Reform    8
11.         Ministry of Health and Ministry of Finance need to provide the
consultants information on current system, (including all previously produced
reports by international agencies), and Government reform proposals currently
pending either before Parliament or within Ministries, including information
on tax reform options under consideration, on development of MIS system, on
privatization policies, on reform initiatives underway, on developments in
Parliament with respect to the Constitution which might affect the questions
to be addressed here.
12.         Ministry of Health needs to inform other ministries, the
parliament and the public of the reports and the pending reform in order to
form a consensus around this effort.



- 88 -
ANhX 3
Page 7 of 9
Teqgbical Agsistance Reaui_Mets and its Oreanization
13.         The technical assistance requirements which are needed for the
implementation of thiu component of the project comprise two elements: foreign
consultants and study tours for local expert.
FRxejen SAMErts
14.         The services of specialists, totaling 60 staff-months, identified
under the different activities are an follows.
(a)   Document No. 2 - Health Financing
Health economists                                         4 m/m
(b)   Document No. 3 - Health Delivery
Public health specialists                                 8 m/m
Health Economists                                         8 m/m
(c)   Document No. 4 - Management of Technology
Experts in medical technology                             2 m/m
Health economists                                         2 m/m
(d)   Document No. 5 - Development & Management of Human Resources
Experts in medical education                              2 m/m
Health marpower specialiste                               2 m/m
(e)   Summary Document
Experts in health systems                                       2 m/m
Public administration specialists                               2 m/m
Health economist                                                2 m/m
Expert in management of
hospitals (w/medical background)                               2 m/m
(f)   Initiation and first stage of Reforms                         24 m/m
i5.         A financial provision is made in under the current project to a
assist at least the initial stages of the reform implementation



- 89 -
ANNEZ 3
Page 8 of 9
studv Tnure
16.         The study tour program would enable the local counterpart experts
participating in the preparation of the reform documents to become familiar
with relevant health system. and institutLons in other countries and
specifically have the opportunity to study reform processes taking place in
different countries. The program would provide for 10 3-week study tours in
the European region of the WHO and relevant OECD countries.
Organisation of Technical As3istance
17.         For the tormulation of the national health strategy (items a-e
directly above) the Romanian government would be assisted by a foreign
institution that would:
(a)   identify, recruit, and manage the technical assistance of this
project component, including timely completion and discussion of
reform documents and execution of study tours, in coordination
with the Romanian Government and the World Bank;
(b)   have extensive experience in the EuropeAn Region of the WHO or
other relevant OECD systems;
(c)   have a demonstrated track record of at least 5 years in health
policy studies in socialized health care systems at the national
level, executed for governments;
(d)   would pro,vide experts with the following qualifications:
(i) preferably hold a Ph.D. degree in a relevant field;
(ii) have a demonstrated record in policy analysis of health
issues in their respective fields, mainly in the European
Region of the WHO;
(iii) are familiar with ongoing reform efforts of national health
systems;
(iv) have knowledge in Romanian or French; and
(v) agree to stay in Romania for the duration of the studies.



- 90 -
ANX 3
Page 9 of 9
Conditlmnu for Loan gffqctivognu
18.         For thio component the Romanian Government would ned to meet the
following conditionst
(a)   Selection of the institution to carry out the TA to prepare the
studies would be a condition of effectiveness of the loan.



- 91 -
ANNEX A
Page 1 of 3
1.          The Romanian health care system in characterized by scant use of
data for planning and management, although the wealth of data and collection
procedures in the MOH are impressive. Data remain unused for their full
potential because: (i) there is little managerial incentivel ({i) data are
inaccessible for technical and logistic reasons; (iii) they lack uniformity in
definition; rendering some data useless; civ) health management staff are not
adequately informed about the existence and avaLlebility of data; (v) data are
often outdated by the time they become available; (vi) different aspects of
data cannot easily be combined and integrated; and (vii) the quality of data
becomes suspect as their validity, accuracy and timeliness are questionable.
2.          Data collection is still characterized by a rigid centralized
iystem. Large quantities of data are requested from lower levels, regardless
of utility to local providers and users of health care. There is little
feedback of management oriented information towards the health dispensaries,
the hospitals and district health dire.torates (DHD). The National Center for
Health Statistics (NCHS), which is part of the KOH, is responsible for data
collection and dissemination. It recognizes the need for improvements in data
management and has initiated a modernization program. This process is con-
strained by a lack of resources and modern know-how. The project would support
the improvement of planning and management capabilities in the Romanian health
services by initiating a modern health information system (HIS) that would
provide necessary information for management decisiona at all levels, such as:
setting objectives and priorities; allocation of resources; identification of
efficient services; optimal use of services. The HIS would be a useful tool
for management reform in the Romanian Aealth services. Its implementation
would complement two other components of the projectt the testing of decen-
tralization in some selected districts and the support provided to the HSMI.
Structure of the HIS
3.          The HIS would include three different components: (i) the design
of indicators relating to the health of the population and the performance of
the health system; (ii) the operation of a computerized state-of-the-art data
management system; and (iii) the realization of a communication system for the
efficient dissemination of information. The project would support the design
and implementation of the HIS, and help bridge the conceptual and techno-
logical gaps faced by the MOH. The Government has agreed to create three
working groups under the supervision of a steering committee to address the
three components. They would be supported by technical assistance provided
through the project.



- 92 -
ANNE 4
Page 2 of 3
4.          The HIS would integrate data on health services facilities,
population, epidemiology, health personnel, together with financial data. It
would provide data on districts, hospitals, clinics and PHC facilities,
compared to overall Romanian and international averages. Some of the
information already exiess, but has to be reorganized for the design of
reliable indicators: demographic patterns, quantity and type cf various
facilities, quantity and availability of medical equipment, health personnel
by category, use of services by the population (number of visits, hospital-
izations, drug consumption, etc.), data on quality of care (length of stay in
hospitals, specific mortality patterns, etc.). Other data are not collected at
present, and will have to be integrated, such as information on life-styles
and nutrition and data pertaining to cost-effectiveness of services. Data
would be arranged into indicators allowing for comparisons across regions and
institutions, in order to provide incentives for improved efficiency at all
the levels of the health system.
5.          The data management system would be created within the NCHS.  The
NCHS staff have a strong background in data collection and statistics, but
they have no access to modern data management methods. The NCHS would be
equipped and reorganized under the project. The project would assist the NCHS
in the analysis process, and supply a central comaputerized system (hardware
and software) and necessary training. By the end of the project, the MOH would
dispose of a data management tool characterized by fast and easy data entry,
and sophisticated retrieval allowing for data aggregation, comparison of
information and statistical treatment. Besides operating the central data
management system, the NCHS would advise the rest of the health system
regarding database design and operation, standards for equipment and software,
training on information systems, statistical research, and technology.
6.          The present lack of information at peripheral levels would not be
addressed by the centi.l HIS, as it is too extensive to serve as an efficient
tool for the local level, which would need data on the health status of its
population and on the performance of facilities within its jurisdiction.
Adequate information is also required for local managers to mace optimal use
of the new responsibilities bestowed on them with deceatralization. The
project would assist in disseminating information to the peripheral levels
through training of local managers in the use of specific data, providing
adequate computer technology, improving communication lines between the
districts and the central level, supply of periodic reports for different
levels of management and of pre-programmed data management capabilities for
cursory analyses of data.
Strateav for implementation
7.          The HIS would be implemented by a steering committee and three
working groups, all supported by technical assistance provided through the
project. The steering committee would include the heads of NCHS, HSMI, MCH,
representatives of DHD, hospitals and clinics, and the heads of the working
groups. It would set priorities for HIS implementation, supervise and
coordinate the three working groups, approve designs and implementation plans



- 93 -
Page 3 of 3
proposed by the working groups, and prepare reorganization of the NCHS. The
working-group on indlcators would conuist of experts in statietlcs,
epidemiology, public health and systems design. It would set data needs and
priorities, define reporting requirements and advsee on presentation of
reports. The workLng group on data management system would conaLst of systemo
analysts, systems designers, database designers and programmers. It would
specify technical requirements for hardware configurations for central and
local systems and use them for procurement through InternatLonal Competitive
Bidding, supervLse inetallation of hardware and software,design, and implement
the HMIS and local software, and produce repcs :s for diesemination. The
working group on diessmination of information would consist of statieticians,
health services management experts, technical writers and communication
experts. It would identify efficient ways for data diosemination, deviLe a
communucation network between userj and the NCHS, prepare publications and
computerized material for distribution and design training programs for
managers on use of the HIS.
8.          Technical asositance would he provided by the project at all the
stages of the creation of the HIS. ThiL technical assistance would include
specialists in organizational management, deosign of health indicatore for
management, system analysie and design, database deslgn and management,
communication and specialized publishing. rhe project would also supply
fellowships for NCHS personnel. In addition, the project would finance
computer equipment (central mainframe and microcomputers), various software
packages, and a set of supplies. Upgrading of the NCHS building would be made
by the Government in order to prepare the inetallation of new equipment for
the data management system.



- 94 -                                  ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 5
ROKANIA                                                                   Working
HEALTH REHASILITATIOM PROJECT                     Costs With Contingencies   Paer Ref.
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES                             ....................  ..........
17-Jun-91   - -                          - -            - - ... . .      8    Local Foreign Total  TORS for
09:59    Type      Unit   --0istribution of Quantities Total   Total    Esc.    Esc.              Esc.   Package (P)
* --.. -----..      of        of                  . -  --  -    .....--Oty of   Base    Costs    Costs    Costs  or Individ-
Subject       ObIective         Input      iraUt   1991  1992  1993  1994  19W   Input   Costs  USS'000  USS'000  USS'OOO   uals (1)
I    REIIADILITATE & UPGR4DE PRIMARY HEALTH CARE
1.1     1.11 Upgrade 410   Fellowsnip m/month               6                           6        39                44        44
Upgrade Dispensaries         Corsultant mrmonnth                                        4        56       14       50        63 TOR#1.1(1)
RuraL                        Buitdings X Spread            27n   33X   40S            1001   5,650   6,615                6,615
Disoen-                      Furniture X Soreaa            27X   331   40            1001      969   1,135               1,135
saries                       Otc.Eqt.  % Soreac            501   30X   201            1001      149      *0      132       172
ClinicI EqX Swread           501   301   201            1001  14,950   3,'.80   13,266   17,246
Oental Eq X Spread            50X   30X   20X           1001   1,177       313    1,0"       1,357
Gon.Oiso. X Spread            13X   32X   55X           1001      909      248      827    1,074
Dent.Oiso.% Spread            40X   30X   301           1001      339       91      303        394
MaInt.Eqt.% Spread            38X   47X   15X           100X      728      194      648        842
ed  Sparets  Sprad            501   SO5                 100'      390      103      344        447
Software  X Swread            501   501                 1001       55      1t4       48        63
..........           ..... ..... ..... ..... ..... .....   cau seBs    s         Sunman   ass         sa :unas- *.- 3
Subtat 1.1:                                                    25,410  12,746   16,705   29,451
_ .........         ......................... ...........................3  3    388883   383*-
1.2 Im- 1.21 Inst of MC&A:
prove    --
Repro-  1.21(i) High Risk  Fetlowshic r/month              12    12      6             30       195               226       226
ductive Pregnancy Unit       Consultant m/month             2      2      2     2       8       112      28       104       133 TORN1.21(P)
Health                       Equipment X Spread           100%                        100X       55       14       47        61
Service                      Disposablel spread            25X   25X   25X   25S   100X          13       4        12        15
1.21(ii) Neonsatl  Fellowship r/month              12    12      8            32       208               241       241
Intensiv  Care       Crnultant m/month              2     2      2      2      8       112       28      104        133 TOR1.21(P)
Unit.                Equipment X Sproad            J0X   201                 100X      980      230       767       998
0isposableS Spread            25X   251   251   251   1001        130       36       119       154
1.21(fii) Clinical Feltowship m/month              12    12      6            30       195               226       226
Laboratory Unit.   Conmultant r/month               3     3      3      3      12      168       43       157       199 TOR01.21(P)
Equipment % Soread            907    SX    5X           1001      424      ill      369        40
oisposaDoeX Spread            25X   251   257   25X   100X         26        7        24        31
1.21iv) Anatrw-  Fellowship mrmonth                6     2                    8        52                 59        59
Pathology Cancer   Consultant m/month               2     2      2      2       8      112       28       104       133 TORN1.21(P)
Unit                 Equipment X Spread           1001                        1001     365       95       316       411
DisposabOeX Spreace          1001                       1001       13        3        11        15



_ 95 _                             ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 5
RONAWIA                                                                Uorki'ig
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT                   Costs With Contingencies   Paper fef.
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES                                               ....   ..........
1r-Jun91 -    .                                     ... . .                     Local Foreign Total  TORS for
09:59    Type      Unit   ..Dstributiou  of Quantities Total   Total    Esc.    Esc.           Esc.   Package (P)
of       of                 .ty of   Base    Costs    Costs    Costs  or Individ-
Subject      Objective        Input      input   1991  1992   993  1994  1995  Iput   Costas USS'000  USSOOO  USS'000   ualt  (1)
..*.......... ...w*4**4... .......   .......  ..... ....  ..... ..... *.... .*...   no-ggB   ass-- *---n    s"               .....
1.22 Famfly         Fellowship Mn/mth             6     6                   12       78                89       89
Plarming and son   Consultant rnmonth             *      2     2             8       112      28       102      129 TORS1.2(P)
Education unit      Equipsnt   Spread           lOX                        1002      139      36      120       157
Software  X Spread           25X   25X   25%   252   100%        13        4       12        I5
Iner Recur% Spread           252 25X   25X   25X   1002           2        2                 2
1.23(1) Famtly      Fellowship M/month
Plaming Service,  Conultant mlnth                 2                          2       28        7       25        32 TORdI.2(P)
10 Ref. Centers    Equipment S Spread            502   so5                 1001     302       s0      266      345
Buildings X Spread          100X                       100       97      109                109
1.23I ii  F-PSan.   Feltowship rmonth        Finaced by Others
Sorvice: Training  Consultant n/month                                                                               TONR0 .2(P)
1.23(iii) Fa.       Fellowship m/month
Ptlanng  ervtce,  Cosultant r/month                                                                                 TOUl .2(P)
230 FP Centers      Equint 2 Spread              502   50M                 1002     265       70      234       304
1.24(i) Maternal   Fellowship r/month
and Child Health   Carsultant  /Vmonth            3     3                    6       64       21       76        96 TOR81.20P)
(50 Mat/Pad Units) Equipment X Spread            332   33X   33X           1002  21,060   5.665   18,68    24,547
1.25 F-Planino    Consultant r/month              6     2      2            10       140      34      126       161 TOR91.20P)
Serv: Suplies       ContraceptZ Spread           lX   321   572            1002  10,244   2 799    9,330   12.129
..........           ......... ..... ...... ..... ...... .....   eVIS11011  Bongos ...... canons  .... ........ .,, . ... ....... ............
Sibtot 1.2:                                                  35.624   9,482   32,150   41,632
..........          ............. ..... ..... ..... .....  . assum ...... .       .am.   sa .a.    .--=s. u
1.3     1.31(i) Devlop    Fellowhip m/month               4     4                    8        52               60        60
Train-  Post B"ic           Consultant r/month            18     6                  24       336      82       300      382 TOR61.31(1)
Ing for Nursing SChools   AVA Equip%% Spread            10                         100X       55      14       47        61
Nurse                       Software  X Spread            75X   252                1002       23      26                 26
ad                          Incr Recur% Spread            253   252   252   252   100X         5       6                  6
Physi-                                            ...                                                a .. .  ..... ..... ...... ...    assa   egmasons
cian5                                                                                        470      128      40?      534
.... ... * ..... .....3 ..... ..... .      .     .      .      3.



ANNEX S
-96-                             Page 3 ofS5
ROMANIA                                                                Working
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT                   Costs WIth Contingewices   Pacer Ret.
EST14ATED QUANTITIES                           .
1r-Jun-91  .......   .......  ..... ..... ..... ..... ..........  mousse   Local   For*ign   Total    TONS for
09:59    type      Unit   ... Oistributlon of Quantities Total   Total    Esc.    Esc.         Esc.   Package (P)
*- .  -..  - - . .  . --   *    of       of     *.    ..  *.   ..  .               Oty of   $aSe    Costs    Costs    Costs  or Individ-
Subject      Objective       Itrut       Irout   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Input   Costs  USS'OOD  USS'OOO  USS'OOO   uais (I)
............................. .......   ....... ................... ....................-- .....  ax   assume   su  ua       .
1.31(1i) Strong-   Fellouship r/month
then 41 Schools    Equipmnt S Spreed             302   302   305   10     1001      47S      129      42S       557
for Nurses
1.32                Fellowship nmo nth            3     3                   6        39                4S       45
train              Consuttant m/month             4                         4        56       14       SO        63 TOR11.32(I)
Health             Equipuent X Spread            80X   202                1002       62       16       54        71
Workers             tRa       X Spread           251   25X   25X   25   1002       250      296                296
.v...... .. ......... .... ......  ..... ...... ..... ...... ..... ......- . ases    somasm  sms.-- *---n-es
Subtot 1.3:                                                     882      454      577    1,032
..........  .... .......... ..........           ...,  flu....  causes.  -fll3fl2"
1.4     1.41(l) Provide    Fellowship -amonth              6     6                  12       78                 89       89
Drugs,  Essential           Cos ultant mrmonth            10     2                  12       168      41       149       190 TORMI.411(P)
Conswu- Orugs and
ables,  Consumbles.         Computers X Spread           100l                     100      325       84       281      366
Vaccines                    Orug          Sprod           101   90X                100   61,779  16.555   55,182   71,737
. Olood                     Dispos.   X Spread            331   331   331           991  23,400   6,231   20,771   27,002
Products
1.41(1i) Stren-   Fellowship m/month              a     8                  16       104               119       119
then Procurement   Consultant rn/onth             3     3      3     3      12      168       43      157       199 TCR#1.412(P)
Services           Equipeent X Spread           100X                      100X       SO       13       43        56
1.41(11) Instttute Equipeent X Spread            311   33X   361          1001   2,116       570    1,901    2,471
for Drug Controt
1.42 Strat. to Oev Local Cons r/month            24                        24        12       14                 14
Phare. Industry  Consultant  m/aonth             24                         24      960       81    1,000    1,081 TCRO1 .2P)
1.43 Vaccines      Vace Eqpt X Spread            80X   20X                100l    3,211      840    2,800    3,640
1.44 Imorove       Fellowship  m/month            4     3      3            10       65                76        76
Ctood Products     Caiultant rnmonth              3      3                   6       84       21        76       96 tORe1.44(P)
Equipmunt X Spread            501   51                 1002     332       88       292      380
OfaposableX Spread           1001                      1001     32S       S4       281      366
..- ........        ..... ..... ........ . .....          .... . .....   mos "   masos ..ugauu u auas
Subtot 1.4;                                                  93.177  24,664   83,217  107,882
,,..... .,.....  .....  .....   ..... _                                      28238     u



_97 -                              ANNEX S
Page 4 of 5
ROMAN IA                                                                 Working
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT                    Costs With Contingencies   Paper Ref.
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES
1? Jun 91    --  - - -                 -  --  -                 ... . .-  n mmu  Local  Foreign  Total  TORs for
09:59    Type     Unit   ---Distribution of Quantities Totat   Total    Esc.    Esc.            ESc.   Package (P)
-    -          -  - ---.    of        of      -       -     -   --      .....-Oty of   Base    Costs    Costs    Costs  or Individ-
Subject       Objective        Input      Irput   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Input   Costs  USSfOOo  USStOOO  USS OOO   uals (1)
,,,,,,,,,,,,,...,,..... .. ..... .. ..... ... ..... ...   ..... ..  ..... .. -t s -z=- ra ... ..... ..... ..... .....  oa" sua    *aa    zue ...... ---
1.5     1.51 Impr. Tete-   Telecom ECJ Spread              30X   702                1002      160       43       142      184
top-    cennnicetions        Local Cons m/month             3     3                   6         3        3                  3
rove
gnt    1.52 Emmrvency        Fetltowsnipr m/month
of      Transport            Consultant m/month             2                          2       28        7        25       32 TCR#1.5C(1
Emerg-                       Local Cons m/month
encies                       Anbulances% Spreaed           402   302   30S           1002   3,510      941    3,136    4,077
Incr RecurX Spread           102   302   302   302   1002   3.000   3,59f                  3,595
Spares    2 Spread                  302   302   402   1002       351       98      327       425
Spares    X Spread           5p    S02                 1002   1,870   2,142                2,142
~~~~~~~~--..... .....  ..... ..... ..... ....... ..... ..... ..  - _=   Vantua=-s =--sun :MwUZZ  ==Bass
Subtot 1.5:                                                    8.922   6.829    3,630   10,458
..........    .     ... .. ..... ..... ..... .. ..   ............. ..  r.*"  =wana-=sw =V000, ="Uses    =28mas
1.6     1.61                 Feltowship rm/month           12    12    12            36       234               213       273
Heeath  Health               Consultant mr/month            2     2      2            6        84       21        77       98 TOR01.61(1)
Prom-  Promotion             Equipment 2 Spread           100t                       100       91       24        79      102
tion &  Caopaign            Software  2 Spread            332   33X   34S           1002      724      19       649       844
Peooies                      Furtxs    2 Spread            332   33X   342           1002     750               874       874
Partici-
pation
1.62 Medicat        Feltowship nVmonth             6     6                   12       78                 89        89
Ethics              Consultant mt/month            3     3                    6       84       21        76        96 TCR91.62(CI
Equipeent 2 Spread           252   25%   252   252   1002          8        2         7        9
1.63 Environmen-   Fellowship m/month             12    12                   24      156                179       179
tat Health          Consultant rn/month            3     3      3             9      126       31       115       147 TCR#1.63(t)
Local Cons m/month           36    36    36    36    114          72       85                 85
EquipTent 2 Spread           1002                      1002   1,067       277      924    ',201
Software  X Spread           1002                      1002
Drugs     2 Spread            252   252   25X   252   1002   1,306        358    1,192    1,550
..........           ..... ..... ....... ....... ..-..... .........   saunas   z a 3--3333  333 33    :_-w
Subtot 1.6:                                                    4,781   1,014    4,535    5,549
23.3.s    23I233  333332   83333       c33333



ANNEX 5
-98 -                             Page 5 of 5
ROMMIA                                                                   Working
4EALTN REHABILITATION PROJECT                    costs wih Concingencios   Paper Ref.
ESTIMATED QUANTITIES                             ..............................
17-Jun 91  *-        -    *--         ..... ..... ..... .... *.. . . . *-- 0-   Locat   Foreign   Total    TORS for
09:59    Type      Unit  *.-.0Ostributlon of Quantities Total   Totat    Esc.    Ese.           Esc.   Package (P)
.....-.-.-ot................     f       of      ..... ..... ..... ..... .....Oty of   Base    Costs    Costs    Costs  or Individ
Subject      Objective         IMMut      IrSut   1991  1992  1993  1994  1995  Input   Casts  usS'000  uSS'000  USS OOO   uals (t)
.......;.................  ....................... ....................  ..... ..... ..... ..... ....................   Wus-s  aa- - ..... sa-.z
II RESTRUCTURE THE HEALTH SECTOR
2.1 New 2.11 Prepare         Study Tour n/month             2     4      4            10       65                76        76
NationalUNS Reform           Consultant nmmonth            36                         36      504      122      446       567 TOR#2.11(P)
4eslth  Proposals            Equlpment % Spread           1001                       100S     520      135      450       585
Strat-
egy     2.12 Implemant       Fetl losnip nvmonth
Heolth Strategy    Consultent m/Vmnth                    12    12            24       336      as       313       398 TOR#2.12(P)
2.13 Pilot ProJ'ts Consultant m/month             24    24                   48       672     165       605       770 TOR92.13Ct)
fn Oecentellaation Equipment X Spread             301   301   401           1001   1,040      281       936    1,216
..........................  ... .. .........................    s DammamDome" ses ong
Subtot 2.1:                                                    3,137      788    2,826    3,614
_ .....................  ..... ..... ..... ..... .....  .    ... ..Dl-"awso    nwnw    magmE  uc-D-  common
2.2     2.21 Heslth          Fellowship eVaonth             6     2      2     2      12       78                91        91
Health  hnagen nt            Consultant r/month            10     4      5     9      24      336       85      310       39S  TOR#2.2(P)
Inform- Information          Training   m/month           17    17    17    1?        68                40                 40
ation   System               Equipment X Spread            701   101   101   101   1001S   1118        297      989    1,286
System                       Software  X Spread           m7    10%   101   101   1001        27?       73      245       318
Consumfbl.I Spread           251   251   251   251   1001        146      40       133       173
2.22 Estabilhmt.  Fellowship fn/month             6     3      3      3     15        98               114       114
of Health Service  Consultant rn/month             6      4     4      4     18       252      64       234       297 TOR#2.2(P)
Indicators          Training   r/month            38    38    38    38    150          i5      89                 89
Equiprent X Spread           7011  lOX   101   101   100         428      113      378       492
Software  X Spread           701   101   101   101   1001        260      69       230       299
Consuobl.X  Spread           251   25S   25X   25X   1001        107       29       97       126
...... .....   .    ............ ..... ..... ..... ..... ....... ..  .x  :e,sss cancan   caann    =caz;wes-
Subtot 2.2:                                                    3,173     899    2,821    3,721
..........          ......       . ..... ..... ..... .....  . ....             ......season..  .    sem. a  .....cue    B
2.3     2.3 Schoo% of        Fellowhip rnVmonth            60    60    60            t80    1,170              1,364    1,3 4
School  Health SYstem        Consulttnt m/month            32    32    32    25    121    1,694        429    1,574    2,003 TOR#2.3(P)
of HSU1 & Nngam     t        Equipnmnt S Spread           1001                       1001      195      51       169      220
Software  X Spread          1001                        100l       8        2        7         9
..........           ..... ........ ..............................   .2   :zuUi    *88303 o8238s



ANNEX 6
99 _
ROMANIA
HEALTH RNABHILITATLON PROJET
Technical Assiume Stmawy by Compoet
Forign    Local   Fellow-   Sudy
CompO=e          Doseripion                                Coamt.  COUIL    cblpc    Tous   Tinlag
m/m      mh/n        im      m/m       mrn/
1.1      Uggr&4o Rural Dsensarle
1.11 Upgrade 420 DispcaulcmB                           4                   6
1.2       ImprogV R-eroductive Hlth. Service
1.21  IMCA                                            36                 l00
1.22 PamUy Plann    and Sex 2Amutlas UnIt              S                  12
(i)  Family Maning Service. 10                         2
Red. Cter
(if)  F-Pla. Service: Trainig                          0
1.240) Matrcna and CWld Healh                          6
(50 M4t/Ped Units)
1.2; F-Plain  Serv: Supplis                           10
1.3      Tranlma (or Nurses and Iu!IYnA
1.31 Develop Post Bade Nurwing Scheols                24                   8
1.32 TraIi Health Workers                              4                   6
1.4      Duss. Cmmtble  VLnea & Dlo Pout.
1.41 (I) Provide Ssential Drugs ad                    12                  12
C*-i-ables.
(I) Srngtben Ptrourecu                              12                  16
Sorices
1.42   saL, to Dev. Pbmtce. Iu.                       24        24
1.44 Iprove BloodProduts                               6                  10
1.5      [mve Ma  seeiet of Em ncles
1.51 Impr. TelecenmWatlolns                                      6
1.52 Emergency Trspelt                                 2
1.6      Health PomotIon & Peode'c Pestlelmatlon
1.61 Health Protimon Campain                           6                  36
1.62 Medical Elhks                                     6                  12
1.63 Envrmentl Health                                  9       144        24
2.1       New Ntioaml Healtb Straten
2.11 Prpae NHS ReformnPposals                         36                            10
2.12 lmplemen Health Strategy                         24
2.13 Pilot Projects In Decentautiaton                 48
2.2       Health Informstion Sysmtm
2.21 Halth Maagment InfeomtIon System                 24                  12                  68
2.22 EsmbUl,L   of Health Serce bIdl.                 IS                  15                 150
2.3       School of Health S6sems   Maagemnt                   121                 180
ORAND TOTAL                                          442       174       449        10       218



ANNEX 7
-100  -                                Page  1 of  3
RA4KANIA
uARY OF ACTIVITIES
EVALUATION INOICATORS
28 Jn-91 .        .  . . -                               .-.-   .......          .     .    .    .     .    .    .    .
14:07    Type      Unit      --     rocs Indicators1O tUl                           OutPut Indicators(l)
----  - - --    -  ----      of         of  .... .... .... .... .... ....oy of .. ... .... ......
Subject     Objective         Input    Input  1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 Irnut
*  I    REHAAILITATE & UPGRAOE PRIMtARY HEALTH CARE
*a--UC-SEUUUWUUS#SUU stsSufluUUwgUUUU-- -gUUeUUUUUUuuUuu.uUuUau.UuuuuSuU*_  * uUUUUe n USS55f5uauuueuug a- i -,- ----,,.-a- 
1.1     1.11 Upgradt 410  Fellotship m/month            6                          6       * Yearty nser of visits in upgraad
Upgrace Oispenarien       Consultant m/month           4                          4         dispuwries
Rural                      Buildings  S Spread         27S  33X  402             100X      * Yearly numer of Laboratory exinations
Oispen-                    Furniture  % Spread         27X  332  402             100X        Yearly nuter of dentat visits
saries                     Ofc.Eqt.   X Spread         502  302  202             1002      * NIuer of Physicians practicing in
Clinici EqtX Spread        50S  302  202              1002       dispearies
Dental Eq  X Spread         SOX  302  202             1002
Gen.OisP.  % Spread         13S  322  552             100Q
Oent.Oisp. X Spread         402  302  302             1002
Maint.Eqt. S Spread         382  47X  152             1002
Red Spares 2 Spread         50X  502                  1002
Software   2 Spread        502  502                   1002
...........          .... .... .... .... .... .........
Subtot 1.1:
...........         ..... .................................
1.2 Im- 1.21 Inst of MC&A:                                                                   Ye- rty nYumer of in-service training semi-
prove   ..................                                                                   nare provided to Oistrict Hospitat ty topic
Repro-  1.21(i) High Risk Fellowship m/month           12   12    6               30       - Msmis on improved practice produceo
ductive Pregnancy Unit    Consultant r/mntonh           2    2    2    2           a       - liu.r of pespears read
Heatth                     Equipmuent  2 Spread       1002                       1002      - Nuer of         raphy poertonreu
Service                    OfsposaotesS Spread         252  252  252  25        10C0      - Perinaatt Mortality Rate at IKCA
1.21(if) leaottat Fettolwship mrn/mnth        12   12    8               32
Intemsive Care    Consuttant r/month           2    2    Z    2           B
Unit.             Equipment  X Spread         80X  202                  100S
OisposabeesX Spread         252  252 - 252  25X       1002
1.21(iii) CLInicatfettowship m/month          12   12    6               30
Laboratory Unit.  Consuttant rnVmonth          3    3    3    3          12
Equipient  Z Spread        902   52   5Y              1002
Oisposaotesl Spread         252  252  252  252        100S
1.21(iv) Anatomy- Fettowship m/month           6    2                     8
Pathotogy Cancer  Consultant n/month           2    2    2    2           8
Unit              Equipment  2 Spread        1002                       1002
Disposabtesa  Spread       1002                       100X
1.22 Family       Fellowship m/month           6    6                    12         Prepare concraceptive marketing pLan
Planning and Sex  Consuttant rn/month          4    2    2                8         Assess next year contraceptive recuirements
Education unit    Equipient  % Spread        1002                       1002        Prep re fP training plan
Software   2 Spread        252  252  252  252         1002
Incr Recur X Spread        252  252  252  252        1002
1.23(i) Family    Fettowship r/month                                      0         Yearly nuaber ot visits by category
Paiming Service, Consultant nm/onth            2                          2         Yearty number of staff trainea in FP
10 Ref. Centen   Equipient  2 Spread          502  502                 lOX         Yearty nuimber of FP courses and trainees
Buildings  X Spread        100t                       1002
1.23(1ii) Faa.    Fetlowship m/month                                      0         Yearty nuuber of faily pLanning acceotors
Plaming Service, Consuttant rn/month                                       0        by method
230 fP Centers    Equipment  2 Spread         SO  50S                  1002      - Yearly nurser of abortions
- Moternat mortatity retated to abortions
1.24(i) Maternat  Feltowship m/month                                      0       - Yearty trend in perinatal mortality
anc Chitd Health  COnMuttant m/month           3    3                      6      - Yearty trend in maternat mortatity
(50 NMt/Pad UnitsaEquipment  X Spread         332  332  332             1002      - Trend in tow birth weight infants
- Cesareen section rate
1.25 f-Plnaming   Consultant m/monttI         12   12   12               36       - Avaitabitity of contraceptives in reoro-
Serv: Suppiles    Contracept S Spread         11X  322  57X             1002        ductive health centers. dispensaries and
*.....              ...  ...  ...  .....   ....ocat pharmacies
Subtot 1.2:                                                     - Contraceptive utilization rate
..........~.           ........... .....   ...... ;.;; .................
(1) Output indicstors inctude both impact indicators and some intermediary
(non-financial process indicators) when it is not feasibte to obtain
adequate impact indicators in the project time-fram
1.3     1.31(t) Oevetop   Fettawship mn/month           4    4                     8       .umber of nurse trainers traimne



ANNEX 7
- 101 -                            Page 2 of3
Train-  Post Basic         Consultant  /month         18    6                    24        Number of nurse speciaists Trained
irg for Nursing Schools  AVA Equipmit Spread         100l                       1002
Nurses                     Software   2 Soread        735  25X                  1002
amt                        Iner Recur S Spread        25  252  25X  252        1002
Phys-                                                 .....
cians
...................................
1.31(1i) Strng-  Fetlomanip rnmonth                                      0         Yearly nwuer of graduate nurses
then 41 Schools   Equipwnt S Spread          302  302  302  102        lO0X      .Yearty n        er of gradting nurses frm
for Nurses                                                                         bridge progrm
-Yearly number of in-service training courses
* Review of  uality of training progr
1.32              Fellowship m/month          3    3                     6       -Yearly mrer  of In-service training courses
Train             Consuttant w/month          4                          4         by subject
Heatth            Equipment  2 Spread        802  20                   1002      -A ssessment of quatity ard performnee of
Workers           TRG         X Spread       25X  25X  252  252         I002       training
...........         ............ ....  ..... ....  ..... .... ...... ..... ..... ....
Siotot 1.3:
.....................  ...................................
1.4     1.41(t ) Provide   Fellowship n/Month          6    6                    12      - Availability of fsported drugs at retait tev
Drugs, Essentiat           Consultant m/month         10    2                    12      - vailabitity of drugs in hospitats
Consun- Drugs and                                                                          time between entry of drugs into Romania ans
ahtes, Consumables.        Computers  X Soreed       1O0X                       1002       avaitability to the public
vaccines                   Drugs      2 Spread        1OX  902                  1O00       Oays between re-order aen  astivery ot orugs
& Slood                    Dispos.    2 Spread        332  332 332               99      -a ot of stocks at retait ane regionat ware
Products
1.41(ii  Streng-  Feltowship r/month         8    8                    16       -New regutations on Orug procurement
then Procuremnt Conultant Wrmnth              3    3    3    3          12
Services          Equipient 2 Spread        1OO2                       1002
1.41(fl) Institutelquipment  2 Spread        312  332  36              1002      - Nuber ot tests performed
for Drug Controt                                                                 -Average drug registration time
1.42 Strat. to COvLocat Cons  /month         24                         24       - Kaptlaensation of a restructuring ptan for
Phormac. lndustry Consuttant Wrnnth          24                         24         pharmaceuticat induLtry
1.43 Vaccirns     Vacc Eapt 2 Spread         8OX  202                  1002      -uantity of vaccines p        aruced pr year
-Percentage meeting WHO quatity stanortds
1."  lwprovo      Fellotship m/month          4    3    3               10        Proportion of btood saples tested for AIDS
Slood ProdLcts    Consultant rn/mnth          3    3                     6       - Huwer of tests performed by tne ccntrot lac
Equipment 2 Spread        502  50S                   1002     -Hur of reguter btood donors
Dlsposatle2" Spread       1O00                       10OX
...........         ......... ... ....   ..... ....   ..... .... ...... ..... ..... ....
SLitot 1.4:
.....................  ...................................
1.5     1.51 lmpr. Tets-  Telecom EqtX Spread         30X  702                  1002       Percentage of dispensaries with aoeuate
Inp-    conunmications    Locat Cons  n/month         3    3                      6        24 hours teoeStone services
rove
Ngt    1.52 Emergency   Fellowship amointh                                        0        Number of ambtuncs in-service
of      Transport          Cwasultant av'anth          2                          2        Nuestr of awbOtances .mutof-service
Emsrg                      Local Cons mn/month                                    0      - Avorage 1ime down
encies                     Agalances X SproaJ         402  302  302             1002       2 of mileage used for emergency services
Incr Recur 2 Spread        102  302  302  302        1002       X of mileage used for taxi services
Spres      2 Spread             302  302  402        1O00       2 of mileage used for auministrative auty
Spares     2 Spread        502  502                  1002
...........         ............ ....  ..... ....  ..... .... ...... ..... ..... ....
sI*tot 1.5:
.....................  ...................................
1.6     1.61               Fellowship m/month         12   12   12               36      - Yearly nuer of heatth promotion workshoai
Nellth  hea1th             Consultant m/month          2    1                     3        Yearly production of educationat materiais
Priw-  Promtion            EquIpmnt X Spread         1002                       1002     - Lel of activity of the District mealth
ticn &  Canaign           Software   2 Spread         332  33X  342             1002       Education Laboratories
People's                   Funs       2 Spread        33X  332  342             1002     - Nfber of projects supportea by wealth
Partici-                                                                                   Promotion Fund
potion                                                                                   -Cigarette sales
1.62 Medical      Fetlowhio mrmonth           6    6    6    6          24       - lumr of cases presented for review
Ethics            Consuttant r/month          3    3    3    3           12
Equipmnt  2 Spread         25X  252  252  252        1002



-102 -                                ANtEX 7
Page 3 of 3
1.63 EnvirotnFMn-  Fellowshio rn/month          12   12   12   12            8       - NuisP of cases of thyroid or other
tal Heaoth          Consultant nvmonth           3    3    3    3            12         endocrine ratfumtion cases rotated to
Local Caos m/month          36   36   36   36          144         envirrmmentat conaitions
Eqwipchnt  X Spreac        1002                        100X
Software   S Spread        100X                        1002
Drugs       X Sprebd        252  25Y  252  252          100X
...........          ............ ....  ..... ....  ..... .... ......................
Subtot 1.6:
.....................  ...................................
tl   IMPROVE HEALTH SERVICE DELIVERY
2.1 New 2.11 Preparo         Study Tour mRn/onth          2    *    4                10         P epare propsats
mationaltHS Reform           Consultant n/month          36                          36       -Evatuation of proposals
Heatth  Proposals            *QJpii nt  2 Spread        1002                        l00X        Prepare criteria of evaluation of
Strat,                                                                                           iplo tation succes
ety     2.12 Irplement    Fellowship mnmonth                                          0       -Review of resuts poblished
Heanith Strategy   Consultant nVmonth                12   12                 24         Somirar an extension and  xutension time-tnb
2.13 Pilot ProjtsConsulttnt m/month             24   24                      48         Prpare for Now Strategy
in OeeontallastionEquipmnt2 S pread            302  302  40X               1002        Propose evaluation criteria
...........          ............ .... ..... .... ..... .... ...... ..... ..... ....
Subtot 2.1:
.....................  ...................................
2.2     2.21 Heiath          oellowship n/month          6    2    2    2            12
"ealth  Hanagement          Consultat m/month            10    4    5    5           24         Trwnfer of national data
Inform- Inforation          Training   m/month          17   17   17   1?            68         to new system
ation   System              Equlpont  2 Spread          702  402  10X  10X          1002      * Review of results
system                      Software   2 Spread         702  1ox  10X  102          1002      -IpleoQntatfon of HIS In
CWW.ubt. 2 Spread           252  253  25X  252         10l0        pilot districts
2.22 EatabliaMt.  ellouhdip mn/month             6    3    3    3            Is
of Health Service  Consultant rVmonth            6    4    4    4            18         Prepre sets of indicators
Indicators          Training   m/month          38   38   38   38          130         Evaluate Indicators against
Iquipment  X Spread         72  10   102  102          1002        International data
Software   2 Spread         70   10   102 1S  102      10          Review results
Conaubil. X Spread          252  252  252  25X         100S      -Iplement indicator follow-up
...........          ............ .... ..... .... ..... .... ...... ..... ..... ....
S*tot 2.2:
OX9s ..............  ...................................
2.3     2.3 School of        Fellowship rn/mnth         60   60   60                180       -  uH er of grastes from
School  Health system       Conaultant nvmonth          32   32   32   25           121         mnsgnt porm
of HNSl  & "Mnagement       lowiamt  2 Spread          1002:                  100               O r gdr type of trainees
Software   2 Spread       1002                         1002        certified in in-service courses
...........          .... .... .... .... .... .........
9uetat 2.3:
.....................  ...................................



- 103 -                      Annex8
ROMANIA
HEALTH REHABILITATION PROJECT
Staff Appraisal Report
Schedule of Disbursements
Disbursement Profile a/
I B R D                 -   Disoursements-                               EMENA
Fiscal                                                     This        Average for
Year & Quarter            Quarter       Cumulative        Project         PHN b/
--  -    _________         -     US$  Millions  -                    %
FY 92 First                     0.0             0.0             0.0
Second                  10.0            10.0             6.7
Third                   10.0            20.0            13.3
Fourth                  12.0            32.0            21.3             1.0
FY 93 First                    15.0            47.0            31.3
Second                  18.0            65.0            43.3
Third                   18.0       .   83.0             55.3
Fourth                  17.0          100.0             66.7            10.0
FY 94 First                    13.0           113.0            75.3
Second                   7.0           120.0            80.0
Third                    4.0           124.0            82.7
Fourth                   4.0          128.0             85.3           22.0
FY 95 First                     4.0           132.0            88.0
Second                   3.0          135.0             90.0
Third                    2.0           137.0            91.3
Fourth                   2.0          139.0             92.7           42.0
FY 96 First                     3.0           142.0            94.7
Second                   3.0           145.0            96.7
Third                    3.0           148.0            98.7
Fourth                   2.0          150.0           100.0            54.0
a/ The Regional pofle for PHN Sector InvotWment Leric g.
bt The proposed operation differs subsntially from ol PHN
oprations In the region in that large proportons of F ject
financed Input are for fully specified Input, such as rugis
and consumables. available from UNICEFs warehoL ' in Copenhagen.
The loan finances no construction - otten a source c delay in the past



- 104 -
MATERIALS AVAILABLE IN PROJECTS FILE
Health System Overview and Reform Proposals: HSMI, 1990
Working Pager:    Project Preparaticn Documents (Volumes I and II)
Working Paper:    The Health Information System
Working Paper:    The School of Health Systems and Management
Working Fapr:    Rehabilitating Primary Health Care - Detailed description by
sub-component
Working PaDer:    Lists of equipment with cost estimates by sub-component
Lists of drugs with cost estimates
Lgtters of
Invitation
and Terms of
Reference for:    Preparation of a National Health Strategy
Restructuring Studies of the Pharmaceutical Industry
The Health Information System
The School of Health Systems and Management
Working PaDer:    Individual Consultants, Terms of Reference
An MCH Strategv for Romania: MOH/WHO 1991
Romania. The Transition froM Abortion to Contraception: M Potts, 1991



-105 -
Page 1 of 6
ESTABLISHING A HEALTH PROMOTION FUND
1.          The Romanian health system is almost totally oriented towards
curative medicine. The project recognizes the need to redress the situation;
the importance of health education as an important instrument of health
policy; and the need to increase beneficiary participation. The Health
Promotion Component has two main subcomponents: (a) institutional
strengthening of the government capacities for health promotion, and (b)
setting-up a Health Promotion Fund (HPF). The first will oe entrusted to the
NCHPE. The second is an autonomous fund, administered by a committee of
government and nongovernment representatives in order to finance subprojects
for health promotion.
2.          The complementarity of the two subcomponents is evident.  The
first will: (a) conduct the applied research, largely based on data analysis
and transfer of international technologies regarding health promotion
policies; (b) design and coordinate production'--or control quality--of basic
materials (e.g., videos, posters, booklets, short films, training materials)
for implementing major campaigns in health promotion; and (c) train and
conduct seminars for district health personnel. The Health Promotion Fund
will carry out its activities either by: (a) using international expertise
accumulated in such activities, or (b) using local organizations to establish
close contact with communities and replicato such activities on a large scale.
The fund is an important instrument for (a) carrying out a large number of
activities at low cost (by reducing personnel costs and bureaucracy), (b)
promoting more direct contact of central decision makers with communities, and
(c) promoting larger community involvement.
Objectives of the Fund
3.          The Fund will help implement health promotion activities through
financing, coordination and technical assistance. Such activities would be
carried out by nongovernment and government organizations, selected strictly
on efficiency of each subproject. Access to the Fund would be open to all
qualifying organizations. Activities financed by the Fund should promote
close community and beneficiary participation.
iThe NCHPE would not acquire production equipment but contract out the design and printing of
materials. as well as the production and duplication of videos. The Center has no expertise for handling
such equipment, which quickly becomes obsolete and does not reap economies of scale. Producing such
materials requires marketing specialists, graphic designers, actors, etc., with specialized qualifications.
The NCBPE would use competitive bidding to select the least cost producer. A substanttal amount of
materials could be obtained from WHO, French, British, US or other national health promotion services. If
the domestic firms are not able to produce such materials at least cost, foreign firms could be invited to
participate in the bidding.



- 106 -
ANNE  10    _
Page 2 of 6
Institutional framework
4.          The institutional framework is shown in Attachment 1 to this
Annex. Administration of the HPF would be the responsibility of a Steering
Committee, composed of three members nominated by the Ministry of Health and
two members elected by the NGOs. The permanent structure would be the
simplest possible, with most appointments on a part-time basis: the
Administrator of the HPF would also be the President of the Steering
Committee; a small secretariat; an accountant; an external relations
specialist; and a group of four persons for promotion of the Fund. The Fund
would also use the services of a part-time economist and medical doctor for
project evaluation, and of an auditor/evaluation specialist to check financial
regularity and monitor and evaluate subprojects.
5.          An Interministerial Committee for Health Promotion has been
created under the Minister of Health for coordination of government
activities.
6.          The NGOs and government organizations working in the health
promotion area would form a Foundation for Health Promotion whose purpose
would be to coordinate activities, discuss problems and promote cross-
fertilization.
Nongovernment Organizations in Romania
7.          The development of national NGOs is at a very early stage in
Romania. Listed in Attachment 2 to this Annex are the names, field and basic
information about the national NGOs that are working presently in Romania in
health promotion. Most of them are simple associations of voluntary members,
mostly professional organizations, that have yet no administrative
infrastructure. Most were formed after the end-1989 Revolution.
8.          There are also very few international NGOs working in Romania in
this field (most are involved with the orphanages). The list of those with
significant operations is included in Attachment 2 to this Annex.
9.          An important role of the HPF in its initial years would be to
promote the formation of NGOs and provide technical assistance and training to
existing NGOs. At least 10 of the Fund would be targeted to finance these
activities. These activities would be carried out in collaboration with
UNICEF and international NGOs specialized in training NGOs.
10.         At least two workshops would be carried out annually in the fields
of: (a) administration; (b) accounting; (c) how to mobilize domestic and
foreign funds; and (d) marketing. Such seminars would be first offered to the
most important existing national NGOs and then to the most promising new ones.



107 -
ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 6
11.         In order to promote new and develop existing NGOs, it would be
required that:
(a)   an international NGO would only be financed if it would contribute
to forming or developing a national NGO; and
(b)   for the same national NGO, a second subproject would be financed
only if the NGO has contributed to forming another NGO, or opened
up regional offices, or intends to do so in the course of the
second subproject.
12.         Given the existence of NGOs in specific fields (e.g., cancer and
diabetics) the Fund could finance trips, scholarships or other small expenses
in order for the national organization to obtain technologies from foreign
NGOs in the same field.
Financing
13.         The project would provide about US$750,000 over three years to
start the HPF. Government counterpart funds would be equivalent to about
US$250,000. According to the proposed rules, it is estimated that
international/national NGOs would contribute about US$250,000, over three
years. In order to maintain it as a revolving fund, it is assumed that after
three years international/ national NGOs (and bilateral sources) could
contribute with about US$200,000 per year and the Government would contribute
another US$200,000.
Operation rules
14.         All the operational rules will be part of an Operational Manual
(OM) which is being prepared by the HOH.
15.         The HPF would finance only approved subprojects.  Subprojects will
be selected by the Steering Committee according to the rules of the OM.
16.         Once a subproject is approved, there should be a contract signed
between the Ministry of Health and the executing institution (NGO or
government institution) containing the terms that each part should respect
(disbursement, procurement, accounting and auditing). A model contract would
be part of the OM.
17.         The HPF will not finance building construction.  No subproject
will receive more than US$15,000 equivalent. Subprojects cannot be subdivided
into their various components in order to comply with the US$15,000 ceiling.
18.         Counterpart Financing: subprojects executed by international NGOs
would have to have counterpart financing of at least 25X of the total cost of
the project. The same rule applies to domestic NGOs with more than half of
its funds obtained from abroad. In the case of national NGOs, and recognizing
their limited capacity to mobilize funds under the present circumstances, the



- 108 -
Page 4 of 6
minimum contribution of the NGO could be in the form of voluntary work
(equivalent to lOX of project Costs).
19.         Recognizing that health promotion activixies are a public good
there: should normally be no charges to the beneficiarLes.
PriJect selection
20.         The Fund will disburse only for subprojects that have been
presented to the Fund according to the rules of the OM. Each subproject must
contain: (a) name of the organization, brief description of its activities
and CVs of its directors; (b) description of the project with specific
timetable of activities and personnel required; (c) names and qualifications
of the key personnel that would carry out activities; (d) budgets for
personnel, material, transport and other costs involved. Such costs should
clearly distinguish overhead costs of organization and costs specifically
required by the project; and (e) a statement by the institution that it would
maintain proper accounting and its books would be open for auditing.
21.         Project selection criteria:
(a)   The institution qualifies according to the rules of the OM;
(b)   The project is in the field of Health Promotion and contributes to
an important objective of the country's strategy of Health
Promotion;
(c)   The quality of the activities and materials used in the project
satisfies scientific and technical norms which are internationally
acceptable; and
(d)   The institution abides with accounting, auditing and procurement
rules established by the OM.
Qualifying Institutions
22.         The following institutions would qualify:
(a)   NGOs (national or international) with at least one year of
recognized work in the health field in Romania;
(b)   national NGOs or local community organizations sponsored by
recognized national or international NGOs; and
(c)   government organizations working in health promotion area.
However, in no case can the HPF finance normal recurrent expenditures of any
NGO or government organization that is not specifically incurred by the
subproject. In the case of government organizations, the HPF cannot finance
salaries of regular personnel but only of personnel contracted to carry out
the project. In the case of an NGO, the HPF would not finance personnel,



- 109 -
Page 5 of 6
equipment, rents, etc., associated with the normal operation of the
organization.
23.         In no case can a single NGO benefit from more than two subprojects
per year. If an institution has not performed according to the rules of the
contract, or its performance in the subproject is judged unsatisfactory, it
would not be eligible for financing in the following three years.
Accounting and auditing
24.         An NGO receiving HPF financing must maintain minimum accounting
and register all sources and uses of funds regarding the approved subproject.
The NGO must agree that it would give all evidence and open its books to
Project auditors.
Promotion of the Fund
25.         Promotion of the HPF is an important activity.  A maximum of 10l
of Fund resources could be reserved to cover the cost of the following
activities: (a) mass-media promotion (in newspapers and specialized
publications in health, community development and official channels); and (b)
a group of four persons would be working attached to the HPF
(sociologist/anthropologist, economist, medical doctor, accounting and
marketing specialist). The functions of such group, that should have the
means of transportation to spend at least 10 days per month in mission to
judets/communities, would be the following:
(a)   promote the Fund and disseminate the rules and OM;
(b)   identify and help in the preparation of subprojects;
(c)   train and give technical assistance to NGOs and community groups;
(d)   monitor implementation of on-going and completed subprojects; and
(e)   help in the design of health promotion programs involving the
Fund.
Regional ActLvities
26.         It is the intention of the Project to promote decentralization.
There are two types of activities of health promotion: some would better be
conducted at the national level (e.g., a mass media campaign about AIDS);
others at regional/community level (e.g., nutritional education or hygiene is
better conducted at the local level in mother's groups or in schools). There
may be an area that is prone to a specific disease. The HPF would promote and
finance activities at national, regional and community levels. Also, about
20X of the Fund would be targeted to activities in four districts (Vilcea,
Sibiu, Alba and Neamt) which are already participating in the WHO Healthy
Cities Program. The HPF/national NGOs would promote activities and give
technical assistance to such regional subprojects and evaluate from time to



- 110 -
Page 6 of 6
time their operation. It is intended that in the second year of ope:ation,
four additional districts be included. Al: the end of the fourth year the
national fund would determine the feasibility of extending activities to all
districts, in a proportion of 40% central/national and 60% regional
activities.
Priority Programs
27.         Listed in Attachment 3 to this Annex is a set of programs
identified by the Ministry of Health as priorities in the health promotion
field. Two subprojects would be prepared on a pilot basis (see below).
Follow-up
28.   (a)   The basic regulations for the Health Promotion Fund (as well as
the legal instruments required for its functioning) are being
prepared by the MOH and for Bank review by the end of October.
(b)   A first draft of the OM would be completed by the MOH by the end
of October and sent to the Bank for review.
(c)   Two pilot subprojects would be prepared, the first on youth mental
health (with the League of Mental Health) and the second on sexual
education (with SECS), to be conducted in secondary schools. The
draft of such subprojects would be sent to the Bank for review by
the end of November.
(d)   The organization and program for the proposed NCHPE would be sent
to the Bank by the end of October.



ORGANIZAIIONAL CHART
OF THE FUND
Ninistry     I
of               Iltormin4storial Comittee for
Health                       Health Promotion
(S me.bers--3 governaent/2 XG0s)
Foreign
Relations                           Committee for the Afdinistration of
the Fond for Health Promotio
(1 person)                                       (         )
Group for the
Secretariat           Project               Treasury             Promotion of the Fund
(2 Secretaries)         Analysis                Finance/                  (4 person)
(2 persons)            Ac ntng                - Anthropologist
- zonamist                                  0
- Economist            (1 accountant)           - Nudical Doctor
- Medical Dr.                                   - accountant
____________________               f~~~~~~~~~~t



- 112 -
ANNE-XL0
Attachment 2
Page 1 of 3
LIST OF KEY PERSGAIS/INSTITUTIONS
INVOLVED IN THE FUND
Advisor to the Minister of Health
in charge of Health Promotion
Ministry of Health
Chief, Department of Health Education
Institute of Hygiene and Public Health
Str. Dr. Leonte
no.1-3
76258 Bucharest
NONGOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS
LOQAL
LIGUE ROUMAINE SANTE MENTALE (LIGA ROMANA PENTRU SANATATE MINTALA)
Bd. Ana Ipatescu, nr 42 sector 1
71114 Bucuresti
and
Bd. Mihail Kogalmiceanu 95A Sc A et I ap.8
Bucuresti
One year old. Has 200 members (volunteers). One of the strongest local
NGOs. Has large membership of doctors working in mental health. Intends to
organize seminars on mental health, programs against drugs in schools, promote
mental health, study re-integration of mental patients and promote rights of
the mental handicapped.
OPEN UNIVERSITY
Bd. Nicolae Balescu, 18
tel. 146637
Bucuresti
Impact on population through correspondence, radio and some other mass
media.
INSTITUTE FOR MOTHER AND CHILD PROTECTION
ASSOCIATION D'ANTHROPOLOGIE
Centre de Recherches Anthropologiques
Str. Gala Galaction nr 53
tel. 382855
78188 Bucuresti



- 113 -
ANNEX 10
Attachment 2
Page 2 of 3
One year old.  Has 80 members.  Interested in health education: train
teachers for health education.  Prevention of drug abuse.  Interested in
nutrition.
LIGA DE ENFTA ANTICANCER
Bul l'Acul Tei nr 79 sc II et IV ap 63
tel 871084
Bucuresti
YOUTH FOUNDATION
Bd. Mihail Kogolniceanu, nr 27
tel. 142609
Bucuresti, Sector 5
ORGANIZATIEI ADOLESCFNTULUI
tel. 875040/56
SOCIETATEA DE EDDUCATIE CONTRACEPTIVA SI SE)WALA (SECS)
Between one and one and half years old. Has several clinics for family
planning. Distributes free contraceptives. Good organization. One of the
most experienced.
ASOCIATIA TINERILOR DIABETICI DIN ROMANIA
tel. 610714
Seems well organized. Contacts with several university doctors in
Germany. Has about 200 members.
INTERNATIONAL
SAVE THE CHILDREN
Has local chapters
SOCIETE ROUMAINE POUR LES DROITS D'ENFANT - SAUVEZ LES ENFANTS
Started by working in orphanages. Now is extending work to other children.
Rimnicu, Vilcea 1000
Calea Trajan 180
tel. 947/15263
Interested in nutrition education.
INTERNATIONAL LEAGUE OF NATIONAL RED CROSS SOCIETIES
tel 595778



- 114 -                   ANNEX 10
Attachment 2
Page 3 of 3
SECS
Has local chapters. One of the most active in family planning.
REACH
HOPE
MARY STOPES FOUNDATION
Has opened a clinic for family planning in Bucharest
WORLD VISION
tel. 215975
Has a local chapter Association for the Blind
Works mainly in schools of medicine
ACET
British organization. Collaborating with MOH in seminar on AIDS.
MEDECINS SANS FRONTIERES-FRANCE
tel. 117470/119454
Active in hospitals. Has organized seminars for doctors.
MEDECINS SANS FRONTIERES-NETHERLANDS
tel. 599360
Interested in helping train doctors for dispensaries.
MEDECINS SANS FRONTIERES-BELIUM
tel. 951/55265
MEDECINS DU MONDE
tel. 387677
INTERNATIONAL PLANNED PARENUiiQOD FOUNDATION
Sp. Giulesti
PHARMACIENS SANS FRONTIERES
tel. 175011



- 115 -
ANEX- I0
Attachment 3
Page 1 of 5
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
National Program for Health Promotion
1.          According to the Ottawa Charter for Health Promotion (1986),
health promotion is the process of enabling people to increase control over,
and to improve, their health. Health is one of the most basic human rights.
Health is a resource for everyday life, not a goal of life.
2.          Education is, probably, the most important part of health
promotion.  The final statement of the Sundsvall Conference (June 1991)
particularly emphasized the fact that the access to education must be
guaranteed to each human being, for his/her entire life.   Education is a
continuing process by which desired and necessary changes at all levels
(economic, physical, social, political) can be achieved, changing them into a
supportive environment for health.
3.          Health promotion and disease prevention represent the basic
principles of public health in Romania. Public health has an intersectoral
character.  In achieving health promotion, both the main public organizations
and the entire population has to participate, through various social groups,
the community, the church, and through each individual.
4.          Behavioral factors play a major role played by in the present
trends of morbidity and mortality. The promotion of health education, using
all the mechanisms available to society, would aim at the transformation of
society through favorable beliefs, habits and practices.
5.          Accurate information and motivation of the population, besides
assurances of a cooperation at local, national and international level, are
fundamental prerequisites for the existence of an active and fully aware
participation of the community in making and implementing important decisions
in health areas.
6.          Health education must play an important part in helping the
Romanian people to enter the 21st century with health level indicators
comparable to the one in the developed countries of Europe.
7.          The Institute of Hygiene and Public Health will organize the
National Center for Health Promotion, which will operste with the support of
the Health Education Department of the Institute.
8.          Health promotion activities will be coordinated by the Ministry of
Health and the National Center for Health Promotion, on the basis of the
framework - program to be established by the Ministry of Health and the World
Bank.



- 116 -
Aun    10
Attachment 3
Page 2 of 5
9.          The main strategic objectives will bet
FAMILY PLANING
(a)   In view of the special situation faced by Romania, where the
number of abortions is very high, the following key objectives are
establisheds
L.    to provide accurate information to the population about the
possibilities of family planning and the risks of abortions;
ii.   to generate major publicity campaigns about alternative
means of contraception;
iii.  to provide, from an early age, education to both sexes in
the areas of sexuality and interpersonal relationshLps;
iv.   to help change lifestyles, in order to promote reproductive
health; it will lead, i.e., to encouraging man to share the
responsibilities connected with contraception, creation of a
family and child rearing;
v.    to carry out research studies on the implicatlon of health
education in family planningt and
vi.   to produce printed materials and short education films.
HIV. AIDS AND SEXUM EDUCATION
(b)   Key objectivest
i.    to provide accurate information for the entire population,
and for young people and groups at risk in particular, about
HIV and AIDS;
Li.   to develop strategies for the prevention of HIV infection
and the promotion of good sexual habits;
iii.  to develop new methods for a more active commitment of
decision-makers in HIV prevention activities;
iv.   to carry out research studies on the level of awareness
about HIV/AIDS and the introduction of now methods of
accurate public information;
v.    to produce printed materials and short education films;
vi.   to organize a workshop for the training in health education
on HIV/AIDS; and



- 117 -
ANII 10
Attachment 3
Page 3 of 5
vii. to orgarLze, in cooperation with UNICEF and ACET, a course
for the trainers in the prevention and control of HIV/AIDS,
to be followed by training workshops in the main university
centers*
MOTHER AND CHILD HEALTH EDUCATION (INCLUDING IMOUNIZATIONS)
(c)   Key objectives:
i.    to produce a revised version of the "Mother's School"
handbook;
Li.   to publicize information about pregnancy and young children
in general; and
iii. to train parents with respect to avoiding some communicable
dLseases in children.
PREVENTION OF CERTAIN DISEASES, SUCH AS: CARDIO-VASCULARY DISEASES, CANCER,
RESPIRATORY AND DIGESTIVE DISEASES, MENTAL DISEASES AND ACCIDENTS.
(d)   Key objectLves:
i.    to provide accurate information about these diseases;
Li.   to build on projects in primary health care, schools, the
work place, the community, mass-media and the commercial
sector;
iii. to carry out research studies on some of these diseases; and
iv.   to produce printed materials and short education films.
ANTI-SMOKING EDUCATION
(e)   Key objectLves:
i.    to generate major publicity campaigns and increase public
knowledge about the relationship tobacco-health issue.;
ii.   to provide accurate information to help smokers who wish to
quit;
iii. to start a major advertising and publicity campaign aimed at
persuading young people not to start smoking and encouraging
young smokers to quit;
iv.   to develop anti-smoking activities among pregnant women;



- 118 -
AEX 10
Attachment 3
Page 4 of 5
V.    to support the initiative, forbidding emoking in certain
public placers
vi.   to organize in due time and on a national scale the World
No-Smoking Day;
vii.  to produce printed materials and short education films.
ANTI-ALCOHOL EDUCATION
(f)   Key objectives:
i.    to promote greater public awareness about the risks of
alcohol abusel
ii.   to provide accurate information to young people about the
negative influence of alcohol on their own health;
iii.  to organize in due tLme and on a national scale the Anti-
Alcohol Day; and
iv.   to produce printed materials and short education films.
NURITION A   DENTAL HEALTH EDCAIO
(g)   Key objectives:
i.    to provide accurate information to the population;
ii.   to develop a weight management initiative;
iii.  to collaborate with dental care teams; and
iv.   to produce printed materials and short education filme.
HEALTHY WORK PLACES.
(h)   Key objectives:
i.    to provide accurate information about the noxae and risks at
various work places;
ii.   to co-operate with the trade-unions; and
iLi.  to produce printed materials and short education filme.
ORGANI7ATION OF THE FIRST NATIONAL CONFERENCE ON HEAL&TH PROMOTION. WITH THE
PARTICIPATION OF W.H0. EXPERTS.



- 119 -
ANNEX 10
Attachment 3
Page 5 of 5
PARTICIPATION IN THE "HEALTHY CITIES" PROECT.
(i)   Key objectives:
L.    to include health education in the curricula;
ii.   to involve family and the community in these activitiesn
iii. to organize a workshop, with the participation of WHO
experts; and
iv.   10 schools will be selected.
PARTICIPATION IN TE=  -EMLTHY CITIES" PROJECT
(j)   Key objectivest
i.    to include health as a priority in decision-makers' programs
and actLvities;
Li.   to provide information to the public about the project;
iii. to organize a workshop, with the participation of WHO
experts; and
iv.   3-4 cities will be selected.
(k)   Principal locations for the above mentioned objectives are:
i.    primary health services;
ii.   schools;
iii. work places;
iv.   collectivities (including handicapped people).
(1)   We shall collaborate:
i.    with other departments;
Li.   with other sectores
iii. with NGOs;
iv.   with local authorities; and
v.    with mass-media.



- 120 -
CHART I
ROMANIA
HEALTH REHABIUTATION PROJECT
MINISTRY OF HEALTH
SCHEMATIC ORGANIZATION CHART
|      tr ofia        |-                        Heafth
l         l                       | ~~~~~~~~~Council .
District Health Directorates                                                                                  National
Centor for
Health Statistics
Academy of Medicine                                                                                        cihSr1C 
r            1* 
~~~....I.                                                           1                                                           __ 
*    Project    I                    Secretery of State                  Secretary of State                Secretary of State
Coordin tion                         for Medicine                      for Administration                   for Resources
*  unit
J...
Department of                                LZ gel  Affairs                 Economic and
Maternal._   & Publc RelationsJ                                              Planning
Adol0escent and
ChiLd Health
HmnResourcersude
Deportment of_ __
Medical Assistanco
and Preventive                             Interntional                         Program &
Medicine                           _      Relations                 _        Evaluation
Phormaceuticals                             Medical Equipment
Department                         
Legend
|  Insticute * s                                                             Department  ,- 
in MDR      UF       |
Propoaed     r .. 
New Deptmt  i
District      *
Directorate
& AffliLatedO
Semi-Autonomous
Institutes.



- 121 -
FIGURE 1:               O E        UFA=
TE|TIARY ROPITA
DISTRCT gOSPITAL
TERRITORA    OSPISTAL
I                         ADMINI STRATON
D  RZARTIUMT  I                           DEAARUIE
=:1:1 4 a1



- 122 -
FIGURE:: 
%I~~~~~~~~
0 MIEDICAL DLiS^S 
CONSULTlNG ROOM IN ViOLA' /.1
a  lERRIORIAL HOSPffAL REFERIALu1NITro
DISTRICT HOSPITAL
---TOWN OR VILLAGE LETN
--TERRITORtIAL LMIMT
DISTRICT LIMIT



A                                                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~26
/r(,~ ,'',,>, ,r,flC ' o _,a -h~  c                   "  "~                                                                              
TO CerZ o>                                       ROMAN IA
-c .A ^rS//.sZr            ,                ~       '';        '        i~DA AK  
nt  =Pferr E>xte                                                  f To Rchrrovcy   f  
fAvaf/r'asP9tzfRorE;tvn  ,*                                  Rachov,                                           HEALTH   REHABILITATION
PROJ ECT
4   f-   Mure X X Susfosanire
i- -M> >8 < t5 ) I/( 8a;oMre                      S                                            nl > -To!Xc-:  -- tROADS
To Debrecerlif RKLR & I 9 \ 8 < <7P ~- RALROADS
- _                U iA==5UgGeny   O    TOWANS AND C TIES
.  // S?\Qde  E   \\>  +   /P;ctra1rQ  I'T:ONAL CNAL
g \ J/ r t ,,SROman   l              BOUNDAR'ES
RAVERS
To Bekescsobo                           ClX uj NQPOCa <              XTSX                                                     ,Hs
'Husi
\ s Turdo_ ATi~~~~~~~~rgu Mures {\BCU
To Szegsed         01                                                    
46'                                            4e5d
misoaronano A.,i
ToKibbrKI:~~~ > Hunedona Gt Gheorh 
X s~~~~~~~~~~~PLtrosoniK rso   -ai
Begrd                                                                   Ri@ J   fif   mnicu        IOf i/;                                   Tule.
rgu.Jiu         Via             To  v sfe  Ploise {
Yi''GOS>LAV!A               220                                                                                                                                  50 =
t .  BUCAIA KBUC
. -- ~~~~~~~- . > Croiova t) E q ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Constcmto4
%                                    44e  TO                                                 Giurgiu t.~ 
. POI NlA arnovo .cotafad } ~~~~~~~~~~~~Ruse                                                   To Sumen c; 
cf                     ,                                                                                  TVikTroshsb:nCYr7    0                                       50          100  W
^   w;. t . i ,.,       -<                                 ~~~~8 U  L G  A  R I A'                                                                 o^ 
L.'s">       .                                                                                      26                                                                           L



