Report No. 499a-CO
Appraisal of a
Small-Scale Industry Project                                                       t  s
Colombia
December 11, 19747
Regional Projects Department                 RETURN  TO
Latin Arnerica and the Caribbean          R    P     R    S    D     S
Regional Office                          REPORTS DESK.
WITHIN                             FILE COPY
Not for Public Use                          'QNE WEEK                                               C
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published,
quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility
for the accuracy or completeness of the report



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of September 30, 1974)
Currency Unit=             Colombian Peso
US$1                 =     Col$26.40
Col$l                =     US$o.037
Col$l million        =     US$37,878
ACRONYYiS
ACOPI     -      Asociacion Colombiana Popular de Industriales (Colombian
Association of Small Manufacturers)
AID       -      Agency for International Development
ANDI      -      Asociacion Nacional de Industriales (National Manufactu-
rers' Association)
BR        -      Banco de la Repu'blica (3olombials Central Bank)
CAJA      -       Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (Agricultural,
Industrial and Mining Bank)
CFP       -      Corporaci6n Financiera Popular
DANE      -      Departamento Nacional de Estadistica (National Department
of Statistics)
FICITEC   -      Fundaci6n para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica
y Tecnologica (Fundation for the Development of Scien-
tific and Technological Research)
FNA       _      Fondo Nacional del Ahorro (National Savings Fund)
IFF       -      Industrial Financial Fund
IPI       -      Inisttuto de Fomento Industrial (Induwtrial Developm.nt
Institute)
KfW       -      German Kreditanstalt fuer Wiederaufbau
PROEXPO   -      Fondo de ?romocion de &cportaciones (Dcport Promotion Fund)
SENA      -      Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (National Vocational Train-
ing Organization)
StI       -      Small- and Medium-scale Industry
SSI       -      Small-scale Industry
UNIDO     -      United Nations Industrial Development Organization



COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
BASIC DATA ON CFP
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS .......................  i-iii
I.  INTRODUCTION    ...................................  1
II.   SMALL- AND MEDIUI-SCALE INDUSTRY IN COLOMBIA  ...    2
A.  Economic Setting  ..........................    2
B.  Structure and Performance  ....     .............    2
C.  Industrial Financing and Interest Rates  ...   5
D.  Technical Assistance  .....      .................   7
E.   Government Policies  .....     ..................    8
F.  Prospects    .................................  9
III.   CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR .10
A. Organization .10
B. Procedures .11
C. Resources .12
D.  Financial Position and Results .13
E. Past Operations .15
F. Projections .16
IV. THE PROJECT .17
A.  Project Description and Components .17
B.  Project Cost and Financing .19
C.  Procurement and Disbursement .21
V.   BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION    .      .21
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .22
This report is based on the findings of appraisal missions, composed of
Messrs. P. Knotter, P. Azevedo-Moura, A. Canellas, A. Cracco and Ms. K.
DiTullio, which visited Colombia in November/December 1973 and May 1974.



Table of Contents (Continued)
ANNEXES
1      Declaration of Policies and Procedures
2      List of Shareholders as of September 30, 1974
3      List of Board Directors and Alternates as of September 30, 1974
4      List of Loan Committee Members as of September 30, 1974
5      Organization Chart as of September 30, 1974
6      Terms of Reference for the Organization Study (Draft)
7      Summary of Technical Assistance Activities from 1971 to 1973
8      List and Characteristics of Borrowings as of December 31, 1973
9      Statement of Arrears as of December 31, 1973
10      Equity Investments Held as of December 31, 1973
11      Past and Projected Income Statements as of December 31, for
the Period 1968-78
12      Past and Projected Balance Sheets as of December 31, for
the Period 1968-78
13      Analysis of Loan Approvals from Inception through December 31, 1973
14      Summary of Past Operations from 1968 to December 31, 1973
15      Summary of Projected Operations for the Period 1974-78 as Compared
to 1973
16      Projected Sources and Uses of Funds for Periods Ending December 31,
1974-78
17      Past and Projected Financial Ratios
1S      Expected Real Financial Charges to Subborrowers on Fixed Asset
Subloans
19      Eligible Technical Assistance Services and Programs
20      Analysis of Project Costs Eligible for Bank Financing
21      Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
22      Loan Monitoring
23      Understandings Reached with CFP_on Measures to Improve Its
Operational Effectiveness
APPENDICES
1      Financial Assistance to Small- and Medium-Scale Industry
2      Technical Assistance to Small- and MIedium-Scale Industry



COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Basic Data
1.  Year of establishment:   1967
2.  Ownership (Sept.30, 1974):
Number of Shares                   i___
(Par Value = Col$100.0)
Public Institutions                 1,346,775                         99,999
Private Shareholders                       19                          0,001
Total        1,346, 794                      100,000
3. Operations
Loans:                            1970       1971       1972       1973      1974
To1$ millio                    (une)
Approvals                       89.3      182.7      180.4     274.4      113.3
Disbursements                   67.0     137.0       211.0     210.0      118.2
Equity Investments
Approvals                         -          -         0.2        3.6       3.0
Disbursements                     -          -         0.2        3.6        -
4.    Financial Performance
(a) Total Assets:                 98.4     196.5       303.0     416.9      h69.3
Loan Portfolio               94.7     189.9       290.2     364.9      403.9
Equity Portfolio              1.0       1.0         1.3       4.8        4.8
Total Debt                    55.8     131.7       235.3     319.8      307.5
Equity                        42.5      64.8        67.7       97.1     149.3
Debt/Equity Ratio              1.3:1     2.0:1       3.4:1     3.3:1      2.0:1
(b) Net profit after tax and
provisions as % of aver-
age equity                    4.9       4.8         4.3       5.4        2.7
Reserves and Provisions as
% of loan portfolio           1.9       2.2         2.9       2.7        4.5
Financial Expenses as i of
average total assets          3.0       5.5         8.4        7.7       4.2
Administrative Expenses as
% of average total assets    5.4        6.8         6.3       6.2        2.9
LCPDF
November 1974






COLOMBIA
APPRAISAL OF A SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report appraises a project to assist Corporacion Financiera
Popular (CFP), a Government-owned development finance company (DFC), in al-
leviating two major development constraints of Colombian small-scale indus-
try (SSI)--lack of access to credit and insufficient technical assistance.
The proposed US$5.5 million Bank loan would also help strengthen CFP which,
as the only financial institution in Colombia serving exclusively small-
and medium-scale industry (SMI), has made a valuable contribution to its
development. Since assisting SSI is much more complex than the traditional
Bank DFC lending for mostly medium and large Colombian industry (five loans,
totalling US$162.5 million since 1966), the proposed project -- the first Bank
operation to assist SSI in Latin America--has experimental characteristics.
ii.       For many years, manufacturing has been a leading growth sector.
It has made a substantial contribution to accelerating economic growth (to an
estimated 7.3% in 1973) and to Colombia's successful export diversification
drive. Exports of manufactured goods rose from USA64 million in 1967 to an
estimated US$260 million last year. SMI, accounting for 41% of labor and
24% of value added in manufacturing, however, has not grown as rapidly as
large industry, reflecting Government policies little conducive to SMI's
expansion. Other factors have been the inherent difficulties which are
common to SMI in most developing countries, such as inadequate raw material
supply, obsolete machinery, crowded work shops, shortage of entrepreneurs
and qualified technicians and low capacity utilization in some branches.
Government policies and technical assistance by public and private institu-
tions have lacked coordination and long-term planning. This would suggest
establishing a Government SMI agency.
iii.      Despite its handicaps, Colombian SMI is efficient in many product
lines, and competitive with large industry. It is also successfully perform-
ing an important economic and social role in decentralizing industry, diversifv-
ing production, creating employment, forming entrepreneurs and skilled workers
and, perhaps, improving income distribution. Since prospects are good for
further high growth of industrial investment and output, scope and potential
of SMI are considerable.
iv.       As can be expected of a DFC growing rapidly in a difficult envi-
ronment, CFP has to strengthen some of its financial and organizational
aspects. However, CFP's management team should be able to overcome most pro-
blems prior to full loan commitment. On balance, CFP would be a suitable
recipient of Bank funds.



- ii -
v.        CFP's projections show further rapid growth and an urgent need to
widen its equity and borrowing base. CFP's debt service coverage and finan-
cial condition would develop satisfactorily. The proposed loan would assist
in CFP's resource mobilization by arranging to obtain from various sources a
financial package commensurate with CFP's future resource needs, and by
filling CFP's remaining resource gap in 1975-76.
vi.       The proposed US$5.5 million loan would comprise (i) a US$5 million
portion, representing the foreign exchange component of a lending p,-ogram to
finance establishment and expansion of privately-owned small industrial firms
and (ii) a US$0.5 million technical assistance component to finance consultants,
cost of CFP's technical assistance activities and of technical assistance to
sub-borrowers. Total project cost is estimated at US$10.2 million; the pro-
posed loan would contribute 53.9%, CFP 30.4% and sub-borrowers 15.7%.
vii.      The proposed loan would be made to 13anco de la Republica (BR), Colombia's
central bank and the proceeds would be relent to CFP. Ultimate beneficiaries
would be given the opportunity to borrow in foreign exchange at 13% p.a. or in
pesos at 24% p.a., allowing for a higher spread to CFP (5.5% for peso subloans;
5.25% for foreign exchange subloans) than is usual under Bank DFC lending to
larger industrial firms. Technical assistance financing would be only provided
in the form of peso subloans at a cost of 15% p.a. to small industrial firms.
Because of the project's experimental nature, the lending program component
would be divided into two US$2.5 million tranclhes; release of thie second tranche
would depend on satisfactory performance by CFP. Given recent increases in
Colombia's inflation, the interest rate for the second tranche would also be
agreed upon in this connection.
viii.     Subloans with a minimum maturity of four years would be used for
fixed asset financing (including construction of industrial buildings) and
would have a maximum limit of Col.$2.5 million for ultimate beneficiaries
with total assets below Col.$10 million, and of Col.$4 million for those
with total assets between Col.$10-20 million. To ensure appropriete chan-
nelling of Bank funds to Colombia's SST only 25% of the US$5 million
lending program would be allocated to the latter category. To maintain
adequate Bank monitoring of the project, free lirit subloans would be
limited to Col.$1.5 million (about US$57,000).
ix.       Equipment would be unsuitable for builk procurement through inter-
national competitive bidding, but CFP would satisfy itself that goods and
services procured are competitive in quality and price.  Disbursement of Bank
funds would be made for 90% of expenditures for specific fixed assets (equip-
ment, machinerv, construction) and 100%Q of consultants' cost for technical
assistance. Under this forn,ula, disbursements would he equivalent to the
estimated foreign exchange component of the project.
x.        The project's direct and indirect benefits slhould be substantial.
Most significantly, it would provide urgently needed financing and technical
assistance for some 200 development projects, help develop managerial and
technical skills in SSI, contribute to strengtheiinio CFD and improve know-
ledge of sector problems.  Overall, the financial and economic rate of return
of suhproiects wo7uld be satisfactorv and, in most cases, wouldl exceed 15Z.



- iii -
xi.       With the assurances listed in Chapter VI obtained during negotia-
tions, the project is suitable for a Bank loan of US$5.5 million equivalent
to BR, for a fixed term of 12 years including a 3-1/2 year grace period.






COLOMBIA
SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), a Government-owned de-
velopment finance company (DFC), has applied for a Bank loan to finance the
foreign exchange component of its lending to small-scale industry (SSI).
The proposed US$5.5 million loan would be guaranteed by the Republic of
Colombia and granted to Banco de la Republica (BR), Colombia's central bank,
for relending to CFP. Established in 1967, CFP is the only financial insti-
tution in Colombia dedicated entirely to assisting small- and medium-scale
industry (SMI).
1.02      Since 1966, five Bank loans totalling US$162.5 million have been
made available to about 200 mostly medium- and large-size industrial enter-
prises through private DFCs (financieras). Only 6% of Bank funds have gone
to clients with total assets below Col$10 million and the average subloan
amount has been over US$400,000 as against an expected US$25,000 average
for CFP's relending. The proposed project would complement past Bank lending
by alleviating two major development constraints of Colombian small industry--
lack of access to credit and insufficient technical assistance.
1.03      The principal objectives of the proposed loan are to:
(a) provide term financing at reasonable conditions
for the establishment and expansion of small
manufacturing enterprises;
(b) strengthen CFP, particularly by improving its
resource allocation ability, internal organiza-
tion and procedures and ensuring a sufficient
resource base;
(c) help improve technical assistance to CFP's bor-
rowers and provide financing for it; and
(d) initiate reviewing of SSI policies with the
Government.
1.04      The proposed project is of an experimental character since the
task of assisting Colombia's SSI is substantially more complex than the
Bank's traditional lending to the local development banks. Nevertheless, it
is a worthwhile experiment which would improve the Bank's knowledge in a field
in which it still has relatively little experience. The proposed project
would be the first Bank operation solely to assist SSI in Latin America.



- 2 -
1.05      After a preliminary review in June 1973, missions, consisting of
Messrs. Knotter, Azevedo-Moura, Cracco, Ms. DiTullio (of the Bank) and
Mr. Canellas (IBRD/UNIDO Cooperative Programme), appraised the project in
November/December 1973 and May 1974. This report is based on the missions'
findings.
II.  SMALL- AND MEDIUM-SCALE INDUSTRY IN COLOMBIA
A. Economic Setting 1/
2.01.          With average annual real increases in value added of 6.3% in
1950-70, well above the annual 4.9% GDP increase, manufacturing industry
has been a leading sector. In 1971-73, manufacturing grew even more rapidly,
by an estimated growth average of 9% annually, and helped in accelerating
economic growth to an estimated average 6.7% per annum. Manufacturing
accounts now for about one-fifth of GDP. At the same time, Colombia's
persistent export diversification drive has led to an impressive expansion
of non-traditional exports, accounting for half of the estimated US$1.1
billion merchandise exports in 1973 as compared to 20% in 1960. Exports
of manufactured goods (mainly textiles, chemicals and wood products) of an
estimated US$260 million -- up from US$64 million in 1967-- made an important
contribution. Nevertheless, exports still represent only small fractions
of the output of most industrial firms and are generally of little importance
for small enterprises.
2.02      Rapid population growth and rural migration are contributing to
severe unemployment and housing shortages in urban areas. To maximize urban
employment, the Government started implementing a housing construction program
in 1972 but unemployment in most of Colombia's major urban centers has
continued to increase. Industry's importance in alleviating the unemployment
problem is shown by an estimated 5-6% employment increase in manufacturing
in 1972, which is above the very high 3.5% annual growth of Colombia's labor
force. While the higher GDP growth in recent years also makes prospects
brighter for reducing unemployment, it has also been accompanied by strong
inflationary pressures. Consumer prices increased 22% in 1973, up from 14%
a year earlier and a 7.5% p.a. average in 1967-70; recent and proposed
Government measures may help to slow inflation in the near future.
B. Structure and Performance
2.03      While the proposed loan is designed to benefit mostly SSI, there
is not yet a generally accepted definition for either small- or medium-scale
industry in Colombia. Virtually, each institution involved in these sub-
sectors uses its own concept. For the purpose of the following analysis,
1/   The general economic background is covered in the most recent economic
report on Colombia, No. 138-CO, dated May 15, 1973.



-3..
SMI is defined as manufacturing units with 5-99 workers 1/ and treated jointly.
Total assets of Col$20 million 2/ would be the upper limit for borrowers under
the proposed loan. This would exclude many of the more capital intensive
firms employing 50 workers and more, and would channel Bank funds to those
enterprises which find it hardest to obtain credit. Following CFP's most
recent lending pattern, most recipients are expected to have total assets in
the Col$3-6 million range.
2.04      SMI plays an important role in Colombia's industrial development
(para. 2.23). According to DANE's latest manufacturing census (1969) 3/, it
comprises 91% of the manufacturing firms, employs 41% of industrial labor
and contributes 24% of value added in manufacturing. It also accounts for
an estimated one-third of net industrial investment.
2.05      Colombia's mountainous geography caused the existence of a number
of rather independent local or regional markets. Colombian SMI is therefore
geographically more widespread (less than one-quarter of the establishments
are in the Bogota area) than in other Latin American countries and it plays
an important role in regional industrial development -- without unduly sacri-
ficing efficiency (para. 2.23). Due to fragmentation of national markets,
the average size of industrial firms is smaller than would be otherwise ex-
pected. Nine-tenths of the companies in SMI have total assets below Col$5
million.
2.06      Requiring less capital investment per job than large industry, SMI
provides an effective and important means to create employment, train un-
skilled labor and build up entrepreneurial talent. Moreover, with unskilled
workers forming 57% of its personnel, compared to about 40% for large indus-
try, SMI is an important training ground for industrial workers. Many of
these, subsequently, join large firms where professional opportunities and
remuneration are more attractive, wlhich is the result of better union effec-
tiveness in attaining higher wages and more generous social benefits. 4/
1/   For this range, detailed statistics of DANE, the national department of
statistics, are available for 1963 and 1969.
2/   Larger firms are likely to have access to Bank funds through the finan-
cieras.
3/   DANE:  Boletin Mensual de Estadistica No. 259, February 1973
4/   While during 1963-69 gross value added per worker grew 1.9% annually
in real terms for both SMI and the manufacturing sector as a whole,
average salaries only rose 1.6% p.a. for the former against 2.4% p.a.
for total manufacturing.



- 4 -
2.07       SMI has grown less rapidly than large industry in terms of number
of firms, labor force, salaries, gross production and value added, as the
following DANE statistics for 1963-69 show. Indications are that this trend
continued through 1973.
Small and Medium Manufacturing Industry in Colombia
(Col$ million at 1958 prices)
Average Annual In-
1963                  1969           crease 1963-69 (in %)
% of                 % of       Small &         Total
Amt./No.  Total Mfg. Amt./No. Total Mfg.  Medium Mfg.    Mfg.
Firms (No.)       7,314      93.9       6,528      91.3        -1.7         -1.3
Workers (No.)  120,899        44.7    134,274      41.3          1.8          3.1
Gross Pro-
duction          4,555.9    35.7       5,650.5   30.7           3.7         6.1
Gross Value
Added            1,476.2    26.3       1,905.8   23.7           4.4         6.2
2.08       Colombian SMI confronts several problems and it is difficult to
identify any single constraint as being "critical" or to quantify its impact.
Among the principal reasons for the slower growth of Colombian SMI are limited
access to financing and inadequate technical assistance, reflecting Government
policies little conducive to its expansion 1/ (details paras. 2.11-2.22).
Other factors have been the inherent difficulties which afflict SMI in many
developing countries. These industries often operate with obsolete machinery
and in crowded workshops; management seldom knows about modern production and
marketing methods and financial operational controls, and there is a shortage
of entrepreneurs and qualified technicians. The proposed loan would assist
in alleviating at least some of these difficulties.
2.09       Small firms in many Colombian industries are also affected crucially
by inadequate raw material supply. Small individual orders, import licensing
1/ Although a number of companies in SMI succeeded in growing into large
industrial firms, they have not been fully replaced by the creation of
new small enterprises. More assistance to SMI, particularly to new
entrants, would broaden the base for further industrial growth and
divéersification, help prevent further concentration of industry in
large firms and aid in preserving competitiveness.



-5-
and advance deposit requirements often make small enterprises excessively
dependent on large oligopolistic or monopolistic suppliers of imported raw
material. Furthermore, there are strong export incentives for domestic raw
materials (such as textile fibers and leather), and, consequently, small
firms often receive materials of poor quality and their availability fluc-
tuates with the demand in export markets. This not only affects product
quality and capacity utilization of SMI but may also militate against the
Government's objective of developing non-traditional exports. To ensure
SMI 's steady access to raw materials, special measures -- such as the estab-
lishment of bulk procurement cooperatives within industries -- appear neces-
sary. Members of the trade association for small entrepreneurs, the Asociacion
Colombiana Popular de Industrias (ACOPI), are implementing a bulk procurement
scheme for textile producers in Medellin. If successful, ACOPI intends to
promote this concept among SMI.
2.10       Mainly due to insufficient working capital financing, many firms
in SMI are also plagued with low capacity utilization 1/. This problem is
compounded by the fact that SMI frequently has to finance sales for three
months and more to be competitive with terms of large industry while having
to pay cash for raw materials, and by heavily increasing working capital
needs due to rising inflation. The proposed loan would be a vehicle to help
CFP obtain substantial local funds to alleviate working capital shortages
of SMI (para. 3.26).
C. Industrial Financing and Interest Rates
2.11       As a result of Government development priorities and tight monetary
policy, institutional credit to industry has been severely curtailed relative
to other sectors. From 1967 to 1971, commercial bank credit to industry fell
from 34% of total bank lending to 21% and its volume declined 31% in real
terms, while the ratio of new industrial credit to industrial value added
dropped even more sharply, from 25% to 13%. Newly established savings and
loan institutions, offering monetary correction on deposits, have also con-
tributed to diverting from banks and the extra-bank market funds for indus-
trial lending and distorting the capital markets. Moreover, internal genera-
tion of funds, traditionally the single most important source of industrial
financing, has been hampered since neither valuation of fixed assets for tax
purposes nor the tax structure allow for adjustments to compensate for in-
flation. Nevertheless, larger corporations in general have been able to cover
most of their financial needs from internal cash flow and borrowings from
the institutional credit market, using the extra-bank market mainly for a
relatively small proportion of working capital financing.  SMI, however, has
1/ Other apparent factors are (i) the small entrepreneur's reluctance to
delegate authority, (ii) difficulties of running night shifts due to
labor legislation and the high price of night plant management, and
(iii) poor production planning.



-6-
been most affected by the credit squeeze which forced it into resorting
heavily to short-term extra-bank market funds and keep its financial leverage
low. 1/ The incentive to encourage relending to smaller firms with resources
of the Industrial Financing Fund (IFF), one of the various discounting funds
operated by BR (Appendix 1) the establishment of a guarantee fund for loans
to SMII (para. 2.20), and sharply increasing CFP lending should help alleviate
SMI's financial plight.
2.12      In recent years three public sources of credit, CFP, the Caja de
Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (CAJA), a quasi-government institution
mainly engaged in agricultural and industrial financing, and the IFF have
become increasingly important in providing medium-term financing to SMI.
Between 1969-72, their annual lending more than doubled from Col$254 million
to Col$578 million, with CFP, relying heavily on IFF funds, increasing its
share from 22% to 33%. The financieras and the Instituto de Fomento Indus-
trial (IFI), the government-owned Industrial Development Institute, are an
important source of medium- and long-term credit for medium- and large-scale
industry, but are not geared to reach a significant number of small industrial
firms. Colombia's well developed commercial banking system provides substan-
tial industrial credit, but its terms of up to one year are often too short
and collateral requirements, generally ranging from about 150-300%'0 of the
credit amount, too stringent for most small enterprises. Loans from family
members and friends are of importance for smaller firms. The continuing
presence of an active extra-bank market providing short-term loans to SMI
at interest rates ranging from 3% to over 5% per month confirms the strong
demand for credit, unsatisfied by institutional sources. 2/
2.13      The cost of industrial credit varies substantially according to
the source of funds used. The effective peso cost of short-term commercial
bank lending ranges from 24-32% annually. On medium- to long-term loans the
CAJA is offering the lowest rates of 13-14% p.a. but on a relatively small
lending volume, followed by IFF's 18-24% p.a. range CFP's lending with own
resources at 22% p.a., and IFI's at 25% p.a. The financieras now charge
up to 23% p.a. for medium-term working capital loans and 25% p.a. for relending
Bank funds.
2.14      In the light of present inflationary pressures, the lower of these
interest rates are still clearly below the real cost of capital, although
-cst rates have been increased recently under the new government.  Owing to
this situation and recognizing the fact that SMI is more concerned about access
to credit than about cost, and that no explicit rate subsidization seems
1/   Almost 60% (26) of a sample of 45 companies surveyed by the mission had
debt equivalent to less than 25% of total assets and only six enter-
prises had debt levels exceeding 50%. Debt was mostly short-term.
2/   Appendix 1 summarizes main sources and terms of finance for SMI.



- 7 -
necessary since institutional interest charges have relatively little weight
in production cost and debt servicing, the Colombian Government has agreed
to a 24% interest rate for CFP's on-peso-lending of Bank funds for investment
projects. In view of Colombia's forecast inflation such an interest rate
should result in an acceptable positive cost of capital over the average
lifetime of CFP's subloans (Annex 18). Relending rates on further commitments of
Bank funds would be reviewed in the light of inflationary trends when half of
the proposed loan is committed (para. 4.03).
D. Technical Assistance
2.15      Opinions vary as to the kind and quantity of technical assistance
needed by Colombian SMI but are unanimous that presently available assistance
is inadequate. By strengthening technical assistance, performance of SMI
would be improved and its contribution to manufacturing growth could be sub-
stantially increased. A mission survey indicates that most needed are training
in production techniques and quality control, product planning and design,
business organization, management, and marketing; closely followed by account-
ing and financial planning and control and helping entrepreneurs to present
projects in "bankable" form. For example, small entrepreneurs often lack
knowledge for proper technology selection. The uneven quality of their
products seldom permits subcontracting with large firms. Most firms with less
than 20 employees lack adequate financial information and planning. Growth
potential of SMI is also limited by a dearth of trained manpower.
2.16      There are several institutions (Appendix 2) actively rendering
technical assistance to Colombian SMI, but their programs focus on general
managerial and vocational training and provide little in-depth consulting to
individual firms. By far the most important and comprehensive programs are
offered by the Servicio Nacional de Aprendizaje (SENA), a Government insti-
tution charged with improving skills of workers and managerial competence
of entrepreneurs. The Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion
Cientifica y Tecnologica (FICITEC)--a semi-private non-profit consulting in-
stitution-- is providing commendable in-depth managerial, marketing, plan-
ning and production assistance services to solve specific problems of in-
dividual firms, but the volume of its assistance to about 35 companies a year
is still small compared to SMI's needs. ACOPI organizes management seminars
for its 2,200 members and several universities developed regional technical
assistance programs in recent years. In connection with their lending, CFP
and the CAJA either provide some limited direct technical assistance or
arrange for assistance by other institutions.
2.17      Although in recent years much progress has been made, Colombian
technical assistance capacity for SMI is still relatively low and there remains
an acute need for better coverage of small towns and rural areas, and for more
direct assistance--as provided by FICITEC. Three out of every four firms
surveyed by the mission felt a need for immediate technical assistance and
most indicated their willingness to pay a "reasonable fee" for it. At pre-
sent, however, only 5-10% of small- and medium-scale enterprises per year
can expect to benefit from direct technical assistance programs, due to



- 8 -
limited financial and human resources. On the other hand, it should be
recognized that direct assistance is difficult to provide on a nationwide
basis since it is costly, and requires a large number of well-trained and
experienced personnel.
2.18      Important steps in bridging the present technical assistance gap
would be to widen volume and scope of programs and to coordinate the efforts
of the institutions involved (para. 2.21). Furthermore, except for SENA 1/
there is a need to put funding of technical assistance on a firmer basis.
Since for most small firms the cost of technical assistance--particularly
in-depth consulting services at an estimated average of US$3-4,000 equivalent
per client--would be high, subsidized financing 2/ is necessary and would be
provided under the proposed loan (para. 4.02).
E. Government Policies
2.19      Colombia's development policies, concerned with creating urban
employment, have given emphasis to urban development, export promotion and
more equal income distribution. Despite the Government's increasing aware-
ness of SMI's economic and social importance in creating employment oppor-
tunities and furthering urban and regional development, industrial policies
do not yet differentiate sufficiently according to size of enterprises and
pay little attention to SMI's specific needs. As in other developing coun-
tries, no coordinated policy framework exists to promote SMI and little
information is available to gauge the impact of global government policies
on SMI's development.
2.20      In support of SMI, the Government's involvement has been most
important in establishing SENA (as early as 1957), and in creating the
following financing programs and institutions: (i) the CAJA's "directed"
credit program, implemented in 1964 to foster rural industrialization;
(ii) the establishment of CFP in 1967; and (iii) the IFF, founded in 1968,
for rediscounting institutional credit to SMI. More recently, the Govern-
ment issued a decree to establish a fund for guaranteeing loan repayments
of small industrial firms. 3/ Compared to large industry, SMI has tended to
suffer more from such measures as tight monetary policy, demand deposit re-
quirements and import licensing, to miss out on export incentive programs 4/
and to benefit less from tariff protection (para. 2.22), while being less
affected by fiscal measures and labor legislation.
1/ SENA is the recipient of a 2% payroll tax on industrial enterprises; its
services are free.
2/ FICITEC, for example, only charges 50% of the cost of its services to
entrepreneurs; donations from BR and others cover the difference.
3/ For which CFP is the executing agency (Appendix 1, page 1).
4/ The Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO) established in 1967 to
promote industrial exports in effect concentrates on assisting large,
established manufacturing exporting firms.



-9-
2.21      Policies and assistance of public and private institutions to SMI
have suffered from lack of coordination and long-term planning. This would
suggest a need to establish a high level advisory position on SMI in the
Government, perhaps in the economic council of the Presidency, primarily
concerned with: (a) examining past and proposing new policies which affect
SHI development; (b) helping to ensure a sufficient and timely flow of re-
sources to SMI; and (c) taking initial steps conducive to country-wide pro-
motion and coordination of technical assistance programs. In addition, the
Government should consider carrying out, along the lines of the Government-
sponsored Stanford Research Institute study of 1962 (para. 3.01), a compre-
hensive evaluation of the effects of current industrial policies on SMI and
of its potential to assist in accomplishing Government priority objectives.
These matters are currently being discussed with the Colombian Government.
F.  Kr ecSts
2.22      Colombian industry has proven to be dynamic in the past.  Con-
tinuing strong local demand for manufactured goods should not only offer
ample opportunities for further import substitution in product lines already
existing in the country but also permit introduction of new lines. Enhanced
by the prospects for growing importance of the Andean Coimmon Market (which
is the recipient of about one quarter of Colombia's minor exports, second in
importance only to the U.S.A. with almost one third), chances are good for
exports of manufactured goods to continue to rise at a healthy pace. Conse-
quently, the outlook for continuing high growth of industrial investment and
output is promising. Scope and potential of SMI are considerable in meeting
the demand for a large number of consumer goods, as well as for providing
inputs for other manufacturing, and agricultural processing industries; par-
ticularly since despite all its handicaps Colombian SMI is efficient in many
industrial subsectors and competitive with large industry. This is demon-
strated by the low level of effective protection in those major industrial
branches 1/ where SMI, in relative terms, accounts for the greatest number
of firms and contributes most to manufacturing production and value added.
2.23      The scarcity of financial 2/ and trained human resources is likely
to remain a constraint for industrial expansion for some time to come. How-
ever, indications are that the new Government which took office in August of
this year will give specific attention to SMl's development.
1/ Effective protection is 2.0% for food production; 12.7% for apparel; -9.6%
for shoes; -10.9% for furniture; 1.1% for wood products; 0.1% for non-
metallic mineral products; 11.9% for non-electric machinery; and 6.6%
for construction materials. Hence, overall Colombian SHEf is not overly
protected.
2/ While a September 1972 survey of the National Manufacturers' Assocation
(ANDI) shows that industry as a whole plans new fixed investments of some
Col $12 billion through 1975, requiring about Col $8 billion in additional
working capital, only a fraction of this could be provided from credit
institutions.



- 10 -
III. CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
A. Organization
3.01      Establishment and Objectives.  In response to a Government-sponsored
Stanford Research Institute study undertaken in 1962 on the prospects and
needs of Colombian SMI, Banco Popular, a Government-owned commercial bank,
founded CFP in 1967. CFP's objectives, as broadly defined in its Statutes,
are to (i) contribute to the development of small manufacturing, agro-indus-
trial and mining enterprises; (ii) encourage import substitution and export
promotion projects; and (iii) stimulate local and foreign investment in SMI.
CFP's operations are governed by a Declaration of Policies and Procedures
which was prepared in close cooperation with the Bank and was approved
by its Board on October 27, 1974. Before, CFP's activities were regulated
by a framework of broad Board policy resolutions which, however, provided
inadequate operational guidance.
3.02      Ownership.  As of September 30, 1974 Banco Popular and its subsidiary
Corporacion de Ferias y Exposiciones, held 55.4% of CFP's Col$134.7 million
share capital; the Government, 44.5%; and 18 private Colombians, one share
each (Annex 2). Operationally independent but tightly linked to its founder
Banco Popular, CFP has benefited from this relationship in building up its
operational capability and equity base and being subject to little political
influence. Although the Government, which only recently took an equity
position, intends to make further subscriptions and to take a more active
interest in CFP, close cooperation between the latter and the Banco Popular
group is expected to continue.
3.03      Board of Directors and Loan Committee.  CFP's current six-member
Board (Annex 3) includes bankers, businessmen and Government officials. 1/
The Board meets weekly and takes an active interest in directing CFP's
policies and operations. The Board-appointed Loan Committee (Annex 4) is the
key element in CFP's decision-making. Presently it is empowered to approve
operations between Col$350,000 (the approval limit for CFP's regional offices)
and Col$1.0 million and to make recommendations to the Board on all larger
proposals. Thus, it gets involved in about two-thirds of CFP's lending vol-
ume. In the past, Banco Popular's dominance in the Board and the Loan
Committee had led to a predominant commercial banking approach involving
tight lending terms and excessive emphasis on the applicant's collateral
and financial position. To help ensure against considerations of financial
risk overshadowing developmental objectives in CFP's selection and approval
of sub-projects, it was agreed during negotiations that the composition of
CFP's Board and Loan Committee would be diversified. Accordingly, CFP's
statutes will be modified 2/ to provide that CFP's Board and Loan Committee
will have majority representation from outside Banco Popular.
1/   The Minister of Development'(or his representative) is ex-officio
chairman of the Board. Two more Board members are appointed by the
President of the Republic.
2/   Condition of effectiveness.



- 11 -
3.04      Management and Staff.  Following the accession of the new Government
in August, CFP's management was replaced in early September. Though his back-
ground and personality are quite different from his predecessor, Mr. J.T. Nino,
CFP's new General Manager, appears to have the experience, skills and capacity
needed to carry out his role successfully and strike a balance between con-
solidating CFP and pressing for further growth. He is supported by four sub-
managers (for operations 1/, finance, development and administration) and six
regional managers. The total staff number 177. Of its 72 professionals,
34 are at the Bogota head office, 2/ the rest, at nine regional offices,
designed to give CFP's operations a broad regional coverage.  Composed largely
of young university graduates, the professional staff is dedicated to the
institution's goals and, despite generally limited experience, performs its
tasks with resourcefulness.
3.05      Internal Organization.  While in recent years management has made
a series of organizational improvements, the internal organization and control
have not fully kept up with CFP's rapid growth. (For CFP's organization
chart see Annex 5.) To sustain its growth, CFP needs to strengthen its
organization improve control of its operations and portfolio, and better
attend to the financial and technical assistance needs of its clients. To
this end, CFP is making preparations to have an organization study carried
out. (Draft terms of reference are given in Annex 6.) CFP has agreed to
contract for the study prior to loan effectiveness at terms of reference
satisfactory to the Bank; its main recommendations would be reviewed jointly
by the Bank and CFP and implemented according to a schedule agreeable to
the Bank.
B. Procedures
3.06      Appraisal and Follow-up.  Quality of appraisal work, while on the
whole acceptable, varies widely reflecting high staff turnover and a lack of
manuals. Although it is not feasible to prepare full appraisals--as is stan-
dard DFC practice--for CFP's large number of typically small loans, analysis
of long-term prospects and of technical, marketing and managerial aspects
often leaves room for improvement. Furthermore, economic project analysis,
presently concentrating on employment effects, should aim at assessing also
efficiency of production, as far as feasible. To strengthen its appraisal
and follow-up capability, CFP intends to substantially increase staffing. A
UNIDO project evaluation expert, who joined CFP in July of 1974 for a
six-months period, should also help upgrade CFP's appraisal work.
1/   This position is presently vacant but will be filled as a condition
of effectiveness of the proposed loan.
2/   As part of the new Government's decentralization policy, CFP's head-
quarters may be transferred outside Bogota. The impact of such a move
cannot yet be assessed.



- 12 -
3.07      CFP introduced systematic follow-up only in 1972, when arrears
increased suddenly.  Although much improved since then, supervision is not
yet fully commensurate with the volume of operations. Follow-up could bene-
fit from (a) systematic programming of supervision activities, (b) periodic
receipt and analysis of information on a larger number of clients, (c) exten-
sion of in-the-field supervision beyond visits to problem clients, and (d)
systematic analysis of borrowers' financial position and technical assistance
needs. CFP's management is aware that its clients have to be monitored more
closely, and the expected staff increases should permit strengthening of
supervision. During negotiations, understanding was also reached with CFP
on steps it will take to strengthen appraisal and follow-up (Annex 23).
3.08      Technical Assistance.  CFP started to focus on technical assistance
needs of its clients as recently as 1971. Thus, it does not yet go much be-
yond attempting to detect major operational problems of loan applicants, and
to arrange for technical assistance by other institutions. Through year-end
1973, much of the technical assistance to 546 of CFP's clients (Annex 7) has
consisted of participation in courses providing general managerial, technical
and bookkeeping training; only 44 firms received assistance individually
adapted to their specific problems.
3.09      Recognizing the need to step up direct technical assistance to its
clients, CFP is developing several programs, including accounting centers to
assist small entrepreneurs, a product marketing company and an equipment ex-
change (Appendix 2, pages 2 & 3), but the feasibility of some of these programs
still needs to be determined. A second UNIDO expert is currently assisting
CFP for one year in assessing its technical assistance work and identifying
priorities. Given CFP's resource limitations, financing of technical assis-
tance services to CFP clients and of CFP's programs would in part be provided
under the proposed loan (para. 4.07).
3.10      Procurement and Disbursement.  Small unsophisticated entrepreneurs
frequently place raw material and equipment orders before seeking financial
assistance. The fact that they frequently need financing more quickly than
large industry and the small size of CFP-financed projects, often do not make
it feasible to obtain quotations from several suppliers. Nevertheless, CFP
is making satisfactory efforts to gauge adequacy and competitiveness of
fixed asset purchases and is building up its staff's technical expertise.
Disbursement systems too are generally acceptable, but could be improved by
more frequent on-the-spot visits for construction projects and by introducing
uniform procedures among regional offices. During negotiations, understanding
was reached with CFP on steps it will take to further upgrade procurement
and disbursement procedures (Annex 23).
C. Resources
3.11      Up to 1970, CFP's sole resources were its own equity and IFF funds.
Since then CFP gained access to additional resources and its borrowings in-
creased rapidly from Col$52.3 million to Col$297 million as of June 1974.



- 13 -
By year-end 1973 (Annex 8) CFP had mobilized 25.6% of its total resources
from IFF, followed by own equity (23.3%), Banco Popular (16.0%), Fondo
Nacional de Ahorro (National Savings Fund, FNA) (13.0%), Sociedades Capita-
lizadoras (Financial Companies) (9.3%), BR (4.4%) and several others totalling
8.4%.
3.12      At year-end 1973, CFP had virtually no uncommitted resources (para.
3.24). Also, CFP's present resource mix is not yet fully adequate to meet
all the needs of its clients; terms of about two-thirds of its active credit
facilities do not exceed five years which is sufficient for working capital
financing but too short for most capital expenditures. In particular, IFF's
rediscounting facilities allow little flexibility in utilization (Appendix 1,
page 3) and tend to be mostly used for working capital needs.
D. Financial Position and Results
3.13      Quality of Portfolio.  Reflecting a sharp increase in the loan
portfolio from Col$95 million to Col$365 million in 1970-73 and a rising
average age of loans outstanding, CFP's arrears have risen substantially.
At year-end 1973, out of CFP's 2473 clients, 667 were in arrears, and of these
285 were operating at a loss or were experiencing technical and financial
difficulties and 186 were in liquidation. Loan principal in arrears for more
than 3 months amounted to Col$20 million and affected 10.4% of total loan
portfolio, i.e. Col$37.8 million (see Annex 9). Although CFP's arrears situa-
tion is acceptable when compared to other DFCs associated with the Bank Group,
nevertheless there is cause for concern about loans in arrears over one year
which steadily increased from Col$5 million in 1970 to Col$15 million at year-
end 1973. High operational growth, lending on shorter-than-required terms,
lax supervision and collection procedures and CFP's past low interest rate
on overdue loans (upon the Bank's suggestion it was recently raised from 24%
to 32% p.a.) seem to be the main reasons. Measures to reduce arrears, parti-
cularly those above one year, were agreed upon with CFP during negotiations.
3.14      Neither CFP nor its external auditor had ever fully reviewed the
financiera's rather complex portfolio. To allow a definite judgment on
portfolio quality and adequacy of provisions for losses, the Bank required
CFP to carry out, together with its external auditor, a detailed review of
its year-end 1973 portfolio. The review concluded that CFP faces probable
losses of Col$12 million on overdue loans, but that this risk was sufficiently
covered by provisions and portfolio reserves which totalled Col$12.3 million
and Col$7 million, respectively, on June 30, 1974. However, since CFP did
not yet have an adequate provisions policy to ensure that CFP covers itself
against possible losses, (since 1972 provisions had been established as per-
centage of disbursements without evaluating the risk involved in operations)
agreement was reached during negotiations that CFP (i) review periodically
its portfolio and compute annually the necessary provisions to be deducted
from equity for purposes of the debt/equity covenant and (ii) seek its
external auditor's opinion on their adequacy.



- 14 -
3.15      Financial Position.  Comparative balance sheets for the years 1968
to 1973 are given in Annex 12. Between 1969 and 1973, CFP's total assets
rose rapidly, by 69% annually, from Col$51 million to Col$417 million.
Reflecting heavy borrowings in recent years CFP's total debt to equity ratio
jumped from 0.4:1 in 1969 to 3.2:1 at year-end 1973. Considering the in-
flexible characteristics of most of its borrowings and the greater risk of
financing SMI, CFP's debt would be limited to 4.0 times equity under the
proposed loan.
3.16      Due to lagging debt collection and rigid borrowing terms CFP has
had some difficulty in maintaining an adequate liquidity position. As of
December 31, 1973 CFP's current assets barely covered current liabilities:
the current ratio amounted to 1.05:1. Although, since then, the new
Government's and Banco Popularts equity participations (Col$116 million)
substantially strengthened the latter ratio -- up to 1.6:1 by June 30, 1974 --
during negotiations the Bank reached an understanding with CFP on measures
to maintain a satisfactory liquidity position in the future (Annex 23).
3.17      Income, Expenses, and Profitability.  Income statements for 1968-73
(Annex 11) show that CFP's sharp growth in revenues was accompanied by an
even sharper increase in expenses. However, while high compared to virtually
all other DFCs associated with the Bank Group, administrative expenses (equi-
valent to 6.2% of average total assets in 1973) are not excessive considering
CFP's need to maintain an extensive network of regional offices, to administer
a large number of credits and thus to employ a large staff, and to perform
non-income generating activities in support of SMI.
3.18      Since inception CFP has been modestly profitable.  For 1973 net
profits amounted to Col$4.4 million and resulted in a return on average equity
of 5.4%, as compared to Col$2.9 million and 4.4%, respectively, in 1972.
In particular, CFP's profitability in 1973 has been low resulting in an esti-
mated 16% decrease in net worth after allowing for inflation. As about one
sixth of its equity is currently frozen in loans in arrears and as its interest
rates for relending own funds have not kept pace with inflation, CFP's low
profitability is more and more a result of the thin and -- particularly in
the case of IFF -- insufficient spread on its borrowings. Although as a
public institution serving small entrepreneurs, CFP should not be expected
to yield high returns, it should endeavor that its profits at least compensate
for equity erosion through inflation. Since it may take some time to raise
CFP's profitability sufficiently to offset inflation (para. 3.27), during
negotiations the Government agreed to provide for additional equity contri-
butions, as shall be necessary, to maintain in real terms the value of
CFP's paid-in capital stock.
3.19      Audit of Accounts.  Although CFP's present auditor, Cuellar Feged
and Co., is the second largest Colombian auditing firm and has a good
reputation, the scope and quality of its work on CFP's accounts leave subs-
tantial room for improvement, particularly regarding analysis of portfolio,
provisions for losses, liquidity and profitability. CFP has agreed to



- 15 -
contract for the services of an external auditor acceptable to the Bank and
to have the auditor prepare annually a full audit report following the
standard format for DFC's associated with the Bank Group.
3.20      Established a year ago, CFP's internal auditing is not yet an
efficient control tool. In connection with the planned organization study
ways to strengthen CFP's internal audit procedures would be reviewed (Annex
6).
E. Past Operations
3.21      Despite its still small size (total assets were US$17.7 million
equivalent as of June 30, 1974), CFP has made a valuable contribution to the
development of Colombian SMI. Within six years, CFP has made over 3,500
loans totalling Col$802 million to some 3,000 enterprises (Annexes 13 and 14
show a summary of past operations). Reflecting its recent rapid growth,
almost two-thirds was lent during 1972-73. 1/ Loan recipients (CFP made
only three small equity investments--Annex 10) represent a wide range of
industrial subsectors. Apparel and footwear producers (16%) and non-metallic
mineral products, metal working and food industries (about 10% each) received
the most. As indicated earlier (para. 2.23), these industrial lines are
among the least protected. CFP intends to step up its sector work to identify
industrial subsectors which are efficient and have development potential.
3.22      Given CFP's limited long-term resources for capital investment,
loans were mostly (70%) extended for working capital. Somewhat short matur-
ities--the average is about 2-1/2 years for working capital and 4 years for
fixed asset financing--and tight collateral requirements, reflect the con-
servative policy of CFP's Loan Committee in the past. On the other hand,
almost 90% of the borrowers had total assets of less than Col$3 million, and
the average loan amount was below Col$250,000, which shows that CFP has been
successful in reaching the lower end of SMI. CFP was also able to penetrate
virtually all of Colombia's geographic regions. For each loan in Bogota,
CFP's regional offices made three outside the capital area. CFP estimates
that its operations have helped create as much as 24,000 new jobs, which,
however, seems somewhat high considering that Colombia's industrial labor
was an estimated 350,000 in 1973.
F. Projections
3.23      Forecast of Operations.  With demand continuing unabatedly strong
for its services, CFP's business prospects are good. Operational forecasts
(Annex 15) reflect CFP's key role in catering to the large, unsatisfied
credit demand of SMI. Based on a representative survey of the sector's
financing needs which is supported by past operational growth (Annex 14),
1/   In 1972, CFP provided about one-fifth of the estimated Col$870-1,100
million institutional financing to SMI.



- 16 -
CFP's annual loan commitments would rise rapidly from Col$278 million in 1973
to Col$658 million (in current pesos) in 1976, the end of the commitment
period of the proposed loan. Working capital financing would diminish to
60% of total lending, as more funds would become available for CFP's fixed
asset financing. While CFP intends to step up equity investments as a means
to assist new entrepreneurs or under-capitalized firms with growth potential,
equity investments (Col$20 million in 1974-76) would remain quite small rela-
tive to lending operations. If, as expected, the Government provides addi-
tional resources and other sources of funds can be tapped, these projections
appear attainable. CFP should be able to strengthen its organization suffi-
ciently to handle the projected larger volume of operations.
3.24      Resource Needs.  Present financial position and expected growth
call for a rapid widening of CFP's equity base and borrowings. To achieve
its ambitious operational forecasts and maintain a sound financial structure,
CFP would need to mobilize Col$728 million in borrowings and Col$165 million
in equity through 1976 (Annex 16). For future borrowings through 1976, CFP
expects to (i) continue to rely heavily on its traditional creditors, the
IFF (Col$330 million), and FNA (Col$125 million), (ii) obtain a DM5-8 million
loan from the German Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (KfW), and (iii) tap new
local sources of funds for Col$80 million. By providing a US$5.5 million
loan, the Bank would fill CFP's remaining resource gap in 1975-76.
3.25      CFP has already increased its share capital by Col$115 million in
1974 (through contributions of Col$50 million from the Government, Col$33
million from Banco Popular, Col$31 million from the Corporacion de Ferias y
Exposiciones, and Col$1 million from IFI). An additional Col$50 million
Government equity participation in 1975 is expected from the proceeds of a
new AID loan which is at an advanced stage of consideration. However, FNA,
so far, only extended Col$50 million to CFP and future FNA contributions,
as well as the access to new local sources of funds, are uncertain given the
attractive alternative of higher yielding indexed investments in the savings
and loan system. Finally, discussions regarding KfW assistance are still at
an early stage.
3.26      As shown, expected share capital increases and the shift to new
resources involve great uncertainties. The proposed loan is proving to be
instrumental in strenghtening CFP's resource mobilization. During negotia-
tions the Bank obtained assurances from the Government that CFP will receive
sufficient local currency resources for its projected operations, at least
through 1977.
3.27      Financial Projections.  CFP's total assets and loan portfolio would
grow about 30% annually throughout the forecast period (Annexes 11, 12, 16
and 17 show financial projections). Despite a similar increase in borrowings,
CFP would maintain a sound financial structure by raising substantial new
share capital. From 3.3:1 at year-end 1973, the debt/equity ratio would
drop to 1.6:1 by year end 1974 and increase slowly thereafter to attain 2.4:1



- 17 -
by 1976 and 2.8:1 by 1978. With growing operations, profitability is expected
to improve, partly due to a relative decline of administrative expenses from
6.2% of average total assets in 1973 to 5.4% in 1978. Profits after provisions
would rise to 6.6% on average equity in 1976 (which is still rather low) and
increase slightly thereafter; CFP would use them to make substantial reserve
allocations for portfolio protection. Although acceptable, CFP's increase
in profitability may not be high enough to fully compensate for erosion of
net worth through inflation (para. 3.18). Debt service capacity, with profits
and loan collections covering debt service payments between 1.5 to 2 times
would be adequate. Overall, CFP's financial condition can be expected to
develop satisfactorily throughout the forecast period.
IV. THE PROJECT
A. Project Description and Components
4.01      The proposed loan consists of:  (i) a US$5 million portion to
assist CFP in covering the capital requirements of a lending program to
finance the establishment and expansion of privately owned small industrial
firms (paras. 4.04-4.06) and (ii) a US$0.5 million technical assistance
component designed to strengthen CFP's technical assistance activities and
to finance consultants' cost of technical assistance to CFP clients (para.
4.07). The objectives of the proposed loan are stated in para. 1.03.
4.02      The proposed loan would be made to BR to be on-lent to small indus-
tries through CFP. Under the lending program ultimate beneficiaries would
be given the choice of borrowing at 13 p.a. in foreign exchange or at
24% p.a. in pesos. However, as under past Bank financiera loans, it is ex-
pected that CFP's clients would opt for the latter alternative which, in
view of Colombia's forecast inflationary pressures, should result in an
acceptable positive cost of capital over the average lifetime of a sub-loan
(Annex 18). Since technical assistance subloans would be mostly very small,
technical assistance financing to SSI would be extended in local currency
only, at a subsidized interest rate of 15% p.a. Considering the greater risk
and administrative expenses of lending to SSI, CFP's spread under the lending
program would be 5.5% for peso subloans and 5.25% for foreign exchange subloans,
as compared to 3% under the recent Bank financiera loans. For technical assis-
tance lending CFP's spread would be limited to 3% which is considered sufficient
as most technical assistance subloans would have a maximum maturity of 10 years,
whlich is ample for any SSI project, and would include an appropriate grace period
of up to three years to take account of delivery and start-up time. To ensure
satisfactory lending terms for borrowers, subloans would be extended for at least
four years. The expected large number of subloans would make impractical the
usual composite amortization schedule for Bank DFC loans. lhence, the proposed
loan would have a fixed 12-year amortization schedule, including a 3-1/2 year
grace period. This would assist CFP in building up long-term resources for fixed



- 18
asset and technical assistance lending. The commitment fee on the proposed
loan would be applied on the undisbursed portion of sub-loans for which either
the Bank has authorized withdrawals or which have been approved by CFP and
submitted to BR. This treatment which is somewhat concessionary is considered
justified as CFP is a young institution, has a low profitability, and pursues
social objectives.
4.03      Given the need to extensively delegate project approval authority
to CFP, the lending portion of the proposed loan would be divided into two
equal tranches of US$2.5 million and the second one would only be released
if a Bank review shows that under the first tranche CFP has taken adequate
steps to upgrade its operational effectiveness, particularly with respect to
subloan appraisal and supervision (para. 4.06 and Annex 23). In this connection,
improvements in CFP's organization and a reduction in its arrears would also
be reviewed and the adequacy of relending rates would be assessed (para. 2.14).
4.04      Lending Program.  The US$5 million lending program would be used by
CFP for relending to finance fixed assets, including construction cost of
industrial buildings, of a wide range of small manufacturing firms, with
total assets not in excess of Col$20 million at the time of subloan approval.
At the low end, cottage industry (firms with less than 5 employees) while not
excluded, is expected to use only a small part of the loan. The maximum
Bank assistance to any one firm would be limited to Col$2.5 million (about
US$95,000) for beneficiaries with total assets below Col$10 million, and to
Col$4 million (about US$150,000) for those with total assets between Col$10-
20 million. However, preference would be given to financing SSI, since only
25% (US$1,250,000) of the US$5 million lending program would be allocated
to the latter category. Larger projects are likely to have access to Bank
funds through the financieras.
4.05      Based on a review of projects recently financed by CFP it is ex-
pected that some 200 small entrepreneurs (average subloan about US$25,000)
would have access to the loan. The typical recipient would be a single-owner
or limited liability firm with total assets between Col$3-6 million, employing
20-50 workers. Reflecting their limited access to financing, most potential
subborrowers would have a low leverage and could contract relatively large
borrowings, while maintaining a sound financial structure and sufficient cash
flows to service loans. As in CFP's past lending, industries financed under
the loan are expected to be varied, with apparel and footwear, non-metallic
mineral, metal working and food industries accounting for about one-half.
While the large number and small size of subloans would not permit full
economic evaluations, CFP would attempt to give priority to proposals with
potential for exports or efficient import substitution. Although most sub-
projects would be for capacity expansion and mainly produce for local markets,
the mission's survey of CFP's clients indicates that as many as 25% of the
subprojects may involve some exports.



_ 19 -
4.06      Subloans would be made on the basis of CFP's appraisals of indivi-
dual operations. Given the impossibility for the Bank to review a large
number of subprojects, and the quick review procedures called for in lending
to SSI, the limit for projects not requiring the Bank's prior approval (the
"free limit") would be Col$1.5 million (about US$57,000 equivalent). However,
to help improve its knowledge in a field in which it still has relatively
little experience, and to ensure upgrading of CFP's appraisal and decision-
making, the Bank would closely supervise the proposed loan and review ex-post
a sufficient sample of subprojects. Before releasing the second US$2.5
million tranche of the loan, the Bank would satisfy itself with respect to
the adequacy of this arrangement.
4.07      Technical Assistance.  In connection with its subloan appraisal
and supervision work CFP would increase its effort to help upgrade operations
of clients, particularly in accounting and financial planning. Many potential
and existing subborrowers, however, would require more extensive technical
assistance (mostly technical and management advice) which CFP would arrange
through specialized institutions whenever necessary. Under the proposed
loan, Bank funds would be available for technical assistance credits to pay
for the services of mostly Colombian consultants to subborrowers with growth
potential but experiencing operational or technical difficulties (Annex 13).
About three-fifths of the US$0.5 million technical assistance component would
be used to finance direct technical assistance to some 100 enterprises. The
remainder would be available to CFP to finance consultants' cost of economic
and sectoral studies related to SMI and of evaluating CFP's technical assis-
tance programs and necessary organizational improvements (Annex 13). Regard-
less of the amount, proposals for technical assistance financing to clients
and for CFP would be submitted to the Bank for approval. The technical
assistance part of AID's proposed Col$50 million financing (para. 3.25)
is likely to be earmarked for a guarantee fund, a marketing company, account-
ing centers (Appendix 2, page 3), and a permanent technical information service
to SMI. While some overlapping may occur, the Bank's and AID's technical
assistance efforts would be complementary and therefore not affect the need
for Bank technical assistance financing.
B. Project Cost and Financing
4.08      Cost Estimates.  The estimated total project cost is US$10.2 million
equivalent, of which US$9.6 million is for the lending program and US$0.6 mil-
lion for technical assistance. The project's foreign exchange component of
US$5.5 million (53.9%) relates almost exclusively to the lending program. The
following table gives a breakdown of the major cost categories:



- 20 -
Col_$ Million           US$ Thousands        % Foreign
Exchange
Category                 Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreig-n  Total  Component
(a) Lending Program    103.7   136.3   240.0  4,150   5,450   9,600           56.8
(b) Technical
Assistance
Program
(i) Consulting
Services
to CFP            3.7      1.2      4.9    150       50      200      25.0
(ii) Technical
Assistance to
subborrowers      9.9      _        9.9    400        -      400       0.0
Subtotal         13.6      1.2    14.8    550        50      600       8.3
Total Project Cost       117.3   137.5   254.8  4,700   5,500  10200          53.9
4.09      Fnnig   The proposed US$5.5 million Bank loan is equivalent to
the project's estimated foreign exchange component and would cover 53.9% of
total project cost. CFP would contribute the equivalent of US$3.1 million
(30.4%); subborrowers, US$1.6 million (15.7%).  This means that, on average,
about one-third of the cost of each subproject would be financed with CFP
funds and one-sixth by the subborrowers. CFP would review the adequacy of
the financing plan for each subloan. The following summarizes the project's
financing:
Bank              CFP           Subborrowers        Total
Category               US$(000)    %    Us$(o          %      JS$(000)    %    US$(000)
(a) Lending Program        5,000   53.2      3,000   31.2       1,600   16.6      9,600
(b) Technical
Assistance
Program
(i) Consulting
Services
to CFP             200  100.0           -      -          -       -        200
(ii) Technical
Assistance to
subborrowers       300   75.0         100   25.0           -               400
Subtotal           500   83.3         100   16.7           -      -        600
Total Project
Financing                  5,500   53.9      3,100   30.4       1,600   15.7    10,200



- 21 -
C. Procurement and Disbursement
4.10      Procurement.  Equipment procured under the loan would be small--
mostly below US$35,000--and varied and, therefore, unsuitable for bulk pro-
curement through international competitive bidding. Most of the capital goods
would be imported but purchased "off-the-shelf" from domestic distributors.
Overseas suppliers for most of the imported machinery and equipment are ade-
quately represented in Colombia, competition among them is keen and their
services reasonable. About one-sixth of the capital goods would be produced
locally. Effective protection (for instance, 11.9% for non-electrical
machinery) is relatively low for those locally manufactured capital goods
suitable for financing under the proposed loan. Only about one-fifth of
subloans are expected to involve financing construction of industrial buildings.
Overall, the construction industry is efficient and competitive. Finally,
fees for technical assistance services seem reasonable. CFP would satisfy
itself that goods and services procured are competitive in quality and price
and meet the needs of its clients.
4.11      Disbursement.  Disbursement of Bank funds would be made for 90%
of expenditures for specific fixed assets (equipment, machinery, construction)
-- for 100% of c.i.f. cost, whenever documentation is available -- and 100%
of the cost of consultants' technical assistance services. On average, dis-
bursements under this formula would be equivalent to the estimated 53.9%
foreign exchange component of the project (Annex 20). This formula reflects
CFP's preference and would facilitate CFP's putting together financial packages
from various sources for single subprojects.
4.12      A project account would be set up at BR.  CFP would apply for
disbursements through BR's Department of Development Credit which would
monitor all applications, similar to the Bank financiera loans. However,
detailed documentation for expenditures would normally not be submitted to
the Bank but retained in Colombia for inspection by Bank supervision missions.
Disbursements to subborrowers would take about three years. Annex 21 shows
the estimated schedule of disbursements.
V. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
5.01      While the project's direct and indirect benefits are difficult to
quantify, considerable advantages would be gained from achieving its objec-
tives. Most significantly, the project would provide urgently needed finan-
cing and technical assistance for development projects in SSI, help develop
entrepreneurship and contribute to strengthening CFP, the main financial
institution for the sector. Most subprojects are expected to have a financial
rate of return in excess of 15%. Due to the very nature and variety of subloans
to SSI, it is difficult to estimate the project's economic rate of return.
However, considering the substantial urban unemployment and the low level of
protection enjoyed by many of CFP's clients (para. 3.21), economic rates of
return of most subprojects, would be above their financial counterparts.



- 22 -
5.02      Since much of the additional goods production would be substituting
imports, the project's balance of payments impact would largely consist of
foreign exchange savings. With most subloans expected for expansion, a large
number of small enterprises would be given an opportunity to carry out ur-
gently needed capital investments to modernize obsolete production facilities
and techniques and increase productivity. Resulting improvements in product
quality and cost efficiency of production should also benefit consumers.
5.03      With SSI requiring less capital investment per job than large in-
dustry and SSI employing a substantial portion of new job entrants in industry,
the project's expected employment benefits are substantial and should assist
in improving income distribution. The expected wide geographic distribution
of subprojects would contribute to regional development and industrial decen-
tralization. The project would help create an estimated 1,700-2,300 new jobs,
three-quarters of which outside of Bogota. Most workers are expected to come
from Colombia's large untrained labor force. Modernization of production
facilities and techniques would help upgrade skills of trained and untrained
labor. The direct benefits from the technical assistance program would mostly
consist of improving management related and technical skills in SSI.
5.04      The project would have an important institution-building effect
on CFP by providing it with urgently needed long-term funds for fixed asset
lending and ensuring it of sufficient resources and a sound financial base.
Furthermore, CFP's operations and procedures would be strengthened which
would equip it to better serve its clients.
5.05      Hitherto, not enough is known to determine the best way of assist-
ing Colombian SSI. Thus the project, while small considering the sector's
financial needs, would help to build up knowledge on the specific sectoral
problems and needs prior to an eventual larger Bank involvement at a later
date. To this end, the Bank would closely monitor the proposed loan (Annex 22).
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following
principal points:
(a) relending terms and conditions of the proposed loan (paras.
2.14, 4.02-4.07);
(b) ensuring sufficient local currency resources for CFP at least
through 1977 (para. 3.26);
(c) providing CFP with share capital contributions to compensate
at least for erosion of its equity through inflation (para.
3.18);



- 23 -
(d) having CFP adopt a satisfactory policy statement (para. 3.01),
including a 4:1 debt/equity limitation (para. 3.15);
(e) having CFP amend its Statutes to allow for a more diversified
composition of its Board and Loan Committee (para. 3.03);
(f) having CFP adopt a satisfactory provision and reserves policy
(para. 3.14);
(g) measures to reduce CFP's arrears (para. 3.13); and
(h) measures to improve the work of CFP's external auditor (para.
3.19.
6.02      In addition, an understanding was reached with CFP on the following
subjects:
(a) strengthening of appraisal and follow-up activities (para.
3.07);
(b) strengthening of liquidity position (para. 3.16); and
(c) upgrading of procurement and disbursement procedures (para.
3.10).
6.03      Conditions of effectiveness of the loan would be that:
(a) CFP's statutes be modified to ensure that Banco Popular shall
not have a majority representation on CFP's Board and Loan
Committee (para. 3.03);
(b)  CFP fill any vacant position for sub-manager in charge of
administration, finance, operations, and development
(para. 3.04); and
(c) CFP contract for an organization study with satisfactory
terms of reference: its main recommendations would then
be implemented according to an agreed upon schedule
(para. 3.05).
6.04      The proposed project would constitute a suitable basis for a Bank
loan of US$5.5 million to BR, as outlined in Chapter IV, for a term of 12
years including a 3-1/2 year grace period.






ANNEX 1
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
DECLARATION OF POLICIES AND PROCEDURES
(Approved on October 27, 1974)
The Board of Directors of the Corporacion Financiera Popular (the
Corporation) adopts the present Declaration of Policies and Procedures as
guidelines for the activities of the Corporation. Amendments to this declara-
tion shall be made only by the Board of Directors of the Corporation after
due study and analysis of their justification by all the Directors.
I.   Purpose of the Corporacion Financiera Popular
The Corporation seeks the development of small and medium scale
industry to contribute to the welfare of the country. The Corporation shall
direct its efforts toward financing and technical assistance for the Colombian
private sector, with special attention to manufacturing. In carrying out its
corporate purpose, the Corporation, as an institution for financing develop-
ment, managerial training and social action, shall follow the policies set
forth below.
II.   General Policies
1.   The Corporation shall carry on its activities within the
context of the economic plans and priorities of the Government. It shall
collaborate in the setting and implementation of government policies on small
and medium scale industry and shall participate actively in their development.
2.   The Corporation, through its activities with entrepreneurs,
workers, universities, labor unions, etc., shall seek to create an awareness
of the opportunity which those groups have to contribute to the comprehensive
development of the country.
3.   The Corporation shall foster the development of entrepreneurs
by providing them with the necessary technical assistance and training re-
sources.
4.   The Corporation shall seek to devise and implement instruments
supplementary to credit with a view to more rapid development-of the sector,
such as the Equipment Exchange, Guarantee Fund, Accounting Centers, Production
Consortiums, etc.
5.   The Corporation shall complement, guide and provide support
for the efforts of the private sector in national industrial development,
specifically in the sector of small and medium scale industry, coordinating
its action with that of other state and private entities, avoiding duplication



ANNEX 1
Page 2
of efforts and coordinating an effective channeling of resources to the
development of small and medium scale industry and crafts. To ensure that
its activities yield maximum benefit to small and medium scale industry and
to the economy, the Corporation shall maintain current information on this
sector by obtaining or conducting studies and research.
III.   Project Selection and Evaluation Criteria
The Corporation shall direct its services exclusively to small
and medium scale firms having total assets of less than Col$35 million and
controlled by natural or legal persons, provided that foreign investors do
not hold a majority of the shares. In selecting projects, the Corporation
shall give particular attention to their social, administrative and marketing
aspects and to their technical, financial and economic viability. Accordingly,
the Corporation shall assist firms and projects which:
(a) are efficient and can develop without continuous
subsidies and government protection;
(b) make a positive contribution to economic growth
and better distribution of income;
(c) are labor-intensive, generate new productive
employment and improve working conditions for
labor;
(d) are in a position to contribute to the training
of workers and managers;
(e) strengthen the business sector by fostering private
enterprise and developing new organizational and
associative forms;
(f) further the development plans and policies of the
Government, especially as regards industrial de-
centralization and regional development;
(g) generate or save foreign exchange by efficient sub-
stitution of imports or expansion of exports;
(h) contribute to optimum utilization of the resources
of firms and to the development of new technologies;
(i) contribute to conservation and improved ecological
conditions.
IV.   Credit Policies
1.   The Corporation shall not limit its assistance to the projects
submitted to it, but shall identify and promote, directly and indirectly,



ANNEX I
Page 3
the development of industrial projects of existing or new firms owned indivi-
dually or collectively, when they are of significant benefit to the country.
2.   The amount of direct or indirect credits to any natural or
legal person may not exceed 10% of the capital and legal reserve of the
Corporation.
3.   The amount of the credit shall be sufficient to ensure the
success of the project and may not exceed 100% of the net worth of the firm,
except in the case of those which, because of their excellent prospects and
contribution to the welfare of the country, warrant an exception from this
limitation. In the case of firms that are beginning operations, the Corpora-
tion may finance up to 50% of the total project investment. In determining
the amount of the credit, consideration shall be given to the total debt of
the firm after the credit is extended.
4.   The following may be financed by the Corporation:  (i) pur-
chase and/or installation of machinery and equipment; (ii) purchase, construc-
tion, remodeling and/or expansion of industrial buildings and installation
of services; (iii) investments necessary to maintain or increase production
levels through financing of working capital; (iv) in special cases, liquidation
of liabilities; (v) contracting of technical assistance, feasibility studies,
organizational studies, market surveys, etc., and training of managers and
workers.
5.   Credit periods shall be more than one year in all cases
unless the corporation has adequate access to special lines of credit the
terms of which will allow shorter maturities; the objective shall be to
grant the repayment and grace periods required to ensure the success of the
project.
6.   The Corporation shall use an increasing proportion of its
resources for loans with maturities of four or more years whenever the
projects submitted to its consideration will require it and will be in line
with the credit policies of the Government.
7.   The Corporation shall determine the interest to be charged
in accordance with the risk of the project and the cost of the resources
from which the credit is granted.
8.   In its credit operations the Corporation shall require ade-
quate guarantees. In special cases it may extend credits without guarantees
and it shall be strict in the collection of obligations.
9.   The Corporation shall give special attention to providing
credits for the development of associative enterprises for production such
as community enterprises, workers' companies, cooperatives, etc.



,ANEX 1
Page 4
10.   Credits, discounts and loans of any kind to its directors,
managers, officers or employees, or to firms controlled by them or by their
relatives up to the second degree of consanguinity or affinity, shall require
the unanimous approval of the Board of Directors after hearing the opinion of
the Auditor (Revisor Fiscal). In such cases any Director concerned shall not
participate in the discussions or in the voting.
V.   Investment Policies
1.   The Corporation shall participate in the capital of existing
or new firms which make a positive contribution to national development. The
total equity investments of the Corporation shall not exceed 50% of the net
worth of the Corporation itself.
2.   Except in special or temporary circumstances, the Corporation,
taking into account that its purpose is not to direct the affairs of firms,
shall avoid taking administrative control of those in which it holds equity.
Therefore, the equity investments of the Corporation ordinarily shall not
exceed 25% of the subscribed capital of a firm.
3.   Equity investments made by the Corporation in any firm shall
not exceed 5% of the net worth of the Corporation; however, this shall not
prohibit the Corporation from granting the firm an additional credit, provided
the situation of the firm so permits. The total amount of the loans, capital
investments and guarantees from the Corporation to a firm and its subsidiaries
shall not exceed 15% of the net worth of the Corporation.
4.   The Corporation shall foster the development of the capital
market, and to this end shall ensure adequate rotation of its investments.
When selling its capital investments in a firm, the Corporation shall take
into account its own interests, those of the firm and those of the other
stockholders.
5.   Investments shall have a potential return such as to make
the firms promoted by the Corporation attractive to private investors.
VI.   Supervision and Technical Assistance Policies
1.   The Corporation shall supervise each credit and investment
operation from the time it approves the request throughout the life of the
credit.
2.   With a view of optimum utilization of its resources, the
Corporation shall keep track of the development of the project, requiring the
firm to maintain adequate accounting records and reserving the right to in-
spect the firm, its operations, and its accounts, and to call for any infor-
mation needed to determine its operational and financial condition.



ANMEX 1
Page 5
3.        When the specific situation of a client so requires, the Corporation
shall condition its credits on the obtaining of adequate technical assistance
services. To that end the Corporacion shall assess the technical assistance
needs of its clients and whenever necessary provide for such technical
assistance.
VII.   Financial Policies
The Corporation shall base its own financial development on a pre-
determined program, expanding its operations to meet the increasing financial
requirements of small and medium scale industry. To this end it shall adhere
to the following policies:
1.   The Corporation shall not contract, assume or guarantee any
debt if, at that time, or as a result of such operation, the total indebtedness
contracted, assumed or guaranteed by the Corporation exceeds four times the
net worth of the Corporation.
2.   The operations of the Corporation as a whole must be profitable.
3.   The Corporation shall allocate at least part of its net profits
each year (after provision for contingencies) to constitute sufficient reserves,
in a total amount commensurate with possible losses in its credit and invest-
ment portfolio, and also shall maintain supplementary reserves.
4.   The maturity periods of the Corporation's assets shall be
equal to, or shorter than, those of its liabilities.
5.   The Corporation may not incur exchange risks, but shall ensure
that such risks are covered by another agency or by the client.
6.   The Corporation shall seek to issue bonds with specific or
general security, taking advantage of its own position and the confidence it
enjoys within the national economy.
7.   The Corporation may hold funds or cash in trust.
8.   The Corporation shall engage independent public accountants
of recognized reputation to perform an annual audit of its books and accounts.
VIII.   Administrative Policies
1.   The Corporation shall maintain a sufficient number of technically
qualified personnel to enable it to fulfill its objectives.
2.   Operating expenses shall be kept to the minimum required by
the scope of its activities and the volume of its operations.



AN1'EX 1
Page 6
3.   The Corporation shall maintain an adequate system of personnel
incentives and shall foster training and overall personal development.
4.   The Corporation shall seek a decentralized administration
through regional offices which shall become promoters of regional development.
5.   The Corporation shall implement and keep up to date administrative
systems for its efficient management, such as organizational development programs
systematization of operational and statistical information, etc.



ANNEX 2
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
List of Shareholders as of September 30, 1974
Number of Shares
(Par value = Col$l1O.O)
Shareholders
Corporaci6n de Ferias y Exposiciones                             299,982
Banco Popular                                                    446,793
Colombian Government (Ministry of Development)                   600,000
Eduardo Nieto Calderon                                              2
Asociaci6n Colombiana de Industriales                               1
Pedro Gomez Valderrama                                              1
Jos6 Galat Noumer                                                   1
Jos6 Rafael Ramirez G6mez                                           1
German Vargas Espinosa                                              1
Eduardo Jaramillo Vallejo                                           1
Hector Aguilar Echeverria                                           1
Jose T. Nino                                                        1
Jose Rafael Molano Olarte                                           1
Enrique Arias Jimenez                                               1
Francisco ∞izarro de Brigard                                        1
Francisco Prieto Vargas                                             1
Marcos Castilla                                                     1
Jaime Parra Franco                                                  1
Jorge Tellez Diaz                                                   1
Jorge Gaviria Salazar                                               1
Juan Pablo G6mez Pradilla                                           1
TOTAL                           1,346,794
LCPDF
November 1974



ANNEX -3
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
List of Board of Directors & Alternates as of September 30, 1974
Principal Directors                             Alternate Directors
1.    Jorge Ramirez Ocampo                          Gustavo Parra Dussan
Minister                                      Secretary
Ministry of Economic Development              Ministry of Economic Development
2.    Eduardo Nieto Calderon                        Juan Pablo Gomez Pradilla
President                                     Lawyer
Banco Popular                                 Banco Popular
3.    Jorge Tellez Diaz                             (vacant)
Technical Vice President
Banco Popular
4.    Francisco Prieto Vargas                       (vacant)
Financial Vice President
Banco Popular
5.   Oscar Perez Gutierrez                          Simon Gonzales Restrepo
General Manager                               Executive Director
Corporacion de Ferias y                      INCOLDA
Exposiciones, S.A.
6.    Luis Fernando Echeverria                      (vacant)
Industrialist
(Former Minister of Finance)
j/ Ex-officio member
LCPDF
November 197h



ANNEX 4
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
List of Loan Committee Members as of September 30, 19
1.    Eduardo Nieto Calderon                  Jorge Tellez Diaz
President                               Technical Vice President
Banco Popular                           Banco Popular
2.    Francisco Prieto Vargas                 Jos6 T. Nino
Financial Vice President                General Manager
Banco Popular                           Corporacion Financiera Popular
3.    Oscar Perez Gutierrez
General Manager
Corporacion de Ferias y
Exposiciones, S.A.
LCPDF
November 1974



ANNEX 5
COLOMBIA: SMALL  SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Organization Chart as of September 30, 1974
GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF SHAREHOLDERS
BOARD ODIRECTOS
ASSISTANT To
IOENERAL                 ~L                 E
|MANAGER
I DEPARTM ENT                                   T LZAMENT                                  DEPARMENT
D      DIVISIOCREDI IIDIVISION
| F T.NCI1.AI  |                      | 8RANCHES                                       ADMINISTRAT-
,,ASICl\ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ DIISO
I   I .SION    I         I  DIV ION                                                            B.IkDI3SION 
*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lOI Ben*-B3.4__



ANNEX 6
COLOMBIA: SHALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION,FINANCTERA POPULAR
'erms of Reference for the Organization Studv (Draft)
I.        Background
1.        In recent years CFP has experienced a very rapid growth in its oper-
ations. As a result CFP now needs institutional improvements if it is to sustain
its growth, improve operational control and attend better to the financial
and technical needs of SMI. The proposed SMI study would concentrate on
identifying organizational weakness and would suggest ways to improve them.
II.       Objectives of the Study
2.        The purpose of the study would be to:
(a) make a critical analysis of CFP's current organization
and internal systems and procedures; and
(b) recommend and help implement the changes needed to provide
CFP with institutional arrangements adapted to its opera-
tional objectives and in line with the expanding demand for
its services.
III.      Scope of the Study
3.        To meet the above objectives the organization study would include
reviews of:
(a) current and projected financial, technical assistance
and research programs to help assess CFP's short-,
medium- and long-term operational priorities and determine
resources, particularly human, needed to comply with them;
(b) the functions and areas of responsibility of CFP's headquarters
and regional offices and their respective departments and divi-
sions to detect redundancies, duplications and misallocations;
(c) the distribution of professional and support staff to identify
shortfalls in and misallocation of expertise, areas of over-
staffing and understaffing and needs for training and staff
development; and



ANN'EX 6
Page 2
(d) internal systems and procedures to identify weaknesses in areas
like disbursement, portfolio control, financial management,
internal auditing, personnel management, internal lines of
communication and information systems.
4.        The organization study would be carried out within the framework
of CFP's Declaration of Policies and Procedures and take into account the
peculiarities of its operations, such as smallness and large number of credits,
geographic distribution of its activities, need for close supervision of and
technical assistance to clients, etc.
IV.       OgnztoanTiigothStd
5.        According to present plans the study would be conducted by a team of
Colombia consultants in cooperation with CFP senior staff and a UNIDO expert.
6.        In view of the extensive areas to be covered, the study would require
about six to eight months. The consultants would report monthly to CFP's
management on the progress of their work and, upon completion of the study,
would prepare a detailed report on their findings which would include specific
recommendations on all topics referred to in para. 3. To the degree necessary,
the consultants would assist CFP in implementing the recommendations of the
study.



ANNEX 7
COLOMIA: SMALI-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CRP(1RACION FINANCIERA POPUIAR
Summary of Technical Assistance Activities
from 1971 to 1973
(Fiscal Years)                                           -        1972        1273
Total clients:                                      1,330        1,905       2,179
Nmuber of clients who received
technical assistance from:
sEN                                          29         134          320
FICITEC                                       1           21          26
Universities & business schools               -           22          96
Private consultants                           -            -          18
ANDI                                          -            2            -
IIT                                           -            -
Others                                        -            2          86
TOTAL:                     30          181         546
-                       =
Percentage of clients who received
technical assistance:                                 2.2%         9.5%       25.0
17 No teEhnical assistance was given before 1971.
LCPDF
July 1974



COLOMBIA: SMALL,CALE IIIDUSTRY PROJECT
GCRPORACION FINAMIiUiA POPUILAi
Liat and Characteristics of Borrowings as of December 31, 1973
(:n Col %bOOOy)
Year of                                                                          Interest  Interest to
Agree-   Total    Amount      Amount to be   Amouit        Balance    Maturitir  Paid    Entre-
Utilized                   ment   Amount  Disbursed    Disbursed    Amortized   Outstanding   (Years)  by CFP  preneurs Y
Decree 2369/60              68     18,000.0 18,000.0          -        12,600.0       5,400.0        5        6%        14I%
Fondo Nal. de Ahorro        71     30,000,0 30,000.0          -        10,500.0     19,500.0         5      14%         17%
Banco Popular - Mutuo       73     42,746.8 42,740.8          -            -        42,746.8         1      13%         17%
Banco Popular - Bonos       71     30,000.0 30,000.0          -         6,000.0     24,000.0        1o      11%         17%
Decree 2369/60 - Bonos  69/73      14,828.4 14,828.4          -         1,711.9      13,116.5       10    7%-9%         17%
unde-
BID - IFI                   71     termined 11,061.2          -         4,818.1      6,243.1       3-5      13%         16%
Banco Republica (Res.88/n71n       28,187.5 28,187.5          -        28,187.5          -           1  li%-14h         14%
Fondo Nal. de Ahorro       72      26,875.5 26,875.5         -          6,945.2     19,930.3       1-4      14%         18%
(construccion)
In Utilization
unde-
Fondo Financiero Industf.,,C 69    ternined 255,261.9         -       148,2I42.8    107,019.1      1-5  11%-'3%    14%-16%
Fonade*                     70      1,500.0   1,542.3      903.6          945.9        596.4       1-6      12%         15%
Sociedades Capitalizadoras  73    38,619.2       -           -            -         38,619.2        10      11%         1    I
unde-
Proexpo                    69      termined   8,638.1         -         5,548.1      3,090.0         1      12.5        i3%c
IFI (portfolio)*           70      12,000.0  17,508.9    5,378.4        9,487.3      8,021.6         Ω  12_-15% %8%
Fondo Nal. Ahorro - Bonos  73     15,000.0  15,000.0         -            -         15,000.0         5      15'v        182o
y   Besides interest, CFP charges supervision and technical assistance fees which can amount to 4% p.a.
Revolving ?und.
ILPD.4
July 19-T



00la88IA: SMALL-ScALE INDUsTRY PRSJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Statanat of Artrasr  as of Dcwaber 31. 1973
(in CoI$OOOa.)
STATMONT OF AR.URSs BY ZONE                             TOTAL  ARRERS                                             ARREAR  FRM 90 M0 185 DAYS                                 ARRAMRS FROM 180 To 360 SAYS                                    ARREARS OVER 360 DAYS
No. of       Principal    Arrears to   Arrears in            N.. of        Principal    Arrears in   Ararea  i.            Ho., of      Principal    Arvaars in    Arxrear  in           No. of        PrincipaL       Arrears i.   Arrear- in
Cospanie.   Dsrst.ndiro.   Princiyal        Intgrest         Cowmoaisa   Outstaudiog    PrIg.iggl    Int-r.st             C-MAGJ.6   0,tstwsigm,   princleel             Interest        Cin.ni as   Outstn-dIng         Princtoel    Interest
ZONE I - Barrenq.ill
COmpanies in arrears                    59          4,707.7         1,950.2         689.4              8           765.7           213.5         60.0               7            235.9         102.1            19.4               18        2,024.1            1 431.9       589.6
Cospacias not in aers128                           41.426,3
Sub-total                           197         46,134.2
ZONE II - Nadtlli.
CoMpanIms Ls arrears                    67          7,365.5         2,107.9         966.5             10         1,424.5           305.9        114.9               4            393.6         113,9            71.4               16        1,977.9            1,149.2       731.9
Cospamias st in arrear.               _322         59.245.1
Eobt.ttal                           389         66,910.2
ZONE 2l!'. Call
Coepasias In arrears                   129         11,215.3         3,967.9      1,4104A               17          760.2           277.0         45.6              27         3,310.1        1,558.0           448.1               32         2,413.9           1,615.9        799.1
Coapantas not in arrearo               273         36.842,4
S.b-total                           402         48,057.7
ZONE IV - Penialr
C.mpanies in arrears                   101          5,336.2         2,713.7         836.7              12          856.3           247.6         59.8              16            624.5          252.8            70.2              42         2.977,3           1,624.6        679.3
Comparnga not is arrears               199         2,271.5
S.b-total                           300         30,627.7
tORE V . BoROta-
C..p.nf.. is arrears                   195         21,708.6        10,0143.9     5,981.9               23          950.1           243.3         70.1               20        3,395.2        1.593,7           478.6                69       10,137.2           7,297.6      5,309.6
Co,spanims rot in arer                 .4"         9~57,3115
lob-total                           685        119,020.1
ZONE VI - Bo-arssanRs
Conpanias in arrears                    61          5,339.9          2.050,9    1,737.2                11          671.4           185.4         45.6                 7          258.0           88.2            37.4        *      14        3,264.7           1.598,8      1,624.6
Conpalesa not is arrears               332         -28 156.0
Sob-total                           393         33,695.9
ZONE VII - Ibagis
Coepasias in arrears                    55           2,935.2            775.8       305,3              10          386.6            70.1          26.2                7          305.8          123.1            33.5               13          814.9              458.3       221.9
Companies nt is ar&rear                 62          17 642,9
Sub-total                           117         20,578.1
OVERAXLL STAISUIE OF ARREAR
Prfittable                          186          12,885.0         1,853.3        277.6              10          494.2           215.9         30.6                 5           56.9           36.4             8.4                -                     -               -
Pre-operating                        10           1,259.4            131.9        49.4               4          450.3            63.7         28,9                 -             -              --                                1           29.7               20,1         4.7
Sbo.ing losses and/or
in difficulE7                      283         26,566.9          9,268.5    3,261.5                68        4,401.1         1,117.1        323.9               63         6,952.6       3,101.2           922.3                55        6,979.7           3,554.9      1,889.3
Undr froore186                                   18,772.4        12 238.6    8,337.7                 9          469.2           146.1         3.7.L               20        1.512.6          467.1           227.9              148       16.500,4          11,590.2      95,(65.2
S.b-total             667         59i 483,         2349.    lt.926.2                92J1        5.814,8        1.542,8         422.1               88        8,522.0        3.G.            1,j5.6              -!OA       2_3.n9.8           15,165.2     9~5.
B.  Comaiges rot in arrears              1.806        305.440.3
Total Loan Portfolio           2_473        26.2,             2.9,                               9         584,           1,2.88                                        B               .047           1155224                        2.5981515   .092
July 1914



COL BIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CCORPRACION FINANGIERA POPULAR
Equity InvstmaentWs Held as o'f December 31. 1973
(ini Col  thousaids)
Dividends
Number of                                               Earnings (loss)      Received
% Owned by    Shares Held    Par Value    Total Held      Eatimated-1    per Share          Over Past
Corporacion  by Corporacion  for Share Par Value   Coat   Value    1971    19(2   1973  12 Months
&Epresa de Desarrollo
de Sugamuxd            7.08        250,000       $ 1.00         250     250       180 $(0.16) $(0.12) $(0.15)    --
Artesanias de
Colombia              14.97        100,000       $10.00       1,000   1,000     1,300    --      -_   $ 0.18      -
Corpavi                  10.00         35,000      $100.0       3,500  3,500      3,500    --      --       --
Total Investment Held                                 4,750  4,750      4,980
1/ On the basis of DOOK value.
ICPDF
July 1974



COLOMBIA - SMALL-SCALE TNOUUTRY P'ROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCTERA POPUTAR
Past anid Projected Income Statements
as December 31, for the Period 1968-78
(in Col$ 000's)
P A S T                                                          j'01 . ;cC     i
1968      1969      1970      1971       1972        1973          1974         1975        1976        1977         1978
INCOME                                                                                                                    __
Income from loans
Interest                              1,056    3,911    9,387    21,228   40,824    49,639              63,840    101,214       146,246     207,720    271,000
Commissions                               1       270       843      1,729 ~3J             3,976         9,000       12,900      17s400    _2130_         30,200
1,057    4,181    10,230    22,957   43,836    53,615             72,840    114,114       163,646    23(,700    301,200
Other income                                4        24        102        751       570      1,383    1      ,900      J2           3,000        4,200        5,400
Total Income                      1j061    4,205    0 gg32    23,708   44406    54,998               74,740     116,114    166,646    234,90(0    306,600
EXPENSES
Financial expenses from domestic
borrowings                                _        500    2,262       8,175   21,157    27,883            34,540      47,898      63,294       94,131     128,090
Financial expenses from foreign
borrowings                                -          -      -           -         -          -              -          4,400      21,40        37,500      49,500
Total Financial Expenses              -        500    2,262       8.175   2L,57    27,883            34,540      52,298       84,694     131,631      177,590
Salaries                                  300        708     1,381      4,385    6,672      1              10,500      14,346       19,424      23,300       26,800
Other Personnel  Expenses                 168       420        813      2,847    3,972            )         7,300      11,100       14,300      17,569       20,200
Other Administrative Expenses             4561'  1,6561/  1,876!   2,789    5,236           7,689          7,300       7,970        9,728      14,500       18.610
Research and Expansion Expenses            -          -   4        . 0        00           7,400                                     9,500 1 12,50
Total Administrative Expenses    924   _2784    4,070    10,021   15,880    22,337                   ';J9Q0      40,816       J2j,52      65,869    _78LL0
Total Expenses Before Provi-
sions and Depreciation             924    3,284    6,332    186133 327_037    50,220                63.640       3.1        137,646    197,500    255,700
Provisions for doubtful loans               -       293    1,552        2,709    4,128          -           5,000       9,500       11,800      14,800       18,400
Provisions for equity investments          -        200        397         -         -          -             500       1,000        1,500       1,700        1,700
Depreciation                               14        45         70        215       354        339            600         600          800      _lO (LO      _.500
Total Non-Cash Expenses               14       538    2,019       2,924   ~44            339          i,4I00       11,10      14,100       17          21,760 0
Total Expenses                       938    3,822    8.351    2O1120        4j 1 9    50 559         G9,740    104,214       151,746     215, 000    277,300
Net Profit                           123       383    1,981      j2588    2,887        4,439         -5,020       11,900      14,900       19.900      29,300
1/  Includes administrative comniisions paid to lianco  pLutlar oi: Col$89,530 in 1963, 0ol$1.02 millio,  in 1969, and CoCl1.039
million ill 1970.
LCPoF
November 1974



COLOMBIA: SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORAC1ON FINANCIERA POPULAR
Past and Prolected Balance Sheets as of December 31. for the Period 1968-78
(in Co1$'000)
P  A  S  T                                                                  P R O J E C T E D
1968        196          122k         1971         1972         1973            15Z            1975          1976          1977          1978
ASSETS
Cash and Banks                                   14,417        1,976         3,111        2,704        5,132        8,918          17,457        21,508        26,159        29,159         33,310
Portfolio
Loans                                          8,385       47,317        94,745      189,986      290,235      364,924         507,924       688,924       899,924    1,169,924      1,449,924
Equity Investments                                35        1.040         1.040       _1079          L330        4866            8,5         14900          24 __         39,900         54,900
Total                              8.420       48.357        95.785      191,.065     291565       369,790         516,824       703 824       92_,824     1,209_824    1_504,824
Less provisions for losses on:
Doubtful Loans                                   _            293         1,845        4,292        8,419        9,528          18,619        24,119        31,919        40,719         53,119
Doubtful Equity Investments                      -            200           597          597          597      _  597            1,097        72097          3,597          5,297         6,997
Net Portfolio                                    -         47.864        93.343      186.176      282,549      359,665         497,108       677,698       889,308    1.163,808    1.444,708
Other Receivables and deferred Expenses              57          694         1,133        5,221       11,773       34,648!/        16.000        24,300         34,000        44,000        54,000
Ytxcel Assets (net)                                 319          510           861        2,296        3,189        3,624           4,524         5,924          7,124         9.124        10,624
Other Assets                                          -       _                  -           130    _    385       10,127         _15127         20.127         25.127        3           35 127
TOTAL ASSETS                      23,213       51,044        98,448      196,527      303,028      416,982         549,816       149467        981,718    1,275,218    1,577,769
LIABILITIES AND NET WORTH
Borrowings in Domestic Currency:
Rediscounting - FFI                              -         11,143        18,685       58,511        69,496    107,019          144,800       180,400       215,400        245,400       248,600
Term Deposits                                    -            -          30,000       48,190        80,575      62,247          42,100         9,400          3,400           900           -
Bonds:
Banco Republica, Banco Popular                 -            -           2,281       12,052        32,245      52,116          44,616        37,128         29,640        22,152        14,664
Sociedades Capitalizadoras                                                -            -             -        38,619          46,900        43,039        39,178         35,317        31,456
Fondo Nacional del Ahorro                      -            -                           -                       - -           20,00         61,000       108,000        148,00        178.000
Total Bonds:                         -                        2,281        12,052        32,245      90,735         111,516       141,167       176,818       205,469       224,120
Other Borrowings in Domestic Currency            -            -           1,341         5,310        42.523      48 579         ___0.000       53,10         85.10        167.549       281,249
Total Borrowings in Domestic Currency            -         11.143        52.307       124,063       224,839    _08_580          318.416       384,067       480,718       619,31b       753,969
Borrowings in Foreign Currency:
World Bank                                       --                                                     -           -                -         53,500       137,500        137,500       132,0:0
YM                                               _                                        -             -           -               -          15.000        43,800        43,800         43,800
Others                                                                                                                                             -8,Q                                   7
Others                           ~~~~~~____   __-_-_-_                                                                            _-___                        86, 000      1 79, 000
Total Borrowings in Foreign Currency             -            -                           -             -                                      68,500       181,300       267_30Q       _354,800
Total Borrowings                     -         11,143        52,307       124,063       224,839    308,580          318.416       452,567       662,018       886,618    1,108,769
Other Payables                                      499        2,30            5 3       -7619           10,457     11_232          18.000        21.600         29,500        38,500 
Total Liabilities                    499       13.447        55,870       131,682       235.296    319,812          336.416       474,167       691,518       925,118    1.158.369
NET WORTH
Paid in Capital                                  22,500       37,000        40,000        59,679         59,679     84,679 1/      200,000       250.003        250,000       290,000       330,000
Profit of me Year                                   123          383         1,981          2,588         2,887      4,438            5,000        11,900        14,900        19,900        29,300
Retained Earnings                                    91          214           596         21578       _5 166    __8,053              8 400      _11.3,0         25,390        40,20        _    0_
______  _____  ______                                                                                                  60~~~~~~~~~~~~-~4~_Z_30  0.0  t 1-03
Total Net Worth                   22.714       37_597        42.578          445          67,732     97,170         213,400        275,300       290,200       _0,199        419,40
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND NET WORTt               23_213      51.044         98.448       196,527       303 028    416 982          549,81!6      749 467       981,718     12.21          1.577,769
1/  Includes Col$20.0 million of share capital subscribed by the Colombian Government to be paid in d.rin,g the first semester of 1974.
LCPDF
November 1974



COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY 'iDOJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Analysis of Loan Approvals from InCeption throngh Decembr 31, 1973
(Is Col$ Thousands)
(Calendar Yearn)            1968                           1969                            1970                            1971                             1972                             1973                        thregh D.eember 1973
By Sine                          No.      A-soLt        %        No.     Aemount         %      No.      Amount        %        N..      Amount         Y       No.       Amount        %         No.        A-unt         %         No.        Ainount       7Y
Up to 50.0                      16         641        3.4       70      2,459        4.4      132       4,944        5.5      410      13,898        7.6      258        9,734        5.4       371       13,537        4.9       1,257        45,204       5.6
50.1 to 100.0                    5         445        2.4       52      4,294        7.6       65       3,521        6.2      206      17,768        9.7      157       13,158        7.3       167       13,889        5.1         652        55,075       6.9
100.1 tn 300.1                  19       3,430       18.2     114      22,970       40.7      130      25,705       28.8      185      36,940       20.2      219       39,529       21.9       329      62,530        22.8         996       191,107      23.7
300.1 in 500.0                  17       6,850       36.4       30     12,430       21.9       48      20,300       22.7       69      30,067       16.5       40       16,459        9.2        67       28,853       10.5         271       114,959      14.2
500.1 to 700.0                   7       4,463       23.7       11      6,810       12.1       23      12,646       14.2       33      20,536       11.2       25       15,548        8.6        28       17,640        6.4         127        77,643       9.7
Above 700.0                      3       3,000       15.9        8      7.540       13.3       23      20,270       22.6       31      63,500        34.8      57       85,779       47.6       104      137.960       50.3         246       3189048      39.9
Total:         67      18,829     100.0      285      56,503      100.0      421      89,386      100.0     954      182,700      100.0      756      180,207      100.0    1,066      274,409      100.0        3,549      802,036      100.0
By Duratio
I ti  2 year-                   11       1,230        6.5        4        230        0.4       68       1,959        2.2       76      10,772        5.9      180       50,594       28.1       132       44,811       16.3         411       108,596      13.5
2 tI  3 years                   35      10,069       53.5       31      4,275        7.6       37       4,621        5.2      435      64,896       35.5      373       58,958       32.7       787      176,013       64.2       1,529       319,833      39.9
3 to 4 year-                    15       3,820       20.3      182     30,857       54.6      251      43,531       48.7      313      51,161       28.0      173       52,984       29.4       132       41,398       15.1       1,235       223,753       27.9
4 to 5 years                     5       2,510       13.3       36     11,786       20.0       78      20,130       22.5      102      42,641        23.3       27      14,441         8.0       14       12,087        4.4         262       103,594       12.9
5 to 10 yearn                    1       1.200        6.4       32      9.355       16.5       47      19,145       21,4       28      13.230        7.3         3       3,230         1.8        1          100         -          112        46.261       5.0
Total:         67     18,829      100.0      285      56,503      100.0      481      89,386      100.0     954      182,700      100.0      756      180,207      100.0    1,066      274,409       100.0       3,549       802,036    100.0
By Rise of Etet-erise
Up to 300.0                      -        -            -        -         -            -      151       8,233        9.2      417       19,191       10.5      295      16,967         9,4      431       23,543        8.2        1,388        71,187       8.9
300.1 to 600.0                   -        -                                                    89      10,097       11.3      194       18,353       10.0     155       18,373        10.2      173       21,890        8.0          667        77,780       9.7
600.1 to 1,000.0                 -        -            -        -         -            -       57      11,360       12.7      107       23,289       12.8     100        18,370       10.2      123       20,507        7.5          446       82,701       10.3
1,000.1 to 2,000.0              pa        no           na      pa        en           cc       51      15,595       17.4      120      38,980       21.3       99       24,499        13.6      126       39,254       14.3         462       134,707       16.8
2,000.1 to 3,000.0               -        -            -        -        -             -       23      12,701       14.2       31       16,754        9.2       28      13,290         7.4       69       32,490       11.8          179       85,999       10.7
3,000.1 to 4,000.0               -        -            -        -        -             -       13       8,260        9.2       23       13,709        7.5        9       5,510         3.0       25       14,768        5,4           89       47,597        5.9
4,000.1 to 5,000.0               -        -            -        -         -            -        9       3,490        3.9       21       13,187        7.2        7       3,450         1,9       19       10.001        3.6           68        34,894       4.4
5,000.1 to 10,000.0              -        -            -        -        -             -       19      12,300       13.8       29      24,707        13.5      32       30,879        17.2       63       57,334       20.9          161       133,920      16.7
More then 10,000.0               -                                                               9      7.350        .         12       14.530        8.0       31      48,869        27.1       37       553622        20.3          89       133.243      16.6
Total:         67     18,829      100.0      285      56,503      100.0      421      89,386      100.0     954      182,700      100.0      756      180,207      100.0    1,066       274,409      100.0       3,349       802,036     100.0
By Lonstion
C-ndinrca                       36       9,076       48.2       96     23,390       41,4      127      34,070       38.1      195       61,320       33.5      130      35,547        19.7       245      80,218        29.3         830       244,371      30.4
Antinq.is                       15       4,428       23.5       31      9,285       16.4       43      12,875       14.4      112       24,575       13.5      128      48,383        26.8       218       44,863       16.3         547       144,411      18.0
VaIle                            9       3,302       17.5       38      5,693       10.1       91      15,998       17.9      165       33,385       18.3      143       27,964       15.2       139       31,288       11.4         585       117,630      14.7
Atlantico                        1         336        1.8       28      8,035       10.7       26       6,607        7.4       59       16,b72        9.1       59       23,222       12.9        81      45,895        16.7         254        98,768      12.3
Naneender                        1         420        2.2       26      3,085        5.6       21       2,440        2.7      127       10,533        5.9       93       11,084        6.1       125       19,729        7.2         393        47,291       5.9
Tolina                           1         205        1.1        9      1,680        3.0       18       2,604        2.9       40       6,885         3.8       34       8,839         4,9        31        8,176        2.9         133        28,490       3.6
Ris-ralds                        -          -          -        17      2,280        4.0       14       1,540        1.8       89       10,171        5.5       50        6,683        3.9        59       17,028        6.2         229        37,703       4.7
Others                           4       1,062        5.7      40       3.055        8.8       81      13,252       14.8      167       19,159       10.4     119       18,485        10.5    _ 168        27.787       10.0         578        83.372      10.4
Total:         67     18,829      100.0      285      56,503      100.0      421      89,386      100.0     954      182,700      100.0      756      180,207      100.0    1,066       274,409       100.0      3,549        802,036    100.0
By Oeceetrclination of
Credit
Bogoto                          35       9,076       48.2       96     23,390       41,4      118      34,070       38.1      195      61,320        33.5      130      35,547        19.7      245       80,218         29.3        830       231,052      28.8
Rest of the  .onotry            32       9.753       51,8     189      33.113       58.6      203      55,316       61,9      759     121.,380      66.5      626      144.660        80.3      821      194.192         70.7      2719        570 984      71_2
Total:         67      18,829     100.0      285      56,503      100.0      421      89,386      100.0     954      182,700      100.0      756      180,207      100.0    1,066       274,409       100.0      3,549       802,036    100.0
By Bed Use
Workipg rapitnl                 55       7,663       40.6      233     31,610        55.9     345      49,388       55.2      782      126,246       69.1      620      137,304       76.1      n.e.      212,187       77.3        5.s.       964.399       70.4
Fined oneets                    12      11166        59.4       52     24.893       44.1       76      39 998       44.8      172         454        30.9      136      42.903        23.9     0.8.       62,221        22.7        2,z        237,637      29.6
Total:         67     18,829      100.0      285      56,503      100.0      421      89,386      100.0     954      182,700      100.0      756      180,207      100.0    1,066       274,409      100,0        3,549      802.036      100.0
By Tvpe of Induetrial
Activity
Apparel aed Footwear            13       4,593       24.4       54       7,910       14,0      83      14,118        16.2     187       26,997       14.8      177       31,324       17.4       192       46,237       16.9         706       131,181       16.3
Motel prodopte                   3         625        3.3       30      5,579        9.9       33       6,185        7.1      100       21,629       11.8      114       25,269       14.0        77      28,067        10.2         389        87,355      10.9
Non-ostellie oiiereln            6         952        5.1       12       1,865       3.3       22       6,148        7.0       66       11,485        6.3       78      23,750        13.2        73      29,997        11.0         257        74,198       9.3
Fond prodonte                    7       2,386       12.7       30      8,175       14.5       29       5,412        6.2      L06       16,366        9,0       76       16,914        9,4       74       19,345         7.0         322        67,598       8.4
F.rniture                        5         797        4,2       17      1,833        3.2       32       5,258        6.0       84       10,452        5.7      46         4,525        2.5        72       10,636        3.9         256        33,502       4.2
Chs,insl,                        5       1,900       10.1       18      5,080        9.0       20       4,764        5.5       56       16,623        9.1       28       13,627        7.6       90       23,826         8.7         185        65,821       8.2
Tantilee                         3         175        0.9        4        910        1,6        4       2,685        3.1       41      17,399         9.5       16      11,280         t.3       14        5,211         1,9          82        37,660       4.7
Diverse  te-naooren              -        -            -        10      1,104        2.0       42      10,955       12.5       32        2,297        1.3       56        7,933        44       194       16,205         5.9         334        38,494       4.8
Basin cotni indstnries          12       3,973       21.1       17      4,398        7.8       33       8,973       10.3       42        7,512        4.1       16       3,431         1.9       17        7,131         2.6         137        35,419       4.4
Leather products                 2         870        4.6       15      2,035        3.6       28       4,751        5.4       34        7,565       4.1       32        5,587         3.1       34        7,794         2.8         145        28,602       3.6
Others                          11       2.558       13.6       78     17.614       31.1       95      18,13        20.7      206      44.375       24.3      117       36.567        20.2      222       79.960       29.1          736       202,206      25.2
Tmtcl:         67     18,829      100.0      285      56,503      100.0      421      87,386      100.0     954      182,700      100.0      756      180,207      100,0    1,066       274,409      100.0       3,549       802,036      100. 0
Credit pe- Job Created                      41.7                           21.3                            25.3                             28.3                            31.6                            47,823                                32,709
Average C-edit                             281.0                          198.3                           212.3                            191.5                           238.4                             257.4                                 225.9
LC DF
Juy 1974



14
COLOMIBIA:  3ALL-SCAIE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Summary of Past Operations from 1968 to December 31, 1973
(in Col$ thousand)
(Fiscal years)         1968      1969      1970      1971      1972      1973
Approvals
Loans1 /
Medium_/              11,299     4,505     6,580    75,666   109,552   220,823
Long-tern/V            7,530    51,998    82,806   107,034    70,655    53,485
Equity                   __        1,000     __                   250      3,580
Total           18,829    57,503    89,386   182,700   180,457   277,888
Disbursements
Loans!/                  9,000    46,ooo    67,000   137,000   211,000  21O,358
Equity                             1,000                          250    3,616
Total           9,000    47,000    67,000   137,000   211,250  213,974
1/ Corporacion Financiera Popular does not provide arw short-term loan.
2/ Between one and three years.
3/ From three to seven years.
LCPDF
July 1974



ANNEX 15
COLOMBIA: 34ALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POI ULAR
Summary of Irojected Operations for the Period 1974-78 as compared to 1973
(in Col$ million)
(Fiscal years)     1973      1974       1975       1976       1977        1978
Approvals
Loans           274.4     397.0      520.0      648.0      780.0       898.0
Equity            3.6       3.6        6.4       10.0       15.0         15.0
Total      278,0     400.6      526.0      658.0      795.0       913.0
Disbursements
Loans           210.3    331.0       434.0      540.0      650.0        749.0
Equity            3.6       3.6        6.4       10.0       15.0        15,0
213.9    334.6       440.4      550.o      665.0       7640o
I.CPDF
November 19574



A,2;X 10
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE ItIUSTRY PROJECT
GORFORACION FINANCERA POPULAR
Projected Sources and Uses of Funds for leriocs Elding De"emher 31, 19?4-78
(in C.l$'000
1974            1975             1976            1977              1978
SOURCES
Net profit                                         5,000           11,900          14,900           19,900           29,300
Add back non-cash charges
Depreciation and provisions                     6,100           11,100          14,100           17,5"            21,600
Adjudicated goods                               5 000            5 000            5 000           5 ___             5,ooo
Cash Generated from Operation                15 100           i       55.                                      go
Increase in share capital                        115,321           50,000             -             40,000           40,000
Borrowings in domestic currency:
Rediscounting - F.F.I.                        100,000          110,000         120,000          130,000          130,000
Bonds:
Fondo Nacional Ahorro                          20,000           46,ooo          59,000           62,0oo           59,000
Cther Bonds                                    12,142              -                -               -
Other borrowings in domestic currency             -             38,100          42,000           99.449           147.700
Total borrowings in domestic currency         132.142          194,100          222,000         291.4149          336.700
Borrowings in foreign currency:
world Bank                                        -             53,500          84,000              -
KfW                                               -             15,000          28,800              --
Others                                           _                 -               -             86,ooo            3.000
Total borrowings in foreign currency              -             68,500         112,800           86,000           93.000
Total borrowings                     132,142          262,600          333.800         377,449           429,700
Loan collections                                   183,000          244 000         320,000          370,000          45B,000
Increase in other payables  & deferred income        6,768            3,600           7,900            9,000           11,100
Decrease in other receivables & def. expenses       18,648              -               -                -
Total Sources                        471,979          588,200          695 700         838.,849          993,700
UTSES
sbursement of loans                              331,000          434,00o         540,000          65o,ooo           749,000
Equity investments                                 3,634            6,400          10,000           15,000           15,000
Repaynents against domestic currency:
Rediscounting - F.F.I.                         62,219           74,400          85,000          100,000          126,800
Term Deposits                                  20,147           32,700           6,ooo            2,500              900
Bonds,
Fondo Nacional Ahorro                             -              5,000          12,000           22,000           29,000
Other Bonds                                    11,361           11,349          11,349           11,349           11,349
Other borrowings in domestic currency             28,579            5,000          10,000           17,000           34,ooo
Total Domestic Repayments                        122,306          130,449         126,349          152,849          202,049
Repayment against foreign currency:
World Bank                                           -                                -                -              5,5DO
KfW
Other
Total foreign currency repayments                _                 -               -                -              5,500
Total repayment of loans                      122,306          130,449         126.349          152,849          207,549
Increase in other receivables and
deferred expenses                                 -              8,300           9,700           10,000           10,000
Purchase of fixed assets                           1,500            2,000           2,000            3,000            3,000
Increase in other assets                           5,000            5.000           5,000            5,000            5,000
Total Uses                           463,440          584.49           651,049         835.849           489,59
Increase (decrease)in cash                         8,539           4,051            4,651            3,000            4,151
LCPDF
November 1974



COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Past and Projected Financial Ratios
Past                                          Projected
19      1 969    1970    1971    1972    1973      1974      1975     1976     1977     197B
Total income as % of average
total assets                        4.57   11.32   13.82   16.07    17.77    15.27    15.45    17.87    19.24    20.80    21.4
(-)
Financial expenses as % of average
total assets                         -      1.34    3.02    5.54     8.47      7.74     7.14     8.05      9.78    11.66    12.44
Gross profit as % of average total
assets                              4∞57    9.98   10.80   10.53      9.30     7.53     8.31     9.82      9.46     9.114    9.03
Administrati.ve expenses as % of
average total assets                3.98    7.49   5.44    6.79       6.35     6.20     6.02     6.28      6.11     5.83     5.47
Profit before provisions and
depreciation as % of average
total assets                        0.59    2.49    5.36    3.74    2.95       1.33     2.29     3.54      3.35     3.31     3.56
(-)
Provisions and depreciation as % of                                                    1
average total assets                o.o6    1.45    2.70    1.97    1.79       0.09     _ 1.26   1.71      1.63     1.5     1.51
Net income as % of average total
assets                             0∞53    1.04    2.66    1.74    1.16        1.24    1.03      1.83      1.72     1.76     2.05
Net income as % of average equity     0.54    1.27    4.94    4.81 3   4.35      5.38      3.21     4.87     5.26     6.21      7.61
Net income before provisions and
depreciation as % of average equity 0.60    3.o5    9.97   10.26   11.11       5.79      7.14     9.41    10.25    11.68    13.22
Interest and commission as
% of average portfolio             12,61   15.01   14.40   16.12   18.25       16.36    17.79    19.07    20.60    22.30    23.00
(-)
Financial expenses as % of average
borrowings                           -      4.48    7.13     9.27   12.12      10.45   12.39    13.57    15.20    17.00    17.8_
Gross spread                         12.61   10.53    7.27     6.85    6.13       5.91     5.40     5.50     5.40      5.30     5.20
Total debt/equity                     0.02    0.35    1.31     2.03    3.47       3.29     1.57     1.72     2.38      2.64     2.76
Percentage increase in total assets     -   119.89   92.86    99.62   54.19      37.60    31.18    36.31    30.98    29.89    23.72
Provisicns as % of loan portfolio       -     0.62    1.94      2.26    2.90      2.61     3.66     3.50      3.54     3.48     3.66
L/ Do not include provisions for doubtful loans.
LCPDF
November 1974



ANNEX 18
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACIONI FINANCIERA POPULAR
E?cpected Real Finance Charges to Sub-borrowers on Fixed Asset Subloans
1.        To determine the likely real financial charges (the nominal
interest rate is 24% p.a.) to ultimate borrowers under the proposed loan,
inflation for the average tenn of subloans (seven years maturity, including
two years of grace) was projected using three sets of assumptions. Consid-
ering Colombia's history of relatively low inflation--compared to other
Latin American countries--and measures expected from the new Government to
check inflation, in each case inflationary advances were assumed to decline
over the maturity of the average subloan as follows:
Projected Inflationary Advances
"Optimistic"    "Realistic"   "Pessimistic"
Assumption       AssUption       Assumption
(x)              (%)             (%)
1975                         20               25               30
1976                         15               20               25
1977                         10                15              20
1978                         10                15              20
1979                         10               15               18
1980                         10               15               18
1981                         10               15               15
2.        Under all three inflation assumptions financial charges would
remain positive in real terms, ranging from a marginally positive 0.1% p.a.
under the "pessimistic" forecast to a more likely 4% p.a., using the
"realistic" assumption, and resulting in a 9% p.a., if the "optimistic"
expectation on inflation should materialize.
LCPDF
July 1974



AINNEX 19
COLOMBIA:  tSMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Eligible Technical Assistance Services and_ProZramns
1.   Technical Assistance Services and Programs to Sub-borrowers
1.01      Accounting Centers program, involving independent accountants
selected by CFP, to assist small and medium enterprises in adopting a
simple, standardized accounting system. Accounting Centers are operating
on a limited scale in Bogota and are to be extended to other regions
shortly. The cost to CFP clients would amount to Col$1,000-2,000 per
month. Some 120-180 enterprises are expected to participate in this
program.
1.02      The Service Centers program would provide equipment and machinery
maintenance services to small and medium enterprises through independent
repair shops selected by CFP. Service centers are to be established in
the major industrial regions of the country. Technical assistance cost to
clients would vary but average around Col$12,000 p.a. Under this program
some Service Centers may finally be operating.
1.03      Technical assistance program with the Instituto de Investigaciones
Tecnologicas (IIT) to provide direct technical assistance to small and
medium enterprises in the areas of (i) equipment, machinery and plant
design; (ii) production process analysis and design; (iii) equipment and
machinery selection and purchase; and (iv) design and implementation of
quality control systems. IIT's consulting services would cost sub-borrowers
about Col$10,000 per contract. Enterprises expected to request IIT's ser-
vices have been estimated at 35-60.
1.04      Technical assistance program with the International Executive
Service Corporation (IESC), involving retired American executives, to assist
enterprises in marketing, financial management, production, and product
development. IESC's consulting services would cost sub-borrowers about
Col$700-2,000 per month and are likely to be requested by CFP's larger
clients.
1.05      Technical assistance and trainAp&  rograms with the Instituto
Colombiano de Administracion (INCOLDA) to assist and train small and medium
entrepreneurs in production management. The program will cover all facets
of production management, first by providing specialized technical assis-
tance according to the clients' specific needs, and second by extending
production training to the personnel and management of the assisted enter-
prises. INCOLI)A's services would cost about Col$2,000 per month; some
25-40 enterprises may participate.



ANNEX 19
Page 2
1.06      Technical assistance and training programs with the Asociacion de
Dirigentes de Ventas y Mercadotecnia (Diriventas) to assist and train small
and medium entrepreneurs in marketing. As in the case of the INCOLDA
program, direct technical assistance and training would be given in two
simultaneous stages at a cost of about Col$2,000 per month to about 25-40
enterprises.
2.   Economic, Sectoral,and Other CFP Studies
2.01      CFP's Orga ization study to review (i) the functions and responsibil-
ities within CFP's headquarters and regional offices, (ii) the distribution
and adequacy of professional and support staff, (iii) internal systems and
procedures, and (iv) recommend necessary improvements. (For further details
see Annex 6.)
2.02      Study on SMI's financial needs to (i) determine the key variables
affecting SMI's development, (ii) quantitatively assess the relationship
between SMI's development and the volume of financing channeled to the
sector, and (iii) establish models for forecasting SMI's (and CFP's) devel-
opment and medium and long term financial needs.
2.03      Study on SMI's development priorities to (i) examine the effect of
policies, legislation and other factors on, and prospects of industrial
branches of SMI, (ii) identify industrial branches deserving particular
attention, and (iii) recommend changes in CFP's operational policies as
appropriate.
2.04      Study on Government policies vis-a-vis SMI to determine the impact
of existing government industrial policies on SMI's development.
2.05      Study on SMI's technology to promote and implement technologies
capitalizing on SMI's comparative advantages. The study would (i) identify
SMI's technological problems, (ii) consider appropriate channels for acquir-
ing and disseminating technologies adapted to SMI's needs, and (iii) recom-
mend schemes for providing technological assistance to SMI.
2.06      Study of SMI's productive capacity consisting of an inventory of
available machinery and production capacity in SMI, (ii) assessing the current
capacity utilization, (iii) analyzing SMI's problems preventing optimum capa-
city utilization, and (iv) propose programs and policies leading to a better
utilization of SMI's production capacity.
2.07      Study on the Andean Pact's effects on SiMI to (i) identify oppor-
tunities which the Andean Pact offers to SMI, (ii) determine steps to be
taken by SMI to meet the business opportunities as well as competition
stemming from the Andean Pact, and (iii) recommend changes in CFP's policies
as appropriate.
2.()      Study on SMI's export o0p rtunities to (i) identify export oppor-
tunities, particularly among neighboring countries, and (ii) determine how
CFP could assist SMI in building up its export activities.



ANNEX 19
Page 3
2.09      Study on prospects of sniall and medium agro-industries to make a
better use of Colombia's agricultural output and induce industrial decentral-
ization and regional development. The study wouid (i) identify rural areas
offering opportunities for small and medium agro-industrial projects, and
(ii) for each area, design a plan for promoting small and medium agro-
industries.
; u  i r1 fl74



ANNEX 20
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCTERA POPULAR
Analysis of Project Costs Eligible for Bank Financing
1.        To assess project costs eligible for Bank financing, the mission
carried out a review of 80 operations financed by CFP during 1972-73, which
showed that the costs of a typical CFP.project involving fixed asset finan-
cing are, on the average, distributed as follows:
As % of Total
Project Item                     Project Cost
Equipment and Machinery              60.0
Working Capital                      25.0
Construction                         15.0
Total                           100.0
2.        Furthermore, based on an analysis of the items financed under the
above sample of projects, their direct and indirect foreign exchange compo-
nent has been estimated to average 56.8% of total project cost as follows:
Item Cost           Direct and Indirect         Foreign Exchange
as % of Total   Foreign Exchange Cost as Z        Cost as % of
Droject Ttemr         Project Cost           of Item Cost             Total Project Cost
Equipment and
Machinery               60.0                      85.0                      51.0
.Jorking Capital          25.0                      20.0                       5.0
Construction              15.0                       5.0                       0.8
56.8
CI' 1)1D
.hily 19)74



ANX 21
COLOKBIA: SiALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                                  Cumulative Disbursements at
end of Quarter
(UXt O0)j
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _)
'-une 30, 1975                                                         500
, 5/76
September 30, 1975                                                    1, 0oc
December 31, 1975                                                     1,500
Ilarch 31, 1976                                                       2)100
June 30, 1976                                                         2,800
1'.?76/77
September 30, 1576                                                    3, 40
December 31, 19761                                                    4,, 000
IYarch 31, 1977                                                        4, 500
June 30, 1977                                                         4,900
1977/1978
September 30, 1977                                                    5,300
December 31, 1977'                                                    5,5uo
1/ Term'inal date for submission of subprojects
2,/ Closinp date.
LCPDF
u  eC  z ,  L



ANNEX _'
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Loan Monitoring
1.        The experimental character of the project, the complexity of lending
to SSI and the need to build up the Bank's knowledge in a field in which it
still has relatively little experience would require tighter project super-
vision than in the case of more traditional DFC operations. As outlined below,
a close monitoring system would be established involving Corporacion Financiera
Popular and Bank staff, and based primarily on systematic subproject reviews,
periodic status reports, and supervision missions. Adjustments in the system
may become necessary during the commitment period of the proposed loan.
2.        C LorDoracion Financiera Popular would submit quarterly and annual
reports on its operations and financial condition.  However, in addition to
standard DFC reporting requirements, to help assess the economic and other
effects of the loan, CFP would prepare the following supplementary quarterly
reports focusing on the proposed project:
(i)  subproject approvals, commitments, disbursements, and cancellations
by amounts and geographic regions;
(ii)  analysis of sources of finance and terms of subprojects;
(iii)  summary of purpose of subprojects (new enterprises, modernization,
expansion), subproject components (machinery, equipment, construc-
tion, working capital), and origin (imported vs. locally manu-
factured components);
(iv)  summary of economic impact of subprojects on employment creation,
contribution to industrial decentralization and regional develop-
ment, utilizatioon of local and imported raw materials, value
added, and exports; and
(v)  sub-borrowers' operational status and arrears situation.
3.        Bank Staff.  While more frequent (at least semi-annual) supervision
missions thian for standard DFC operations would be called for, the Bank's
monitoring of the project would be primarily carried out from Washington
ancd would include:
(i)  reviewing CFP's qtuarterlv financial statements and annual
audit report;
(ii)  reviewing CEP's quarterly project status reports,



ANNEX 22
Page 2
(iti)  reviewing and approving all subloan proposals involving Bank
funds in excess of Col$1.5 million;
(iv)  reviewing and approving all technical assistance financing for
CFP or its clients involving Bank funds;
(v) revewing ex-post a sample of subloans including a sufficient
number of free-limit subloans; and
(vi)  reviewing economic, sectoral and other studies carried out by
CFP under the project.
LCPDF
November 1974



ANNEX 23
COLOMBIA: SMALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
Understandings Reached with CFP on Measures to Improve its Operational Effectiveness
1.        The appraisal of the Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP) pointed
out the need for the financiera to improve its operational effectiveness in
the areas of: (1). project appraisal, (2) follow-up procedures, (3) control
of arrears, (4) procurement and disbursement procedures, and (5) strengthen-
ing of liquidity. During negotiations of the proposed loan to Colombia's
small-scale industry, these various matters were reviewed with CFP and the
following understandings were reached.
Project Appraisal
2.        CFP will develop and introduce more detailed and systematic pro-
cedures for appraising the larger loan applications, particularly those that
are above branch office approval authorities. A standard form will be
developed for appraising these larger projects, appraisal of the smaller loans
will cover the same areas but in less detail, which will cover all important
aspects and could be arranged in seven sections with supplementary annexes
as follows:
Section 1:      P!oject Summary - giving a brief description of
the project for which financial and/or technical
assistance is requested.
Section 2:      Promoters of Project - describing the background
and experience of the promoters, including (a) their
creditworthiness, (b) their technical, marketing and
financial experience, (c) the adequacy of the pro-
posed management set up during the construction and
operating phases, (d) the areas in which technical
assistance is required and the proposed way to
arrange and finance technical assistance.
Section 3:      Technical Feasibility - covering such matters as
the suitability of plant location; availability
of raw materials, utilities and skilled labor
required; suitability of proposed manufacturing
processes and of plant and machinery to be acquired;
adequacy of technical and administrative setup;
reasonableness of construction schedule and produc-
tion program; adequacy of procurement procedures.
Section 4:      Markets and Selling Arrangements - describing the
products to be sold; the estimated market size and



ANNEX 23
Page 2
growth potential; the strength of competition; and
evaluating the suitability of proposed selling and
distributing arrangements and the reasonableness of
sales growth projections.
Section 5:      Financial Viability - indicating the total capital
and technical assistance requirements of the
project and the proposed sources and terms of
financing and evaluating the security for the loan;
the borrower's capacity to pay; the soundness of
the financial plans or projections; the reasonable-
ness of operating cost estimates; the overall profit-
ability of the project.
Section 6:      Economic Benefits - evaluating to the degree feasible
economic contributions that the project would make
e.g., in terms of direct and indirect employment
generation, import substitution, export earnings
provision of important services, etc.
Section 7:      Conclusions and Recommendations - giving an overall
assessment of the project and recommending the terms
and conditions (including provision of technical
assistance) under which it should be approved.
Annexes:        Giving appropriate financial, technical and operating
statistics backing up the main sections of the report.
3.        CPF will consider establishing a set of minimum acceptance criteria
for guidance of those undertaking project appraisals in the Headquarters and
branch offices. The following criteria might be appropriate:
(a)  Debt/equity ratio no more than            3:1 for small units
2:1 for larger units
(b)  Debt service coverage of at least         2:1
(c)  Promoters contribution of at least         15%
4.        Each project will be appraised on its own merits, but special
justification will be required for any proposal not meeting the above
criteria.
Follow-uR Procedures
5.        CFP will also take steps to strengthen procedures for following
up on projects during construction and operations covering progress report-
ing, site visits and general relations with borrowers.



ANNEX 23
Page 3
6.        Progress reports will be prepared on an increasing number of CFP
assisted projects according to a standard schedule (e.g., quarterly during
the period of construction and semi-annually once commercial production has
commenced). Construction period reports will be submitted on standard forms
and at least for all larger projects will report on the physical progress
achieved in implementing the project in the following areas:
(a)  Comparison of actual against budgeted expenditure for the
various items.
(b)  Details of contracts placed for civil works.
(c)  Ordering and delivery of plant and equipment and other
related items.
(d)  Recruitment and training of administrative and operational
staff.
(e)  Conclusions covering (i) whether project will commence
operations on schedule, (ii) likelihood of cost overruns,
(iii) whether there may be other technical or staffing problems.
7.        Operational reports prepared after the project has gone into
commercial operation will compare production, sales, operating costs and
financial performance against the figures envisaged in the appraisal report
and will comment on any significant difficulties being encountered. These
reports would show the date of the last visit to the concern and the proposed
date of the next visit.
8.        Inspection and visits.  A schedule of visits and inspections will
be worked out for an increasing number of projects based on their individual
characteristics.  In principal, every assisted concern will be visited
before making the first disbursement and prior to any subsequent major dis-
bursements.  When disbursements are completed, each concern will normally
be visited once a year. Delays in project implementation or the existence
of subsequent operating or financial problems will signal the need for
additional inspections.
9.        The manager of each office will be responsible for ensuring that
visits and inspections take place with the required frequency and will
send periodic reports to CFP headquarters summarizing the branch's inspection
activities during the period.
10.                                             . In addition to carrying out
the routine follow-up procedures, CFP staff will seek to create a sense of
partnership between CFP and the concerns to whom loans have been made by
maintaining close relationships with their managements, and assisting them
to resolve whatever difficulties they may face. For example, CFP will help
on negotiations with regional or state agencies on matters like the supply



ANNEX 23
Page 4
of raw materials or essential services. Equally, CFP will advise on the
selection of equipment and the review of tenders, and will assist their
borrowers in dealings with commerical banks to make arrangements for working
capital. Overall, CFP will encourage borrowers to seek its advice and
guidance whenever problems arise in the course of project implementation or
operation.
Control and Reduction of Arrears
11.       CFP will initiate a firm and concerted program of action to reduce
arrears to more acceptable levels, particularly arrears in excess of one
year. This program will include some or all of the following actions:
(a) Reviewing the arrears affected portfolio on a case to case
basis periodically (say, every 6 months) to gain an under-
standing of the factors contributing to defaults and to
identify appropriate measures for recovery.
(b) Where the arrears are due to interest liability falling due
during construction period or an unrealistic repayment
schedule because of inadequate appraisal, evaluating the
desirability of rescheduling the financial terms.
(c) Regularly reviewing staff levels and assignments of respon-
sibility at branch level to ensure that sufficient resources
are being applied to the reduction of arrears and that follow-up
procedures are being properly carried out.
(d) Ensuring that CFP's interest rate structure does not provide
incentives for borrowers to default in the payment of principal
or interest to take advantage of lower interest rates offered
by the corporation.
(e) Exploring, when appropriate, the possibility of reconstructing
an ailing enterprise under new management with the assistance
of other creditors or related industrial concerns.
(f) If other courses of action do not bear results, giving warning
of CFP's intention to institute legal proceedings and taking
firmer legal actions against defaulting parties than in the
past.
12.       The position of defaulting concerns will be reviewed periodically
and reports submitted to the Board of Directors indicating the actions taken
and further action planned. Such reports will be used to ensure that CFP
makes adequate provisions from year to year towards bad and doubtful debts.



ANNEX 23
Page 5
Procruement and Disbursement Procedures
13.       CFP will take steps to further strengthen procurement and disburse-
ment procedures and to ensure that uniform procedures are adopted in all
branch offices. Revised guidelines will be prepared for branch offices,
incorporating the points outlined below.
14.       Procurement.  While the amount of investigation required will vary
based on the size and nature of the project and the experience of the
promoters, the following points will be covered whenever feasible:
(a) CFP technical staff will review the suitability and adequacy
of the plant and machinery proposed for each project. In
addition, they will ensure that adequate care has been taken
in the choice of machinery suppliers, not only in terms of
price, but also in terms of the suppliers' reputations and
experience, their ability to meet delivery dates, and give
guarantees of performance and availability of spare parts.
(b) Preferably, quotations will be obtained from at least three
suppliers for both local and imported plant and machinery,
although for the smaller projects this may not always be
feasible or even desirable. If appropriate, CFP will recommend
the use of outside consultants to assist in selecting suppliers
for the larger projects.
(c) Particular care will be given to evaluating applications for
acquisition of second hand or reconditioned equipment.
(d) As far as possible, competitive tenders will also be obtained
for civil engineering and constructional work if contractors
are to be used.
(e) Finally, CFP will ensure that adequate provisions are built
into cost estimates for exchange rate adjustments and general
inflation.
15.       Disbursement.  Among others, the following points will normally
be taken into account in controlling disbursements:
(a) Before the first disbursement is made for a project, CFP staff
will check that the promotoers have made available their contri-
bution to the capital costs as envisaged in the project appraisal.
(b) As far as possible, disbursements will be made directly to
the suppliers of goods and services or to their bankers.



ANNEX 23
Page 6
(c) CFP staff will check that disbursements will be applied for
the purposes sanctioned when the overall loan was approved and
are not out of line with original estimates.
(d) When a project has been modified, or part of it has been cancelled,
CFP staff will ensure that the sum authorized for the project is
amended or cancelled appropriately.
Strengthening Liquidity
16.       CFP will strengthen financial planning and control procedures so
as to progressively improve the Corporation's liquidity planning and position.
These procedures will include:
(a) Preparing at least monthly a rolling forecast of the cash flow
position by month for the next 12 months reflecting CFP's current
lending program and operational experience in the timing of
disbursements and in collection of receivables.
(b) Analyzing these forecasts to identify potential liquidity
difficulties and possible opportunities to improve current
inflows (like reducing arrears), and reduce current outflows,
and producing a monthly liquidity action report for CFP's
Board and Management.
(c)  Tailoring commitments and disbursements, the balance of short-
and long-term lending and lending conditions in the light of
the liquidity aciton reports.
(d) At least annually, preparing five-year financial and operational
projections and identifying what steps are required to obtain
sufficient long- and medium-term resources to support anticipated
lending activities.
LCPDF
November 197



APPENDIX 1
COLOMBIA
SM&ALL-SCALE INDUSTRY PRO.JECT
Financial Assistance to Small-- and Medium-Scale Industrv
Sources of Financing
1.         The Corporacion Financiera Ponutlar (CFP) provides financing to
small- and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises with total assets of UD to
Col$35 million.  To meet the sDecific needs of its clients, CFP offers a number
of credit programs, financed either with own funds or borrowings from institu-
tional sources (IFF, FNA, BR, PROEXPO, FON.ADE and others), which include the
f o1llowing:
(a) The Production Credit - to provide working capital financing
to help enterprises utilize fully their productive capacity.
(b) The Working Capital and Fixed Asset Credit - to finance the
expansion and renewal of productive assets and related working
capital needs.
(c)  The Construction Materials Credit - to stimulate the estab-
lishment and expansion of enterprises producing construction
materials.
(d) The Trust Credit - to grant loans without collateral to small
enterprises whose activities orovide high social benefits.
(e) The Professional Credit - for assisting new entrenreneurs.
lacking capital to establish their own manufacturing business.
(f) The Export Promotion Credit - to provide working capital
financing for exporting enterprises.
(g) The Industrial Site Credit - to finance the construction,
modification, or expansion of industrial facilities.
(h) The Technical Assistance Credit - to provide limited funds
for technical assistance to entreoreneurs.
2.         Recognizing the need to step up assistance to small entrenreneurs
who do not have access to credit because of inadequate collaterals, CFP is
developing a Guarantee Fund to provide rislk coverage to financial intermediaries
extending credit to STNI.  To help viable small manufacturing enterprises (which
lack adequate collateral) qualify for institutional credit, the fund woluld
extend guarantees on their behalf.  This Fund, which was anproved by Decree
2167 of November 1972, will hlave an independent legal status and be managed
as an affiliate of CFP.  Until sufficient experience is obtained the Fund's
activities will be limited to CFP's clients only. Initial funding will



APPENDIX 1
Page 2
come from a Col$35 million Government allocation to CFP. Operations of the
Fund are expected to start by March 1975.
3.        CFP charges interest rates (including a 1-2% fee for technical
assistance and supervision) ranging from 18% to 22% p.a., depending upon
lending terms and source of financing used. Although CFP's internal regula-
tions permit maximum lending maturities of five years for working capital and
ten years for fixed assets financing, CFP's Loan Committee has adopted a tight
commercial banking approach. Through year-end 1973, 56% of CFP's loans had
been granted for less than three years, and only 6%, for over five years.
Grace periods seldom exceed six months.
4.        To reduce the risk of lending to SMI, CFP generally requests ample
collateral. It accepts industrial mortgages (normally at 70% of their value);
liens on new (65%) and used machinery (40%), and on raw materials and manu-
factured goods (50%), and personal guarantees and assignments of accounts
receivables (mostly as additional guarantees). On all lending over five years,
CFP requires industrial mortgages. Depending on the business experience of
the applicant, loans can cover between 50-100% of total project cost, however,
without exceeding the applicant's net worth.
5.        Through year-end 1973 CFP made over 3,500 loans totalling Col$802
million to some 3,000 enterprises.  Reflecting CFP's rapid growth, almost
two-thirds of disbursements were made in 1972-73. With nine-tenths of loan
recipients having total assets below Col$4 million (i.e. far below the Col$35
million limit) and with a loan average of Col$225,000, CFP was successful in
reaching mostly small manufacturing enterprise.
6.        The geographic distribution of its lending shows that CFP is be-
coming increasingly successful in penetrating virtually all of Colombia's
regions. In 1973, for each loan in Bogota, about three were made outside the
capital area, compared to a 1:1 ratio in 1968. While loan recipients repre-
sent a wide range of industrial subsectors, CFP has been lending predominantly
to those sectors where SMI is most important in terms of employment and value
added, and which are among the least protected. Producers of apparel and
footwear (19.9%) received most, followed by metal working (10.9%), food (9.3%),
non-metallic mineral products (7.4%), wood and furniture (7.4%) and chemical
industries (5.3%). CFP statistics indicate that its operations have had an
important employment impact by creating, since 1968, an estimated 24,520 new
jobs, at an average lending contribution of Col$32,700 per job.
7.        The Cala de Credito Agrario, Industrial-y Minero (CAJA) was the
first financial institution to foster rural industrialization and generate
employment in the economically most backward areas of Colombia by establishing
the following credit programs for small manufacturing, agroindustrial, and
mining enterprises:



APPENDIX 1
Page 3
(a) The "Directed" Industrial Credit (established in 1964) - for
loans of up to Col$300,000 to finance working capital and
fixed assets of manufacturing enterprises with total assets
below Col$2.5 million;
(b) The Artisan Credit - to provide loans of up to Col$20,000 to
finance fixed assets and working capital needs of artisans
with total assets below Col$500,000;
(c) The Mining Credit - for loans up to Col$500,000 to small
mining enterprises with an annual gross output below Col$2.0
million; and
(d) The Loom Operation - to finance small manual looms for
artisans receiving vocational training from SENA.
8.        The CAJA's interest rates are 13-14% p.a. (increasing with longer
terms) for manufacturing enterprises with total assets under Col$500,000, and
14% p.a. for larger firms. Loan maturities are normally one year for working
capital, two years for equipment repairs and parts, three to five years for
acquisition of machinery and up to six years for building construction and
purchase of land. The maximum grace period is two years.
9.        The CAJA normally requests ample guarantees and lends between 50%
and 80% of their value, depending on type of collateral and total assets of
the applicant. However, special conditions apply to "signature" loans below
Col$20,000, on which a 1% "insolvency insurance fee" is charged in addition
to the interest rate but no collateral is required. In general, the CAJA
does not lend beyond the equivalent of a borrower's net worth.
10.       From 1964-73, the CAJA made some 12,000 loans totalling Col$865
million to small industrial enterprises; i.e. slightly more than CFP since its
inception in 1968. The CAJA's "Supervised" Industrial and Artisan Credit
Programs accounted for about three-quarters of the total. Reflecting the large
number of loans to artisans, the average loan amount (Col$52,000) was only
about one-quarter of CFP's. This also explains that over one-half of the
enterprises assisted by the CAJA had total assets below Col$300,000 and about
60% had less than six workers.
11.       The CAJA's lending has been directed predominantly towards Colombia's
least industrialized regions as 30% of the CAJA's clients were located in cities
with less than 20,000 inhabitants (and only 4% with over 300,000 inhabitants),
and almost two-thirds of its loans went to agro-industries. According to
CAJA estimates, its financing of small enterprises in agro-industry, manufac-
turing and mining has helped to create, since 1964, almost 30,000 new jobs
(largely in the economically most backward areas of Colombia) at an average
financial contribution by the CAJA of Col$21,000 per job.



APPENDIX 1
Page 4
12.       The Industrial FinancingFund (IFF) is a BR operated rediscounting
facility which was created in 1968 to channel funds through public and private
financial intermediaries to SMI. IFF's initial resources were provided by a
1968 AID loan and counterpart funds and have been augmented since then
through bond sales. IFF funds are available to manufacturing firms with at
least five workers, total assets below Col$35 million, and capital/employment
ratios ranging from Col$75,0G0-150,000, mainly depending upon the recipient's
total assets. The IFF provides financing for working capital, fixed assets
(up to 20% of applicant's net worth, but no more than Col$2 million), repay-
ment of accounts payable, and, occasionally, technical assistance.
13.       The maximum maturity of credits eligible for IFF rediscounting is
five years.  The IFF rates for small and medium enterprises are now 22-24%
p.a. when recipient firms are located in cities with over 900,000 inhabitants
(the lower rate applying to firms with total assets below Col$5 million), ani
18% p.a. when recipient firms are located in smaller cities. Furthermore,
to encourage industrial decentralization, IFF permits the financial inter-
mediaries to earn a 4% spread and to rediscount 80% of the loans made in the
smaller cities, as opposed to 3% and 65%, respectively, in the case of larger
cities. The financial intermediaries are to finance the portion of the loan
not eligible for rediscounting.
14.       Through September 1973, IFF's rediscounting operations totalled
ColS837 million, which is about equivalent to the CAJA's or CFP's operations
since inception. The average rediscounting operation (Col$232,000) is
almost equal to CFP's average loan amount. About two-thirds of the credits
rediscounted had 4-5 year maturities. On average, recipients of IFF funds
have been larger than clients of CFP or the CAJA, with 83% of the rediscounting
operations involving enterprises with total assets below Col$6 million. The
fact that three-quarters of IFF's rediscounting was for clients in cities
with less than 350,000 inhabitants shows that the differential rediscounting
percentages have created a stimulus to decentralize lending. According to IFF
estimates, its rediscounting operations have created some 35,000 new jobs,
i.e. one new job per Col$35.00 (including the contribution of the intermediary).
15.       A wide range of Colombian lending institutions have used IFF's
rediscounting facilities. In particular, development and commercial banks
were stimulated by IFF to lend to SMI. Of all amounts approved for redis-
counting, development banks accounted for over one-half and commercial ban1ks
for one-third. CFP, accounting for 56% in numbers and 27% in the volume of
operations, was the most active user of IFF. Most loans submitted for redis-
counting by CFP were far below the average of IFF's operations.
16.       Public Funds.  Apart from the IFF, institutions lending to SMI
have also access to the following other public funds:
(a) The Fondo.para Inversiones Privadas (FIP; the Private Thvest:-&-
Fund,) is a BR rediscount facility mostly for capital goods
financing of private manufacturing enterprises. The FIP has
no upper limit regarding the size of eligible borrowers and,
therefore, mostly channels fund to medium and large industry.



APPENDIX 1
Page 5
(b) The Fondo de Promocion de Exportaciones (PROEXPO; EXPORT PROMDTION
Fund) was established in 1967 to promote non-traditional exports.
PROEXPO provides working capital financing to exporting
enterprises regardless of their size. The vast majority
of PROEXPO credit recipients are large manufacturing firms
which are generally better prepared to export than SMI; and
(c)  The Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo (FONADE; National Development
Fund) was fournded in 1968 as an autonomous government agency
to finance investment studies. It has been used by CFP and
other financial intermediaries to finance technical assistance
services to SKIL
17.       Com_ercialBanks.  Colombia has a well developed system of commer-
cial banks which normally restrict themselves to short-term lending; however,
in case of good clients, loans are usually renewable.  Despite their short
terms and stringent collateral requirements, commercial banks are an important
source of credit for SMI. In 1972, about one-third of the estimated Col$870-1,100
million institutional financing of SMI was provided by commercial banks.
Nominal interest rates vary between 16% and 29%, depending on the resources
used; the effective rates are about 24-32%, after allowance is made for
compensatory balances, commissions and fees.
18.       Extra-Bank Market.  The extra-bank market -- although not a "black
market" -- operates outside official regulation and supervision. With pos-
sibly as much as Col$400 million in loans outstanding with SMI, the extra-bank
market might exceed the commercial banking system in importance as a source
of short-term working capital credit. The extra-bank market is regularly
used by many small- and medium-scale firms, and also by large and well estab-
lished enterprises when they are unable to meet their requirements from the
official banking systemi. While interest rates for large industry ranges from
30% to 36% per year, SMI generally is forced to pay between 36% and 60%
annually, and sometimes mc're. Loans from family members and friends are
another important non-institutional source of financing, particularly for the
smaller manufacturing cm-:>v:ises.
19.       Local Suppliers,  Local .uppliers' credits are of some significance
as a means of working capita  financing, particularly for smaller firms.  They
are extended at cost          apc1zs aprrwachin.z?, the Iower interest rates in the extra-
bank market.



APPENTIX 2
COOIOBTA.,
SMALL SCALE INDUSTRY PROJECT
Technical Assistance to Small- and 'ledium-Scale IndustrLF
1.         It is only since 1970 that Colombian technical assistance institu-
tions have developed specific nrograms for SMI. Since then significant efforts
have been made to mobilize scarce resources to implement a number of technical
assistance programs for small- and medium-scale entrepreneurs. Despite this
progress, the capacity, scope, and geographic coverage of Colombia's technical
assistance programs do not yet match SMIt's requirements for such services.
Though three-fourths of small manufacturing units are considered to need some
kind of technical assistance, only about one-tenth annually can expect to
benefit from any direct technical assistance. Existing programs do not orovide
sufficient in-denth consulting services, tailored to the needs of individual
enterprises; programs are also primarily limited to the major industrial cen-
ters, not reaching entrepreneurs in rural areas.
2.         The institutions which provide the bulk of technical assistance to
Colombian SMI are, in order of importance: the Servicio Nacional de Apren-
dizaje (SENA), the Caja de Credito Agrario Industrial y Minero (CAJA), the
Fundacion para el Fomento de la Investigacion Cientifica y Tecnologica
(FICITEC), and the Corporacion Financiera Popular (CFP), as well as some
universities and manufacturers' associations. Their activities and programs
are described below:
3.         SENA wqas established in 1957 as a public entity and provides voca-
tional training for workers and management training to entrepreneurs. SENA's
resources are mainly from a 2% payroll tax on all industrial enterprises
which have more than nine workers or a total net worth of at least Col$50,000.
SENA's services, which are nrovided by 64 training facilities located through-
out Colombia, are free.
4.         During its initial years of operation SFNA concentrated on estab-
lishing apprenticeship and industrial training programs.  Through 1972, these
programs, covering a wide range of 10,495 courses, have provided training to
some 1,500,000 participants, of which 350,000 were trained in 1972.
5.         Besides training workers and entrepreneurs. SENA 's most relevant
program to SMI is the National Assistance Program (Programa Nacional de
Asesoria), started in 1970 to assist enterprises in financial and production
management, personnel relations, accounting, and marketing.  This program,
which is financed by the Government (Col$41 million in 1972), is conducted
on a nation-wide basis by a task force of 21 supervisors, 150 advisors and



APPENDIX 2
Page 2
26 foremen.  The program has assisted over 1,200 enterprises, over half of
which in S7'I by SENIA's definition. 1/
6.         Early in 1973, in cooperation with the National Planning Depart-
ment, SENA established a Development Credit Assistance Program (Programa de
Asesoria en Credito de Fomento) to inform small- and medium-scale manufacturers
about the availability and characteristics of sources of development credit.
This program is administered by 12. advisers located in Colombia's main indus-
trial centers w-:ho evaluate the financial needs of small- and medium--scale
enterprises and help them nrepare credit requests. 7Jp to the fourth quarter
of 1973. 225 enterprises had been evaluated under this nrogram, and 176 had
submitted credit applications totalling Col$61 million.
7.         Since it started its llrredito Industrial Diri-rido" (Directed
Industrial Credit) program in 1964, the CAJA has provided technical assistance
to its small borrowers, mainly artisans and small entrepreneurs located in
the rural and least industrialized regions of Colombia. The CAJA has identi-
fied clients needing teclnical assistance in product line and eciuippment
selection, financial and production management, organization and personnel
administration, and marketing. The CAJA has a small staff of 25 to carry out
its technical assistance activities; four are economists, six industrial
engineers, nine industrial administrators, and six industrial experts. With
such a limited cadre, only a small percentage of the CAJA's borrowers presently
receive any in-depth technical assistance.
8.         Peace Corps volunteers have been assisting the CAJA in the above
program since 1968; they have been working jointly with Colombian students
in Bogota, Cali, and Pereira. To date, 10 advisory teams have been established,
consisting of one Colombian student (senior year in industrial engineering or
management) and one Peace Corns volunteer. These teams visit selected
Colombian enterprisea and, with the cooperation of the entrepreneur, make
an evaluation of their technical assistance needs and provide a plan ot re-
medial action against a monthly fee. Only a small number of enterprises
hiave been serviced by these teams so far.
9.         CFP only established a Technical Assistance Department to assist
its clients in late 1971. So far, it has focused on helping entrenreneurs
prepare loan applications and coordinating technical assistance nrovided by
other institutions. Though CFP has obtained the cooperation of almost all
private and public agencies providing technical assistance to ST"I, its own
achievements have not yet met initial expectations. Mfost of the technical
assistance it has participated in has focused on general training, and has
not emphasized the specific problems of individual firms. Out of the 546
enterprises it assisted through 1973, only 44 received in-depth technical
assistance.
1/ Enterprises with a labor force of 250 workers or less.



APPENDIX 2
Page 3
10.        Recognizing the need to step ut direct technical assistance to its
clients, CFP is actively developing the following programs:
(a) Accounting Centers to (i) assist small and medium enterprises
in adopting a simple, standardized accounting system, and (ii)
provide CFP with means to obtain periodic and uniform informa-
tion on its clients' activities. The Accounting Centers are
presently operating on a limited scale in Bogota and are to be
extended to other regions shortly.
(b)  A Machinery Exchange Center to (i) assess the production
capacity of Colombia's SMI, (ii) establish a domestic policy
on transfer of technology in keeping with the nation's needsz
(iii) set up a Data Bank on newi technologies, and the avail-
ability of new or used machinery in Colombia- and (iv) manage
a program for nurchase or sale of machinery and equipment
among manufacturing enterprises.
(c)  A ilarketing_Comany to act as an intermediary for small and
medium--scale entrepreneurs. Its nrimary functions would
be to (i) secure large orders for small and medium enter-
prises; (ii) group small and medium enterprises and coordin-
ate their production: and (iii) assist small and medium
entrenreneurs manufacture and market their Products locally
and abroad.
11.        Founded in 1970 to study the nroblems of technology transfer in
Colombia, FICITEC provides mostlv small- and medium-scale enterprises wqith
consulting services in marketing, financial and production management, and
organization. As a semi-Private non-nrofit organization, FICITEC's activities
are partlv financed by donations and grants from its founders as well as from
other local and international entities.  Though services rendered by FICITEC
are not free, thev are provided at 50% of cost, thus allowing small- and
medium-scale entrepreneurs to have access to in-depth technical assistance at
a reasonable cost.
12.        To carrv out its activities FICITF,C has a staff of 25 professionals
and relies from time to time on assistance from a number of foreign univer-
sities. FICITEC nrovides on-the-spot diagnostic and in-denth technical
assistance only to enterorises which show growth potential and the canacity
to implement FICITEC's recommendations.
13.        During its short existence, FICITEC has earned an excellent
reputation as a consulting institution for SII. However, owing to limited
hunan and financial resources, its technical assistance capacity remains
small compared to the needs of the sector. From mid-1970 to October 1973,
FICITEC provided direct technical assistance to 76 enterprises, e.g. about 25
Per vear. Most of the enterprises which were assisted by FICITEC were located
in Bogota and Cali.



APPENDIX 2
Page 4
14.       Local Universities.  In recent years a number of universities
have started technical assistance programs for SMI. However, owing to limited
financial and human resources and, in some cases, frequent student strikes,
few of these programs have been operating efficiently or shown substantial
results. Among the universities extending technical assistance to SMI, the
Universidad de los Andes in Bogota, the Universidad del Caribe in Barranquilla,
the Escuela de Administracion y Finanzas e Instituto Tecnologico in Medellin,
and the Universidad del Valle in Cali, are the most active.
15.       Manufacturers' associations, including the Asociacion Nacional de
Industriales (ANDI), the Asociacion Colombiana Popular de Industriales (ACOPI),
and the Fondo Nacional de Desarrollo Social (FUNDES), have been long-time pro-
ponents of special assistance to SMI. Though their ability to render direct
assistance is limited, they provide a valuable forum for small- and medium-
scale entrepreneurs to voice their problems, and make useful contacts. So far,
they have been effective lobbies for SMI with both Government and financial
institutions, and have been instrumental in getting local technical assistance
institutions to provide training and consulting services to small scale units.



