CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1071 CO
Project Agreement
(Small-Scale Industry Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
DATED JANUARY 16, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1071 CO
Project Agreement
(Small-Scale Industry Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
DATED JANUARY 16, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR (hereinafter called CFP), a
development finance institution established and operating under the laws and
regulations of the Guarantor.
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Banco
de la Republica (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Bank, the Bank has agreed
to make available to the Borrower, for relending to CFP, an amount in various
currencies equivalent to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000),
on the terms and conditions set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that CFP agree to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as hereinafter set
forth; and
WHEREAS CFP, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan
Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter
set forth.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01 Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. CFP shall carry out the Project described in Section 3.01 of
the Loan Agreement and conduct its operations and affairs in accordance with
sound financial and investment standards and practices, under the supervision of
qualified and experienced management and in accordance with its Estatutos and
its Declaration of Policies and Procedures.


﻿4
Section 2.02. CFP shall apply the proceeds of the Loan allocated in
accordance with Section 3.02(a)(ii), (iii) and (iv) of the Loan Agreement exclusively
to the financing of Investment Projects in accordance with the provisions of the
Loan Agreement and of this Agreement, including, inter alia, provisions ensuring
that sub-loans shall, except as the Guarantor, the Bank and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree in respect of a particular sub-loan or, in the event referred to
in Section 3.02(a)(iv)(B) of the Loan Agreement, in respect of all sub-loans, be
on the following financial terms and conditions:
(a)   the amortization schedule for each sub-loan shall provide for (1) an
appropriate grace period not exceeding three years, (2) repayment terms of not
less than four years and of not more than ten years, and (3) approximately equal
semi-annual, or more frequent, aggregate payments of principal and interest or
approximately equal, semi-annual, or more frequent, payments of principal;
(b)   the Investment Enterprise shall repay the principal of each sub-loan
in Pesos, such repayment to be made in accordance with either one of the following
two methods: (1) the principal amount to be so repaid shall be the amount in
Pesos equal to the sum withdrawn by CFP from the Subsidiary Loan Account
for the purpose of making the sub-loan in question; or (2) the principal amount
to be so repaid shall be the equivalent Pesos of the amount in foreign currency
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Loan Account for the purpose of enabling
CFP to make the sub-loan in question.
(c)   The method of repayment of the sub-loan shall be determined by
agreement between CFP and the Investment Enterprise as of the date of approval
of the Investment Project for which the sub-loan shall be made.
(d)   The Investment Enterprise shall pay interest on th- outstanding
principal of each sub-loan at either one of the following rates: (1) where the
repayment method chosen is the one provided in paragraph (b)(1) above, at the
rate of 24% per annum; and (2) where the repayment method chosen is the one
provided in paragraph (b)(2) above, at the rate of 13-1/2% per annum.
Section 2.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CFP shall apply the
proceeds of the Loan allocated in accordance with Section 3.02(a)(i) of the Loan
Agreement exclusively to financing technical assistance, and to ensure that technical
assistance investments and technical assistance sub-loans be on the following terms
and conditions:
(a)   the  principal amount outstanding of each     technical assistance
investment shall bear interest at the rate of twelve per cent (12%) per annum;


﻿5
(b)   the principal amount outstanding of each technical assistance sub-loan
shall bear interest at the rate of fifteen per cent (15%) per annum; and
(c)   the Investment Enterprise shall repay the principal of each technical
assistance sub-loan in Pesos and the principal amount to be so repaid shall be
the amount in Pesos equal to the amount drawn by CFP from the Subsidiary
Loan Account for the purposes of making the technical assistance sub-loan in
question.
Section 2.04. (a) CFP shall exercise its rights in relation to each of its
Investment Projects financed in whole or in part out of the proceeds of the Loan
in such manner as to protect the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and CFP.
(b)   CFP undertakes that, unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, any
sub-loan will be made on terms whereby CFP shall obtain, by written contract
with the Investment Enterprise or by other appropriate legal means, adequate rights
protecting the interests of the Bank, the Borrower and CFP, enabling the Borrower
to carry out its obligations under the Loan Agreement, and including, without
limitation, in the case of any such sub-loan the right to:
(i)         cause such Investment Enterprise to carry out and operate the
respective Investment Project with due diligence and efficiency
and in accordance with sound technical, managerial and financial
standards, including the maintenance of adequate records and
documents;
(ii)        apply to sub-loans the financial terms and conditions set forth
or referred to in Section 2.02 hereof;
(iii)       cause such Investment Enterprise to use the proceeds of the
sub-loan exclusively to finance the goods and services required
to carry out the Investment Project in respect of which such
proceeds were withdrawn and ensure that such goods and services
shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of such Investment
Project;
(iv)        ensure the Bank's and CFP's rights to inspect such goods and
the sites, works, plants and construction included in such
Investment Project, the operation thereof and any relevant
records and documents;
(v)         require that such Investment Enterprise shall take out and
maintain with responsible insurers such insurance, against such


﻿6
risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent with sound
business practice and that, without any limitation upon the
foregoing, such insurance shall cover marine, transit and other
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and delivery
of the goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to the
place of use or installation, and that any indemnity thereunder
shall be payable in a currency freely usable by such Investment
Enterprise to replace or repair such goods;
(vi)        obtain all such information as the Bank, the Borrower and CFP
shall reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of such
Investment Enterprise;
(vii)       suspend  or terminate   further access by    such Investment
Enterprise to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Investment Enterprise to carry out the terms of such
sub-loan or investment.
Section 2.05. (a) CFP shall furnish to the Bank all such information as the
Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditure of the proceeds of the
Loan, the Project, Investment Enterprises, Investment Projects, technical assistance
investments, technical assistance sub-loans, and sub-loans, and the administration,
c-orations and financial condition of CFP.
(b)   CFP shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of the
Project and of each of the Investment Projects (including the cost thereof) and
to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting practices
the operations and financial condition of CFP. CFP shall enable the Bank's
representatives to examine such records.
Section 2.06. (a) CFP shall cooperate fully with the Bank to assure that
the purposes of the Loan will be accomplished. To that end, CFP shall from time
to time, at the request of the Bank exchange views with the Bank through their
representatives with regard to the progress of the Project, the performance by CFP
of its obligations under this Agreement, the administration, operations and financial
condition of CFP and any other matters relating to the purposes of the Loan.
(b)   CFP shall promptly inform     the Borrower and the Bank of any
condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplishment
of the purposes of the Loan, the maintenance of the service of the Subsidiary
Loan or the performance by CFP of its other obligations under this Agreement.


﻿7
Section 2.07. CFP shall take such measures and action necessary or
convenient for the expansion of its operations and for the improvement of: (a)
appraisal and supervision of Investment Projects; (b) its procurement and
disbursement procedures; and (c) its liquidity position, as shall be agreed from
time to time between the Bank and CFP.
Section 2.08. CFP shall take such measures to reduce the amount of CFP's
loans overdue and payable as are specified in the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. CFP shall carry out: (a) an organization study with terms of
reference satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) the recommendations of such study
in accordance with a timetable and to an extent satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 2.10. CFP shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CFP shall not take
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.11. CFP shall inform the Bank of any proposed amendment of
O         its Estatutos and its Declaration of Policies and Procedures.
Section 2.12. CFP shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Bank to cover
itself against all foreign exchange risks arising from the holding of Pesos received
as repayments of the principal amount of sub-loans made in accordance with Section
2.02(b)(2) of this Agreement until such amounts shall have been paid to the
Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Other Covenants
Section 3.01. CFP shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.
Section 3.02. (a) CFP shall establish and maintain: (i) a separate sub-loan
account and shall record in it exclusively all receipts and payments for or in
connection with sub-loans; and (ii) a separate technical assistance account and shall
record in it exclusively all receipts and payments for or in connection with technical
assistance investments and technical assistance sub-loans.
(b)   CFP shall use the funds paid in (i) such sub-loan account exclusively
to make further sub-loans, and (ii) in such technical assistance account exclusively
to make further technical assistance investments and technical assistance sub-loans.


﻿8
(c)   CFP shall enable the Bank's representatives to examine such sub-loan
account and such technical assistance account.
Section 3.03. CFP shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish
to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning the accounts and financial
statements of CFP and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time
reasonably request.
Section 3.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, CFP shall not incur,
or permit any of its Financial Subsidiaries to incur, any debt if, after the incurring
of any such debt, the consolidated debt of CFP and all its Financial Subsidiaries
then incurred and outstanding would be greater than four times the consolidated
capital and surplus of CFP and all its Financial Subsidiaries.
For the purposes of this Section:
(a)   The term   "debt" means any debt incurred by CFP or any of its
Financial Subsidiaries.
(b)   Debt shall be deemed to be incurred (i) under a loan contract or
agreement, on the date and to the extent that the amount of the loan is drawn
down and outstanding pursuant to such a loao contract or agreement, and (ii)
under a guarantee agreement, on the date the agreement providing for such
guarantee has been entered into, but only to the extent that the guaranteed debt
is outstanding.
(c)   The term "consolidated debt of CFP and all its Financial Subsidiaries"
means the total amount of debt of CFP and all its Financial Subsidiaries, excluding
any debt owed by CFP to any Financial Subsidiary or by any Financial Subsidiary
to CFP or to any other Financial Subsidiary.
(d)   The term "consolidated capital and surplus of CFP and all its Financial
Subsidiaries" means the aggregate of the total unimpaired paid-up capital and the
unallocated surplus and free reserves of CFP and all its Financial Subsidiaries, after
excluding therefrom such amounts as shall represent (i) equity interests of CFP


﻿9
in any Financial Subsidiary or of any Financial Subsidiary in CFP or any other
Financial Subsidiary and (ii) provisions for probable losses on the outstanding
amount of all loans and investments made or guarantees given by CFP as shall
have been determined by CFP, to the satisfaction of the auditors referred to in
Section 3.03 of this Agreement, to be adequate to cover the risk of such losses
in accordance with sound business and financial practices.
(e)   The term   "Financial Subsidiary" as used in this Section means any
subsidiary which, in the judgment of the Bank, is engaged in promotional, financial
or technical activities similar or complementary to the operations of CFP.
(f)   Whenever in connection with this Section it shall be necessary to value
in terms of Pesos debt payable in a foreign currency, such valuation shall be made
on the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such foreign currency
is, at the time of such valuation, obtainable by CFP or its Financial Subsidiaries
for the purposes of servicing such debt.
Section 3.05. CFP shall at all times take all steps necessary to maintain its
corporate existence and right to carry on operations and shall take all steps
necessary to maintain and renew all rights, powers, privileges and franchises which
are necessary or useful in the conduct of its business.
Section 3.06. CFP shall cause each of its subsidiaries (if any) to observe
and perform the obligations of CFP hereunder to the extent to which such
obligations shall or can be applicable thereto, as though such obligations were
binding upon each of such subsidiaries.
Section 3.07. CFP shall take such steps, satisfactory to the Bank, as shall
be necessary to protect itself against risk of loss resulting from changes in the
rates of exchange between the currencies (including Pesos) used in its lending and
borrowing operations.
Section 3.08. CFP shall amend its Estatutos, in a manner satisfactory to
the Bank, to preclude any shareholder other than the Guarantor from having a
controlling representation on CFP's Board of Directors or Loan Committee. For
the purposes of this paragraph, the term "shareholder" includes any entities in
which the shareholder owns a proprietary interest.
Section 3.09. CFP shall employ any staff required to- fill in any vacant
second-level management positions of CFP in the areas of administration, finance,
operations or development.


﻿10
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 4.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of CFP
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate
in accordance with its terms.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan
Agreement.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿11
For CFP:
Corporaci6n Financiera Popular
Calle 17, No 7-43
Bogot6
Colombia
Cable address:
CORPOPULAR
BogotA
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of CFP may be taken or executed by its Gerente General or such other person
or persons as he shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. CFP shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who
will, on behalf of CFP, take any action or execute any documents required or
permitted to be taken or executed by CFP pursuant to any of the provisions of
this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
CORPORACION FINANCIERA POPULAR
By /s / Rodrigo Escobar Navia
Authorized Representative


﻿12
SCHEDULE
Control and Reduction of Arrears
CFP will initiate a firm and concerted program of action to reduce arrears
to more acceptable levels, particularly arrears in excess of one year. This program
will, inter alia, include some or all of the following actions:
(a)   Reviewing the arrears affected portfolio on a case to case basis
periodically (for instance every six months) to gain an understanding of the factors
contributing to defaults and to identify appropriate measures for recovery.
(b)   When the arrears are due to interest liability falling due during the
construction period or an unrealistic repayment schedule because of inadequate
appraisal, evaluating the desirability of rescheduling the financial terms.
(c)   Regularly reviewing staff levels and assignments of responsibility at
branch level to ensure that sufficient resources are being applied to the reduction
of arrears and that follow-up procedures are being properly carried out.
(d)   Ensuring that CFP's interest rate structure does not provide incentives
for borrowers to default in the payment of principal or interest to take advantage
of lower interest rates offered by the corporation.
(e)   Exploring, when appropriate, the possibility of reconstructing an ailing
enterprise under new management with the assistance of other creditors or related
industrial concerns.
(f)   If other courses of action do not bear results, giving warning of CFP's
intention to institute legal proceedings and taking firmer legal actions against
defaulting parties than in the past.
The position of defaulting concerns will be reviewed periodically and reports
submitted to the Board of Directors indicating the actions taken and further action
planned. Such reports will be used to ensure that CFP makes adequate provisions
from year to year towards bad and doubtful debts.


