714
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1071 CO
Loan Agreement
(Small-Scale Industry Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DATED JANUARY 16, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 1071 CO
Loan Agreement
(Small-Scale Industry Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
AND
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
DATED JANUARY 16, 1975


﻿LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated January 16, 1975, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter called the
Bank) and BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA (hereinafter called the Borrower).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank,
dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were fully set
forth herein, subject. however, to the modifications thereof set forth in Schedule
2 to this Agreement (said General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee
Agreements of the Bank, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Declaration of Policies and Procedures" means the declaration of
lending and investment policy approved by the Board of Directors of Corporacion
Financiera Popular (CFP) on October 27, 1974, as amended to the date of this
Agreement;
(b)   "Estatutos" means the Estatutos of CFP, dated November 25, 1969,
as amended to the date of this Agreement and as the same may be amended from
time to time;
(c)   "foreign currency" means any currency other than the currency of
the Guarantor;
(d)   "Investment Enterprise" means a privately controlled enterprise to
which CFP proposes to make or has made a sub-loan or a technical assistance
sub-loan;
(e)   "Investment Project" means a specific development project for
productive purposes within the territories of the Borrower to be carried out by
an Investment Enterprise utilizing the proceeds of a sub-loan;


﻿4
(f)   "Pesos" and "Col.$" mean the currency of the Guarantor;
(g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Bank and CFP
of even date herewith, as the same may be amended from time to time, and includes
the Schedule to this Agreement;
(h)   "sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made by CFP out
of the proceeds of the Loan to an Investment Enterprise for an Investment Project
and "free-limit sub-loan" means a sub-loan, as so defined, which qualifies as a
free-limit sub-loan pursuant to the provisions of Section 2.02(b) of this Agreement;
(i)   "subsidiary" means any company of which a majority of the
outstanding voting stock or other proprietary interest is owned or effectively
controlled by CFP or any Investment Enterprise or by any one or more subsidiaries
of CFP or any Investment Enterprise or by CFP or any Investment Enterprise
and one or more of its subsidiaries;
(j)   "Subsidiary Loan" means the loan made by the Borrower to CFP under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(k)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Borrower and CFP pursuant to Section 3.02 (a) of this
Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(1)   "technical assistance" means a technical assistance investment and a
technical assistance sub-loan;
(m)   "technical assistance investment" means an investment to finance
consultants' costs of economic and sectoral studies related to small and
medium-scale industry and of evaluating CFP's technical assistance programs and
organizational improvements; and
(n)   "technical assistance sub-loan" means a sub-loan made or proposed
to be made by CFP to an Investment Enterprise for the purpose of financing
technical assistance.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions in the Loan Agreement set forth or referred to, an amount in various
currencies e .uivalent to five million five hundred thousand dollars ($5,500,000).


﻿5
Section 2.02. (a) The Borrower may withdraw from the Loan Account:
(i)        such amounts as shall have been disbursed (or, if the Bank shall
so agree, amounts required to meet disbursements to be made)
by CFP in a currency other than pesos to finance the reasonable
cost of equipment, machinery and civil works required for the
Investment Project in respect of which the withdrawal is
requested;
(ii)       the equivalent of ninety per cent (90%) of such amounts as shall
have been disbursed (or, if the Bank shall so agree, amounts
required to meet disbursements to be made) by CFP in pesos
to finance equipment, the reasonable cost of machinery and civil
works required for the Investment Project in respect of which
the withdrawal is requested; and
(iii)      one hundred per cent (100%) of such amounts as shall have
been disbursed (or if the Bank shall so agree, amounts required
to meet disbursements to be made) by CFP in pesos to finance
technical assistance under a technical assistance investment or
a technical assistance sub-loan;
provided, however, that no withdrawals shall be made:
(i)        in respect of payment for taxes levied by, or in the territory
of, the Borrower on goods or services, or on the importation,
manufacture, procurement or supply thereof;
(ii)       on account of amounts disbursed under any sub-loan which by
itself or together with any other sub-loan to the sarne Investment
Enterprise shall exceed Col.$2,500,000 or Col.$4,000,000 in the
case of an Investment Enterprise with total assets over
Col.$10,000,000 but not exceeding Col.$20,000,000; and
(iii)      in respect of a sub-loan oy a technical assistance investment
unless (A) the sub-loan or the technical assistance investment
shall have been approved by the Bank, or (B) the sub-loan shall
be a free-limit sub-loan approved by CFP.
(b)   A free-limit sub-loan shall be a sub-loan:
(i)        made or proposed to be made by CFP; and


﻿6
(ii)       limited to an amount to be financed under this Agreement
which shall not exceed the sum of Col.$1,500,000 when added
to any other outstanding amounts financed or proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan for such Investment
Project, the foregoing amount being subject to change from time
to time as determined by the Bank after informing the Guarantor
of the reasons for any such change.
(c)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no
withdrawals shall be made on account of expenditures made by an Investment
Enterprise in respect of a sub-loan subject to the Bank's approval, if such
expenditures shall have been made before the date of this Agreement or more
than 180 days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have received in respect
of such sub-loan the application and information required by Section 2.03(a) of
this Agreement or, under a free-limit sub-loan, more than 180 days prior to the
date on which CFP shall have approved such free-limit sub-loan.
Section 2.03. (a) When submitting a sub-loan (other than a free-limit sub-loan)
to the Bank for approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application,
in form satisfactory to the Bank, together with a description of the Investment
Enterprise and an appraisal of the Investment Project (including a description of
the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and
the proposed terms and conditions of t:-e sub-loan.
(b)   When submitting a technical assistance investment to the Bank for
approval, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank an application, in form satisfactory
to the Bank, together with a description of the objectives to be pursued with
such investment (including a description of the expenditures proposed to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan) and the proposed terms and conditions
of the technical assistance investment.
(c)   Each request by CFP to the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect of a free-limit sub-loan shall contain a summary description
of the Investment Enterprise and the Investment Project (including a description
of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan)
and the terms and conditions of such free-limit sub-loan. The Borrower shall furnish
to the Bank a summary of the description of expenditures referred to above.
(d)   Each request by CFP to the Borrower to make withdrawals from the
Loan Account in respect of a technical assistance sub-loan shall contain a summary
description of the objectives to be pursued with such sub-loan (including a
description of the expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿7
the Loan) and the terms and conditions of the technical assistance sub-loan. The
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a summary of the description of expenditures
referred to above.
(e)   Except as the Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, applications
and requests made pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d)
of this Section shall be submitted to the Bank on or before December 31, 1976.
(f)   In approving a sub-loan or a technical assistance investment or in
authorizing withdrawals in respect of a free-limit sub-loan or a technical assistance
sub-loan, the Bank shall allocate such part of the Loan as it shall determine to
the Investment Project or the technical assistance proposed to be financed and
shall notify the Borrower of such allocation. At the request of the Borrower, the
Bank shall reduce such allocation by any amounts not required for such Investment
Project or technical assistance, and such amounts may be reallocated to other
Investment Projects or technical assistance, respectively.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1977 or such other
date as shall be determined by the Bank.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the amount
of the Loan allocated from    time to time to Investment Projects or technical
assistance pursuant to Section 2.03(f) of this Agreement and not withdrawn from
the Loan Account. Such charge shall accrue from the several dates on which
amounts shall be allocated to Investment Projects or technical assistance to the
respective dates on which (a) they are withdrawn from the Loan Account or are
cancelled pursuant to Article VI of the General Conditions or (b) the allocation
to Investment Projects or technical assistance is reduced in respect of such amounts
pursuant to said Section 2.03(f).
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest at the rate of eight per cent
(8%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding
from time to time.
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semi-annually on
March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan
in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 1 to this
Agreement.


﻿8
ARTICLE III
Description of the Project;
Use of the Proceeds of the Loan
Section 3.01. The purpose of the Project is to assist CFP in financinc. such
productive facilities and resources in Colombia as shall contribute to the ecoi1omic
and social development of the country. The Project consists in the financing of:
(a) technical assistance under technical assistance investments and technical
assistance sub-loans; and (b) Investment Projects through sub-loans to Investment
Enterprises in accordance with the Estatutos and the Declaration of Policies and
Procedures of CFP.
Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower
shall relend the proceeds of the Loan to CFP under a subsidiary loan agreement,
satisfactory to the Bank, between the Borrower and CFP, which shall include inter
alia the following allocation to CFP of the proceeds of the Loan:
(i)         an amount equivalent to $500,000 for technical assistance
investments and technical assistance sub-l0ans;
(ii)        an amount of up to the equivalent of $1,875,000 for sub-loans
approved by the Bank or CFP pursuant to Section 2.03(a) and
(b)  espectively, of this Agreement to Investment Enterprises
with total assets not exceeding Col.$10,000,000;
(iii)       an amount of up to the equivalent of $625,000 for sub-loans
approved by the Bank or CFP pursuant to Section 2.03(a) and
(b), respectively, of this Agreement to Investment Enterprises
with total assets over Col.$10,000,000 but not exceding
Col.$20,000,000; and
(iv)        amounts of up to the equivalent of (1) $1,875,000 for the
purposes specified in (ii) above and (2) $625,000 for the
purposes specified in (iii) above, provided, that: (A) the amounts
allocated in (ii) and (iii) above shall have previously been
committed in full; (B) the Bank shall have reviewed the interest
rates charged on sub-loans, and, if found inappropriate, the
Borrower and the Guarantor shall have revised such interest rates
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (C) the performance
of CFP in carrying out the Project, including Sections 2.07 and


﻿9
2.08 of the Project Agreement, during the period in which the
funds allocated in (ii) and (iii) above have been committed, shall
have been satisfactory to the Bank.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations
under this Agreement, the Borrower shall cause CFP to perform in accordance
with the provisions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein
set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action necessary or appropriate to
enable CFP to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken
any action which would prevent or interfere with such performance.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall not, without the prior agreement of the
Bank, suspend or terminate the right of CFP to have access to the proceeds of
the Loan under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or declare the principal amount
of the Subsidiary Loan thereunder due and payable prior to the agreed maturity
unless the right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of the Loan shall have
been suspended or terminated by the Bank or the Bank shall have declared the
principal amount of the Loan relent to CFP to be due and payable immediately
or a default shall have occurred in the due and punctual payment of any monies
payable by CFP to the Borrower and such default shall continue for thirty days
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Borrower to CFP.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank all such information
as the Bank shall reasonably request concerning the expenditures of the proceeds
of the Loan.
Section 3.05. The Bank and the Borrower shall from time to time, at the
request of either party, exchange views through their representatives with regard
to the performance of their respective obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain records adequate to reflect
separately from its other operations and in accordance with consistently maintained
sound accounting practices the operations in respect of the Project.


﻿10
(b)   The Borrower shall (i) have the records referred to in paragraph (a)
hereof for each fiscal year certified in accordance with sound principles consistently
applied by an organization acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months after the end of
each such year, (A) certified copies of such records for such year as so certified
and (B) the report of such certification by said organization, of such scope and
in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to
the Bank such other information concerning such records and the certification
thereof as the Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   a default shall occur in the due and punctual payment of any amount
payable by CFP to the Borrower under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(b)   a default shall occur in the performance of any other obligation on
the part of CFP under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c)   any part of the principal amount of any loan to CFP having an original
maturity of one year or more shall, in accordance with its terms, have become
due and payable in advance of maturity as provided in the relative contractual
instruments, or any security for any such loan shall have become enforceable;
(d)   CFP shall have been unable to pay its debts as they mature or any
action or proceeding shall have been taken by CFP or by others whereby any
of the property of CFP shall or may be distributed among its creditors;
(e)   a change shall have been made in the Estatutos or in the Declaration
of Policies and Procedures of CFP which shall, in the Bank's judgment, materially
and adversely affect the financial condition or operations of CFP;
(f)   a resolution shall have been passed for the dissolution or liquidation
of CFP;
(g)   the Guarantor or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of CFP or for the
suspension of its operations; and


﻿11
(h)   a subsidiary or any other entity shall have been created or acquired
or taken over by CFP, if such creation, acquisition or taking over would adversely
affect the conduct of CFP's business or CFP's financial situation or the efficiency
of CFP's management and personnel or the carrying out of the Project.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraph (a) or paragraph (c) or paragraph (e)
of Section 5.01 shall occur and shall continue for a period of thirty days;
(b)   the event specified in paragraph (  or paragraph (h) of Section 5.01
shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower, the Guarantor and CFP; and
(c)   the event specified in paragraph (d) or paragraph (f) or paragraph (g)
of Section 5.01 shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of this Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01(c)
of the General Conditions:
(a)   The execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
CFP have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action.
(b)   The execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on
behalf of the Borrower and CFP have been duly authorized or ratified by all
corporate and governmental action.
(c)   The condition of CFP as represented or warranted to the Bank at
the date of this Agreement has undergone no material adverse change between
such date and the date agreed upon between the Bank and CFP for purposes of
this paragraph.
(d)   The contract for the study referred to in Section 2.09 of the Project
Agreement has been concluded.


﻿12
(e)   The amendment of CFP's Estatutos referred to in Section 3.08 of the
Project Agreement has been made.
(f)   CFP has employed the staff referred to in Section 3.09 of the Project
Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters within the
meaning of Section 12.01(c) of the General Conditions to be included in the opinion
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, CFP, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of CFP in accordance with its terms.
(b)   That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and CFP and
constitutes a valid and binding obligation of the Borrower and of CFP in accordance
with its terms.
(c)   That the amendment of CFP's Estatutos referred to in Section 3.08
of the Project Agreement is valid and binding under the laws of the Guarantor.
Section 6.03. The date of April 16, 1975, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Miscellaneous
Secticm 7.01. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INTBAFRAD
Washington, D.C.


﻿13
For the Borrower:
Banco de la Repiblica
Bogotd, Colombia
Cable address:
REDESBANCO
Bogotd
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s / Gerald Alter
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO DE LA REPUBLICA
By /s/ Oscar Alviar
Authorized Representative


﻿14
SCHEDULE 1
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                                (expressed in dollars)*
September 15, 1978                                  230,000
March 15, 1979                                      240,000
September 15, 1979                                  250,000
March 15, 1980                                      265,000
September 15, 1980                                  270,000
March 15, 1981                                      280,000
September 15, 1981                                  295,000
March 15, 1982                                      305,000
September 15, 1982                                  320,000
March 15, 1983                                      330,000
September 15, 1983                                  340,000
March 15, 1984                                      360,000
September 15, 1984                                  370,000
March 15, 1985                                      385,000
September 15, 1985                                  405,000
March 15, 1986                                      415,000
September 15, 1986                                  440,000
*    To the extent that any portion of the Loan is repayable in a currency other
than dollars (see General Conditions, Section 4.02), the figures in this column
represent dollar equivalents determined as for purposes of withdrawal.


﻿15
Premiums on Prepayment
The following percentages are specified as the premiums payable on
repayment in advance of maturity of any portion of the principal amount of the
Loan pursuant to Section 3.05(b) of the General Conditions or to Section 2.09(a)
of the Loan Agreement:
Time of Prepayment                                Premium
Not more than two years
before maturity                               1-1/4%
More than two years but
not more than four
years before maturity                         2-1/2%
More than four years but
not more than eight
years before maturity                         4-1/4%
More than eight years but
not more than ten
years before maturity                         6-1/2%
More than ten years
before maturity                                  8%


﻿16
SCHEDULE 2
Modifications of the General Conditions
For the purposes of the Loan Agreement, the provisions of the General
Conditions are modified as follows:
(1)   The following subparagraph (d) is added to Section 3.05:
"(d) The Bank and the Borrower may from time to time agree upon
arrangements for prepayment of the Loan and the application of such
prepayment in addition to, or in substitution for, those set forth in paragraph
(b) of Section 3.05."
(2)   The words "Investment Projects" are substituted for the words "the
Project" at the end of Section 5.03.
(3)   Section 6.03 is deleted and replaced by the following new Section:
"Section 6.03. Cancellation by the Bank. If (a) the right of the
Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have been
suspended with respect to any amount of the Loan for a continuous period
of thirty days or (b) by the date specified in paragraph (e) of Section 2.03
of the Loan Agreement no applications or requests permitted under paragraph
(a) or paragraph (b) or paragraph (c) or paragraph (d) of such Section shall
have been received by the Bank in respect of any portion of the Loan, or
having been so received, shall have been denied, or (c) after the Closing
Date an amount of the Loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan
Account, the Bank may by notice to the Borrower terminate the right of
the Borrower to submit such applications or requests or to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account, as the case may be, with respect to such amount
or portion of the Loan. Upon the giving of such notice such amount or
portion of the Loan shall be cancelled."


