RESTRICTED
Report No.  PU-51a
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
TEHRAN POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRICITY COMPANY
IRAN
October 13, 1970
Public Utilities Projects Department



CURRENCY bQUIVALENTS
Us$1                           =          Rials (Rls) 75
Rls 1 s                                   US 1.33 cents
Rls 1 million                  =          US$13,333
Rls 1 billion                  =          US$13,333,333
UNITS AND EQUIVALENTS
kl                             =          Kilowatt
14W                            =          Megawatt (1,000 kW)
kih                            =          Kilowatt hour
GWh                            =          Gigawatt hour (1,000,000 kWh)
kV                             =          Kilovolt
kVA                            =          Kilovolt-ampere
MVA             -=                        Megavolt-ampere
One kilometer (Ida)                       0.6214 miles
One square kilometer (Im2)                0.386 square miles
LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS
TRlC                                      Tehran Regional Electricity
Company
PLAN                                      The Plan Organization
AID                                       US Agency for International
Development
LEB                                       London Electricity Board
The Third Development Plan - 1963 - 1967
The Fourth Development Plan - 1968 - 1972
TREC's fiscal year coincides with the Iranian calendar year, which ends
usually on March 21; throughout this report, unless otherwise indicated,
the gregorian calendar year has been used to indicate the Iranian year
starting March 22 of that year, e.g. 1970 refers to the Iranian year
1349, starting March 22, 1970 and ending March 21, 1971.



IRANJ
TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRICITY OOMPANY
APPRAISAL OF TEHRBN POWER DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
TAELE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SUMMUARY AND CONCLUSIONS                             i - ii
I.   INTRODUCTION                                           1
II.   THE POWER SECTOR                                       2
Economic Background                                2
Sector Organization                                2
Sector Finances                                    5
Development of Sector Facilities                   6
III.   THE TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRICITY COIPANY                8
Organization                                       8
Assets and Capitalization                          9
Current Position                                 10
Audit                                             11
Tariffs                                           11
Operations                                        12
Forecast Operations                               12
The Financing of the Construction Program         13
Facilities of the Tehran Regional
Electricity Company                         14
IV.   THE PROJECT                                           16
Cost Estimate                                     16
Engineering, Construction and Scheduling          18
Procurement and Disbursement                      18
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                                  20
Load Growth                                       20
Residential Load                                  20
Commercial Load                                   21
Industrial Consumption                            21
Irrigation Load                                   21
Total Load                                        22
Internal Financial Return                         22
VI.   AGREEMENTS REACHED DURING NEGOTIATIONS                23
This report was prepared by D. King and G. Vacchelli on the basis of a
mission to Iran in April/May 1970, and subsequent discussion with the
Iranian authorities in Tehran and Washington in September 1970.



LIST OF ANNEXES
ANNEX 1      -      Organization, Ministry of  Water and Power
ANNME  2     -      Organization, Tehran Regional Electricity
Company
ANNEX 3      -      Sector Existing and Planned Generating
Capacity
ANNEX 4      -      Project Cost Estimate
ANNEX 5      -      Project Work Flow Diagram
ANNEX 6      -      TREC, Actual and Forecast Sales
ANNEX 7      -      Regional Electricity Companies, Income
Statements and Balance Sheets, 1967-1968
ANNEX 8      -      TREC, Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets,
1967 through 1975
ANNEX 9      -      TREC, Actual and Forecast Income Statements,
1967 through 1975
ANNEX 10     -      TREC, Forecast Sources and Applications of
Funds, 1970 through 1975
ANNEX 11     -      TREC, Summary Schedule of Tariffs
ANNEX 12     -      Proposed IBRD Loan - Estimated disbursement
schedule
AINEX 13     -      Internal Flinancial Return
IMAP



IRN
TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRICITY COMPANY
APPRAISAL OF TEHRAN POl,M  DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
SUNRMLY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        This report covers the appraisal of a project for the expansion
and improvement of the power distribution facilities in the city of Tehran,
a loan for which has been requested by the Ministry of Water and Power of
Iran. A loan of US$60 million equivalent, to cover the bulk of the foreign
exchange component is proposed; it would represent about 65% of the esti-
mated cost of the project. This would be the second loan for power, the
first loan (247-IRN) having been made in 1960 for US$42 million equivalent
for the Dez multipurpose project. While difficulties were experienced with
the financial performance of this project, it is now playing an important
role in the development of the country.
ii.        The proposed loan would be made to the Government of Iran.
The execution of the project would be the responsibility of the Tehran
Regional Electricity Company (TREC), to which the proceeds of the loan
would be made available in the form of debt on the same terms as the Bank
loan. TREC is owned by the Government and, under the supervision of the
Ministry of Water and Power, is responsible for power distribution in the
Tehran region.
iii.      The proposed loan would finance a much needed project.  The
demand for electricity in Tehran has been expanding at a very high rate
because of population growth and industrialization. The continuation of
this trend and the need to corpensate for present inadequacies in supply
necessitate a substantial expansion of distribution facilities, including
the installation of a 230 kV ring transmission system around the city.
Generating capacity is already under construction to supply the increase
in demand associated with the proposed project, which would be carried
out in 1971-1973. The large scale of the proposed project is in keeping
with the distribution system needs. The assistance of consultants qua-
lified in electricity distribution is essential to ensure proper coordi-
nation and execution. TREC has already entered into satisfactory arrange-
ments with the London Electricity Board (L.E.B.) to this effect.
iv.       The power sector is organized into eleven regional distribution
companies (among which TREC), a generation and transmission company, and
several service companies, all under the supervision of the Ministry of
Water and Power which, however, is not geared to assume an effective
managerial role, particularly of such a dispersed group of companies.
The problems which result from the lack of coordinated control of the
companies are particularly acute in the administrative and financial
fields. While it may not be possible to accomplish, in conjunction with
this loan, all of the sector reforms that would be desirable, the stucies



- ii -
concerning sector review that would be initiated, and their subsequent
discussion by the Iranian Government and the Bank, should help achieve
further reforms in the future. The Ministry of Water and Power has
agreed to review the organization of the sector and discuss it with the
Bank in the course of the next year.
v.        TREC is much the largest of the regional companies and while it
is the most developed, it is not yet functioning as efficiently as it
should. The proposed loan includes provisions which should help accel-
erate the pace of the improvements now underway in its operating standards.
vi.       TREC's cash generation during the construction period would pro-
vide the local currency needs of the project and, in addition, a large
surplus for transfer, as in recent years, to the poorer regional power
companies. These transfers have constituted an important source of fi-
nance for the latter companies' construction programs. In effect, the
sector companies are operated as divisions of the Ministry, which dis-
tributes the funds available to the companies in accordance with their
expansion needs. This arrangement is appropriate for the present seg-
mented sector organization and the imbalance between TREC and the other
companies from the standpoint of service areas, profitability and re-
sources.
vii.      The project would form a suitable basis for a loan of US$60
million equivalent, for a term of 20 years including about h years
of grace.



IRAN
TEHRAN REGIOIAL ELT fRICITY COMPANY
APPRAISAL OF TEIRAiN P?TOR DISTRIBUTION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Ministry of Water and Power, which is responsible for the
public power sector in Iran, has asked the Bank for a loan of US$60
million equivalent to cover the bulk of the foreign exchange require-
ments of a project estimated to cost US$93 million equivalent. The Pro-
ject would form a part of the country's power development program in the
period 1970-73, which is estimated to cost about US$550 million equivalent.
1.02      The project comprises the expansion of the distribution system
in the capital city of Tehran, including the installation of a 230 kV ring
transmission system around the city to supply the distribution system. The
work would be carried out in the period 1971-73 by the Tehran Regional
Electricity Company (TREC) which is owned by the Government and is under
the supervision of the Ministry of Water and Power.
1.03      The loan would be made to the Government of Iran.  The PLAN
Organization, which has responsibility for programming, allocating and
channelling funds for the public sector, and which generally contracts
foreign loans on behalf of the Government or its agencies, will act on
behalf of the Government. PLAN will make the loan funds available, in
turn, to TREC on the same terms.
1.04      The project is very large in terms of the existing power facili-
ties in Tehran. The need for it arises from the very rapid growth of
Tehran's population, industry and commerce and the inadequate state of
its electric power distribution facilities. The project forms an essential
part of the Government's program to rationalize power supply; it would
also be needed to complement the new generating capacity being installed
to supply Tehran and other areas.
1.05      This would be the second loan for power in Iran.  The first,
Loan 247-IRN, for US$42 million was made in 1960 for the Dez multipurpose
project. The Khuzestan Water and Power Authority (lMPA), which is now
under the supervision of the Ministry of Water and Power, was formed to
operate the project and to promote economic development in the region.
While its performance has been less than satisfactory on conventional
financial grounds because of the high expenses inherent in administering
a regional authority of this nature and the low charges made for electric-
ity, the project has played an important role in the development of the
region.
1.06      This report was prepared by Messrs. D. King and G. Vacchelli on
the basis of a mission to Iran in April/May 1970. Mr. D. Suratgar joined
the mission for discussions concerning the legal aspects of sector organi-
zation and loan arrangements, and Mr. C. Ohri in connection with problems
concerning teclnical specifications and procurement. Subsequent discuss-
ions took place in Tebran. during a -Tisit b:y Messrs. King and Escherberg,
aiad in Washin-ton dirirg ivigotiatioas.



- 2 -
II. THE P0WE SECTOR
Economic Background
2.01      Iran has an area of 1,648,000 km2. The population in 1969 was
estimated at 28 million and is increasing at the rate of 3% annually.
The country has diverse physical features, ranging from the lush semi-
tropical rice-growing area bordering the Caspian Sea to the arid regions
bordering the Persian Gulf.
2.02      Agriculture is most developed in the northern part of the country
and accounts for 24% of GNP; manufacturing and mining, although rapidly
expanding, account for only about 12% of GNP. Although some industrial
development has occured in most main cities, it is concentrated in Tehran.
Iran's oil production represents about 7% of the world's total; it accounts
for 18% of GNP and provides 80% of foreign exchange earnings and half of
Government revenues.
2.03      Development of the country has been very rapid.  GNP grew at an
amnnual rate of 8.6% in real terms during the Third Plan period, 1963-67,
exceeding the target rate of 6%. The target for the Fourth Plan, 1968-
1972, is 9.4%; in fact, GNP growth has been 8% in 1968 and 10.2% in 1969.
The PLAN Organization expects that GNP will grow 10% annually during the
remainder of the Fourth Plan. During 1968 and 1969 the manufacturing
sector, excluding oil and mines, has grown at 14% and 10% respectively;
projected growth is at the rate of 16%.
2.04      The per capita income in 1967 was US$287 and is projected to
increase to US$390 by the end of the Fourth Plan. Prices have been
stable; the cost of living index has averaged an annual increase of only
about 1.5% since 1962.
2.O5      Tehran is the seat of the main industrial, commercial and
cultural activities of the country. It has grown very rapidly and now
has a population of more than 3 million people. Its population is growing
at the rate of 8% annually, of which 3% is natural growth and 5% represents
migration from rural and other areas. While the Government would like to
decentralize industry and avoid its continued concentration at Tehran, there
is little to indicate that the city will not continue its commercial,
physical and population growth at the same rate experienced in recent years.
Sector Organization
2.06      The Ministry of Water and Power has been responsible since 1964
for the public power sector. Historically, electricity facilities whether
owned by municipalities or in private hands were small in scale. One
reason for the late start in the organization of larger power systems was
that the distribution of oil at low price was well organized throughout the
country, making it relatively simple and cheap for industrial enterprIses



- 3 -
to provide their own diesel-electric generating capacity. In the late
1950's the PLAN Organization initiated a power development program which
included three large hydroelectric facilities, but it was only in the Third
Plan period, 1963-67, that there was a systematic attempt to organize the
industry.
2.07      In 1963 the Iranian Electricity Authority was created as the first
autonomous organization responsible for the electric power sector. Sub-
sequently, it was decided that an organization at the ministerial level with
wider authority and broader functions was needed to develop and administer
the electric power industry and the Ministry of Water and Power was created
in 1964 to supervise electric power operations and direct the basic activi-
ties of the industry.
2.08      In 1965 legislation was enacted to nationalize the electric power
industry, it being deemed impractical to develop and expand facilities
according to a national plan if they remained largely in the hands of muni-
cipalities and private interests. By 1967, the end of the Third Plan period,
most of the country's installed generating capacity was already under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry. Concurrently, expansion of generation and
transmission facilities was initiated on a large scale. During the Third
Plan generating capacity was increased from 400 MW to 1,300 MW; the gener-
ation of electric energy increased from 1.9 billion IWh to 4.3 billion kWh
annually, and transmission facilities were provided to make a start on
establishing an interconnected power system.
2.09      Appropriate credit must be given the Iranian authorities for the
initiative taken in the consolidation of many properties and the creation of
a sector entity which became the vehicle for large-scale expansion of sector
facilities on a planned basis. In the process, a number of companies were
established, under the authority of the Ministry, each responsible for
power operations in the region or province in which it was located. Ele-
ven such companies were created between 1965 and 1967. In turn associated
service companies were formed. These include a purchasing company which
acts as purchasing agent for the operating companies, particularly in the
making of bulk common purchases, and an auditing company to perform an
auditing and inspection role on behalf of the Ministry. A generation and
transmission company (Tavanir) was established in 1969, responsible for all
generation and transmission facilities in the public power sector. The re-
gional companies are now limited to power distribution only. The Minister
intends to create a company to provide consulting/engineering services for
the operating companies.
2.10      The Ministry 1/ has built up its own forces in the administrative,
engineering, financial and regulatory fields (see Annex 1). The Power
Division of the Ministry, with some 200 employees, administers the power
sector under the direction of a Deputy Minister. The companies under its
jurisdiction number about 6,000 employees.
1/ The Ministry of Water and Power is responsible not only for power but
for water resources including irrigation. There is a total of about
600 employees in the Ministry.



- 4 -
2.11      The power sector is becoming  more complex because of the pro-
liferation of companies within it and their increasing size, and serious
difficulties are becoming apparent in its adininistration. The individual
companies have limited autonomy in many important phases of their operations,
and in fact function to a considerable extent as operating divisions of the
Ministry. The planning and engineering of new facilities, the allocation
of financial resources to specific projects, the setting of the tariffs at
which the distribution companies purchase and sell power are all functions
of the Ministry. The Ministry's staff cannot properly fill this managerial
role, but functions largely in an advisory capacity with respect to the
operating companies, a situation which results in duplication of staff and
unclear division of responsibilities. In any case it would be difficult
for a Ministerial organization, lacking a legal corporate status, to function
as a management entity in the sense required.
2.12      In the planning and engineering of facilities the problems des-
cribed are compounded by the manner in which consultants are used. They are
usually hired by and made responsible to the Ministry. In the last few years
this has been on the basis, to a considerable extent, of individuals being
made available by the consulting firm to assist and advise the Ministry,
rather than of engaging the consulting firm per se for an assignment under
specific terms of reference and defined responsibility. As a result, con-
sultants' work frequently has lacked a comprehensive approach to the prob-
lems under study.
2.13      The Iranians have sometimes not given appropriate weight to con-
sultants' recommuendations concerning sector organization . In 1963/64 the
sector was to be organized on the basis of a regulatory authority, with
operations being carried out by autonomous regional companies, and the Bank
sponsored a consulting management study to implement such programs. The
concept of a regulatory authority was subsequently abandoned by the Iranians,
the autonomy of the regional companies became only nomainal, and the sector
was organized by the newly created Ministry as described (resulting in the
Bank discontinuing the consultant's assignment half way through its course).
In 1966/67 an AID sponsored management consulting group made up of U.S.
utility executives reviewed sector organization and prepared a development
program for the Fourth Plan. The most important recommendations on organi-
zation were that the decentralized character of the sector organization
should be discontinued, operations should be consolidated under a single
autonomous company and a regulatory authority for supervision of tariffs
and other industry matters should be established. Inhile this recommendation
was not accepted, some of the recommendations concerning the financial
operations were, as noted in para. 2.15.
2.14      As described in the foregoing, the efficiency of power sector
operations would benefit considerably from appropriate organizational re-
forms. In particular, the relationship between companies and the Ministry
in the fields of technical and financial planning needs review, to determine
the best means of providing proper direction and coordination commensurate
with a workable level of operating autonomy. These issues are becoming more



- 5 -
acute with rapid development of the power sector, as noted, and their care-
ful review in the near future would be of great importance to Iran.  In the
long term, the best framework for sector development might be provided by
the establishment, under the supervision of the Ministry, of a parent com-
pany, which would perform executive functions, and of which all sector com-
panies would be subsidiaries; an altemnative would be the consolidation of
all sector companies in one company. Of course, it will be a delicate and
time consuming task to review the present situation and the implications of
possible reforms, especially in view of the fact that the present situation
has evolved over a number of years and it is now set in something of a mold.
In the circumstances, responsibility for reexamination of sector organization
is best left to the Iranian authorities themselves. These issues have been
discussed with the Minister of Water and Power, and the agreement reached,
and confimred in a letter to the Bank, calls for a review of sector or-
ganization and discussions with the Bank on related issues, to be carried
out in the course of the next year.
Sector Finances
2.15      Under an AID grant, the Harza Engineering Company (U.S.A.) pro-
vided in 1967 a team, which is still resident in Iran, to render management,
financial and engineering services for the Ministry. Their role has been
important in implementing several of the recommendations of the AID manage-
ment consulting group (para. 2.13), including the introduction of a uniform
system of accounts, uniform depreciation rates, and the revision of tariffs.
However, the dispersion of their efforts among the many companies, coupled
with the lack of trained personnel and supervisors within the companies, has
made progress slow so far.
2.16      Consolidated financial statements for the sector have been com-
piled for 1967 a:-d 1958 (Annex 7); because of the poor state of some com-
panies' acccunts, most of the data presented are to some dsgree doubtful
but neverthioless give an indication of the relative financ4al positions of
the corqpanrrs.  TaEC emerges as the company that, under the present circums-
tances, makes the sector viable as whole, due to its comparatively profitable
service arca, the fact that its tariffs are somewhat higher than the sector
avera-te, anl3 the relative efficiency of its operations. Of the sector totals,
TREC acco'rt,s for 55% of the energy sales and 6% of the revenues. TREC's
rate of retQrn on net fixed assets in operation was 21% in 1968, much higher
than the sector's average; its cash generation of almost Rls 1.3 billion
accounted for 70% of that of the sector.
2.17      The investment program for the sector and its funding are for-
mulated by the Ministry and by the PLAN Organization. The funds are pro-
vided by the PLAN Organization and from the sector companies' cash gener-
ation. PLAN financing is predominantly for foreign exchange expenditures
and the funds have traditionally been made available as equity, although to
a considerable extent they originate from suppliers' credits and other
foreign financing.



2.18      This practice results in substantial subsidization of the power
sector by PLAN, which at least in the case of TREC is not justified in view
of its financial strength.  The Iranians have accordingly agreed to modify
these arrangements in the case of TREC. TREC will receive the proceeds of
the proposed Bank loan as debt on the original terms, and PLAN will make
available all other funds on terms no more favorable than the original ones,
effective the beginning of the Fifth Plan, in 1973. The only limit to this
policy would be the maintenance of a reasonable 55:45 debt/equity ratio.
This would ensure that practically all external funds that TREC is likaly
to receive from now on will have to be contracted as debt.
2.19      The balance of the sector investment funds, corresponding by and
large to the local currency requirements, is provided by the internal cash
generation of the power sector (current estimates put this contribution at
35% of the total 5-year investments). Given the widely different financial
strengths of the companies, it is not surprising that TREC, which accounts
for 70% of sector internal cash generation, makes surpluses over its own
local currency requirements available for investment in other regional com-
panies. The allocation of these funds, treated formally as loans (para. 3.11),
is determined by the Ministry according to project priorities, the entire
sector being treated for financing purposes as an entity.
2.20      It is clear that coordination of the sector's financial activities
is not yet adequate. N4hile the Ministry establishes priorities and allocates
funds available from both PLAN and the internal cash generation of the com-
panies, it has not yet developed an effective organization and flow of in-
formation to do so on the basis of a comprehensive financial plan. It can-
not therefore accurately forecast the financial prospects and requirements
of the sector. Under these circumstances it is clearly difficult to frame
a long term financial policy in which the operation and performance of the
companies would be coordinated with sector objectives.
2.21      This situation would be much improved by the implementation of a
satisfactory uniform accounting system for all. tegional companies.-
As noted (para. 2.15) the Harza consulting group has been assisting the
Iranians in this task; the Iranian authorities have agreed with the Bank on
a target date of three years from now for completion of this task, and to keep
the Bank informed from time to time on progress achieved. It has also been
agreed that information on the financial situation of the regional companies
other than TREC would be made available to the Bank, an important step towards
making possible a comprehensive understanding of the power sector. These
undertakings have been confirmed in a letter by the Minister of Water and
Power to the Bank.
Development of Sector Facilities
2.22      The Government accepted the recommendations of the AID-sponsored
mission in 1966/67 for development of the power facilities and adopted them
as the program for the Fourth Plan. The program, which is now well underway,
is appropriate to the long terM development of the power sector. While there



have been some changes in estimates and details, they have not been of
substance. Annex 3 gives details of existing generating capacity, and
the generating facilities to be provided. The map shows existing and
future transmission lines which are being added to the system to inter-
connect the various areas as new generating facilities are added. By
1975 the bulk of the country's power supply will be interconnected. The
following table summarizes the generating capacity additions, and the es-
timated demand year by year. The generating capacity program is well
tailored to the forecast demands.
1969   1970   1971   1972   1973   1974  1975
Additional Generating
Capacity, 1W                      203    451    720     -     500    500
Total Generating
Capacity, KW              976  1,179  1,630  2,340  2,340  2,840  3,340
Total System
Load, MW                  762    998  1,345  1,812  2,113  2,460  2,877



- 8 -
III. THE TfIRAM  REfIONAI ELECTRICITY COMPANY
3.01      The Tehran Regional Electricity Company serves an area of about
155,000 km2 in north-central Iran, including the city of Tehran. The pop-
ulation of the service area is five million (18% of the country's total),
of which 60% is in the Tehran metropolitan area. In TREC's service area
the power demand was about 360 MW in 1969, with sales of 1.416 billion kWh
representing about 55% of total power consumption of the country. Sales
are about evenly divided in residential, commercial and industrial usage.
Tehran accounts for about 93% of consumption in TREC's service area.
Organization
3.02      The Tehran Regional Electricity Company was constituted under
legislation enacted in 1964, to produce, transmit and supply electricity
in its service area. As noted in paragraph 2.09, the production and trans-
mission function was removed from it and transferred to the generation and
transmission company in 1969.
3.03      The company is under the direction of the Ministry, control being
exercised through the "General Meeting" of shareholders (in which de facto
the Ministry holds all the share capital).  The General Meeting appoints
the Board of Directors and the Managing Director of TREB.
3.o4      The General. Meeting consists of the representative of the Ministry
of Water and Power, usually the Minister himself, and the Board of Directors
of the company. It approves the budget and balance sheet of the company,
determines the distribution of profit, and approves personnel employment,
the fiscal and organization regulations of the company, and the operational
plan and policy for the forthcoming year. The Ministry thus controls very
closely the company (as all sector companies) and TRED functions autonomously
mainly in its day-to-day operations.
3.05      The Board of Directors consists of three members and an alternate,
elected for a term of three years. In the case of TREC it consists of the
Managing Director and two Vice Presidents of the company. It functions in
reality as a management committee exercising supervision over day-to-day
operations.
3.06      The Managing Director is in charge of financial, technical and
administrative operations of the company, including the execution of the
personnel regulations, preparation of the annual budget, financial state-
ments and operational plan.
3.07      Electricity tariffs are supervised and determined by the Ministry.
While TREC (and other companies) may make recommendations concerning tariffs,
they have no legal authority in this respect.



- 9 -
3.08      TREC is organized along conventional utility lines as shown in
Annex 2. 'Jnder the Managing Director there are three vice presidents -
finance, technical - including operations and engineering -- and adminis-
tration. The Managing Director assumed office in mid-1969; previously he
was Deputy Minister of the Power Division of the Ministry of Water and Power
for three years and prior to that was associated with the PLAN Organization.
The position of technical vice president was vacant until filled recently
by the managing director of one of the smaller regions. Total employment
is about 3,600 of which 3,000 are in the Tehran metropolitan region. This
represents a ratio of about 140 customers per employee, which is not un-
reasonable for a metropolitan utility operation.
Assets and Capitalization
3.09      TREC's accounts have been found in poor condition.  However, as
noted in the following, the company has already underway a number of mea-
sures to improve its accounts and implement modern and efficient account-
ing systems. Furthermore, TREC has agreed to review with the Bank the re-
sults of these measures in a year from effectiveness of the proposed loan
and implement such additional measures as may still be required.
3.10      TRECts Balance Sheet as of March 21, 1970 (Annex 8), gives the
gross value of fixed assets in operation at Rls 4.5 billion (US$60 million).
However, this figure may be an understatement. As of that date, the com-
pany was still in the process of determining more accurately the value of
the facilities transferred to the generation and transmission company in
mid-1969, which is estimated at about Rls 3.1 billion (US$41 million).
Furthermore, the value of the distribution facilities may be understated
because of possible incorrect charges to plant in the past, and delayed
and incomplete recording of facilities financed by PLAN, in part because
of the latter's administrative procedures. TREC, with the help of the
Harza consultants, should be able to complete the determination of proper
asset values in the course of the current fiscal year. Current capital
expenditures are being properly accounted for.
3.11      An important component of TREC's assets consists of interest-
free loans extended to other power companies to help finance their con-
struction programs (para. 2.19), amounting to Rls 1.9 billion (US$25 million)
as of March 1970.  However, no debt instruments have been executed, so tlhat
the obligation to repay is no more than a statement of intention. These
loans really represent a permanent investment in power facilities outside
TREC's region, reflecting the framework of present sector organization
(para. 2.19). Satisfactory assurances have been received that such trans-
fers would be reviewed in the future so as to avoid any adverse effects on
TREC's own financial situation.
3.12      The following table summarizes the actual capitalization as of the
end of fiscal years 1967 and 1969.  It also shows the expected capitalization
as of the end of fiscal years 1971 and 1973, based on the forecast discussed
in paras. 3.21 and 3.22.



- 10 -
Summary Capitalization
(in millions of Rls)
Fiscal Year                    1967      1969      1971       1973
Equity
Government Equity            4,024       706        706       706
Municipality Equity          1,227        -         -         -
Surplus and Reserves         2,315     5,094    8,oo6    13,366
Subtotal             7,566     5,800     8,712    14,072
Long Term Debt
Proposed IBRD Loan             -         -         975      3,975
Customers' Loans             1,1482    1,900     1,750      1,500
Municipality Loans             _          725       447       181
Subtotal             1,482     2,625     3,172      5_656
Total                9,048     8,425    11,884    l9,728
3.13      The tabulation reflects the shift which is taking place in
TREC's financing, from direct Government equity investment supplemented by
customers' loans to a much greater reliance on self-financing. In the past
direct Government equity investments through PLAN (44% of total capitaliza-
tion as of March 1968) were used mainly to finance TREC's former generation
and transmission facilities; during 1969 these Government investments were
transferred to the books of the new generation and transmission company.
The Municipality equity corresponds to the value of municipal power
facilities taken over by TREC; during 1969 it was converted into debt,
to be completely amortized by 1975. Retained earnings, representing only
26% of total capitalization in 1968, but more than 60% from March 1970 on,
are not only becoming TREC's major source of financing but are expected to
continue to supplement PLAN funds in financing other power companies,
investments (para. 3.11). Residential connections have been mainly fi-
nanced with customers' loans in aid of construction, repayable over 5 to
10 years but interest-free. They constituted TREC's only direct debt; this
practice has been discontinued in 1969 and the outstanding amounts will be
amortized as scheduled.
Current Position
3.14      The ratio of current assets to current liabilities was 2.1 as of
the end of fiscal 1970. Current assets included receivables of old and
uncertain origin, most of which may be written off on completion of a
detailed investigation now underway. The value of stores is also in doubt;
it should be established in a few months' time as the result of an inventory
now underway. Stores will be kept up-to-date by a centralized control sys-
tem now in the course of introduction.



- 11 -
3.15      Customers' accounts receivable have represented in the past as
much as six months sales but the current situation has recently been much
improved as billing in Tehran has been computerized and collections are
closely followed up. This is not yet reflected in the Balance Sheet be-
cause some old arrears remain unpaid; it is expected, however, that they
will be collected in the course of 1970.
Audit
3.16      In 1969 the Ministry established a sector auditing company to
audit the companies under its control. However, this company could not be
expected to perform an independent audit, as required by the Bank, because
it is directly controlled by the Ministry. During negotiations it was
accordingly agreed that TREC will retain independent and qualified auditors
as a condition of effectiveness of the proposed loan. Certified financial
statements, accompanied by the auditors report, will be submitted to the
Bank not later than six months from the end of each fiscal year.
3.17      In the past, TREC's accounts have not been audited and, as noted,
there are doubts on their detailed accuracy; this, however, does not refleet
on TREC's financial situation, which appears basically sound. The current
review and reorganization of TREC's accounts (paras. 3.09, 3.10, 3.14, 3.19
and 3.20) should improve the situation; but in the meantime it has been im-
possible to provide audited statements in conjunction with the proposed loan.
However, the audit of the financial statements for the last fiscal year,
ended March 1970, will be undertaken by TREC's auditors as soon as they will
have been engaged, and audited accounts will be submitted to the Bank
promptly.
Tariffs
3.18      In 1967 and 1968 the average revenue per kWh was in the order of
Rls 2.45 (or US3.3 cents), the level and structure of tariffs still reflect-
ing the situation, which existed for a number of years, whereby unit prices
increased sharply with increased consumption and there were as many as 51
classes of tariffs. High minimum monthly charges were a common feature of
industrial and commercial tariffs, and peak consumption was discouraged by
the imposition of very high incremental charges in view of the lack of
distribution facilities.
3.19      In December 1969 TREC introduced new tariffs aimed at achieving
simplicity of administration and, since the supply situation was improving,
a promotional effect on sales. This resulted in a 15% reduction in the
average revenue per kWh to Rls 2.11 (or US2.8 cents). The new tariffs
(Annex 11) are structured in five classes: residential, commercial,
small industry, large industry and irrigation pumping. In each class a
reasonable minimum charge covers the first tranche of demand, while the
charges per kWh progressively decrease for successive increments in con-
sumption, following common utility practice. The tariff structure is
satisfactory. Because of inadequate information (paras. 3.10, 3.20 and



- 12 -
3.23) it would be impossible at this stage to determine tariffs (or to pass
a judgement on their adequacy) on the basis of a given return on fixed assets
or other conventional criteria. Measures to provide adequate information on
which to base tariffs are underway. At the moment it can be said that the
present level of tariffs allows for a high level of cash generation in re-
lation to TREC's own investment requirements.
Operations
3.20      TREC's rate of return on net fixed assets in operation plus a
working capital allowance ranged from 17% in 1967 to 13% in 1968 and 29% in
1969. These variations are due to the changes in the composition of its
assets, resulting from the addition of a major thermal plant in 1968 and the
transfer of all generation and transmission facilities in 1969. The returns
shown may also reflect erroneous estimates of operating expenses. In 1968
the !qinistry assigned members of the Harza consulting group to look into this
problem, but it was only by the end of 1969 that proper classifications of
expenses were implemented. Consequently the breakdown for 1967 through 1969
(Annex 9, Actual and Forecast Income Statements, l967-1975) is largely based
on an estimate a posteriori.  Total expense levels are more reliable.   1/
Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis, at rates appropriate
to the estimated lives of the assets, although uncertainties about the actual
values of the assets cast doubts on the adequacy of the amounts charged to
depreciation. For distribution facilities the aggregate depreciation rate
is about 4%, which is appropriate.
Forecast Operations
3.21      Future operating results are expected to be satisfactory, based on
the projection of sales (para. 5.01) and assuming tariffs for both sales and
purchased energy continue unchanged from the 1969 levels. On the basis of
this forecast, the rate of return, which has been calculated on average net
fixed assets in operation plus an adequate working capital allowance, would
range from 26% to 30%, or about the 1969 level of 29%. It should be pointed
out that because of the rapid increase in assets and the improvement in
accounting procedures, the problem of an understated asset base discussed
in para. 3.10 would become less significant with time, and the projected
return more reliable than past figures.
3.22      The average revenue per kWh is estimated to decline from Rls 2.11
in 1970 to Rls 1.84 in 1975, due to the combination of higher levels of in-
dividual consumption and the increase, as a proportion of total sales, of
industrial sales at tariffs lower than the average. The forecast of oper-
1/ The power sector companies are exempt from taxation for a period of 15
years from the date of incorporation; in the case of TREC, until 1980.



- 13 -
ating expenses, other than purchased powier, was based on actual unit costs
for the second half of 1969, the budget for 1970 and calculations of future
costs, as described in Note 1 to Annex 9. Depreciation charges have been
projected at an average rate of 145i (para. 3.20).  The forecast of operations
and the underlying assumptions have been discussed with TREC in the context
of the uncertainties mentioned in paras. 3.20 and 3.23, and they are be-
lieved to give a reasonable representation of conditions in the circumstances.
3.23      The major item of operating expenditure would be the purchase of
power from the generation and transmission company, assumed in the forecast
to continue at the present tariff of Rls 0.70 per kWh (US0.93 cents). The
tariff was established when the generation and transmission company began
operations in September 1969 as a "reasonable" price for intercompany
billing purposes pending a full study, which the company is about to ini-
tiate, of what the cost would be. A preliminary analysis of the situation
suggests that the present tariff is unlikely to reflect the full cost of
production and may eventually have to be increased materially, thus affect-
ing TREC's operating results. For example, an increase of the present selling
price to Rls 1.00 per kWh (US1.33 cents) would reduce by about 50% TREC's
operating income and rate of return in the forecast period through 1975;
this, however, would still leave TREC in a satisfactory financial position.
3.24      Given the importance of determining appropriate tariffs promptly
for both the generation and transmission company and TREC it has been agreed
that within two years from effectiveness of the proposed loan, the assets
of the generation and transmission company will be properly determined, its
accounts put in proper order and, on this basis and in consultation with the
Bank, tariffs for the sale of power to the sector companies will be set at
such levels as to allow a reasonable contribution towards the expansion of
generation and transmission facilities, after covering all operating expen-
ses and debt service.
3.25      It has been agreed, as well, that in view of the possible changes
in the bulk tariff for purchased power, TREC will not reduce tariffs below
their existing level until the implementation of a properly established tariff
by the generation and transmission company is effected. At that time TREC
will review its tariffs and, if necessary and in consultation with the Bank,
modify them in order to obtain a level of cash generation adequate to finance
a reasonable portion of its capital expenditures, after covering all oper-
ating expenses and debt service.
The Financing of the Construction Program
3.26      The expansion of power distribution facilities in the 1971-73
project construction period (paras. 4.02 and 4.03) calls for investments
totalling about Rls 6.8 billion (US$91 million); in the 1970-75 forecast
period investments would total Rls 14 billion (US$186 million). The foreign
exchange component of the 1971-73 program would be largely met by the proposed
US$60 million Bank loan (for a 20-year term and at an assumed interest rate
of 7W). The local currency component would be covered by TREC's interral
cash generation and by additional small amounts provided by new major in-
dustrial consumers as capital contributions to construction.



- 14 -
3.27      The forecast (paras. 3.21 and 3.22) indicates that TREC, with the
proposed loan supporting the bulk of its foreign exchange requirements, may
generate, subject to the uncertainties described in para. 3.23, as much as
Rls 4.1 billion surplus funds through 1973; to the extent that they fully
materialize, these funds would be invested in other regional companies as
directed by the Ministry of Water and Power, as in the past (para. 2.19).
TREC's financing plan is summarized in the following table for the Bank
projectts construction period (1971-1973); it is presented in more detail
and for the full 1970-1975 forecast period in Annex 10.
1971 through 1973
in millions
of Rls        %
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation           8,561         66
Proposed IBRD Loan                  3,975        31
Customers' Contributions             445         .3
Total                       12 981        100
Applications of Funds
Construction Program                6,797        52
Debt Service                       1,11          9
Net increase in Working
Capital                         943          7
Estimated Capital Transfers
to rest of powver sector      4,100         32
Total                       121981        100
Facilities of the Tehran Regional Electricity Company
3.28      Power is transmitted to Tehran from the 230 kV grid system,
supplied mainly by the Farahabad thermal plant (247 ilW) and the Amir.-Kabir
and Shahbanou Farah hydro plants (aggregating 168 MW). It is transformed
to 63 kV for sub-transmission; primary distribution is at 20 kV and se-
condary distribution at 400/220 V. The aggregate 63/20 kV transformer
capacity amounts to 447 MVA and it is estimated that aggregate secondary
distribution transformer capacity is about 775 MVA. There are 128 km of
63 kV circuit, 900 km of 20 kV primary distribution circuit and an esti-
mated 5,700 km of secondary distribution circuit.  About 85% of the 20 kV
circuits and 60% of the secondary distribution are underground.
3.29      The distribution system is overextended and overloaded.  In
periods of maximum demand, voltage is very low, and some primary distri-
bution transformers are overloaded as much as 30%o, and 20 kV feeders as
much as 60%. Service interruptions are frequent and prolonged. These
conditions arise in part from the extension of secondary distribution



- 15 -
circuits to feed areas much larger than designed for. Power losses on the
distribution system are at the high level of 15, although given the short
period TREC has existed as a distribution entity, the accuracy of their
measurement may be in doubt.
3.30      While the distribution system has been expanded in the past few
years, this has no more than matched the increased load supplied.  The
Ministry and TREC have set a target for a major expansion of the distri-
bution system to make possible the distribution and sale of the production
from generating facilities presently under construction to satisfy forecast
demand. By 1973, generating capacity of 2,3h0 14U, representing a 140% in-
crease over the 1969 capacity, is planned to supply an indicated demand of
about 2,100 ItW for the interconnected system, including about 800 MW in
Tehran (Annex 3 and para. 2.22). This forecast demand could not be
satisfied if the distribution expansion program is not proceeded with.
3.31      TREC has undertaken its own distribution work in the past.
While the principles of developing the system on the basis of 20 kV
primary and 400/220 V secondary supply decided upon some years ago,
which is a satisfactory system, have been adhered to, actual planning of
details has to some extent lacked consistency, leading to the use of a
variety of types of equipment, substation designs and layouts, with re-
sulting difficulties for standardization and maintenance. The main thrust
of TREC's activities has been to place in service as quickly as possible
the facilities urgently needed to supply the demand. In any case, the
scale of TREC's distribution expansion in the past was much smaller than
that now envisaged; this can best be measured by noting that the proposed
project would about double TREC's distribution facilities in three years.



- 16 -
IV. TIE PROJECT
4.01      The proposed project would consist of the extension of the
distribution system in Tehran and the construction of a 230 kV trans-
mission ring around the city to supply the distribution facilities.
The project would be carried out in 1971-73 and would represent 79%
of TREC's construction program in the period.
4.02      The distribution expansion would comprise the installation of
336 km of 63 kV circuit and twelve 63 kV substantions with an aggregate
transformer capacity of 1,100 NVA. Approximately 1,100 km of 20 kV circuit
would be installed. The bulk of 63 kV and 20 kV circuit would be under-
ground. About 670 MVA of distribution transformer capacity and 5,100 km
of h00/220 V circuit would be provided. In addition 130 MVA of static
capacitors would be installed on the 20 kV system. Ancillary equiprment
and supplies includiag switchgear, hardware and protective devices would
be provided. The program, which would about double TREC's distribution
capacity appears well balanced, although the details (para. 4.07) would
be subject to some change.
h.03      The extensions in 1971-1973 to the transmission system supplying
Tehran would result in providing a double circuit 230 kV line around the
city, only one circuit of which would be installed at this stage. This
would reirforce the supply to existing 230/63 kV stations and serve six
newi substations, three with a capacity of 250 MVA, and three with a
capacity of 125 MVA. The 230 kV circuit length would amount to 70 km.
4.04      In addition to engineering services, the proposed loan includes
funds for training of management, technical and supervisory personnel. The
exact scope of these activities would be detailed in the early phases of
the project, when the requirements will be clearer.
4.05      The facilities planned are intended to enable a load of about
1,000 MVA to be supplied, matching the projected demand for 1973 of 800
al. Including the project facilities provided, the total installed
transformer capacity available to supply the 20 kV system would amount
to 1,250 MVA, and to the 400/220 V secondary distribution system, 1,450
MVA. This is reasonable, given the diversity of individual feeder and
transformer loads and the need for reserve capacity.
Cost Estimate
4.06      The cost estimate was prepared by the Ministry and TREC with
the assistance of the Harza resident consultants. The transmission,
primary distribution and secondary distribution estimates were prepared
separately. During appraisal, the estimates were modified to reflect
an adjustment of the various parts of the program in relation to each
other and to the load growth to be supplied. In view of the likelihood



- 17 -
that the project content will change considerably (para. 4.07) and
since the project is predominantly for distribution expansion for
which future expenditures are necessarily imprecise in detail and
flexible in timing, a contingency allowance is not included in the
cost estimate.
4.07      The plans for the 20 kV primary distribution system and 20 kV/
400 V distribution transformer capacity and 400 V distribution system
were based mainly on a sampling procedure. A substantial portion of the
existing 20 kV system was studied to determine present conditions; from
this information future loads and the facilities needed to supply the
sample areas were determined, the results being extrapolated to deter-
mine the facilities required for the entire project. A similar investi-
gation on a smaller scale, was carried out on the secondary distribution
system. The targets of the plan and the quantities of materials and equip-
ment proposed are accordingly approximate, but will be determined more
accurately after field investigations which will be carried out at the
outset of the project.
4.08      The estimated cost of the project given in Annex 4 is summarized
below:
Estimated Cost of Project
Local   Foreign             Local   Foreign
Cost     Cost    Total      Cost     Cost    Total
T in Million Rials          (in Million US$T"
230 kV Transmission          165      900      1,065     2.2     12.0      14.2
Primary Distribution          60    2,363      2,423     0.8     31.5      32.3
Secondary Distribution       308    1,612      1,920     4.1     21.5      25.6
Miscellaneous              1,004       75      1,079    13.4       1.0     14.4
Engineering Services         188      262        450     2.5      3.5       6.0
Training Services              -       38         38      -       0.5       0.5
Total               1,725    5,250      6,975      23.0    70.0     93.0
Less Foreign Cost
to be financed by
TREC  1/                            750                        10.0
Proposed Bank financing             14,500                       60.0
1/ 63 kV cables and transformers which TREC now plans to purchase directly.



- la -
4.O9     The total cost of the project is estimated to be US$93.0 mnillion.
Th,e proposed loan of US$60 million covers 86,^' of the estimated foreign ex-
change cost and represents about 65% of the estimated cost of the project.
Engineering, Construction and Scheduling
4.10     The project organization is inherently complicated in view of the
number of groups involved and the technical problems. This is reflected in
Annex 5, Project Work Flow Diagram. Proper coordination will be essential.
TREC has engaged the services of the London Electricity Board (L.E.B.), for
the detailed planning and implementation of the project. L.E.B. installed
a resident staff of seven engineers in Tehran on October 1, 1970, which is
to be given responsibility to coordinate the project, including scheduling,
field surveys, planning review and the establishment of materials require-
ments, and to provide assistance to the Iranian staff in design work, pre-
paration of specifications, bid evaluation and procurement, the logistics
of shipping, storing and issuing of equipment, and the engagement of con-
tractors and their supervision. The Iranians have agreed to continue
employing qualified consultants upon terms and conditions satisfactory
to the Bank throughout the execution of the project.
4.1i     The transmission lines would be supplied and installed by a con-
tractor following international competitlve bidding.  Following conventional
utility practice, the distribution facilities would be installed by TREC
forces to the extent possible and by local contractors for the remainder,
probably over 50% of it. There are a number of local contractors ex-
perienced in the installation of electricity distribution equipment.
The Iranians have agreed to employ contractors under arrangements
acceptable to the Bank. TREC would provide supervision of construction
with the help of the consultants.
4.12     The project would be carried out in the three years 1971-1973.
In view of the present lack of specifications, the Ministry and TREC
were advised in the course of the appraisal of the information that should
be incorporated in the technical specifications and were urged to make an
early start on preparing suitable documents. The engagement of L.E.B. at
this stage should enable the work to get underway without delay.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.13     The loan amount of US$60 million equivalent would finance the CIF
cost of imported equipment and the foreign exchange component of equipmert
manufactured in Iran, and the foreign exchange cost of engineering and
training services. In the case of power cables and distribution trans-
formers, which are presently manufactured in Iran, the foreign exchlange
component has been estimated at 75%. Should the Iranians bid for otber
items, which appears unlikely, an appropriate foreign exchange component
would be determined. Procurement of goods financed by the loan would be
on the basis of international competitive bidding except for components



- 19 -
which may be required to be compatible with existing equipment and minor
items for which such bidding would be impractical; these exceptions should
not aggregate more than $750,000. For bid comparison purposes, Iranian
bidders would be allowed 15% margin of preference or the prevailing level
of customs duties, whichever is lower.
4.14      No disbursements would be made for expenditures made prior to
signing of the proposed loan. Annex 12 shows the estimated schedule of
disbursements from the proposed loan. Consideration should be given to
apply any surplus loan amounts to additional distribution facilities
needed in 1974.
4.15      The bulk of power sector purchases are now carried out by the
sector purchasing company (para. 2.09); however, since the Bank-financed
equipment is to be procured under international competitive bidding pro-
cedures according to Bank requirements and since orders for other sector
companies will not be combined with those of the project for this reason,
the Ministry agreed to have the procurement for the project carried out
by TREC.



- 20 -
V.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
Load Growth
5.01      Actual and forecast sales for TREC in the period 1967-1975 are
given in Annex 6. Total sales, 1967-1969, are believed to be accurate
but their classification was started only in 1969 and the 1967-1968 break-
down is based on estimates. In the two years 1968 and 1969 sales
increased by 88% reflecting annual increases of 39% and 35% respectivelyl/.
In the period 1970-1975, they are expected to increase at an average annual
rate of growth of almost 30%. During the period 1970-1973, for which it is
possible to make more detailed forecasts, they are estimated to grow at an
average annual rate of 33%. The high rates of growth experienced and
expected through 1973 are to a considerable extent the result of the exten-
sion of TREC's service to areas which heretofore have been served by
independent utilities (paras. 5.02 and 5.05). It would, however, be
impossible to quantify accurately this component of TREC's market because
of the unavailability of past consumption data.
5.02      Power supply in Tehran has historically been characterized by a
severe shortage of facilities and poor quality of service. This leO to a
continuing large unsupplied load and the installation of diesel-electric
generators by electric consumers to supply their own needs. Thus, as
additional distribution facilities were made available, it was possible to
achieve the 88% sales increase noted above for 1968-1969 by both supplying
new customers and acquiring four independent electric distribution
utilities which had served areas in Tehran 2/.
5.03      These poor conditions continue to exist.  At the end of 1969
service was still inadequate (para. 3.29), and there was a large amount of
prospective loan unsupplied. Two privete utilities still serve part of
the Tehran market.
5.04      The sales forecast, made in the light of this background, is
based on estimated growth in population, industrial plans in hand, and,
in the context of the Third and Fourth Plans, economic experience and
prospects. It was prepared, in collaboration with TREC and the Ministry,
by a marketing expert from the Niagra Mohawk Company, a public utility in
the U.S., made available to the Ministry under the auspices of the U.S.
Edison Electric Institute.
Residential Load
5.05      Tehran, with more than 3 million people, is experiencing a
population increase of about 8% annually (para. 2.05). Other factors
affecting the number of potential consumers are the reclassification/
conversion of a large number of multiple dwelling connections - that is
those in which a single meter serves a number of consumers in one
building - to single dwelling connections, and the acquisition, expected
to be completed by 1973, of 70,000 consumers supplied by the two remaining
independent utilities still operating in Tehran.
1/   The data available for earlier years are not comparable.
2/   As late as 1964, Tehran was served by 33 indapendent electric utilies.



- 21 -
~.06     New consumers are assumed to take the same amount of power
initially as heretofore taken by new consumers the first year. Existing
consumers are expected to increase their annual consumption by 12%, which
is considered reasonable, and reflects a continuing large increase in
disposable income, which the Iranians estimate at 9% per annum. The com-
bination of these effects would result in an annual increase in
residential load ranging from 29% to 22% annually - somewhat less than
the trend in the past three years, the figures for which, however, are
not firm (para. 5.01).
Commercial Load
5.07      By a s.imilar process, based on the increase in the number of
commercial consumers resulting from the growth of the city, and the rate
of growth in GTP, a commercial electricity growth averaging 30% annually
is estimated over 1970-1973. It was assumed that existing commercial
consumer usage of electricity would increase at about 2.5 times the
annual growth rate of GNP, that is, at 25% given the projected GNP
increase of 10% (para. 2.03).  The estimate is lower than the apparent
recent trend, which, however, is not entirely reliable (para. 5.01)
Industrial Consumption
5.08      The expected growth in electricity usage by industry takes
account of some very large commitments which have been made recently for
the sale of power in the Tehran area and the transfer to the public
power supply system of industrial plant load now supplied by its own
generating capacity. A recent survey indicated at least 50,000 kW (250
million k'r.h annually) now supplied by industrial generation which should
be transferred to p-ublic supply in the interests of economy. TREC has
negotiated major sales contracts aggregating 100,000 kW (600 million kWh
annually) with Iranian National Industries, Tehran Cement, Goodyear Tire
Company and the Iranian Government.
5.09      In addition to the new heav-y industry commitments and
conversion of captive generation, industrial sales, on the 1969 base,
are estimated to grow 25% annually. This is based on the expectation
that the industrial consumption of electricity should grow 1.4 - 1.7
times the increase in industrial production, projected at a conserva-
tive 16%, which is the expected average for the entire country (para.
.03). The dominance of industry in Tehran suggests that its
industrial development should exceed that of the rest of the country.
The combination of factors gives an estimated average annual industrial
power growth of about 48% for 1970-1973.
Irrigation Load
".l0      A suostantial irrigation load is being developed by TREC.  By
1973 it is estimated to amount to 200 million kWh, as comDared with a
negligible amount at present.  On the outskirts of the city, electr.icity
%ovuld gradually displace diesel engin.es in pumping water from wells for



- 22 -
truck fanming. The potential market is very large but its actual growth
will depend on the economic attractiveness of replacing diesel engines
with electric power at some of the locations.
Total Load
5.11      The forecast market growth rate - 33% annually in 1970-1973 -
is very high. However, it is not unreasonable, given that Tehran is
growing rapidly, that it is the industrial center of a country which is
expected to continue to experience an annual increase in GNP of 10%, and
that the forecast reflects the continuation of the recent load growth
trend. The demand estimated for Tehran of about 800 MW in 1973 is not
large for a city of its relatively high income and a population estimated
by then at h million. The situation is not unlike that of Bangkok (where
annual load increases in the order of 27% have been experiencecd since
1961), and it is to some degree similar to that in Greece and Taiwan at
the stage when power supply was just beginning to become substantial.
Present sales estimates for Tehran are rt much different from the forecast
prepared by the AIm-sponsored mission in 1966-1967 (paras. 2.13 and 2.22).
5.12      The facilities to be installed under the project would permit
the estimated demand through 1973 to be met. Unless the project is sub-
stantially completed by that time, it would not be possible to supply the
load projected for Tehran, and the new generating capacity now under
construction to supply this load aould not then be fully utilized. Should
the demand in Tehran grow less than projected - for example at a rate of
20% less than that projected - the project facilities provided would be
adequate until 1974 or a little longer. The risk of overinvestment in
the distribution facilities is therefore not serious. The arrangements
envisaged for detailed planning and execution of the project would ensure
its technical and economic soundness in relation to the market trend.
Internal Financial Return
5.13      The internal financial return has been calculated on the
facilities to be installed under the 1971-1973 investment program. The
calculation is explained in detail in Annex 13. The analysis indicates
a return of 30% based on the present allocation of revenues between
generation and transmission, and distribution, as determined by the
tariff of Rls 0.70 per kWh charged by the generation and transmission
company for the energy supplied to TREC. It would have been more mean-
ingful to compare the total revenues, net of total costs, with all
investments in power and thereby avoid the distortions created by a bulk
power tariff which is believed to understate the revenue which should be
attributed to generation and transmission. But this is not possible
because of inadequate information about the cost of investments in
generation and transmission. An alternative calculation has therefore
been carried out, based on a tariff of Rls 1.00 per kNh for the energy
purchased by TREC. This alternative, which wo uic constitute a 43%
increase in the cost of power to TREC, would raise the bulk power rate
to US 1.33 cents equivalent per klWh - a more likely, if still uncertain,
level. Even on this basis, the internal financial return on TREC's 1971-
1973 distribution investments would still be adequate at 1h.5%.



- 23 -
VI. AGREE{ELNTS REAC=ID DURING NE,GOTIATIONS
6.01      The following agreements have been reached during negotiations:
(i) the proceeds of the proposed Bank loan will be
made available to TREC as debt on the original
terms (para. 1.03);
(ii) the Iranian authorities will review the organi-
zation of the power sector and discuss its
situation and prospects with the Bank in the
course of the next year (para. 2.14);
(iii) all funds made available to TREC through PLAN
after March 21, 1973, will be made available
on terms no more favorable than those on which
such funds are obtained by PLAN, provided,
however, that TREC's debt to equity ratio
does not exceed 55:45 (para. 2.18);
(iv) the Iranian authorities will keep the Bank
informed on progress achieved in introducing
improved accounting systems and practices for
the power sector companies other than TREC,
will aim at concluding this process over the
next three years, and will make available to
the Bank information on the financial situa-
tion of these companies (para. 2.21);
(v) the results of the measures now being taken
in improving TREC's accounts and accounting
practices will be reviewed with the Bank
within one year of effectiveness of the
proposed loan and TREC will implement any
further measures that may appear necessary
(para. 3.09);
(vi) the amount and timing of the transfer of
funds from TREC to other sector companies
will be kept under review, so as to avoid
any adverse effect on TREC's own financial
position (para. 3.11);
(vii) within two years from the date of effective-
ness of the proposed loan a satisfactory
accounting system will be implemented for the
generation and transmission company, and
tariffs for the sale of power will be set in
consultation with the Bank, at such a level
as to allow it to finance a reasonable portion
of its capital expenditures from its otn re-
sources (para. 3.24);



- 24 -
(viii)  TREC will maintain tariff's at existing levels
umtil revised tariffs for the generation and
transmission company are implemented and will
thereafter, if necessary and in consultation
with the Bank, modify them to obtain a level
of cash generation adequate to finance a rea-
sonable portion of its capital expenditures
(para. 3.25);
(ix)  TREC will set up a training program satisfac-
tory to the Bank in its scope and. implementa-
tion (para. 4.04); and
(x)  in carrying out the project, TREC will employ
qualified and experienced consultants and
contractors acceptable, and under arrangements
satisfactory, to the Bank (paras. 4.10 and
11.11) .
6.02      In addition to the customary conditions of effectiveness of
the proposed loan, the following has been agreed upon:
(i) that TREC has employed indepenedent auditors
(para. 3.16).
October 13, 1970



MINISTRY OF WATER Ek POWER, IRAN
ORGANIZATrION OF POWER DIVISION
PLAN ORGANIZATION 
|ACCOUNTING  EECTcNr - - - - -
EV SUPL V151N|N                            REGULASO                                      GUD |C OPLA             SECTION                   PLNNN              I 
|   DEPA MENT  LCMREGULATIONS   |UIAI NG                             SECTIO                     SVE
|  _    LEGAL EOLICIES
n M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AANPOWR                                                                              S  IANCAL                  R                                  X                                   GIENEETIO 1 ASE
ECOVALUATION Ol MISUPERVISIONCl                                     -          L           EC NICALTISN     C                                E PLANNING
STUDIES TRANIN RATES      l             q TREGSM-ASION                         l                                                             qOURRENS
NE  I                    II                                                                                                                                                              COMPANIES                                                        Z
DISTRIBUTION~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RT HR E
|~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ EGEAC                                             IO A           C ECNOI  M P A N TR8U ON  S 6SSTE00
- 1 | 3           #      S~~~~~(ENCT]ON    &O  (PURTATSTICS                                                                                      CONSULINGCO
PANSM SS IO *C
WHICH S5 TO
NOTE:                                                                                                                                                                                    COMPANIES9ERAD                                                   D
NS-ure  sh-w  -r       - 0ubr  fepoes         



TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRIC COMPANY
ORGANIZATION
I  g~~~~~~                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ I  I                  I  
IbI  II   1A1 1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ bI I-
lEGAL  PLANNING  EMPLOYMENT  TEA NING  ADMINISTEATION  HEALTH  COMMERCIAL  CIMPUTERS  POCURETTENT  !FINANCIAL  ENGINEERINGOCONSTRUWTEON DISPATCHING DTR IRTISNBU   I
z
8RED- 4979(2R) 



Ann.ex 3
Page 1 orf 4
EXISTfTlG A,D PLANNED GCA.iNG G.PACITY 1/
Existing) December 1969
Capacity - i11
THERI4AL PIIATS
Steam Units
Parahabad (Tehran)                                        247
Tarasht (Tehran)                                           50
Tabriz                                                     12
Mashad                                                     25
Shahabad (Isfahan)                                         75
Gas Turbines
Taresh (Tehran)                                            25
Tabriz                                                     30
Isfahan                                                     7
Shiraz                                                     55
117
Total Thermal                                             526
IIYDRO PLANTS
Amir Kabir                                                 80
Farahnaz                                                   22
Dez (Khuzestan)                                           260
Gilan (Shahbanou Farah)                                    6a
Total Generating Capacity                                      976 1/
Total System Load (1969)                                       762 2/
1/   Excluding small diesel plants and industries supplied by their own
generation.
2/   Non-coincident demand.



A.nnex 3
Page 2 of 4
IRAN
PLANNED GENERATING CAPACITY
Capacity - PDP7
1970
THER21AL PLANT
Gas Turbines
liashad                                                     7
Mazandaran                                                  8
-15
HYDRO PLANTS
Shapur Aval (Azarbaijan)                                    6
Dez Extension (Khuzestan)                                 130
Shah Abbas (Isfahan)                                       52
Tei
Total New Generating Capacity, 1970                            203
Total Generating Capacity, 1970                              1,179
Estimated System Load Demand, 1970                             998
1971
THEERIAL PLANT
Steam Units
Shahriar (Tehran)                                         300
HYDRO PLANT
Dez 3xtension (Khuzestan)                                 130
Aras (Azarbaijan)                                          21
Total New Generating Capacity, 1971                            451
Total Generating Capacity, 1971                              1,630
Estimated System Load Demand, 1971                           1,345



Animex 3
Page , of )4
IRAN
PLANNED GENERATING CAPACITY
Capacity - MlW
1972
THERMAL PLANTS
Steam Units
Zarand (Kerman)                                          60
Hanjil (Gilan)                                          2040
Hiashad                                                 100
Ahwaz                                                   200
Isfahan                                                 100
700
HYDRO PLANTS
Darius Kabir (Fars)                                      10
Total New Generating Capacity, 1972                          710
Total Generating Capacity, 1972                            2,340
Estimated System Load Demand, 1972                         1,812
1973
No Generation Additions.
Total Generating Capacity, 1973                            2,340
Estimated System Load Demand, 1973                         2,113
1974
HYDRO PLANTS
Reza Shah Kabir (Khuzestan)                             500
Total New Generating Capacity, 1974                          500
Total Generating Capacity, 1974                            2,840
Estimated System Load Demand, 1974                         2,460



Ar.nex 3
IRAN
PLANNED GENERATING CAPACITY
Capacity - WI
1975
HYDRO PLANCTS
Reza Shah Kabir (Khuzestan)                             500
Total New Generating Capacity, 1975                          500
Total Generating Capacity, 1975                            3,340
Estimated System Load Demaud, 1975                         2,877
l.ay 25, 1970



Arnnex 4
PROJECT COST ESTIIATE
Rials Kiillions            US$ Millions
Local    foreig    'Total    Local   Foreig. Total
230O,:v System
Overhead Circuits        15        75         90      0.2      1.0      1.2
Underground Circuits     60       120        180      0.8      1.6      2.4
Substations              90       705        795      1.2      9.4     10.6
TOTAL                165       900     1,065       2.2     12.0     14.2
Priaary Distribution
63.1VT Circuit  1/       15       405 1/    420       0.2      5.4 1/   5.6
63kV/201-7 Stations      30       338 -      713      0.4      4.5      9-5
"I  I'    I1/                    345 l/                       4.6 1/
20-V Circuit             15     1,275 $     290       0.2     17.0     17.2
TOTAL                 60     2,363      2,423      0.8     31.5     32.3
Secondary Distribution
2O0kVtJ/400V Stations   128       525       653       1.7      7.0      8.7
400V Circuits           180     1,087     1,267       2.4     14.5     16.9
TOTAL                308     1,612      1,920      4.1     21.5     25.6
Miscellaneous         i,O0L         75     -,97      13.4      1.0     14.4
Engineering Services    188       262        450      2.5      3.5      6.0
Training and Management
Consulting Services   -          38        38                0.5       .5
TOTAL              1,725     5,250     6,975      23.0    70.0    93.0
Foreign Exchange
Bank Financed                4,500                         60.0
TREC Financed                  750                         10.0
1/   Equipment committed by TREC and not financed by the Bank.
May 2$, 1970



TEHRAN DISTRIBUTION PROJECT, I RAN
WORK FLOW DIAGRAM
MINISTRY OF WATER AND POWER
EXTERNAL CONSULTING ORGANIZATION
SECTOR CONSULTING COMPANY
WORLD BANK
- I-                          t          E1         - -       --NEERIO   --- --      - - - - - - -
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I-                      E  R| ECIF CarlN                                      ----__________________  I
|FLANNNG|--- ------  ----U----------IE -----------------------1
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *EEIDJ,N 1   _\IX_\ 
MUNICIPALITY {|WRHUE~5---    
/   \         i             \  I t I  F RVISION  t:z222= t~~~~~~~~~     ~        ~    ~~ ~~---- ------- --  IA,  WAD    ____1__ 
/   I FOWEE    |-----A----J    \j<L~  EE NESECRU    I/S              |                I   l~~~~~---  ------J-I-
I    FNTERFERENCE |- ~~~~~1 1EHRANIREGIONAL
LIII ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~EON~~~~~~~CNR 
S   I   OIHER E  F------2  .____1  |    ELECTFICICOMPANY   I   I        L~~~~~~~~|   LCCAL  W1   S A T COMPANY)FO   I          MANUFACTURERSRER
|   FES5 F  ~~~-|  ONSMEE  I I   Ii /                           _                                                          I/ 
-t  tIt                    1f2EASEE;'
-----      - N                                                                         /
L_________________ L/ 
- - - - - - - - - --



TEHRAN REGTONAI ELECTRICITI'Y COMPANY (TREC)
Actual and Forecast Sales i/, 1967 through 1975
(GWh)
RESIDFNTIAL                              CM%OCIA            f                      INDUSTRIAL                                  OTHER 2/                        TOTAL SALES
%of                                     5i of                                     % of                                      % of
GWh    % Increase    Total Sales         GWh    % Increase    Total Sales         GWh   % Increase        Total Sales        GWh    %'Increase    Total Sales          GWh    % Increase
ACTUAL
1967 3/              177         -              24            125           -             17            229         -               30          221            -             29             752          -
1968 3/              282         59             27            228           82            22            290         27              27          248            12            24           1,048          39
1969                 394         40             28            378           66            27            354         22              25          290            17            20           1,416          35
FORECAST
1970                 508          29            27            500           32            26            550         55              29          344            19            18           1,902          34
1971                 642          26            24            671           34            26            904         64               34         413             20           16           2,630           38
1972                 809          26            23            875           30            25          1,302          44              37         516             25           15           3,502           33
1973                 986          22            22          1,092           25            25          1,700          31              39          624            21           14           4,402           26
1974               1,202         22             22          1,347           23            25          2,100          24              39         761            22            14           5,410           23
1975               1,454         21             22          1,643           22            25          2,520          20              39         906            19            14           6,523           21
12  Include TREC's whole system, of which Tehran Metropolitan Area load represents about 93% in 1969 and thereafter.
4/ Includes Government users, municipal lighting and irrigation.
3/ The breakdown of sales for 1967-1968 has been estimated, since the classification here used was introduced only in 1969.  No comparable data, with a satisfactory degree of accuracy, are
available for previous years.
May 25, 1970



IRAN
Regional Electricity Companies, Income Statements 1967-1968
(in millions of Rla unless otherwise indicated)
Hsmadan
Azarbijan    Esfahan    Tehran    Khorassan    Khizestan    Fars    Keruan    leranahan    Gilan    Mazanderan    lordestan                  Total
Fiscal Year 1967
Operating RvTenuas
Salea    BectriitJ                         148          216      1,830         121           414       145        61          54         95           93            36              3,213
Other I/                                    29          43         235          20             2        18         4           7         20           28             5                411
Total                                 177         259       2,065         141          416        163        65         61         115          121            41              3,624
Operating :Mneel
Operating and Naintenance                  119          162      1,041         134           268       129        60         42         107           92            29              2,183
Depreciation                                61           24        223           7           106        32         2           _          _           20             -                475
Total                                 180         186       1,264         141           374       161       62          42         107          112            29              2,658
Net Other Charges                             -            -           2           -             -          -        -           -           -           -             -                  2
Net Income (Loss)                             (3)          73        799                        42          2        3          19           8           9            12                964
Fiacal Year 1968
Sales of Electricity, GWh                     55          112      1,048          94           376        63        22          22          42          68            15              1,917
Average Revenue per kwh, Rls                3.36         2.11       2.49        2.08          1.33       2.68     3.45        3.27       2.71         2.60          4.00                2.29
Operating Revenues
Via      Electricity                      185          236      2,608         196           501       169        76          72        114          177            60              4,394
Other V t                                   30           53        323          39             4        14         7          12          14.         29            1                  536
Total                                 215          289      2,931         235           505       183        83          84.       128          206            71              4,930
Operangrpense
.traiFion and Maintenance                    157          188      1,668         173           349        147       76          56         127         142            45               3,128
Depreciation                                15           22        293          28           131         26       13           7          19           24             3                581
Total                                 172          210      1,961         201           480       173        89          63        146          166            48              3,709
Net Other Charges                             -             4         -             -            -          7         -          2           -            -             4                 17
Net Income (Loss)                            143           75         970         34            25          3       (6)         19         (18)          40            19              1,2041
Return on Average Net Fixed Assets
in Operation, % 2/                          24          16          21           6            .8        .9         -          38           -           8             48               11.4    0
May 25, 197c



xl Si-  xli  - ~nliS   al:e--               i
Azarbijan    Esfahan    Tehran    Khorassan    Khuzestan        Fars      Kerman    Kersanshao    Gilan    Mazanderan    Kordestan              Total
End of Fiscal Year 1967
AS3ETS
Fixed Assets in Operation                       247          551       4,414         256        3,822         554         80          5          431         462            2               10,824
Depreciation                                     j2)         ( 73)     (1_oa6)       iL2)         (52) (g                (3)         -            )         (27)           _               (2,159)
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                   163 478                3,328         226         3,170         v77                               427                        2                8,66
Work in Progress  3/                             -            -        3,903          14            59          -          8         43            -          32            -                4,059
Other Assets  _/                                 -            -           131         -             30          -          -          -            -           -            -                   16i
Current Assets                                  152          121       2,616         109           488        135        124        124          102         241           22                4,234
Deferred Debits                                  -            -          167          25            -           -        147          2            5          -             -                  346
Total Assets                          320          599       10,145        374         3.747         484       356        174           534         708          24                17.465
LIABILITIES
Equity                                          243          589       7,566         115         3,595        267        299        161           365        545           20               13,765
Long Term Debt                                   44           -        1,482         182            -         160         12          1            -          -             -                1,881
Current Liabilities                              33           10          938         62           146          56        45         12            37        161            4                 1,504
Deferred Credits                                 -            -           159          15            6           1 1       -'        -           132           2             -                 315
Total Liabilities                       320         599       10,145         374        3.747         48;4       356        174          534         708           24               17,465
Long Term Debt as % of Total Capitalization                                                                                                                                                     12
Current Assets to Current Liabilities                                                                                                                                                           2.8
End of Fiscal Tor 1968
ASSETS
Fixd Assets in Operation                        257          556        7,272        950         4,034         571       351        102           501        587           80                15,261
Depreciation                                     6)          (95)      (136O                    1Th6)        (S?  t?)                )                         l                             2701
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                   191          461           06                    3772          331        3726i      957                                                      2,6
Work in Progress 31                               5           -         1,655          2           100          -         67         21             2          39           12                1,893
Other Assets  4/                                   -          75          869          -            33          -           -         -            -           -             -                  977
Current Assets                                  169          159        2,664        447           717         245        280        62            49         220           62                5,074
Deferred Debits                                    -          -           167           6            -          _           6          -            2           3            -                  184
Total Assets                           365         695       11,263       1,347         4,122        588        679        168          512         798          151               2_0688
LIABILITIES
Equity                                          233          665        7,525         817        3,918         275        191         44          45i         693           42               14,854
Long Term Debt                                   44           -         2,575        190             -         185         32          -           -           -             -                3,026
Current Liabilities                               88          30          606         340           179        127        421        124           58         103          109                2,185
Deferred Credits                                   -          -           557          -            25           1         35          -            3           2            -                  623
Total Liabilities                       365          695      11.263       1,347         4,122        588        679        168           512         798         151                20,688
Long  Term Debt as 5 of Total
Capitalization                                                                                                                                                                                  17   m 
Current Assets to Current Liabilities                                                                                                                                                            2.3
MHy 25, l)7C



Arnuex 7
Page 3 cf 3
Notes
1)        For comparison purposes, Other Operating Revenues include con-
nection fees; while in TREC's Income Statements as presented in Annex 9
they have been treated as Other Income, it would not have been possible to
isolate them for the other corapanies.
2)        The rate of return has been calculated on average ra&t f4 Xcd ~-Asets
in operation only, bacause it vnould not have been meaningful to anply to all
companies the rate of return formula used for TREC (see Annex 9).  Also in
view of the uncertainties discussed in the text (paras. 2.15 and 2.16),
the purpose of showing the relative positions of the companies in the frame
of the sector seemed to be better served by a simple formula. The different
formula and the higher revenues (see Note 1 above) explain the fact that
the rate of return shown here for TREC is higher than that shown for 1968
in Arunex 9.
3)        The accounts of the regional power companies do not include
construction work in progress financed with funds other than internal cash
generation.
4)        It was not possible to ascertain which companies have been bene-
ficiaries of the Rls 817 million which by the end of fiscal 1968 TREC
has on record as loans to other companies. Consequently, the sector fixed
assets or work in progress are understated by up to that amount.



TETIRAW REGIONAL ELECTRICITY COMPANY (TREC)
Actual and Forecast Balance Sheets, 1967 through 1975
(in millions of Pls)
- - - -  ACTUAL - - - - -            - - - - - - - - - - -  FORECAST - - - - - - - - - - - -
End of Fiscal Year,                             1967       1968       1969            1970       1971       1972       1973       1974       1975
3D tET2
Fixed Assets in Operation                         4,414      7,272      4,500           6,500      8,700    11,200    14,200    16,450    18,700
Depreciation                                   (1,086)   (1,364)   (1,280)           (1,500)   (1,804)   (2,202)   (2,710)   (3,323)   (4,026)
' sv >rers' Contnibttioss                        _          _          _               (110)      (250)      (385)      (555)      (785)      (955)
Net Fixed Assets in Operation                     3,328                   2,07790                  7           73    10,935    12,312    13,719
Work in Progress                                  3,903      1,655      1,500           1,485        948      1,081        926      1,091      1,074
Total N4et Fixed Assets                     7,231      7,563      4,720          6,375      7,594      9,694    11,861    13,433    14,793
)Ver Assets
Loans to otner Electric
Companies                                      -           817      1,870          1,870      2,670      3,970      5,970      7,770      9,870
Or-er Investments & Deposits                      131         52         95              95         95         95         95         95         95
Total                                         131        869      1,965          1,965      2,765      4,o65      6,o65      7,865      9,965
7urrent Assets 1/
Cash                                               6i         88        122             350        291        359        433        483        525
Accounts Receivable/Customers                   1,213      1,139      1,162             485        500        560        690        84o      1,000
Accoents Feceivable/Other                         100        139        289             350        100        450        480        520        570
raterials 6 Operating Supplies                    164        391        345             450        450        510        570        660        750
Other Current Assets                            1,078        907      1,065             560        300        300        300        300        300
notel                                       2,616      2,664      2,983          2,195      1,941      2,179      1,473      2,803      3,145
Deferred Debits                                     167        167        130             130        100        100        100        100        Too
TOTAL ASSETS                              10,145    11,263        9,798         10,665    12,400    16,038    20,499    24,201          8,03
11A2ILI IES
EIui:'y
G.overnment Capital & Investments               4,024      4,100        706             706        706        706        706        706        706
Mimicipality Capital                            1,227                                     -                       -                           -
Surplus and Reserves                            2,315      3,425      5,094          6,317      8,006    10,435    13,366    16,797    21,004
Total                                       7,566      7,525      5,800          7,023      8,712    11,141    14,072    17,503    21,71D
Long Term Debt
Proposed IBTD Loan                               -          -          -               -           600      2,175      3,975      4,343      4,174
Cu,stomers' Loans for Construction              1,482      1,382      1,850          1,750      1,(50      1,500       1,350      1,200      1,050
4unicipality loars                               -           725        586             447        271        181         92
Total                                       1,482      2,107      2,436          2,197      2,521      3,856      5,417      5,543      5,24
Current Liabilities
Accounts Payahle                                    4           3       111             150        175        200        225        255        300
Deposits A. Accrued Liabilities                   129         67        121             100         75         50         50         75        100
Other Crrrent Liabilities                         805        536        510             550        350        275        250        250        250
Currenn Por-ion of L.T.D.                         _          468        189             239        276        240        239        399        319    r A
Mural                                         938      1,074        931          1,039        876        765        764        979        969       >
Deferred Credits                                                                                                                                        0
Customers' Advances/Construction                  123        161        252             I50         95         90         80         7n         50
Othler                                             36        396        379             256        196        186        166        100         50
Total                                         159        557        631            406        291        276        246        176        100
TOTAL LIABILITIES                         12145    11,263         9,798         10,665    12,400    16,038    20,499    2,099             0
'.pvember 25, 1970



Annex 38
Page 2 of 2
Note
1)        The forecast of current assets is based on an estimate of reason-
able levels for the specific accounts. In particular, Accounts Receivable/
Customers, have been projected at about 45 days sales in 1970 and about 30
days thereafter, reflecting the recent improverient of collection procedures
and the gradual collection of arrears (para. 3.14). The target for "Materials
and Supplies" has been put at 4% of gross plant in service at year end.
Other Current Assets, which include a number of doubtful accounts, are ex-
pected to decrease sharply as a result of the current review (para. 3.13),
with appropriate charges being made against existing reserves. Provision
has been made for a satisfactory level of cash.



PETiTRAi [.I,TOIHAL ELECTRICITY COMPANY (TREC)
Actual and Forecast Income Statements, 1967 through 1975
(in millions of Ils unless otherwise indicated)
- - - - - ACTUAL                                       - - - - - - - - FORECAST - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Fiscal Tear,                                                   1968                           1970        1971         1972         1973          1974         1975
Sales of Electricity, GWh                                752        1,040       1,416             1,902        2,630        3,502       4,402         5,410         6,523
Average Revenue Der kwh, Rls                            2.43         2.49        2.27              2.11         1.99         1.91         1.88         1.86          1.84
Operating Revenues
Sales of Electricity                                 1,830        2,608       3,221             4,021        5,233        6,684       8,257        10,089        12,002
Other                                                   23           33          35                30           30           30           30            o            3
Total                                        1,853       2,641        3,256             4,051        5,263       6,714        8,287        10,119        12,032
Operating Expenses 1/
Generation                                             383          429         157               _                         _            _           _             _
Purchased Power                                        125          152         733             1,548        2,141        2,834        3,562        4,353         5,249
Transmission                                            29           47           36              -            _-                        -            -            -
Distribution                                           168          204          306              369          438          501          559           612          660
Sales & Customers' Accounts                             85          113         116               159          197          225          249          273           292
Administration & General                               251          723          268              370          466          548          618           676          730
Depreciation                                           223          293          240               220         304          398          508           613          703
Total                                        1,264       1,961        1,856             2,666        3,546       4,506        5,496         6,527         7,634
Operating Income                                         589          680        1,400            1,385        1,717        2,208        2,791         3,592        4,398
Non-Operating Income 2/                                  210          2M0          340               365          250         235          150           150           135
Interest                                                                            18                22          41          120          225           311           326
Interest charged to Construction                                                 -                 -           (23)        (106)        (215)          -             -
Total Interest Charges                                                   18                22           18           14           10          311.          326
Net Income                                                799         970        1,722             1,728        1,949       2,429        2,931         3,431         4,207
Operating Ratio, %                                        68           74           57                66           67          67           66            65            63
Rate of Return, %  3/                                     17           13           29                30           27          26           26            28            30
0
September '5,1970



Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
Notes
1)        The forecast of operating expenses is based on a detailed analysis
of the number and qualification of the staff employed as of the end of 1969
and on the actual 1970 budget. Per each main class of expenditure (Distribu-
tion, Sales and Customers' Accounts, and Administration and General) an
estimate has been made of the additional staff required (taking into account
the company's retraining program), of the effect that increasing labor
productivity would have on salary levels, and of the level of expenditures
other than salaries and wages. The results of this projection have been
checked against an alternative forecast based on unit costs for distribu-
tion customer served. The forecast finally adopted has been discussed with
TREC's management, and is considered reasonable (para 3.23).
2)        Connection charges, to be collected from new customers, have been
treated as non-operating income because they are a fee not related to any
specific construction work. They substitute for higher fees and deposits
which in the past performed the function of discouraging demand; it is
likely they will be reduced in the future, and this is assumed in the fore-
cast.
3)        The rate of return formula used consists of comparing operating
income to a rate base which includes: 1) average net fixed assets in
operation, and 2) a working capital allowance equal to 4% of gross assets
at year end on account of materials plus 10% of cash operating expenses.



TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRICITY COMPANY (TRIC)
Forecast Sources and Applications of Funds, 1970 through 1975
(in millions of Rls)
Sabtotal            Total
Fiscal Year,                                   1970      1971       1972      1973      1974       1975         1971-1973          1970-1975
SOUBCES OF FUNDS
Internal Cash Generation
Operating Income                             1,385     1,717      2,208     2,791     3,592     4,398            6,716             16,091
Non-Operating Income                           365       250        235       150       150        135             635              1,285
Depreciation                                   220       304        398       508       613       703            1,210              2,746
Total                                   1,970     2,271     2,841      3,449     4,355     5,236            8,561            20,122
Customers' Contributions                         110        140       135       170       230        170             445                955
Proposed IBRD Loan                              -          600      1,575     1,800       525       -              3,975              4,500
Total Sources                           2,080     3,Oll     4,551      5,419     5,110     5,406           12,981            25,577
APPLICATIONS OF FUNDS
Construction Program
Proposed IBRD Project
- Foreign Exchange (IBRD)                     -          600     1,575      1,800       525                      3,975             4,500
- Foreign Exchange (TREC)                      375       225       150       -         -                           375               750
- Local Currency (TSEC)                        225       350        350       350       450                      1,050             1,725
Subtotal                                  600     1,175     2,075      2,150       975                      5,400             6,975
Other Power Construction                     1,050       100       100        100     1,000     1,838              300             4,188
Minor Capital Investments                      225       225        217       210       210        225             652              1,312
Construction financed by Customers             110       140        135       170       230       170              445                955
Total Construction                      1,985     1,640     2,527      2,630     2,415     2,233            6,797            13,430
Debt Service
I nterest
- Proposed IBRD Loan                          -           23       106        215       305       323              344               972
- Munizipality Loans                            22        18        14         10         6          3              42                 73
Total                                      22        41       120        225       311       326              386             1,045
Amorti zation
- Proposed IBRD Loan                                                                              157                                 157
- Munioipality Loans                           139       139       176         90        89        92              405               725
- Customers' Loans                              50       100       100        150       150       150              350               700
Total                                     189       239       276        240       239       399              755             1,582
Total Debt Service                        211       280       396        465       550       725            1,14i             2,627
Loars to other Electric Companies               -          800      1,300     2,000     1,800     2,100            4,100              8,000
Net Variation in Working Capital
and other Accounts                       (116)      291       328        324       345       348              943             1,520        c
Total Applications                      2,080     3,011     4,551      5,419     5,110     5,406           12,981            25,577
Sepcember 25, 1970



Annex 11
Page 1 of 2
TEHRAN REGIONAL ELECTRICITY CO1IPAIY (TREC)
Summary Schedule of Tariffs 1/
Monthly charges              NtIonthly charges
Rls7lk=h    TRials           US cents/kWh      US$
(unless otherwise            (unless otherwise
indicated)                   indicated)
TARIFF I - Residential
Minimum charge (16 kwh)          Ris 50                        66.50
Charges for Additional
Consumption
Range from                            2.80                      3.72
to                              1.30                     1.73
Average on Total Sales 2/             2.h6                      3.27
TARTFF II - Commercial
Minimum charge (14 klwh)         Ris 50                        66.50
Charges for Additional
Consumption
Range from                            3.40                      4.52
to                             1.80                      2.39
Average on Total Sales 2/             2.82                      3.75
TARIFF III - Small Industry
(Primary Voltage) 3/
Demand charge - IMinimum (50 KW)              5,000                           66.50
- Each additional lkW:                                          1.06
Energy charges range from             1.60                      2.13
to              0.75                      1.00
TARIFF IV - La37ge Industry
(Primary Voltage) 3/
Do:mand charge / - First 300 1^'             37,500                          5Go.oo
- Each additional kl,r          70                           0.93
Energy charges range from (peak)      2.00                      2.66
to (off-peak)   0.75                      1.00
Average on Total Sales 2/ for
Tariffs III & IV                    1.10                     1.46
TARIFF V - Irrigation Pumping
Energy cbarges range from (peak)      3.00                      4.00
to (off-peak)   0.65                      o.86
Average on Total Sales 2/             1.10                      1.h6



Annex 11
Page 2 of 2
Notes
1/        Tariffs made effective December 1969.
2/        Based on estimated 1970 sales.
3/        If service is provided at distribution voltage (400/220 V),
charges are increased by 5%.
4/       MNinimum monthly charge Rls 90,000, equivalent to 1,050 kW.



Annex 12
Tehran Regional Electricity Company (TREC)
Proposed IBRD Loan
A-Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Years,          IBRD Loan Disbursements by Quarter
Ending June 30,                 (in US$ millions equivalent)
I       II      III         IV
1971                       -        -                 1.0
1972                      2.0      5.0      5.0       5.o
1973                      5,O      6.o      6.o       6.o
1974                      6.0      6.7      5.0       2.0
B-L,tiymted UndisbursMd Loan Balance
As of the end of Quarter
(in US$ million equivalent)
I       II      III        IV
1971                        -     60.0     60.'?     59.0
1972                     77'    52.0     '7.0      12.0
1973                      37.0   31.0      25.0      19.0
1974                     13.0      7C       2.0 
July 1, 1970



Annex 13
-internai Fincnc!1 J.et urn
1.        The into:rnal financi^l return 1's been calculated on the total
distribution facilities being put in service by TREC in the years 1971
through 1973. The proposed IBRD loan would play an essential role in en-
abling TREC to carry through this program; it vould,howeve, be impossible
to isolate the benefits attributable to the facilities directly provided
with Bank funds.
2.        The method followed in determining the rate of return consists of
comparing the present value of the streams of costs and rovenues attributable
to the distribution investment.  In the calculation, the following elements
have been taken into consideration:
Costs
i.   The investments in fixed assets between 1971 and 1973,
net of interest during construction;
ii.   The cost of the energy purchased by TREC from the genera-
tion and transmission company5 as this element is crucial
in the calculation, because an appropriate price must allow
for a satisfactory return on the investments made in the
generation and transmission facilities, two cases have been
worked out, one in wJhich the current price of Rls 0.70 per
kIlWh supplied to TREC has been used, another in which a
price of Rls 1.00 per IdTh (or 43% higher) has been assumed;
iii.   Other operating and maintenance expenses, attributable to
the facilities on a unit basis, excluding depreciation; and
iv.- In view of TREC's scarce experience in assessing the life
of the facilities (estimated at 25 years) and in estimating
proper maintenance costs, an allowance for extraordinary
maintenance in the 13th, 17th, and 21st year of operation
of the facilities.
Revenues
The revenues on the incremental sales attributable to the
investment.
3.        The analysis indicates a return on the 1971-1973 investments of
30% on the basis of the current price (Rls 0.70 per kWh) TREC pays for the
energy.  Even if this price were increased to Rls 1.00 per ldlh, the invest-
ments would still yijld an adequate 14.5% return.
July 1, 1970



up
reh
bus
mw                                          R H
ja                  88
a           7.
ishabur
(1972)
25 mw
TEH
s     d                                              0
1971)            Semnan                                                          Torbot
R      STRIBUTION PROJECT
5 MW          G  r e  a  t   S  a            D  e s e  r t
w
nshah             gavor
O.Nahavand
uji                          ....   Koshon
lot
orrcima
m     MAD R                                   1972)
s     DAM                            E    h
3  MW
mw
71)
G    r e  a  t  S  a  n       D e s e  r
DAM                                     azd
4)                                                 Bafgh
50       1975)                                            ?o
200 mw
i9721,                                                                              Kuolmineh
Z.,.rd
Behbohan                                                                    6OMW(1972)
\,R'.. nj
ogonbadon        - -H KABIR DAM                         ar              Kerman
9                                 72)
W(19kh Jamshid
Kazerun
,9
.t     -                                                                                       ahedon
hi
55 M             1,    ,qjEstehpanat
i,oft
Bandar
IBRD-2986
MAY 1970



