Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 20293
PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SOMALIA DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT: 2111-SO, PROJECT ID: P002499)
April 10, 2000
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by
recipients only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents
may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION NOTE
SOMALIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
(Credit Number: IDA 21110 / Project ID: P002499)
1. This is the Project Completion Note for the Education Rehabilitation Project in
Somalia, Credit Number: IDA 21110. The project was prepared by the Government with
assistance from the World Bank, with additional funds supplied by the United Nations
Capital Development Fund (UNCDF).
2. A credit in the amount of $26.1 million was approved by the Bank Board on
March 27, 1990, and made effective on August 14, 1990. It was anticipated that the
credit would be fully disbursed by June 30, 1998.
3. The credit was formally closed on June 26, 1995, because of the civil war in Somalia
which caused the termination of project activities in January 1991. A total of $505,345
was disbursed, and the last disbursement was made on December 13, 1990. The
undisbursed balance of $25.6 million was cancelled on June 23, 1995.
4. The main objective of the project was to revitalize Somalia's education system
through sustainable measures designed to restore teaching quality and to reverse the
decline in enrollments. The project would have supported the Government in reaching
this goal by pursuing the following specific objectives: (a) improve the quality of
primary education nation-wide through teacher and headmaster training and the provision
of textbooks and teachers' guides; (b) strengthen the Ministry of Education and Culture's
institutional capacity for planning and managing the education system and implementing
investment projects; and (c) increase access to primary education in four of the country's
eighteen administrative regions through the construction and/or rehabilitation of primary
schools.
5. A major risk associated with the project was the spread of civil unrest in Somalia.
Although the project allowed for flexibility in implementation such as relocation of
construction activities to more secure administrative regions, the widespread scope of the
civil war and the absence of an internationally recognized government undermined the
developmental goals of the project and led to the early termination of operations.
6. In view of the absence of government authority in Somalia, information on the PCN
could not be sought from the Borrower. There are no Supervision Reports because
project activities were terminated soon after the credit became effective. Information on
the PCN was obtained primarily from Bank staff at Headquarters and archival material.



