Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
C.i2 Z411/ - 50o
Repoit No. 8180-SO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
SOMALIA DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
MARCH 9, 1990
Population and Human Resources Operations
Eastern Africa Department
Tbis document hgs a resicted dIsr on  _d may be used by oedpl  o   m thee    n  ef
thdr offcW dudies. Its content may not otewse be disdosed wihbout Woald Bank authoIzaton.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Current Unit   -    Somali Shillings (SoaSh.)
So.Sh. 880     -    US$ 1.00
So.Sh. 1       -    US$ 0.0011
(as of January 1990)
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
January 1 through December 31
ACADEMIC YEAR
For Primary and Secondary Level    -    September-June
For University                      -    Lctober-July



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AfDB      -   African Development Bank
ASAP II   -   Agricultural Sector Adjustment Program II
CDC       -    Curriculum Development Centre
CEA       -    Coimmuity Education Association
CEO       -    Community Education Officer
CES       -    Community Education Service
DANIDA    -   Danish International Development Agency
DG        -    Director General
EEC       -    European Economic Community
BPS       -    Education Facilities Section
nLc       -    Family Life Centers
IDA       -    International Development Association
ILO       -    International Labour Organization
IWE       -    Institute for Vomen's Education
MBT       -   Mobile Building Teams
HOE       -   Ministry of Education and Culture
NEB       -   National Examination Board
OPEC      -    Organization for Petroleum Exporting Countries
PED       -   Primary Education Department
PMU       -    Project Management Unit
PTTI      -    Primary Teachers Training Institute
REO       -    Regional Education Officer
SBU       -    School Building Unit
SEB       -    Somali Examination Board
SIDAM     -    Somali Institute of Development Administration
and Management
SHTU      -    School Management Training Unit
SNU       -    Somali National University
TTD       -    Teacher Training Department
UNCDF     -   United Nations Capital Development Fund
UNICEF    -    United Nations Children's Fund
UNESCO    -    United Nations Educational Scientific and Cultural
Organization
USAID     -    United States Agency for International Development
WFP       -   World Food Program
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SOMALIA
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY                                        i - iii
I.   The Education Sector                                             Page No.
A.   Socio-economic Background ................... .........*.*....*.........*.*.  1
B.   The Education System ..............................               2
C.   Main Issues .............................                         6
D.   Government's Sector Strategy .......................  ... 10
E.   The Role of the Bank .........*....................  11
F. Donors Role .......... 13
II.  The Project
A.   Project Objectives .......................... .           .... 14
B.   Project Components ....... ....................... 14
C.   Project Description        .............................  15
- Upgrading Teaching Staff ............................. 15
- Textbooks: Development, Procurement and Distribution .... 18
- Institutional Development ............................. 20
- Physical Rehabilitation .............................  26
- Project Management Unit .............................. 30
III. Project Costs and Financing Plan
A.   Cost of the Project ........... .................. 31
B.   Financing Plan ....... .  ... s ......         .......     . ............ 34
C.   Recurrent Cost Implications .................. 35
IV.  Project Implementation
A.   Project Preparation .................................. ..... 36
B.   Project Management ................................... 36
C.   Specialist Services and Fellowships          ....37
D.   Procurement ..       .. . ....... . .38
E.   Disbursements .....  ......... .                            ... 41
F.   Account and Audits.....  ...            ................ 41
G.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation             . . ..             42
V.   Proiect Benefits and Risks
AV.  A enefits reached.and.Rec....ndatio. 44
B.   Risks   .......................                          ....44
VI.  Agreements reached and Recommendation                                 45



LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex 1   -    Basic Data
Annex 2   -    Structure of the Education System
Annex 3   -    Organization Chart of MOE
Annex 4   -    Letter of Education Policy Intent
Annex 5   -    Projection of Financial Needs of the
Education Sector
Annex 6   -    Community Education Associations
Annex 7   -    Project Costs
Annex 8   -    Schedule of Disbursements
Annex 9   -    Implementation Schedule
Annex 10  -    Monitoring and Evaluation Process
Annex 11  -    Plan of Actionx on Policy and Institutional
Development
Annex 12  -    Organization Chart of Project Management Unit
Annex 13  -    Statistical Profiles of the Somali Education
System
Annex 14  -    List of Documents in Project Files
IBRD MAP NO. 21789
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission in June 1989
comprising of Messrs. Abdun Noor (Senior Education Planner, Mission
Leader), Swadesh Bose (Senior Economist), Pat Walker (Architect) and
Ms. Beatrice helbling (Operations Assistant) and of a post-appraisal
mission in November 1989 comprising of Me  '8s. Noor (Mission Leader) and
Nicholas Burnett (Senior Economist).  Mr  William Cooper (Consultant/UNDP)
also contributed to this report. Ms. Raju Laburam assisted in processing
the report.
l



- i -
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrowers           Somali Democratic Republic
Beneficiarv:        Ministry of Education and Culture
Credit Amount:       SDR 19.7 million (US$26.1 million equivalent)
Tensst               Standard IDA terms with 40 years maturity
Prolect
Obiectives:         The central objective of the proposed project is to
revitalize the education system through sustainable
measures designed to restore teaching quality and
reverse the decline in enrollments. To achieve this
objective the project will: (a) improve the quality of
primary education nation wide through teacher and
headmaster training and the provision of textbooks and
teachers' guides; (b) strengthen the Ministry of
Education and Culture's institutional capacity for
planning and managing the education system and for
implementing investment projects; and (c) increase
access to primary education in four of the country's
eighteen administrative regions through the
construction andlor rehabilitation of primary schools.
Project
Descriptions         The proposed project would provide support for:
(a)  Teacher Upgrading:  Development and delivery of (i)
in-service upgrading programs for about 1,500 primary
teachers (about one-quarter of the current teaching
force); and (ii) professional development programs for
about 300 headmasters, school inspectors, regional and
district education officers. Establishment of
inservice training facilities for 600 teachers per
annum in three locations.
(b)  Textbooks:  (i) printing of about 1.6 million locally-
developed textbooks and 100,000 teachers' guides and
distribution to all primary schools; (ii) establishing
a pilot cost recovery scheme in the Benadir region and
(iii) further strengthening the textbook writing and
manuscript preparation programs of the Curriculum
Development Center (CDC).
(c)  Institutional Development:  Strengthening of the
Ministry of Education and Culture with support for (i)
Departments of Planning, Finance, Personnel and
Primary Education to improve data collection and
analysis, strengthen budget preparation, improve



- ii -
personnel management, strengthen management of primary
education and conmunity mobilization, and streamline
operational systems and procedures; (ii) the Sch'ool
Inspectorate for effective school inspection on a
reqular basis; (iii) the National Examinations Board
(NEB) to improve its competence in test construction,
measurement and evaluation; and (iv) the Office of the
Minister to establish monitoring and evaluation
functions.
(d)  Physical Facilities:  Rehabilitation or constr__tion
of about 120 primary schools in four regions (Lower
Shebeele, Middle Shebeele, Bay and Gedo), benefiting
about 48,000 students; provision of school furniture,
book storage space, community meeting space, water
supplies and latrine blocks; construction and
furnishing of about 120 staff houses for headmasters,
and office space for district education officers and
school inspectors.
(e) Project Management: Strengthening the existing
project implementation unit for effective
implementation of the rehabilitation program and for
coordinating and monitoring all educational activities
financed by the project.
PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISRSt
Benefits:      The project will rehabilitate the primary education system
by providing improved school buildings, better-trained
teachers, textbooks and teaching materials which will
directly benefit 480,000 primary students and 8,000
teachers country wide. The project will also restore the
Government's capacity to plan, manage and finance its
education system.
RMisks         Major risks associated with this project are: (a) that the
Government may not provide an adequate budget for education
for the fiscal years 91 to 94; (b) that teachers and
officials of the Ministry of Education and Culture may
leave the education system for more lucrative employment;
(c) that rural communities may not be able to provide
sustained support for their schools; and (d) that the civil
unrest may spread, drawing more resources away from the
social sectors and undermining the developmental goals of
the project. The problems of under financing will be
reviewed annually at the macro-level through PFP
discussions and Public Expenditure reviews, and at the
project level through annual implementation reviews. The
risk at (b) will be addressed by establishing a more
attractive career structure for teachers and introducing
incentives linked to teacher training. With respect to the
risk at (c) project-financed community education officers
will assist the communities in developing viable and
i



- iii -
sustainable mechanisms of support. This aspect of the
project is of a pilot nature and it is understood that
covunaity support may only be realized in the form of
services, not financing. To cover the risk at (d) the
design of the project allows for flexibility in
implementation such as relocation of construction
activities to more secure administrative regions, and
adjustments to the number of textbooks to be provided.
ProJect Components and 8stimated Costes
US$ million
Local     Foreign   Total
1. Upgrading Teaching Staff                    2.50        0.86      3.36
2. Textbooks: Development, Procurement
Distribution                              0.20       4.99       5.19
3. Institutional Development                   0.62        2.77      3.39
4. Rehabilitation of Physical Facilities       2.24        9.66     11.90
5. Project Management                          0.49        1.84      2.33
Total Base line Costs                          6.05       20.12     26.17
Physical contingencies                    0.25       2.00       2.25
Price contingencies                       1.05       3.03       4.08
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                            7.35       25.15     32.50
Financins Plan                                 Local      Foreign   Total
IDA                                            4.15       21.95     26.1
UNCDF                                           -          3.20      3.2
Government                                     3.20         -        3.2
7.35      25.15      32.5
Estimated Annual Disbursements:
IDA Fiscal Year
1991    1992    1993   1994    1995    1996    1997       1998
(US$ million)
Annualt      0.80    2.94    5.03    6.66    4.78    4.54    1.10    0.25
Cumulative:  0.80    3.74    8.77   15.43   20.21   24.75   25.85   26.10
Econaomic Rate of Returns Not applicable
ft: IBRD No. 21789



I. TEE EDUCATION SECTOR
A.   Socio-Economic Background
1.01      Somalia is a large, sparsely populated country with a population
of about 6 million, growing at about 3 percent per year. About half the
population consists of nomadic pastoralists, whose livestock production is
the mainstay of the economy, accounting for some 40 percent of GDP and 75
percent of exports. Somalia is one of the least developed countries of the
world, as classified by the United Nations. Per capita GDP (1988) is about
US$280 at the official exchange rate and US$170 at market exchange rates.
The average life expectancy at birth is 46 years, the infant mortality rate
is 130 per thousand, and the primary school enrollment rate is less than 10
percent.
1.02      On assuming power in 1969, the present government initiated
development efforts mainly through the public sector and cooperatives, for
the stated objectives of egalitarianism and social justice. Emphasis was
given to social sectors. In a society embedded in centuries old, oral
traditions, Somali was successfully introduced, in written form, as the
national language; the literacy rate was substantially raised; access to
education was expanded and a national university established; and a
rudimentary system of primary health care was introduced. These
achievements on the social side, however, were not matched by economic
achievements, because of a combination of policy-related and exogenous
factors (erosion of incentives under pervasive controls; mismanagement in
an over-extended public sector; the drought of 1974/75 and the border
conflict with Ethiopia in 1977/78). Between 1970 and 1980 there was no
real growth in per capita income.
1.03      Following the 197-78 border conflict with Ethiopia, there were
sharp increases in government expenditures, mainly for national security.
Government's financing of large budget deficits with credit from the
Central Bank led to high rates of inflation and Somalia entered the 1980s
facing a financial crisis, both domestic and external.
1.04      Since 1981 the Government has attempted to introduce, albeit
haltingly, policy reform measures to achieve financial stabilization and
economic growth. During the 1980s, while per capita GDP increased by less
than one percent per annum, Somalia's financial and budgetary crisis
persisted. Government's domestic revenue - mostly derived from indirect
taxes - declined from about 12 percent of GDP in the early 1980s to 5-6
percent in 1987188. Government's development expenditures are entirely
financed by external assistance, and about half the recurrent expenditures
(amounting to around 132 of GDP) are now financed by counterpart funds
generated from food and community aid programs. Despite this, recourse to
Central Bank financing of recurrent expenditure has continued.
1.05      The bulk of recurrent Government expenditure is absorbed by
security needs. As a result, economic and social sector ministries are
severely underfunded, which has adversely affected their performance and
limited the effectiveness of donor-supported investment programs. Public



- 2 -
education is threatened with extinction as the Ministry of Education and
Culture (HOE), which includes Higher Education, receive only about 1.5
percent of total recurrent expenditure, compared to 12 percent in the late
19708 and 6 percent in the early 1980s. However, the Government is
beginning to adopt corrective measures. A three-year policy framework
(1989-1991), prepared jointly by the Government of Somalia and the staff of
the Fund and the Bank, calls for restructuring recurrent budgetary
expenditure and raising the share of the budget for economic and social
ministries from about 62 ir. 1987 to 152 in 1989, 18$ in 1990, and 20? in
1991. This commitment was confirmed in the Second Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Program (ASAPII) and provides a framework for dealing with the
social costs of adjustment. This target was not met for 1989; but for
1990, the budget provides an allocation of 20 percent for the economic and
social ministries.
1.06      A long period of rap'd inflation starting in 1978 led to an
erosion in the real value of salarier of civil servants (including
teachers). In 1985. civil service salaries were only 15 percent of their
1977 level in real terms. In 1988, civil service salaries were raised by
100 percent. And again, in January 1989, salaries were increased by about
40 percent for the staff of Ministries of Education and Health, and 102 for
the rest of the civil service. In July 1989 a further general salary
increase of 30 percent was allowed (Annex 13, Table 8). Real salaries are
still considerably below their 1977 level. Salaries of senior civil
servants in Mogadishu are at present equivalent to 30-35 percent of the
cost of living for an average family. Salaries of primary teachers are
less than half of those paid to senior civil servants. To augment their
income, Government officials often look for and obtain donor-financed
salary supplements. Teachers, however, do not have access to these salary
supplements and are dependent ou outside activities in their immediate
environment. The Government recognizes that the situation must be
corrected and has expressed its intent in the 1990 budget to increase
revenues and augment salaries of civil servants consistent with financial
stabilization objectives (para. 1.23).
B. The Education System
1.07      Back8round:  At Independence in 1960, Somalia inherited 233
primary and 12 secondary schools from the Italian and British colonial
systems. The two systems not only used a different language (Italian or
English), they were also quite different in pedagogical approach,
curriculum and organizational structure. One of the Government's
p=iorities therefore was to create a unified school system, expand access
to education and set up a national university. During the first decade of
Independence the growth of education was marginal. However a period of
rapid expansion ensued, with the 1972 adoption of Somali as the language of
instruction in primary and secondary schools, the abolition of school fees,
and an intensive rural development and literacy campaign. Enrollments were
boosted dramatically: For example, primary enrollments increased from
78,000 stuf.'nts in 1974 to 220,000 students in 1976, and rose more slowly
thereafter to reach a peak of about 272,000 in 1981, representing about 30



percent of the primary school age population. Secondary enrollments also
Increased at a rapid rate, from 9,500 in 1973 to a peak of about 65,000 in
1983. These enrollment levels were sustained for two or three years after
which worsening financial provision for education precipitated a
significant decline. By 1988, primary enrollments had fallen by 58 percent
to about 159,000 (representing less than 10 percent of the primary age
group), and about one quarter of all primary schools were closed.
Enrollments in secondary and technical education decreased even more
sharply from their peak levels (see table below). Enrollments at the
Somali National University (SNU), however, which continued to receive
significant external assistance -rom Italy, increased steadily and
consistently, at an average annual rate of 24.7 percent, from 1,200
students in 1980 to 7,000 students in 1988.
Table 1: Enrollment Data
Enrollments
Average
Peak Year      Current   Annual Rates
Peak Year      Number          (1988)      of change
Primary
Education      1981            272000          159000         - 7.4
Secondary
Education      1983             65000           40400         - 9.1
Technical
& Vocational   1982             9500             4700         - 11.1
Education
1.08      Structure of the Education Slstems  Somalia's education system
(Annex 2) currently has eight years of primary education, consisting of a
four-year elementary cycle and a four-year intermediate cycle. A primary
school leaving examination determines entrance into secondary school.
Secondary education, either general or technical, is of four years durationi
and leads to a secondary school leaving examination. Higher education ix
provided at the Somali National University (SNU) whose admission criteria
include the completion of two years of compulsory national service and the
passing of a university entrance examination. There is one functioning
Primary Teacher Training Institute (PTTI) in Mogadishu, which offers a two
year post-secondary course of studies. Secondary school teachers are
trained in a four-year post-secondary program at the Lafole College of
Education (LCE), affiliated with the National University. There are twelve
two-year, post-primary vocational training schools which provide skills
training in basic trades.



-4-
1.09      Language policy in Somalia's education system is complex: Somali
and Arabic are the languages of instruction in primary and secondary
education.  1.ost vocational and technical education is conducted in English
while the majority of the faculties at the SNU use l.alian as the language
of instruction. The Lafole College of Education uses English as the
language of instruction, as do most private schools which have begun to
develop in the Mogadishu area. Koranic education, which is provided in
Arabic, exists throughout the country in a largely informal manner and is
generally the only form of education to which nomadic children are exposed.
1.10      Management and Administration:  The Ministry of Education and
Culture (MOE) is responsible for the management and administration of
primary and secondary education, technical education and vocational
training, primary and technical teacher training and non-formal education.
Until February 1990 the Ministry of Higher Education and Culture (MOHEC)
oversaw the Somali National University (SNU), the Somali Academy for
Science and Arts and the National Library. 1/
1.11      The MOE has four levels of authority.  At the central level, the
MOE operates through twelve functional departments and one professional
service, the National Examinations Board (Annex 3). Policy decisions,
reached by the Minister of Education through a consultative process with
the vice minister and senior ministry staff, are implemented by the
Director General (DG) to whom the MOE Department directors report. In each
of the country's 18 administrative regions, a Regional Education Officer
(REO) is responsible for the implementation of the MOE's policies and
programs and for providing feedback to the ministry on specific regional
issues. The REO reports directly to the DG of the MOE. At the regional
level, each REO is assisted by officers from the MOE Directorates of
Planning, Inspection, Adult Education, Women's Education, Personnel and
Financial Management, and Maintenance and Logistic Services. The third
level of decentralized management and quality control is at the district
level, where a District Education Officer (DEO), reporting to the REO,
monitors and evaluates the schools in his district and provides
professional backstopping to the teachers.   The school principal and his
teachers represent the fourth level of education management, at the level
of the community. They are assisted by Parents' Associations which are
responsible for mobilizing community support and for assisting in the
maintenance and operation of the schools.
1.12      Educat.ion Finance:  The bulk of education expenditure is covered
by the budget of the Ministry of Education and Culture (MOE). In the 1975-
79 period, Somalia spent about 12 percent of its recurrent expenditure and
/   After negotiations were completed, the two ministries were combined
into a single Ministry of Education and Culture, also called as MOE
under the same minister. The organizational chart for the new MOE,
has not yet been drawn up. The discussions in this SAR therefore
refer to the former Ministry of Education.



7 percent of its development expenditure on education, equal to about 3.2
of percent of GDP. These figuzca are comparable to the average for Sub-
Sahara Africa, where education typically absorbs 12 percent of Government
recurrent expenditure, about 4 percent of GDP. These relatively high
levels of spending on education were reflected in increasing enrollments
which peaked in 1981-83 (Table 1). Since 1979, however as defense and
security needs absorbed increasing amounts of the Government budget, both
the level and the share of education in Government expenditure steadily
declined, reflecting a shift in Government's priorities and an apparent
loss of its commitment to education. From 1986 through 1988, MOE's share
of Government spending had dropped to less than 2 percent of its recurrent
expenditure, and about 3 percent of its development expenditure. Total
public expenditure on education (recurrent and development) currently
represents about 0.6 percent of GDP. As a result, enrollments at all
levels of education (except university), suffered sharp declines as noted
in para. 1.07.
1.13      The real value of the Somali government's expenditure on
education (recurrent plus development) has fallen drastically from an index
of 100 in 1978 to 26 in 1987; recurrent expenditure declined by as much as
85 percent, and development expenditure by 64 percent. If this trend of
government's declining recurrent education expenditure continues, a
functioning public education system will soon cease to exist. These
figures do not fully reflect expenditure on boarding. Boarding facilities
provided for about 102 of secondary students enrollment, 301 of technical
and vocational students and 5O2 of university students cost about 360
million So.Sh. in 1989 and are entirely borne by the government. But the
bulk of this expense is provided by the World Food Program outside the MOE
budget through food aid in kind (about 310 million shillings) while the
Government budget provides only about 50 million shillings for boarding
costs. This practice hides the actual resource costs of the boarding
system.
1.14       Several weaknesses in the Government's education expenditure
pattern should be noted for recent years. First, based on 1985-87 data,
the share of development extpenditure in total education expenditure exceeds
60 percent. However, about two-thirds of the development expenditure is in
the form of technical assistance (teachers), thus reducing substantially
the resources used for operation and maintenance of schools. Second,
expenditure is heavily skewed in favor of higher education: higher
education receives about 45 percent of total education expenditure,
compared to only 21 percent for primary education and 34 percent for
secondary education. The bias in favor of higher education is obvious and
strong. In Kenya, for example, primary education gets about 60 percent,
and higher education about 15 percent of education expenditure. Third,
recurrent expenditure per pupil has declined dramatically and is now one of
the lowest in the developing world. For 1989, budgeted recurrent
expenditure amounts to about US$3.50 per primary student, US$12 per
secondary student, and US$70 per university student. As recently as 1982,
these expenditures were US$27 per primary student, US$82 per secondary
student and US$900 per university student. Although teachers' salaries and



- 6 -
allowances are extremely low (para. 1.20), very little is available for
expenditures on textbooks, teaching materials and equipment. In 1989, for
example, of US$3.50 spent per primary student, only US$1 was available for
the purchase of textbooks and teaching materials; in 1982, about US$6 was
spent per student on textbooks alone. Fourth, as large a share as 20
percent of MOE personnel expenditure is on non-teaching personnel, due to
absorption of surplus teachers in the 1980's in administration, as
enrollment declined.
1.15      A small part of education finance comes from non-government
sources: school childrens' uniforms and some books and supplies are
financed by the parents; some in-kind contributions such as assistance in
school construction and maintenance come from the communities. In 1987,
following Government's policy of encouraging parental/community financing
of education, particularly with respect to school construction
(para. 2.51), local councils fixed the level of voluntary contribution by
parents at So.Sh 60 per child per month in primary schools and So.Sh. 100
per child per month in secondary schools. These contributions are largely
intended to supplement teachers' salaries and only contribute to a small
degree to the costs of school maintenance. However, information about the
extent to which these contributions are being collected and how they are
being used is not available, and the effectiveness of this scheme would
require further investigation. A few private schools operating in
Mogadishu are fully financed by beneficiaries. Education at the national
university is fully financed (subsidized) by Government.
1.16      Education and Women:  Enrollment of girls in primary schools
increased from about 29 percent of total enrollment in 1972 to 36 percent
in 1984, declining to about 31 percent in 1988. In secondary schools,
female participation increased from about 15 percent in 1972 to 34 percent
in 1984 and has remained at that level. Female enrollment at the national
university stands at about 20 percent. With respect to teachers and
administrators, about 35 percent of primary and 10 percent of secondary
teachers are female. At the Somali National University, however women
instructors are practically non-existent. Women occupy very few
administrative positions in education: only 20 of the 470 primary school
principals (about 4 percent) are female. Social factors, such as pressures
for early marriage, traditional duties in family households, and parents'
preference to attend to the education of boys first, contribute to the
relatively low female participation rate in education.
1.17      In spite of these low participation rates, the education of
women has received particular attention. So-called Family Life Centers
(FLC) were established in the mid-70s to provide non-formal educational
opportunities to women who did not have a formal education. The MOE's
Institute for Women Education (IWE) trained about 700 teachers for the FLCs
which, at the outset, offered four-year courses in home economics,
nutrition and handicrafts. The economic downturn of the early 19809,
however, has caused the PLC program to decline. Also, it was found that
the four-year program was too long and did not adequately address the needs
of rural women. Further changes in the concept and implementation of this



- 7 -
special program are being considered by the MOE, although current resource
constraints do not hold out much hope for quick and effective action.
C.   Main Issues in Education
1.18      Education in Somalia is in a state of crisis.  The overriding
sectoral issue is the grossly inadequate provision for education financing.
Inadequate financing impacts on all levels of education but is most evident
at the primary level where enrollments are declining precariously, teachers
are leaving the system and schools are being closed. The situation is less
alarming at secondary level although declining primary enrollments will
eventually impact on secondary schools with similar effects. Because of
strong bilateral support from Italy, university education is largely
unaffected by the current financial crisis. With respect to teachers, the
situation is critical: because of extremely low pay and very tough working
conditions, particularly in rural primary schools, qualified teachers are
leaving the service in large numbers (the annual attrition rate of primary
teachers is about 20 percent).  To keep the system going, the Government
has had to resort to the use of national service volunteers (secondary
school leavers without any teacher training) who now constitute about 40
percent of the primary teaching force (para. 2.03). The situation is less
critical at secondary level because secondary schools are located in the
larger urban centers where teachers have better opportunities of augmenting
their incomes. With respect to educational facilities, many school
buildings are in an advanced state of disrepair, while thei.e are hardly any
textbooks, instructional materials or other educational equipment
especially outside the Mogadishu area. And finally, the institutional
infrastructure for the planning, administration, inspection and supervision
of education has deteriorated badly as grossly underpaid MOE staff are
preoccupied with the continuing quest for additional income (part-time
teaching, private tutoring, commercial ventures, etc.) and neglect their
regular daily work at the MOE. As a result, the impressive gains in access
to and quality of education achieved during the mid-70s, have been
virtually wiped out.
1.19      Inadequate Sector Financing:  Significantly increased budgetary
provision would need to be made to support the rehabilitation of education
in Somalia, particularly with respect to increased teachers' salaries and
allowances, the provision of books and instructional materials, and the
maintenance of educational infrastructure. It is important to note that
the proposed project would succeed in revitalizing primary education only
if the required recurrent financing is made available (para. 1.22 and
Annex 5). There is serious underfunding of recurrent expenditure at other
levels of education as well - such as secondary, technical ane vocational.
Also, within the education system, salarieslallowances of one class of
teachers (primary for example) cannot be justifiably augmented without
similar increases for all teachers and other education sector staff. The
need is to ensure minimum recurrent financing required for the operation of
the entire education sector.



- 8 -
1.20      With respect to primary teachers' incomes, salaries and
allowances would need to be raised considerably to provide teachers with a
reasonable standard of living, encourage them to turn up for work, and
reduce their high attrition rate. Salaries and allowances of primary
teachers, were increased by about 43Z in real terms between January 1988
and July 1989 (para. 1.06) and are estimated to meet less than one-quarter
the subsistence needs of an average Somali family. The salary of a Somali
primary teacher is only one-fourth per capita GDP, whereas in other East
African countries it averages 5 times per capita GDP. During post
appraisal, the Government agreed that salaries/allowances of primary
teachers (who are mostly secondary school graduates) will be raised to
twice per capita GDP by 1995 (see Annex 4).
1.21      MOE has begun to adopt some internal efficiency measures to
reduce costs. For example, MOE has identified about 5,000 teachers
reported absent from their schools for six months or more, and has started
civil service procedures to remove them from the establishment register.
The post-appraisal mission has confirmed that this process is firmly
underway: to date, about 1,800 teachers have been removed and the remaining
3,200 teachers will be dismissed by June 1991. During negotiations, the
government has confirmed that, the payment of salaries to 5,000 absentee
teachers has been stopped. Cost savings due to the removal of nonworking
teachers from the payroll should allow MOE to increase allowances to
existing teachers and to purchase instructional materials. The mechanics
of reallocation of these savings by the MOF will be discussed and reviewed
during the annual joint MOE/IDA reviews (see Annex 11, 6.02).
1.22         Annex 5 presents tne Bank's estimates of the minimum
recurrent financing required to operate the education system, including
the central and regional MOE establishment, for the 1990-95 period. Th.ese
estimates suggest that, in order to revitalize primary education and
sustain a minimum level of quality and efficiency, recurrent expenditures
for primary education would need to be mor^ than doubled in real terms from
their 1989 level of So. Sh. 290 million to about So.Sh. 640 million in
1990, and increased eight-fold to about So.Sh 2.4 billion in 1995. It is
further estimated that the minimum recurrent budget for the entire
education sector (excluding higher education) should be about So.Sh. 1.4
billion in 1990, rising to about So.Sh. 4.0 billion in 1995 (all in 1989
prices). Higher education would increase the recurrent budget requirement
by about So.Sh. 250-350 million per year (in 1989 prices). These figures
compare to a 1989 MOE budget of about So.Sh. 700 million.
1.23       The Government has made some moves to increase resources for
education: MOE's share of the 1990 recurrent budget has been increased to
6Z and its share of the investment budget to 92 compared to 4.9Z and 62
respectively in 1989 budget. In order to begin to provide an adequate
financial basis for the revitalization of education in Somalia, and more
particularly for primary education which the proposed project is designed
to support, the Government was required, to submit to IDA its five-year
plan for the financing of the education sector, indicating specific levels
of expenditure for each level of education (primary, secondary, post-



- 9 -
secondary) as discussed with IDA during the public expenditure review of
November 1989 (see Annex 4). In addition, the Government has provided
evidence during negotiations that it has allocated, in its 1990 budget, the
minimum amount required for the financing of the education sector,
excluding higher education. The actual 1990 budget allocations for
recurrent expenditure in education amounts to So.Sh. 2,440 billion and for
investment expenditure for education amounts to So.Sh. 910 million. The
base salaries of teachers have been increased by 130 percent in 1990, while
the professional teaching allowances of different categories of teachers
will be raised by 200 percent to 400 percent in the same year, subject to
their carrying out a full load of classroom teaching. Government also
provided assurances during negotiations that it would, for the four
subsequent fiscal years, submit each year, for consideration during the
joint IDA/MOE annual reviews of project management and implementation
(para. 4.21), its education budget proposals in accordance with the five-
year financing plan agreed with IDA, and a statement of actual expenditures
for the education sector for the previous two years.
1.24      Poor quality and low internal efficiency:  Associated with the
low level of expenditure is poor quality of instruction and low internal
efficiency. At primary level, only about 512 of pupils complete the
elementary cycle (grade 4), and 222 the entire primary cycle (grade 8). It
is costing the system about 12.1 pupil-years of schooling to produce one
primary school graduate. Although low efficiency can be attributed, in
large part, to the effects of inadequate budget provisions, contributing
factors also are: (a) the large number of inadequately trained,
inexperienced and often unmotivated teachers; (b) the severe shortage of
textbooks in the schools; (c) the dilapidated state of school buildings;
and (d) the lack of supervision by inspectors and regional educational
authorities.
1.25      Internal inefficiencies result mainly from poor policies and
practices related to the teaching profession. The pupillteacher ratio (at
31:1 when untrained national service teachers are excluded) is low compared
to other Sub-Saharan African countries, where the average was 37:l in 1983.
This relatively low ratio, however, does not appear to have a beneficial
impact in terms of higher enrollments or better student performance. The
high teacher attrition rate (average seniority is 4.3 years and only about
102 have more than 10 years experience) is attributed to the low level of
salaries but may also be due to the lack of coherent career prospects.
High teacher turnover has encouraged Government's perception that the
capacity for pre-service teacher training needs to be increased in order to
fill the vact ed posts. However, IDA's analysis indicates that this is a
"revolving door" situation where the perceived need for newly trained
teachers is merely a function of the unusually high attrition rate.
Moreover, projections of student enrollments and teacher requirements
indicate that, even In an optimistic scenario of 10 percent p.a. growth in
enrollments over the next 10 years, the current capacity for both primary
and secondary teacher training is adequate to satisfy the need for
additional teachers. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that the capacity for pre-service primary teacher training would



- 10 -
be maintained at its current level, and that any plans for expansion of
such training would be discussed and agreed vith IDA. Instead, the
Government would implement specific measures for reducing teacher turnover
and for upgrading teachers in post, which would be supported by the project
(paras. 2.10 and 2.11).
1.26      Declining Enrollmentss  Recent statistics are witness to the
alarming decline in primary school enrollments over the last 5 years. The
continuing loss of qualified teachers due to poor working and living
conditions; the weak supervision and inadequate pedagogical backstopping
from the central and regional levels of the MOE; the unavailability of
textbooks and school supplies; and unsuitable, poorly maintained school
buildings all contribute to the continuing decline in primary school
enrollments. The project is designed to address these institutional
weaknesses (para. 2.01). Other Socio-economic factors also contribute to
the problem of school attendance, particularly as they apply to poor people
in rural areas. For example, in times of economic hardship or during peak
agricultural seasons (planting, harvesting) parents may need their
children to help them on the farm. The requirement for parents to pay
school fees (even if they are minimal) or to purchase basic supplies and
school uniforms may also be a disincentive to send children to school. The
lack of recreational facilities or other forms of school-organized
activities could be another contributing factor. Although these factors
are perhaps less well understood, the project would attempt to address them
by increasing the involvement of parents and community leaders in the
educational process at the community level. Measures being considered
include setting up Community Education Associations (CEA) (Annex 6),
adjusting the school calendar to avoid the peak agricultural seasons,
waiving requirements for school uniforms, and providing more extra-
curricular activities. For this purpose, assistance from NGOs and other
organizations operating at the grassroots level would be actively explored.
D.   Government's Sector Strategy
1.27      Somalia's 1987-89 National Development Strategy and Program
summarizes Government's objectives for the education sector as follows:
(a) Universal primary education will be supported at a realistic
level by the expansion of school facilities and provision of
training and incentives to teachers;
(b) Secondary schools will be rehabilitated and equipped with
science laboratories. In-service training will be given to
secondary teachers. The capacity of technical and vocational
schools will be increased and the quality of training improved;
(c) Education administration will be decentralized and community
participation will be encouraged;



- 11 -
(d) Access to university and the quality of undergraduate programs
will be improved. Post-graduate programs and research
facilities will be introduced.
1.28      Under normal conditions of economic growth and social
development these objectives would essentially be sound and would warrant
support by the international donor community. However, declining financial
resources have led to the gradual impoverishment of all social sectors.
Education has been particularly hard hit because, in addition to sharply
lower budgetary allocations and actual expenditures, external financing has
not materialized as expected, particularly for primary education
(para. 1.35). In response to the declining resource situation, the MOE has
adopted a more realistic strategy which has the following elements:
(a) encourage community participation in the education process by
expanding the Parents Associations into more active Community
Education Associationst introduce on an experimental basis in
four administrative regions measures which will reduce the
financial burden on the farming population by adjusting the
school calendar to the agricultural seasons and by waiving
requirements for school uniforms.
(b) use MOE's limited financial resources, particularly those made
available by donors, for qualitative improvements to the
education system, focusing on the ongoing program of curriculum
development and textbook production, and on improving the
quality of teaching through in-service and pre-service teacher
training;
(c) improve MOE's capacity for sector planning, and management,
streamline MOE's operational procedures, strengthen school
inspection and simplify the examination system.
1.29      These limited objectives are considered realistic in the present
circumstances.   The specific measures the Government intends to undertake
and which the proposed project supports, focus on a number of mutually
reinforcing components designed to revitalize the system including,
textbook production, teacher upgrading, school inspection, examinations,
etc. The Government also recognizes the vital role communities have to
play in the provJ.sion of education - a basic human right - an aspect which
the proposed project would attempt to strengthen. The Government has
presented its strategy and the associated policy changes in a letter of
education policy intent (Annex 4) along with a plan of action on policy and
institutional development (Annex 11) to IDA (para. 6.01).
S.   The Role of the Bank in Somali Education
1.30      Past experiences  IDA has financed four education projects in
Somalia. The First Education Project (Credit 247-SO, for US$3.3 million,
signed in 1971 and completed in 1976) assisted to (a) improve quality of
technical education; (b) diversify curricula in general secondary schools;



- 12 -
(c) increase enrollment capacities of secondary schools, two technical
institutes and the Lafole College of Education; and (d) develop a local
capacity for the design and construction of schools. The Second Education
Project (Credit 511-SO, for US$8.0 million, signed in 1974 and completed in
1981) financed (a) establishment of a primary teacher training college and
the Academy of Somali Studies to support Government's basic education and
literacy program; (b) continued curricular diversification in secondary
schools; and tc) establishment of nomadic training centers. The Third
Education Project (Credit 738-SO, for US$8.0 million, signed in 1977 and
completed in 1985) supported (a) improvement of tLe Curriculum Development
Center (CDC) and expansion of the State Printing Agency (SPA) for the
preparation and printing of school textbooks; (b) establishment of a
Livestock and Forestry School, a School of Nursing, and a Health Personnel
Training Institute; and (c) support to the National Trade Testing and
Training Center to strengthen vocational training. The Fourth Education
Project (Credit 1105-SO, for US$10.2 million, signed in 1981 and completed
in March 1989) supported (a) improvement of educational quality by
developing in-service teacher training at Primary Teacher Training Resource
Centers (PTTRC's), and upgrading secondary teacher training at the Lafole
College of Education; (b) establishment of four new and expansion of ten
existing general secondary schools; and (c) technical assistance to the
Somali Institute of Development Administration and Management (SIDAM) to
help develop professionals in accounting, administration and management.
1.31      Impact of IDA Financing and Lessons Learned:  The most important
issue affecting education in Somalia since 1981 has beeLi inadequate
recurrent funding. This issue became increasingly apparent during the
implementation of Education IV and was highlighted in OED's 1987 audit
report of the Third IDA Education Project. The gravity of the financial
situation, the resulting declines in enrollments and the long-term impact
of declining resources on human resource development became particularly
evident during the Bank's 1987 review of Somalia's economy. Following this
review, donor community, under IDA's leadership, formulated for donor
consideration a "minimum package of actions' needed to arrest the decline
and revitalize the education sector. This led to renewed donor interest in
the education sector (para. 1.36) and the identification and preparation of
this proposed project.
1.32      Experience vith implementation of the four IDA-financed
education projects has provided guidance to the design and implementation
of the proposed project. Principal among the lessons learned are:
(a) education project design should ensure that recurrent cost implications
are kept to a minimum; (b) complex projects involving several ministries
and agencies may cause coordination problems and implementation delays and
should be avoided; (c) project preparation should include explicit
attention to the mechanics of project management and administration; and
(d) educationltraining programs alien to Somali culture, such as training
centers for nomads, which were introduced without adequate sociological and
anthropological studies, do not work and should not be supported. These
points have been taken into account in the design of the proposed project.



- 13 -
1.33      Rationale For Further IDA Lendins to Education:  Given the
Government's extreme resource constraints, the MOE needs financial support
from all possible sources to rehabilitate its education system. IDA has
taken the lead among the donors in assisting the Government in the
education sector, particularly in view of IDA's role in the reordering of
resource allocations through DMFIBank discussions on the Policy Framework
Paper and through the Public Expenditure Review process. The
rehabilitation of public education in Somalia is recognized by all donors
as well as the Government as a long-term undertaking. The proposed project
would make an initial contribution to this process by focusing on two
critical areast (a) primary education, which needs an urgent infusion of
assistance in order to halt the alarming decline; and (b) institutional
development, which is necessary to strengthen the MOE's capacity for
educational planning and management; thus laying the foundation for further
investments in education by IDA and other donors.
F.   Donors Role in Education
1.34      Donors, including IDA. have played a very important role in
Somali education by financing the development of educational infrastructure
(buildings and equipment) and the training of Somalis (provision of
technical assistance and scholarships). Their combined contribution at
times represented up to 50 percent of total government expenditures for
education. The multilateral donors include IDA, AfDB, UNICEF, UNESCO, WFP,
and UNDP, the bilateral donors were mainly Italy, Egypt, West Germany,
U.K., USAID, SIDA, DANIDA and Saudia Arabia. In the past Donors were
involved in all major educational efforts undertaken by the Government but
their contributions were largely uncoordinated. Since 1987, however, a
donor action group on education has been operating in Somalia; it is
currently chaired by UNICEF.
1.35      In recent years, the flow of external assistance to the
education sector, mostly in the form of grants, has declined in real terms.
For example, in 1989 Government expected to receive So.sh. 1,760 million
(US$4.8m) compared to So.Sh.800 million (US$4.7m) in 1988, but
substantially lower than So.Sh.730 million (equivalent to US$7.3 million at
prevailing exchange rates) in 1987. In 1989, assistance is being provided
by only a few donorss Italy, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, UNICEF and WFP. Italy's
assistance is large but confined to the National University. UNICEF
continues to provide assistance to the Curriculum Development Center and to
in-service teacher training. WFP is providing food for all school boarding
facilities including the University. The total estimated value of this
food aid exceeds the annual salary payments to all primary teachers. Saudi
Arabia provides an unknown amount for Arabic and Koranic teachings.
1.36       The prospects for donor assistance to education in Somalia for
the 1990's are, however, beginning to look more promising. Using the
umbrella of this proposed education project, other donors have expressed
interest to provide further support for the revitalization of the education
system. Chief among these prospective financiers are the EEC (primary
school rehabilitation and direct budgetary support to improve teachers'
incomes), WFP (food aid to both students and teachers), and OPEC (primary
school rehabilitation and teachers housing).



- 14 -
II. THE PROJECT
A. Proiect ObJectives
2.01      The central objective of the proposed project is to revitalize
the education system through sustainable changes, and thereby reverse the
decline in enrollments and erosion of teaching quality which has occurred
in the past decade (para. 1.17). The Project would support the Government
in reaching this goal by pursuing the following specific objectives:
(a) improve the quality of primary education nation-wide through teacher
and headmaster training and the provision of textbooks and teachers'
guides; (b) strengthen the Ministry of Education and Culture's
institutional capacity for planning and managing the education system and
for implementing investment projects, (c) increase access to primary
education in four of the country's eighteen administrative regions through
the construction and/or rehabilitation of primary schools.
B.   Project Components
2.02      The project would be implemented over the seven-year period
1990-1996, and would have the following components:
Mi)       Upgrading Teaching Staff:  Provision of equipment,
materials, technical assistance, fellowships and
operational support to (i) design in-service teacher
training programs, develop training materials, train
Somali tutors and conduct in-service upgrading
programs for about 1,500 primary school teachers, 300
headmasters and school inspectors; and (ii) upgrade
existing facilities for in-service teacher training in
three locations: Mogadishu, Galkayo and Baidoa.
(ii)      Textbooks Development, Procurement & Distribution:
Provision of equipment, materials, technical
assistance and fellowships to (i) assist the
Curriculum Development Center (CDC) in textbook
writing and manuscript preparation; (ii) procure,
store and distribute to all primary schools about 1.6
million textbooks and 100,000 teachers' guides; and
liii) introduce, operate and evaluate a pilot cost
recovery scheme for textbooks in the Mogadishu area.
(iii)     Institutional Development:  Provision of equipment,
materials, specialist services, fellowships and
operational support to (i) the National Examinations
Board (NEB) to strengthen its competence in test
construction, measurement and evaluation, and improve
its capacity to design, conduct and evaluate national
examinations; (ii) the Ministry of Education and
Culture (MOE)'s Primary School Inspectorate to
effectively conduct school inspection on a regular



- 15 -
basis; (iii) the MOE's Departments of Planning,
Finance, Personnel, and Primary Education to increase
the reliability of data collection and analysis,
strengthen budget preparation, improve personnel
management, streamline operational systems and
procedures, strengthen planning and management of
primary education, and improve community mobilization.
(iv)      Rehabilitation of Physical Facilities:
Rehabilitation or new construction of about 120
primary schools in four regions (Lower Shebelle 73,
Middle Shebelle 15, Bay 21, and Gedo 11), with a total
of about 48,000 student places; provision of school
furniture, storage space for books, community meeting
spaces, water supplies and latrine blocks;
construction and furnishing of about 120 staff houses
for headmasters, and office space for district
education officers and school inspectors.
(v)       ProJect Managements Provision of equipment, vehicles,
technical assistance, staff training and operational
support to strengthen and expand the existing project
implementation unit for effective implementation,
coordination and monitoring of project-financed
activities.
C.   Proiect Description
Upgrading Teaching Staff:
2.03        The primary school teaching force is poorly prepared and
inadequately supported in the task of educating the current generation of
Somalia children. The 5,000 regular teachers currently estimated to be in
primary classrooms have generally completed only eight years of primary
education. Most of them have had only limited exposure to teacher training
and only about 30 percent have completed a formal preservice teacher
training program, qualifying them as primary teachers. A large number of
volunteers (estimated at 40 percent of the teaching force), secondary
school graduates who are fulfilling two years of mandatory national
service, are teaching in primary schools. They receive a six day
orientation course prior to assuming their classroom responsibilities and
are thus essentially unqualified teachers. Neither regular teachers nor
volunteers have been familiarized with the new curriculum introduced by the
MOE in 1984, or in the use of textbooks as an integral aspect of the
instructional process. Books have been scarce for at least six years and
standard teaching practices center on copying from the chalk board, oral
dictation and recitation.
2.04      Training Program DesiRn:  The project would support the
development and delivery of a quality in-service teacher training program,
based on the new curriculum and designed to improve the professional
competence of primary teachers. Support would be provided for three



- 16 -
distinct but inter-related programst (a) development of instructional
materials for in-service teacher training, for which the professional
capacities of the Teacher Training Department (TTD) of the MOE would be
augmented; (b) training of about 80 tutors who would conduct in-service
teacher training courses in 3 regional centers; and (c) delivery of in-
service upgrading programs to about 1,500 regular (non-National Service)
primary school teachers teaching in primary schools in the four project-
supported regions. The training offered by this program would be linked
with a career incentive package (para. 2.10) and with changes in the career
structure for primary teachers (para. 2.11).
2.05      The program would be implemented by the Teacher Training
Department (TTD) of the MOE. The TTD has developed an excellent in-service
training proposal, with assistance from USAID and UNICEF, which envisages a
two-year program in four phases: Phase I would be a 50-day full-time course
in pedagogy and subject matter to be conducted during the summer vacation.
Phase II would consist of 2 days of in-service training per month, for 9
months, during the following school year. Phase III would be a second
summer course of 50 days full-time training, followed by Phase IV. another
18 days of in-service training during the school year which follows. A
final examination would be administered by the National Examinations Board
(para. 2.44).
2.06      Training Materials:  Training materials for the in-service
teacher training program, would be developed, tested and revised by the
TTD. The project would support this process by providing overseas training
for five members of the Teacher Training Department for a period of 4
months each. Four of them would specialize in the development of in-
service training materials and the techniques of tutor training. The fifth
would focus on evaluation of curriculum content and instructional
materials. Following the return of the four tutor trainers, the TTD,
together with CDC and with the assistance of a project-financed curriculum
development/training consultant, would hold a 14-day workshop for about 30
CDC curriculum specialists, who would develop training mocules for the in-
service teacher training program. Training modules required for phases I
and II (para. 2.05) would be completed in the first project year (PY1) and
for phases III and IV in the second project year (PY2). Formative
evaluation of the training materials would be conducted throughout the in-
service training period (para. 2.05) and a final revision of materials
would take place in PY3, after the full cycle of the first round of
training has been accomplished. The Curriculum Development Center would
produce the training materials.
2.07      Training of Tutorss  The project would assist in the training of
about 80 teacher training tutors, who would conduct the proposed in-service
training programs for primary teachers. The tutor training program would
be designed and implemented by the four trained fellows of the TTD
(para. 2.06), assisted by project-financed external specialists in teacher
training. The program would consist of two consecutive sumner sessions of
about 2 weeks each, to be held at the Mogadishu PTTI. Each summer session
would accommodate about 40 trainee-tutors, so that the entire group of 80
would be trained over a four-year period. Trainee-tutors would be drawn



- 17 -
from experienced staff of the TTD and the PTTI and from the corps of
regional inspectors, district education officers, qualified headmasters and
secondary school teachers.
2.08      The project would also provide one-week training workshops for
about 36 district education officers (DEO) each year to enable them to
supervise the in-service classroom portion of the teacher upgrading program
(phases II and IV, para. 2.05). These workshops would be held at the
Institute of Women Education (IW) in Mogadishu, whose facilities would be
upgraded for this purpose under the proposed project.
2.09      In-service Teacher Training Program:  The project would provide
financial and logistic support for the in-service training of about 1,500
primary school teachers, about one fourth of the current primary teaching
force, over the project period. Trainees would be drawn from the permanent
teaching force of the MOE and selected on the basis of their commitment to
the profession, their lengtk of teaching experience and their geographic
representation. Implementation of the in-service training program would
start in PY2 at the Mogadishu PTTI, with a first cohort of 300 teachers.
This would be followed in PY3 by a second cohort of 150 teachers at the
secondary boarding school in Galkayo and in PY4 by a third cohort of 150
teachers at the secondary boarding school at Baidoa. This phased program
would establish an in-service training capacity of 600 teachers per annum
in three geographic locations.
2.10      Career Incentivess  Career incentives would be offered to
teachers who successfully complete the four phases of the in-service course
and pass the final examination. The incentive package would include
(a) award of a Diploma of Primary Teaching, recognized as equivalent to the
diploma awarded to graduates of the regular two-year pre-service program;
(b) an increase of 1000 Somali Shillings in constant 1989 shillings, in the
teaching allowance per month; and (c) a one-step raise in the civil service
salary grade. The Governmert provided assurances at negotiations that this
incentive package will become effective in July 1991 and will be
implemented when the first cohort of the in-service teacher upgrading
program graduates.
2.11      Career Development:  In order to retain qualified primary
teachers in the system and provide for their professional growth, the
project would support the introduction of a number of changes in their
eligibility for more advanced studies. During appraisal the MOE has,
agreed to the following measures: (a) Qualified primary teachers (PTTI
graduates) will become eligible for admission to the Lafole College of
Education in order to obtain secondary teacher qualifications after a
minimum of two years of service as a primary teacher. This eligibility
will be extended to a minimum of four years of primary teaching service for
PTTI graduates serving in the four project-supported regions. (b) Admission
of qualifying primary teachers to Lafole College of Education will be
limited to twenty percent of the College's yearly intake, beginning in
1990; Ic) Lafole College would introduce, starting in 1991, a special
program for qualified primary school teachers designed to improve their
proficiency in primary teaching. The quality of pre-service primary



- 18 -
teacher training conducted at the Mogadishu PTTI would be improved by
tightening the requirements for admission to at least completion of a grade
12 education and by maintaining the duration of the PTTI program at two
years. The Government provided assurances at negotiations that these
measures would be adopted and enacted by September 1990. In addition, in
order to maintain the quality of the training program, the PTTI output will
be maintained at its current level of about 450 graduates per annum.
2.12      Project Inputs:  The project would finance all developmental
costs associated with the in-service teacher training program. This would
include five fellowships for four months each for TTD personnel
(para. 2.06); honoraria for tutors and TTD staff; per diem and transport
allowances for participants in the training workthops for tutors
(para. 2.07, 2.08) and for teachers participating in the in-service
upgrading programs (para. 2.09); the cost of training materials, field
visits, and a vehicle to facilitate field based evaluations. To provide
continuity in professional leadership for at least the first full cycle of
the in-service training program, the project would provide for an
externally-recruited teacher training specialist to help design the tutor
training program (para. 2.07) and to coordinate the implementation of the
first two years of the in-service teacher upgrading program (para. 2.05),
through four annual visits of about three months each. In addition, a
short-term consultant would be provided to assist in the evaluation of this
program.
TEXTBOOKS:
2.13        The project would provide funds and technical assistance for
the preparation, procurement, storage and distribution of primary school
textbooks and teachers' guides. Specifically, the project would finance
the procurement, in four separate issues over a five year period, of about
1.6 million textbooks and 100,000 teachers' guides in 4 core subjects for
grades 1 to 4, and in seven subjects for grades 5 to 8, and their
distribution to all primary schools in the country. The project would also
support qualitative improvements to textbook writing and manuscript
preparation at the Curriculum Development Center (CDC) for secondary
education. Staff training would be an important aspect of tne assistance
provided for the textbook component.
2.14      Textbook Development:  Textbooks and teachers' guides are
written in the Somali language. For grades 1 to 4, where the curriculum
consists of seven subjects, the project would provide textbooks and
teachers' guides for four core subjects: Somali, Mathematics, Science and
Social Studies. Two subjects, Islamic Studies and Arabic, would be covered
by Government's own resources. Textbooks on Health Education have already
been printed with USAID financing. In grades 5 to 8, where eight subjects
are taught (the same as those for grades 1 to 4, plus Environmental
Education), the project would provide textbooks and teachers' guides for
all subjects except Health Education. For the entire primary cycle (grades
1 to 8) the project would provide for 44 textbook titles and 46 teachers'
guides, to be distributed nation-wide to all primary schools, teacher
training institutes and other institutions concerned with the project. At



- 19 -
the school level, books would be allocated at the rate of one book for
every two students, and teachers' guides at the rate of one guide per
teacher for each subject. Textbooks would remain the Government's
property, would be kept at the school in cupboards provided by the project
and used by students during school hours.
2.15      The writing of textbook material and the preparation of
manuscripts are carried out by the Curriculum Development Center (CDC) in
Mogadishu. The CDC, created in 1964 and supported by IDA from 1979 to 1985
under the Third Education Project (Credit 738-SO), is the de-facto
curriculum department of the MOE. It is adequately staffed and well
equipped to carry out its functions of curriculum development,
instructional materials preparation, the production of finished manuscripts
and the printing of limited runs of instructional guides. The quality of
its vork would be strengthened under the project through an in-country
training program for about 60 professional and editorial staff to improve
curriculum writing and updating and eight fellowships to train CDC staff on
manuscript preparation for secondary school textbooks. The CDC has
completed all manuscripts of 44 primary textbooks and 46 teachers' guides.
The manuscripts completed so far are of acceptable coutent and quality,
suitable for printing, but further improvements, particularly with respect
to illustrations and layout, could usefully be applied to revised editions
which are expected to be printed in 1993 and 1994.
2.16      Textbook Procurements  Given the paucity of commercial printing
facilities in Somalia, the bulk of textbook printing is expected to be done
outside the country (para. 4.12). The books would be ordered from the
printer in four batches, to be delivered in 1990, 1991, 1993 and 1994.
Requirements for the first two batches are based on 1990191 enrollment
projections and include a 30 percent allowance for loss and wear.   The
first batch of about 330,000 books for grades 1 to 4 would be delivered to
Hogadishu in August 1990 for distribution to a:' primary schools within the
next two months.   The second batch of about 320,000 books for grades 5 to
8 would be delivered in August 1991, with the same delivery target. The
third batch of about 450,000 books for grades 1 to 4, this time based on
1993 and 1994 enrollment prejections, would be delivered and distributed in
August 1993, and a final batch of about 480,000 books for grades 5 to 8
would similarly be delivered in 1984. All book orders would include the
appropriate number of teachers' guides, estimated to total about 100,000
copies. However, the actual number of books to be procured under each
batch for distribution will be subject to review of smooth operational
conditions prevailing in the country (para. 5.02). Books will be procured
only for those administrative regions for which timely delivery, under the
distribution procedures agreed with the government could be followed
without hindrance (para. 2.17).
2.17      Textbook Distributions  With respect to distribution of books to
individual schools, initial requirements by district and by school have
been carefully estimated. For ease of handling and distribution, books
will be packaged by the printer in unit lots of 40 textbooks for grades 1
to 4 (10 sets of 4 books, to be shared by 20 students) and 35 textbooks for
grades 5 to 8 (5 sets of 7 books, to be shared by 10 students) and



- 20 -
delivered to Mogadishu in containe:s identified by district. The textbooks
will be distributed by PMU vehicles from its Mogadishu warehouse to the
district education offices, from which delivery to individual schools will
be arranged by the District Education Officer and the respective
headmast rs, using local transportation. To avoid loss of books during
transportation, only PMU vehicles and drivers, accompanied by a MOE-
assigned official, will be used for delivery to the districts. Books will
be received in a public ceremony attended by district or regional officials
and community representatives, and a public announcement of the event will
be made over Radio Somalia. This is intended to demonstrate Government's
commitment to improving the quality of education, stress the importance of
textbooks in the learning process, and assure actual delivery of textbooks
to the district-level authorities. The Textbook Distribution Board (a MOE
entity which has been dormant over the past few years will be revlved for
the purpose) will provide oversight of the entire process and evaluate the
appropriateness or otherwise of the distribution system on an annual basis.
In addition to these annual assessments, a formal mid-term evaluation of
the mechanics of textbook procurement and delivery will be carried out in
1992, prior to the delivery of the third batch, and adjustments to the
process made as necessary.
2.18      Cost Recovery:  The project would introduce the concept of cost
recovery for textbooks through a pilot operation in the Benadir region
(Mogadishu area). It is suggested that students would be required to pay a
user's fee for each book assigned to them for the school year. A local
consultant, working with Community Education Associations (CEA) in the
Benadir region pilot area, would be engaged to design a system for the
collection and administration of the fees collected by the schools and of
their ultimate use, including the setting up of a book fund to finance
future procurement of books. The system would be implemented in the second
year of delivery of books to the Benadir area schools. The results of this
pilot operation and the feasibility of its application to other regions of
the country would be evaluated after one year of operation and would be
jointly reviewed by IDA and the Government.  The Government provided
assurances at negotiations that the pilot cost recovery scheme will be
implemented in the Benadir area during the fourth year of project
implementation, will be evaluated by an independent auditor, and the
results jointly reviewed with IDA with the objective of extending cost
recovery on a national scale.
Institutional Development
2.19      The project would assist the MOE in strengthening its capacity
for effective planning, management and administration of the education
system at the central, regional, district and school levels. Project-
financed assistance would focus on the following key departments of the
ministrys
2.20      Planning:  The planning department of the MOE is responsible for
the collection and analysis of educational statistics and for the
development of long-range plans and programs. The department routinely
collects statistical information and uses computers for data analysis. An



- 21 -
educational statistical yearbook has been published since 1969 and research
of value to planners has been conducted. Despite this technical
competence, however, the data collected and used may not be entirely
reliable because schools are scattered over vast areas of the country,
where roads are poor and communication difficult. Regional Education
Officers and Headmasters who are responsible for data collection,
compilation, and transmission to headquarters lack both training and
motivation.
2.21      The project would attempt to ~orrect these deficiencies and
would support activities aiming at (i) improving methods of data collection
in order to enhance the reliability of educational statistics; (ii)
upgrading the analytical abilities of MOE staff to use the data
effectively; (iii) developing skills among MOE staff on using computers
effectively and (iv) developing evaluation and monitoring capacities for
sector wide and project-specific educational operations. The project would
support two in-country workshops to train about 30 Regional Education
Officers on methods of data collection. Four overseas fellowships, one
each on educational statistics, educational planning, research and
evaluation, and micro computer use would be awarded to Planning Department
staff. Study tours for three senior officials, one on educational planning
and two on evaluation and monitoring methods, would broaden the experience
of senior department staff.
2.22      With respect to MOE staff development, the Planning Department
would organize two workshops for 20 participants each focusing on computer
programming and software use, and on applications for educational planning
and programming. Participants would be computer users from the Departments
of Planning, Evaluation and Research, Personnel and Financial Management,
the Curriculum Development Center, the Project Management Unit and the
National Examinations Board. To support this initiative, the project would
provide technical assistance for up to six months to assist with computer
installation and the development of training systems and programs. In
addition, to strengthen the monitoring and evaluation process of the MOE,
periodic technical assistance up to 12 months over the project period would
be provided as well as basic equipment such as photocopiers and vehicles.
2.23      The project would also include three organizational studies, one
in each successive project year, (i) on personnel management, (ii) on
financial management and (iii) on organizational procedures and operations
of the MOE. The project would finance externally-recruited experts to help
conduct the studies, which would be carried out by the office of the
Director-General of the MOE.
2.24      Financial and Personnel Management:  The functions of personnel
and financial management, currently under the Department of Admoinistration
and Personnel, are expected to be re-organized under two separate
Directorates: Personnel Management and Financial Management. The main
problems facing the new departments include lack of trained staff, outdated
operational methods and procedures, lack of storage facilities and lack of
transportation.



- 22 -
2.25      To help address these problems, the project would support three
in-country training workshops, one each for ti) personnel officers,
(ii) financial administrators and (iii) accountants and storekeepers.
Participants of each workshop, numbering about 20, would be drawn from both
central and regional staff. The workshops would last about 20 days and
would be organized by the Somali Institute for Development Administration
and Management (SIDAM), an institution supported by the Fourth Education
Project (Credit 1105-SO). The project would also finance three overseas
fellowships and three study tours all on financial and personnel
management. Finally, the project would provide the department with a
microcomputer, photo-copying equipment and a vehicle. In addition, the
project will assist the conduct of a census for MOE staff by 1990
(Annex 11 3:02).
2.26      Primary Education:  The Primary Education Department (PED) is
responsible for supervising the implementation of policies and programs
relating to primary school management, curriculum, school mapping, and the
provision of teachers and instructional materials. The department also
monitors the deployment of teacherts and maintains pupil records. In
addition, in collaboration with the Ministry of Justice, the PED assists in
the training of Koranic teachers to promote the introduction of numeracy in
Koranic schools. An important dimension of the PED responsibility is
raising community awareness for primary schooling, through the
establishment and support of Parent Associations. The project would assist
the PED in carrying out these functions more effectively.
2.27      The objective of promoting effective local leadership and
mobilizing community support for primary schools would be assisted through
the setting up of Community Education Associations (CEAs). The CEAs would
be a natural extension of the present concept of the Parent Association by
broadening its membership and expanding its responsibilities (Annex 6).
The CEAs would assist in raising awareness of the benefits of primary
education among parents of school-age children, manage the parental and
community contributions to primary schools, and assume some responsibility
for the maintenance of school facilities. To improve achool attendance,
the CEAs would be encouraged to promote the integration of the school and
the community through regularly organized sports and other recreational
activities. NGOs and other philanthropic organizations would be encouraged
to assist this program. The formation of a Community Education
Association, and its written agreement with the MOE to carry out its
obligations vis-a-vis the community and support the primary school in
question, would be a condition of project supported reconstruction program
(para. 2.51). The effectiveness of this program would be closely monitored
and its impact carefully evaluated by the Primary Education Department
which would design and implement the community support program. To this
end, Community Education Service (CES) would be established by the MOE
within PED with one Principal Community Education Officer and four Regional
Comuwnity Education Officers. The project would finance the allowances for
the five CES staff as well as their necessary office space and vehicles.
2.28      The operational efficiency of the PED would be improved through
the provision of basic equipment such as solar-powered calculators and



- 23 -
small radio receivers for each headmaster (600 in total), typewriters for
about 60 district education officers, duplicating machines and photocopiers
for regional and central PED staff, and a vehicle for the Director of PED
to supervise the implementation of the project-supported programs. Study
tours for 2 senior PED staff would be provided to promote administrative
and management capacities while in-country training in school management
for headmasters, assistant headmasters and other regional staff would also
be supported (para. 2.29).
2.29      School Managements  Somali headmasters are essentially untrained
and ill-equipped to assume an academic leadership role and manage the day-
to-day business of the school. The project would assist the MOE in
addressing this weakness by developing and delivering in-service training
courses for assistant headmasters and headmasters. The assistant
headmaster course would be about one month in duration and would cover the
basics of school administration, instructional leadership, supervision and
performance appraisal, personnel management, record keeping, and community
relations. A one-month upgrading course for headmasters would focus on the
new primary school curriculum. instructional supervision and school
management. The MOE would establish within its Teachers Training
Department a small School Management Training Unit (SMTU) to conduct and
supervise this proposed program.
2.30      The project would finance overseas training and a study tour for
two SMTU staff on school management and headmaster training. Following
their return, they would develop the headmaster training course, and
assisted by an externally-recruited expert (4 months), conduct two pilot
courses for 40 assistant headmasters and 40 headmasters. The results of
each course would be evaluated and appropriately revised courses conducted
for 2 more groups of assistant headmasters and headmasters. The project
would finance all costs associated with the development and delivery of
these courses. The Government provided assurances during negotiations that
it would introduce a policy and establish regulations, to be incorporated
in the cenditions of service for Somali teachers and headmasters by July 1,
1992, requiring the successful completion of an approved headmaster
training program as a condition for future appointment to the position of
headmaster or assistant headmaster in primary schools.
2.31      Primary School Inspection:  The MOE's Central Inspectorate is
one of the key elements of quality control within the educational system.
The major functions of the Central Inspectorate are to assess the
educational standards and trends throughout the system, and to assure the
maintenance of quality teaching and administration. An analysis of the
inspectorate's performance suggests that there are several salient
weaknesses: First, a specific administrative framework and operational
procedures for the inspectorate are yet to be formulated and accepted by
the MOE. Consequently, there are no clear guidelines regarding the
responsibilities of those concerned with inspection and supervisiort
(Headmasters, Inspectors, DEOs, REOs and MOE staff) and the inter-
relationship between their roles. Second, inspectors lack professional
training in school inspection. And third, regional inspectorates are
immobilized by the lack of logistical support such as office space,



- 24 -
equipment, and transport to visit schools. As a result, primary school
teachers and headmasters are deprived of the benefit of supervisory
services so essential to improve their classroom performance.
2.32      The project would support the development of a viable
institutional basis for primary school inspection and supervision and
would assist in:
(a) developing an administrative framework with clear operational
procedures within which the inspectorate would function;
(b) developing in-country capacity for training inspectors and
upgrading the professional competence of the regional and
central inspectorates; and
(c) improving the logistical base from which inspectors operate.
2.33      With respect to the administrative structure and operational
procedures for school inspection, the project would provide a dxternally-
recruited adviser on school inspection to assist the MOE's Chief Inspector
in drafting proposals for an appropriate structure of the inspectorate,
define the qualifications and duties of central and regional inspectors,
set up procedures and regulations for school inspection and review
requirements for staff recruitment, training and career development.
2.34      The capacity for in-country inspector training would be enhanced
through two 9-month fellowships on inspection and short-term fellowships
and study tours for up to 18 inspectors to other African countries with
well developed systems of inspection. An inspector training program would
then be designed, written and revised by a local team of three trained
inspectors and three CDC specialists, assisted by the adviser on school
inspection (para. 2.41). Annual training workshops would be held for
approximately 35 participants, drawn from central inspectors, regional
inspectors, and district education officers. Topics would include
educational planning, school management and supervision, student assessment
techniques, curriculum development, and recommended operating procedures
and methods for the collection of statistical information.
2.35      To improve school inspection and management at the regional and
district levels, the project would finance logistical support which would
include office space, equipment and furniture for four regional inspectors
and 17 district education officers. In addition, the project would provide
vehicles for primary school inspection and management, which would be
shared by regional and district education officers, inspection and
community education officers and would also be used to distribute textbooks
provided through the project. The effectiveness of this logistical support
would be monitored and evaluated by the project management unit.
2.36      Examinations:  Examinations are developed, produced, distributed
and administered by the Somali Examinations Board (SEB). National
examinations play a significant role in Somalia education. At the
conclusion of primary education, students sit an examination which



- 25 -
determines their eligibility for secondary education. This occurs
similarly at the end of secondary education for determining their
eligibility for admission to higher education. National examinations are
also used as criteria for promotion of primary school teachers within the
teaching profession. The nationally administered exams are the only
existing measure of student performance currently available within the
country.
2.37      The examination process lacks rigor and regulatory
effectiveness, due to both staffing and organizational shortcomings of the
SEB. The Board manually processes an estimated 45,000 examinations each
year with about 16 professional staff who have no specific training in test
construction and measurement and are not familiar with techniques of data
manipulation. The Board is not integrated within the structure of MOE, but
is attached as a separate unit to the Director-General of MOE making
communications with other directorates of the Hinistry ineffective. The
Board lacks administrative autonomy and its work program is hampered by a
lack of resources.  To strengthen the school examination system, the status
of the Board would need to be raised, its mandate clarified and an adequate
budget allocated. The HOE has agreed to reconstitute the SEB as a National
Examinations Board (NEB) with a clearly established mandate and its own
budget. The government provided an assurance to this effect at
negotiations (para. 6.03). The new Board would formulate policies relating
to examinations, select members of the examination panel, evaluate the
standard and procedures for examination, monitor and guide the activities
of its secretariat, recommend and appoint staff, and authorize the budget
proposal of the secretariat. The Board would comprise members drawn from
the senior staff of the MOE, and from the University and would be chaired
by the Director General of MOE. The NEB's operational arm would be its
secretariat which would have four sectionss test development and research;
examinations administration; data processing, records and archives; and
general administration. The secretary of the NEB would function as the
chief executive of the secretariat.
2.38      The project would support the secretariat of the NEB by
providing for overseas training and in-country workshops for secretariat
staff and for computers and office equipment to speed up the production,
correction, and analysis of test results.
2.39        With respect to NEB staff development, four three-week
workshops would be conducted, with the assistance of project-financed
expatriate specialists. The first workshop, for NEB staff and external
examiners, would cover the basics for conduct of examinations such as test
development and administration, marking, processing and grading. The
second workshop, for 30 participants, would concentrate on techniques of
marking of examinations; the third workshop for 15 participants would focus
on processing and grading of examination results; and the fourth workshop
would focus on research and evaluation methods in relation to educational
measurements. Two overseas fellowship of 9 months each would be awarded:
one in testing and measurement and one in evaluation techniques. Following
the return of the fellows to Somalia, a fifth workshop would take place on
test construction and examination development in five subject areas:



- 26 -
mathematics, sciences, humanitiesisocial sciences, language arts and
teaching education. Expatriate specialists in each of the five subject
areas would work with ten Somali examination setters for a 30-day period to
produce sample examinations in each subject area for the primary school
leaving examination, secondary school leaving examination and the teacher
promotion examination.
2.40      The operational efficiency of the NEB staff would be raised
through (a) study tours of the Chief Executive of NEB and a senior staff
member on organization and management of examination boards in three
developing countries; (b) provision of computers and office equipment for
improving the efficiency of processing, distributing and storing
examination results and (iii) training of NEB staff on a data base
management system for handling examination results.
2.41      The project would finance all local costs of conducting the in.
country workshops and short-term technical assistance for NEB staff
development and examination preparation (pare. 2.39), overseas fellowships
and study tours for NEB senior staff (par&. 2.40) and computers, office
equipment, and a minibus for transporting NEB staff.
Physical Rehabilitation
2.42      A decent teaching environment responding to the pedagogical
needs of learning and to the biological and emotional needs of the children
plays an important role in raising the level of student performance.
However, in Somalia, most of the primary schools are dilapidated requiring
substantial rehabilitation work or outright replacement and act as a
deterrent to pupil attendance. About one quarter of the schools are Arish
structures, mainly located in rural areas. They are built of vegetal
matters such as branches, leaves and mud; are open to weather; are dusty
and dirty; and do not provide a suitable teaching environment. The
remainder are Daar* buildings which use local stone or cement block as
building materials. Most of the Daar schools were built during an
intensive community self-help campaign (1975-77) and suffer from
inappropriate structural design, poor workmanship and use of low quality
materials.
2.43      As part of its effort to revitalize primary education and to
provide a decent teaching environment, the Government has decided to
rehabilitate its primary schools with more permanent buildings, in phases,
over a 10 to 15 year period. The proposed project endorses this initiative
and provides funding and technical assistance to achieve two main goals.
First, strengthening MOE's capacity to implement and manage a large-scale
nation-wide construction and maintenance program for its schools and other
educational facilities; and second, supporting on a limited scale, a
physical rehabilitation program, in four of eighteen administrative regions
of the country.
2.44      Strengthening Institutional Capacity for Construction:  The
School Building Unit (SBU) of the MOE carries out construction and
maintenance of its school buildings and other educational facilities.



- 27 -
The SBU is, however, unable to do so adequately because of staff shortages,
insufficient funds, lack of equipment and lack of expertise. To strengthen
MOE's capacity in this respect, the project proposes the establishment of
an Education Facilities Section (EFS), initially to be located within the
PMU. The EFS would be staffed by existing PMU staff with experience in
implementing civil works programs gained under previous IDA projects,
supplemented by less-experienced staff seconded from the SBU. The project
would provide long- and short-term technical assistance to support the EFS
(para. 2.49). By the end of project implementation (1995), when the EFS is
expected to have acquired the capability of implementing and managing
school construction and maintenance, it would be re-integrated within the
MOE, effectively replacing the existing SBU. At negotiations the
Government provided assurances to this effect.
2.45      School Reconstruction/Rehabilitaticn.  The project will assist
rehabilitation or new construction of 120 primary schools in four
administrative regions (Lower Shebelle 73, Middle Shebelle 15, Bay 21 and
Gedo 11,. Out of about 240 schools listed within MOE, School mapping
surveys conducted iu the four regions to be assisted by the proposed
project indicated that only 175 schools of the 240 schools listed are
actively functioning; the remaining have closed. The 120 schools retained
for project support have been chosen on the basis of three criteria (i) all
schools in communities with a high concentration of population; (ii)
schools with a lower concentration of population, but a stable enrollment
of at least 160 pupils and (iii) one school per district irrespective of
total number of pupils in attendance.
2.46      IDA assistance would be provided for 105 primary schools in
three administrative regions. The fourth region (Middle Shebelle) will be
assisted by UNCDF under a cofinancing agreement (para. 3.06). The IDA
Credit would finance the total cost of construction materials, labor and
site supervision, and furniture and equipment as follows: (a)
rehabilitation of 430 classrooms at 105 existing schools; (b) construction
of 648 new classrooms at 105 existing schools including the replacement of
ARISH structures; (c) additional civil works at the 105 school sites
including 71 storage rooms, 57 headmasters offices, 105 staff houses, 105
covered community spaces, 89 water supply systems, 315 new latrine blocks
and 86 site works. In addition the project would finance the
construction/rehabilitation of 2 storage warehouses for the PMU and MOE,
construction of 13 DEO and 3 REO office and stores, extensions to the PMU
offices, rehabilitation and supply of furniture to the Primary Teachers
Training Institute (PTTI) and Institute of Wnmens Education (IWE) in
Hogadishu, and minor repairs and furniture for secondary schools at Galkayo
and Baidoa (para. 2.09).
2.47      The UNCDF-financed rehabilitation works would be undertaken in
Middle Shebelle Region for 15 primary schools. The work would be carried
out by the PMU, under UNCDF procedures. UNCDF would finance the total cost
of construction materials, furniture and equipment as followst (a)
rehabilitation of 97 classrooms to 15 existing schools; (b) construction
of 55 new classrooms to 15 existing schools; (c) additional civil works at
15 existing schools would include 11 storage rooms, 6 headmasters offices,



- 28 -
15 headmasters and 15 teachers houses, 15 covered community spaces, 11
water supply systems, 45 latrine blocks and 14 site works; (d) construction
of 1 REO office and 4 DRO offices and (e) the supply and running costs of 4
vehicles for PMU and site supervisory staff. The impact of the provision
of houses for headmasters (and teachers with respect to the UNCDF
component) on teacher performance and teaching quality will be evaluated.
For this both UNCDF and IDA has made joint provisions for conducting
baseline survey, midterm and post evaluation.
2.48      Sequencing of Activities:  The rehabilitation of educational
facilities, including planning, design, construction and rehabilitation,
would be conducted by the EFS and will adhere to following sequence of
activities.
-    conduct school mapping surveys to update information on
their physical condition and determinke requirements for
repairs and maintenance (EPS);
-    prepare annual work programs for construction and
rehabilitation taking logistics, available resources and
budget&ry criteria into consideration; program in the first
year of construction a pilot project in Afgoye district,
Lower Shebelle, which would, by appropriate contract
packaging determine the procedure for the remainder of the
construction program (EFS);
-    evaluate local building materials and construction designs
for their suitability to local conditions and to community
contribution (EFS);
-    establish norms and standards for construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of schools and prepare
manuals for the use of the CEA and school principals (EFS);
-    implement the annual construction and rehabilitation
program through procurement of building materials,
supervision of contractor's work and provision of technical
assistance to communities; and
-    monitor and evaluate all rehabilitation activities, provide
feedback on the progress of implementation, and propose
adjustments accordingly (EFS).
2.49      On an experimental basis, the EFS would establish four mobile
building teams (MBT) made up of a site supervisor/foreman and two skilled
artisans who would conduct some site supervision, provide training to the
communities in simple building techniques and further training to the
communities for long term on-going maintenance to primary school buildings.
Five Construction Supervisors (two for Lower Shebelle and one each for the
other regions) would inspect and report on the physical condition of
schools, supervise construction and assist the CEO with the mobilization of
community inputs for rehabilitation work and their future role in a long
term maintenance program. Four Regional Engineers, located at the P1U,



- 29 -
would be responsible for overall supervision of the construction program in
each of the four regions, supervision of the regional work force,
preparation of bidding documents, preparation of bills of quantities,
evaluating bids, and assisting in the procurement of imported building
materials.
2.50      The project would provide technical and logistic support to the
EFS as follows: (a) 24 man-months of architect's services to help set up
the EFS, provide guidance to EPS staff in all aspects of design, document
preparation, construction and rehabilitation of educational facilities,
work programming, procurement of building materials, on the job training;
they could also arrange training courses for local staff and design school
furniture suitable for primary children; (b) operating costs for 4 Regional
Engineers, 5 Construction Supervisors and 4 Mobile Building Teams; (c) two
fellowships for senior EFS staff to visit similar projects in the region
and to attend a one onoth UNESCO-conducted course on educational facilities
in Dakar or Abidjan; (d) locally conducted training courses of 30 days for
4 Regional Engineers and 5 Construction Supervisors and 15 days for 12
staff of the Mobile Building Teams.
2.51      The Community Education Associations (CEA) would contribute to
the rehabilitation program according to their limited capacities. CEA
involvement would be supplementary to the rehabilitation work to be carried
out at each primary school. CEA's would be expected to provide, under the
supervision of the MBT's, a regular supply of drinking water to school
tanks, new site walling or fencing, watchmen facilities, site clearance and
landscaping, provision of suitable access and internal roads, parking areas
and recreatioral facilities such as sports fields. The CEA's long term
involvement in the rehabilitated works would commence after the
contractor's contractual liability has lapsed. A pilot project for CEA
training in simple building techniques and maintenance procedures, will be
set up with the ultimate intention of providing a community-based
maintenance provision for each site, where the long term responsibility for
school maintenance would be that of the community. The government gave
assurances at negotiations that for a community to become eligible for
assistance under the rehabilitation program (i) a Community Education
Association (CEA) would be established for each primary school; (ii) the
CEA in that community would be active and functioning; and (iii) a
contractual agreement would be signed between the CEA and MOE with respect
to specific functions and contributions to be provided by the community
(Annex 6).
2.52      The bulk of the construction program would not start until the
third year of the project. This would allow the Community Education
Associations (CEA's) to become fully institutionalized and provide the
community-at-large an opportunity to demonstrate their commitment to
primary education. The interval should also enable the EFS to become fully
operational and therefore capable of undertaking such large scale
rehabilitation work. Evidence of satisfactory progress of EFS should be
available prior to commencement of construction program.



- 30 -
2.53      During the first two years of the project relatively minor
physical works, considered essential for effective startup and for
achieving the main institutional development objectives of the project,
would be carried out.  These would consist of extensions to the PMU office,
minor renovations at the PTTI and the Institute of Women's Education, and
rehabilitation of the warehouse, all located in Mogadishu. Commencement of
construction work in the four project areas will be subject to a review of
operational conditions prevailing in the country (para. 5.02). Should any
of the regions become subject to civil disturbance, preventing the
construction/rehabilitation program to be carried out efficiently,
consideration would be given to relocate the program to a more secure
region. In this case, however, a mapping survey would need to have been
completed (para. 2.48).
PROJECT MAMGEMENT UNIT
2.54      The responsibilities of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU),
established under the First Education Project (Credit 247-SO), would
increase considerably with this proposed project as a result of the large
number of activities associated with textbook distribution on a national
scale, a widely dispersed physical rehabilitation and school construction
program and extensive requirements for technical assistance, training and
fellowships. In addition, the unit would assume the task of coordinating
and monitoring all educational activities financed by the project. To
accommodate this expanded role, the unit would be significantly
strengthened by additional staff and operating resources, and provided with
long-term technical assistance. The unit would be renamed the Project
Management Unit (PMU) and given higher status in the Government's
hierarchy. During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that
the Project Management Unit, to be established under the project, would be
given the mandate of coordinating all physical implementation and
educational aspects of the project, and would be provided with the required
resources and funding.
2.55      To help the new PMU assume these more demanding
responsibilities, the project would finance three long-term technical
expertss an education implementation adviser (educator), responsible for
coordinating and monitoring all educational activities carried out by the
various MOE departments in the context of the project; an educational
facilities adviser (architect) to help set up a new educational facilities
section in the PMU and to coordinate all physical implementation activities
of the project; and an accountant/procurement adviser, to help coordinate
the increasingly complex accounting, disbursement and procurement
activities the PMU will be required to handle. The project would also
finance all incremental operational costs of the PMU, including vehicles
for site supervision, materials, and transportation; the construction of an
annex to the PMU office to house the newly-created educational facilities
section, the refurbishing of existing warehouses where required, and the
construction of a book depot in Mogadishu. Funds would also be provided
for the training of new and upgrading of existing PMU staff.



- 31 -
III. PROJECT COSTS AND PIRANCING PLAW
A.  Cost of the Prolect
3.01      Although the project has been designed to be implemented over a
five year period, it has been costed over a seven-year period which
corresponds to the standard disbursement profile in Somalia. Total costs of
the proposed project are estimated at So.Sh.101.9 billion (US$32.5 million
equivalent). Base costs are calculated at US$26.2 million equivalent (80X)
and contingencies at US$6.3 million equivalent (202). Foreign exchange
costs account for US$25.2 million or 772 of total project costs. Taxes and
duties have been excluded in calculating the project cost. Project costs by
expenditure category are summarized in Table 2 below, and details are
provided in Annex 9.                                                                      X
3.02      Project costs have been estimated at June 1989 prices and have
been updated at negotiations. Cost estimates for civil works, furniture,
equipment and vehicles have been derived from contracts avarded for similar
works and items in the Fourth Education Project and other projects financed
by IDA. The proposed schedules of accommodation are functional, austere
and appropriate for the proposed project objectives, as are the furniture
and equipment. Project costs include provision for 318 months of overseas
training; 84 months of long-term foreign/local consultants and 155 months
of short-term consultancies. Approximately one third of the required
technical assistance will be provided by qualified national consultants.
Allowances, per diem, local training costs and operational and maintenance
expenses are based on current Government scales and rates.
3.03      The total project costs include US$6.3 million equivalent for
contingencies. Physical contingencies have been included at 15? for civil
works and 102 for vehicles, equipment, furniture and instructional
materials and amount to US$2.2 million equivalent (9? of base costs). The
following price contingencies have been included: ti) on foreign exchange
expenditures, 4.92 per annum for 1990 - 1995 and 3.6t for 1996 - 1999 and
(ii) on local cost expenditures, 1102 for 1990; 552 for 1991; 362 for 1992;
242 for 1993; 20S for 1994; 152 for 1995; and 102 for 1996 - 1997, taking
constant purchasing parity exchange rates into account. On this basis,
price contingencies account for US$4.1 million equivalent or 162 of base
costs.
3.04      The foreign exchange component of US$25.2 million equivalent is
based on estimates of 852 for civil works; 1002 for vehicles; 1002 for
instructional materials; 100? for equipment; 902 for furniture; 1002 for
overseas training and study tours. The incremental recurrent costs cover
equipment, furniture and building maintenance, fuel/oil/lubricants and
vehicle operation and maintenance.



- 32 -
Table 2
UIJCATIO UM h23.ZTAT3N PUOJc?
mmmita    ns mi               t
(.0.  Me)                                        (U  'COO)
x Total                                   I Ttal
2 Fomiso   o                              2 Forinm  Ds
Leed       Foet         Totl    E1dww    Cots   Laie  Fomin   Tot    Caus  Costs
1. W fr cup
A. Elva on                             1357421.6 7.w.14   to447*70                65     V   .5W.S  8,741.0 I.N21           15      3?
. wnW                                           -      21140.O    6MU1M4.0       10       3        -   YO?.0   707.0       100      7
E. fIuI                                  ;2 . 11S1 13  1.240.57.0                         3 S   141.0 1t2f13  1409.7        to      5
D. ts7111T5L fAT MIU                            - 34M140.0  3J0.0A               too      15       - 21,.4 .296            100     1
E. E    fUIT                                    -   MA.M0    73,064.0           t1o       3        -   1l.1   669.9        100      3
F. lICIE I MUSt1EC                              - 17UI3320   1016e3.0            t00      I           243.0.  2,010.0      100      8
-. FtB5  11M                             2MM.0               -    259b.0           -      1   302.2        -   302.2         -      1
H.  tD5                                236944*.0                2.3f94.0           -      10 2692.6        - 2692.*6         -     1
I. OV    5 13ID11B                              -     57,7020    570.0           100      4        -   974*7   974.7       too      4
J. IIWU    *   mEWI             ElllOI   M2u10    M5.20.0    71040.0             50      3   403*6   401.6    07.3         50      3
TotI  IUWI 01                             4,472,0713 16.719.524*1 21.191.50         79     92 5,061.9 1st399  24,01.4         79    9W
Fcal    ttagmis                         216U010.3  1.M.63.S   1972647.7          39      9   245.5  1996.2 2241.6          19      9
Phim Cmttiuin                         t414,0.57.2 32#4279*O  6t71366.2            73    m      m.5 2,745.9  3,519.3        78    1l
Totl 110(31 1 CI                         19A3160.2 7,6, 9&.6  9335#09.9              73    392 6100.9 23741.5 29t42.3          80    114
iT. I _1  CUt
A.  TU I   IME                           MAMA10.0    70510.0    141M.0           so      1    3.*1    60.1   160.3         50       1
3. FUL , OaL    u LmIUS                 1646.0   237W 0.0   133S.0               70      1   115.5   269.5   305.0         70       1
C.  SUaL    IU1  11a Mm ma               12N60   239,10    28320.0                5       1    14A4   M.7   237.0           5       1
D. Eipl  1N1^_                           17M7.4   160,014.6    177M794.0         90       1    20.2   131.8   202.0         0       1
E. IEILPIS  1     1U U                  46712,4   2k19"    467M.32.0             30      3   502       227.5   79.3        30      3
F. FLPUIE   1MutmAC                     196,23.1    34o"99    283JJ.0            30       1    23.0    95.6   313.6        30       1
TOtal       t  0113                         3    2       91,916.1  I.1790            52      3 9     0  1,1U7.2 2.111.2        1J      8
Pift conta Ziw                          4636.790.2  502.164  9.71*66              52     42   260.8   295.1   546.0         12       2
TOW   n a1    TI                          35262.1  6.074.1*5  11576704*6             52     3  1,24408 1,412.3 2617.2          13     10
m m      m          inax m m   mum asm s  82~~Massa  uosauamu   m
TOW  KIMIom 013394*2 17en10.  20P44.0                                                 7    10  6n0o5.9 20126.6 26192.5         t.7    100
Pfrosal Ctint1ncwu                        216M03   17563O   1972647.7              19      9   24*.5 196.2  29241.6          89 
Price C'tiumin                         1937w2.4 17.5124.4  76 231.                 75    324 1.043 3031.0 4,06.3             ;5      16
Totaw  F5CiT CO1                         26941,33.4 76971031.1 1019124314.5           76    442 7,34.7 2d3153*8 32,49.5         77    124
__                      ummmm. in min    mmmm    --   -- --                                ma,



- 33 -
Table 3
84A521 MWA       -n$PMC
"M l Cu tlo
2 Tat.                               I Total
I Fwglsm  kw                         zFr4   UN
Local  70144*  Total    Evds     Cuts   Lcas  fo.en     Total E1.w    Costs
a. iTai  tmmi
1. TII. W TM ll                                            14M.0   U1*O    447,74.0         79      2   15.1   402.9   03.8              2
2. 11- 19    T om   _i                                   2b3n1.a   t.36  2.214.W             7    tt 293444   1mA 2.50.7,          '
3. UPUST    W INS"  2U3IU                                M062   7  84         2 4949.0      3       1   3.1   10.         .7            11
~~-- -                                         - - -
54TOta 13M  36131                                        234*41.46   MINA4.   2.001,36         26 4    13   L 2M.0 53.  3.3454      24    12
3.11311=  UW.W1 M   0iiir        UNIW
1. T3F  6  iM                                            74,91.0 b5 ,   4,A35 4             95    17   57  4144.7 4#1.1                 V U
2. MIT   3101                                            52.    32.b33.t   330               73     1   ".1   41     J1.3 C        3     1
. Tu m     Um14.1.                                                  Mu        O N1714.      I       1   uth     3.9  21U.0        93     1
4. 55  11- SEW'                                                     3,4.       V# oA    14          0      -   3.0    3.0        100     0
3t*1O1u l59315       MI      U                             WoOs4  4.      4. 40 .0 e6    It   31.  4990.3 5,192.0                   96    20
C.    _iTS
1. UllTT          151. F0W                            tMUl.7 3 564  14.474.,                0t    45 2.24 * 54 115.               I1   4a
tblT        Uttl M UT4IU                                    12l4 10.4                          3      41 24.261  .  4  6.U1. 5      S1   45
=1 _          I11
3. IR31TIS                                                db4.UUITM36                         a      2    74    I        Us          
1. VAU                                                   4463   37,194.2   11.0L.           *       2    71.3  574.4   41.4       00     2
2. UU5 IS          _   _ 1 i                            361.         ,32    514.1.          42      2   313   31.5  410.4        42      2
3. "no UEl=                                              9399.4   4341.6'   1t14.0          a       3   112.0   1.J   47.3        a      3
4. UN.    E _.43. 1d4A IA                                                           .       U       1   dU.   U.0  233.5         eC      1
..  IUSY 5M D    12                                      49 2..2   34..... DbmU&I           a1      3    7t.5  43.    ?12.               3
*. D    1                                                  4.   46,W4.9    6 6.              U      2   14. 4 6.    11.           BP 39
9-Tta)d UIIIDml    S1_                                    5b3  2.43.7U    2.W4Q  U    U  43  247447 3934                            02    13
E. UFSA       E1!
1. Tr         _ NUS!                                    43.917.? 1.4    .   29.U    O       71      1   495.4 14.0 2.5.4          79     9
3.b4tetlI U       _! U                                    45.17.? 1.43?.33.   2414.            71     t   @5.4 1.34.0 2.?J.4        n1      9
--  ~-    -n----                                                         -
tael 39       1                                           13we"1.2 V1.?49 n1we.e40               77   140Ne 44.9  dA 244612.5               t 10
aW CocU_s                                                 214U.0 13io     1.754M3.   1 .e47.?  3      9   24LS t191.2 2.241.4      3       9
Ptice 0w134 t11_ 1917.10.4 7.3                                           1.4 74.US.2114       71   34 1,04.3 3AI  4.0e             75    14
Totl on  cam                                             24o901,t4 74197151.1 1012314.5          74   442 7.367 5.13.5 3b4T.3         77   124
-                         m_ -_                    - _                          - _ _



- 34 -
3.05      Project costs by functional component are shown in Table 3.
Teacher training accounts for 132 of base costs; textbook development.
procurement and distribution 202; institutional development 132;
rehabilitation of physiecal facilities 452; and project management 9Z.
B.   Financing Plan
3.06      Of the total project costs of US$32.5 million, the Government's
contribution would be US$3.2 million (10O), which would cover 62 of
investment costs and 482 of the recurrent costs. The remainder of
investment costs would be financed from external sources. Table 4 presents
project costs by financing source. An IDA credit of SDR 19.7 million
(US$26.1 million equivalent) net of taxes is proposed. Cofinancing of
US$ 3.2 million has been confirmed by the United Nations Capital
Development Fund (UNCDF).
Table 4: Proposed Project Financing 1/
(USS million)
Total     UNCDF      GOS       IDA        Percentage
IDA
Expenditure
Categories
1.  Civil Works           10.3      2.0        1.4       6.9              67
2.  Vehicles               0.7      0.1        -         0.6              86
3.  Furniture              1.4      0.3        -         1.1              78
4. Instructional
Materials             4.0       -         -         4.0             100
5.  Equipment              0.9      0.1        -         0.8              89
6. Technical
Assistance            2.0       -         -         2.0             100
7. Project
Management            0.3       -                   0.3             100
8.  Local Training         2.7        -        0.2       2.5              93
9. Overseas
Training              1.0       -         -         1.0             100
10. Monitoring/
Research              0.8       -         0.1       0.7              88
Evaluation
11. Incremental
Recurrent Costs       2.1        -        1.0       1.1              52
Total Base Costs          26.2      2.5        2.7      21.0              80
Total Contingencies        6.3       0.7       0.5       5.1              81
Total Project Cost        32.5       3.2       3.2      26.1              80
1/  Figures may not add up due to rounding.



- 35 -
C. Recurrent Cost ImPlications
3.07      The incremental recurrent costs resulting from the project
during the implementation period would essentially be for the maintenance
of buildings and equipment, and for the operation and repair of vehicles.
It is estimated that the incremental recurrent costs would amount to
approximately So.Sh. 1.9 billion (USS 2.1 million equivalent) over the
seven-year project implementation period (Table. 2). The Government would
provide approximately 48 percent of the total in local currency; the
remainder would be in foreign exchange, financed by the IDA credit on a
declining basis.
3.08      The project is designed uot to increase the number of teachers
or other education sector staff, and would therefore have a minimal impact
on the salary budget of the MOE. Maintenance and repair of the physical
facilities provided by the project would generate a budgetary requirement
of approximately So.Sh. 45 million per year (in 1989 prices), based on the
assumption that 1 percent of construction cost should be provided for this
purpose.   This would represent less than 0.5 percent of the MOE's
recurrent budget and is not considered significant. Although not directly
resulting from this project, there would be a requirement for the continued
provision of student textbooks after project completion. for which the MOE
would need to make provision estimated at So.Sh. 690 million per year (in
1989 prices). The increases in salary and benefits required to motivate
primary school teachers and staff are part of the incremental sector
financing requirements without which the project is unlikely to succeed as
noted earlier (para. 1.22).



- 36 -
IV.  PROJECT IHPLENTATIOI
A.    Pro1ect Preparation
4.01      Status of Preparations  The project was prepared by government
with assistance from Bank staff and consultants, with funds supplied by the
UNDP and UNICEF. Detailed working papers are available for all project
components. A school mapping exercise has been completed covering all
primary schools in the four project regions and forming the basis for the
proposed school constructionlrehabilitation program. Terms of reference
for all project-financed specialists and detailed training proposals for
all in-country workshops have been reviewed at appraisal. Bid documents
for the first year of constructionlrehabilitation work, including
associated equipment and furniture and for the first edition of textbooks
are expected to be prepared and reviewed within the next few months.
B.   Project Hanagement
4.02        Coordination of all project activities would rest with the
Project Management Unit (PMU), whose experience with the implementation of
the Fourth Education Project has been carefully reviewed. The PMU would be
reinforced with technical assistance and additional local staff to carry
out Its expanded responsibilities. Appointment of the Director of PMU
would be a condition of Project effectiveness.
4.03      The following agencies and MOE departments would be responsible
in the implementation of the educational aspects of the project:
Teacher Trainings All matters regarding primary teacher
training and upgrading, as well as training of tutors,
headmasters and school inspectors, would be handled by the
Teacher Training Department of the MOE.
Primary Education: All educational matters, including programs
involving community participation, would be handled by the
Department of Primary Education of the HOE, in consultation with
the Inspectorate.
Textbooks:   Overall responsibility for the textbook component
would lie with the Director General of the MOE. The Curriculum
Development Center would be responsible for the preparation of
the manuscripts, in coordination with the Teacher Training
Department and the National Examinations Board; procurement,
storage and delivery of textbooks to the district authorities
would be the responsibility of the PMU; distribution of
textbooks to the schools would be done under the control of the
district education officers, with the assistance of the
Community Education Associations (CEA).



- 37 -
Institutional Strengthening: The measures for strengthening the
institutional capabilities of the HOE departments, the
Curriculum Development Center, the National Examinations Board
and the Inspectorate, would be implemented under the overall
direction of the Director General of the MOE.
Staff Training:   Design and implementation of in-country
training programs for all local staff would be the
responsibility of the individual department directors concerned,
in coordination with the PMU and the local institution selected
to carry out the training (SIDAM, CDC, PTTI, etc.). All
computer training for MOE staff would be coordinated by the
Director of Planning, MOE.
Monitorins and Evaluation:   Responsibility for the monitoring
and evaluation function rests with the M&E Adviser (a newly-
created position) to the Minister of the MOE. The PMU and HOE's
Planning Department will assist the Adviser with the collection,
processing, analysis and follow-up of educational data.
C.   Specialist Services and Fellowships
4.04         The project would finance 239 staff-months of specialist
services; of which 78 staff-months are expected to be supplied by local
consultants; 77 staff-months by periodic visits of short-term consultants;
and 84 staff-months by long-term foreign and local consultants
(para. 3.02).
4.05      The project would provide 318 staff-months of overseas
fellowships and study tours for the training of local staff.  The
Government provided assurances at negotiations that the fellowships would
be awarded to suitably qualified persons, for training programs acceptable
to IDA.
Technical Assistance Strategy, Design and Delivery
4.06         The strategy adopted in designing an effective TA package is
based on the premise that dependence on long-term resident experts should
be reduced to the minimum necessary for efficient project implementation
and transfer of know-how, and that responsitility for all aspects of the
project (physical, financial and educational) should be assumed by Somali
nationals as quickly as reasonably possible. To achieve this objective,
the TA package has been designed to provide about one-third of the total TA
requirement in the form of long-term experts (limited to project management
aspects), about one-third in the form of short-term advisory services
injected at critical intervals over the duration of the project, and the
remaining one-third in the form of Somali consultants in areas where local
expertise is available (such as evaluation and monitoring, cost recovery).
Expatriate experts and short-term consultants would provide essential
assistance in the initial phases of project start-up and during critical
moments of implementation, concentrating on the transfer of know-how, while



- 38 -
Somali counterparts would assume responsibility for running the project.
Explicit measures for the transfer of skills would be incorporated in the
terms of reference of both expatriates and Somali nationals, with targets
to be achieved specified in the annual work programs (para. 4.22).
4.07      Both in-country and overseas training of Somali nationals have
been designed and carefully scheduled so that, to the extent practicable,
trained nationals will be available to work with expatriate experts and
consultants as early as possible in the project cycle. In-country
training, mostly in the form of workshops conducted by nationals or local
institutions and assisted by expatriates where required (essentially for
the design of training programs), would be the dominant mode of training.
Overseas fellowships, particularly long-term academic training, have been
kept to the minimum required. Returning fellows would be responsible for
designing and conducting local training courses wherever possible.
4.08      Long-term resident technical assistance (three persons for the
PMU para. 2.55)) would not require institutional backup and would be
recruited individually. Short-term consultants, who would provide frequent
inputs of short duration over a significant portion of the project
implementation period (for example, two four-week visits per year over a
three-year period), would be supplied by an institution (a university, for
example) under a comprehensive contract which would include the supply of
technical expertise, the design and conduct of fellowship programs and the
provision of backup services. An institutional twinning arrangement with a
suitable university overseas would be the preferred mode of operation.
D.   Procurement
4.09      A Country Procurement Assessment Review has still to be
completed for Somalia. Where ICB procedures are used, qualified domestic
contractorsisuppliers would be allowed a marginal preference of 7.52 for
civil works and 15Z for goods at the existing rate of import duties,
whichever is lower, over the CIF price of competing foreign suppliers. The
PMU would have overall responsibility for all procurement matters,
including preparation of bid documents, evaluating bids and finalizing
contracts.
4.10      Procurement arrangements are summarized in Table 5 and the
processing and completion schedules for civil works and equipment are shown
in Annex 9. IDA-financed procurement would be in accordance with World
Bank Guidelines (issued Hay 1985). It is expected that 23 percent of goods
and services financed by the project would be procured through
International Competitive Bidding (ICB), 44 percent through Local
Competitive Bidding (LCB) and 7 percent by other methods. UNCDF-funded
components would be procured in accordance with their procedures.



- 39 -
Table 5: Procurement Table
(US$ millions)
Procurement Method               Total*
ICB       LCB        Other     N.A.       Cost
Civil Works
Works                                     11.3                  2.4       13.7
(10-3)                          (10.3)
Goods
Vehicles                        0.7                             0.1        0.8
(0.7)                                      (0.7)
Furniture                       1.2       0.1         0.1       0.4        1.8
(1.2)     (0.1)       (0.1)                (1.4)
Instructional Materials         4.8       0.1                              4.9
(4.8)     (0.1)                            (4.9)
Equipment                       0.7       0.1         0.1       0.1        1.0
(0.7)     (0.1)       (0.1)                (0.9)
Services
Technical Assistance                                  2.2                  2.2
(2.2)                (2.2)
Project Management                                              0.4        0.4
(0.4)      (0.4)
Training                                                        3.1        3.1
(2.4)      (2.4)
Overseas Training                                               1.0        1.0
(1.0)      (1.0)
Monitoring/Research/                                            0.9        0.9
Evaluation                                                    (0.7)      (0.7)
MaterialslSupplies                         0.2                             0.2
(-)                             (-)
Incremental Operating Costs
Fuel/OillLubricants                        0.5                             0.5
(0.2)                           (0.2)
Vehicles Operation and                     0.4                             0.4
Maintenance                                (-)                             (-)
Equipment Maintenance                      0.2                             0.2
(-)                            (-)
Building Maintenance                       1.0                             1.0
(0.7)                          (0.7)
Furniture Maintenance                      0.4                             0.4
(0.3)                           (0.3)
Total                            7.4      14.3       2.4        8.4       32.5
(7.4)    (11.8)    (2.4)      (4.5)      (26.1)
Numbers in parenthesis are the respective amounts to be financed by IDA.
*Includes amounts to be financed by UNCDF.



- 40 -
4.11      Civil Works.  The Civil Works category (US$13.7 million)
consists of the rehabilitation and construction of schools, offices,
stores, staff housing, and warehouses. Of this total, UNCDF would finance
contracts valued at US$2.4 million for school construction in the Middle
Shebele region. Contracts for civil works financed by IDA would not be
suitable for International Competitive Bidding (ICB) because the value of
each contract is small, with an average value of approximately $150,000,
the works are widely dispersed in remote aress, and construction protracted
over a five-year Implementation period. Therefore, civil works contracts
would be procured through Local Competitive Bidding (LCB), under procedures
satisfactory to IDA. The first LCB document will be reviewed by IDA.
Foreign firms, however, would be eligible to bid. To the extent
practicable, contracts would be grouped in suitably-sized packages to
improve response from contractors and provide more competition.
4.12      Community participation under the construction program would be
separate from main contracts and involve small scale works which could be
undertaken by unskilled labor supervised by Mobile Building Teams (MBT)
from the PMU who would also be responsible for training communities in
maintenance procedure and simple building techniques.
4.13      Vehicles (US$0.7 million) and equipment and furniture (US$1.9
million) would be procured under ICB in accordance with World Bank
Guidelines.  These items would be grouped An larger packages to the extent
possible, in order to attract major supp3 era. Contracts for the printing
of textbooks (US$4.5 million) would be r ocured through International
Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for less than US$50,000 up to an
accumulated total of US$250,000, may be procured through LCB in accordance
with procedures acceptable to IDA. Procedures for LCB shall be reviewed by
IDA and include public bid opening, clear evaluation criteria, local
advertising and award shall be made to the lowest evaluated responsive
bidder. Comparative shopping, based on at least three quotations, or
purchasing off the shelf, would be allowed for goods under US$20,000 upto
an accumulated total of US$100,000.
4.14      Technical Services. For all IDA financed consultants employed
for the project, selection procedures, qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment would be satisfactory to IDA, and in
accordance with the Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and the World Bank as Executing Agencys ( August 1981).
4.15      Review of Procurement. Bidding packages estimated to cost over
US$ 200,000 for civil works and US$ 100,000 for goods and equipment
procured under ICB would be subject to prior IDA review of procurement
documentation. Contracts below these limits would be subject to selective
post-award review. Thus about 75? percent of the total contract value of
IDA procurement would be subject to IDA review.



- 41 -
E.   Disbursements
4.16      Disbursements for the proposed IDA credlt will be on the basis
of:
1. Civil works                           902 of total expenditures.
2. Furniture, equipment and              1002 of foreign expenditures and
instructional materials               902 of local expenditures.
3. Vehicles                              1002 of foreign expenditures and
902 of local expenditures.
4. Technical Assistance                  1002 of total expenditures.
5. Project Management                    902 of local expenditures.
6. Training                              1002 of total expenditures.
7. Monitoring and Evaluation             1002 of total expenditures.
8. Incremental Operating Costs           1002 through December 31, 1991; 80t from
January 1, 1992 to December 31, 1993;
502 from January 1, 1994 to December 31,
1995; 20t from January 1, 1996 to
December 31, 1997.
All disbursements will be fully documented except for items costing less than
US$20,000 where certified statements of expenditures (SOEs) will be used. SOEs
will be certified by the PNU Manager and supporting documentation retained by the
PMU and made available for review by IDA during the course of project supervision
missions. It is anticipated that the credit would be fully disbursed by June 30,
1998. An indicative schedule of disbursements is shown in Annex 8. This
schedule is based on the standard disbursement profile for Somalia.
F.   Accounts and Audits
4.17      Special Account.  A foreign exchange Special Account of US$500,000
million funded by IDA will be established in the Central Bank of Somalia or in
such other Bank acceptable to the Association. To the extent possible, IDA share
of all payments will be made through the Special Account except for any item



- 42 -
costing in excess of US$20,000 which will be handled under IDA regular
procedures.
4.18      Auditing. Auditing will be required on a yearly basis for expenditures
related to the project with particular attention and including separate opinions
fors (a) expenditures reimbursed against statements of expenditures; and (b) the
administration of the Special Account. Auditing will be performed by independent
auditors appointed in consultation with, and acceptable to the Association.
Annual audits reports will be provided to the Association within six months after
the end of each fiscal year of the Government.
G.   Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.19      A monitoring and evaluation (M & E) system would be put into place, to
asdist the MOE in the effective implementation of the various aspects of the
project and to keep track of the educational improvements and policy changes that
the project is designed to support (Annex 10). To assure a certain degree of
independence and objectivity, the overall responsibility for conduct of the M & E
function would initially lie with the office of the Minister of Education and
Culture. A national Advisor on M & E would be appointed by September 1990. He
will have direct access to the Minister of Education and Culture, and would work
closely with the PMU, with the Research and Documentation Division of the MOE,
with the department directors responsible for the implementation of their
components, and with the external experts. He will have mainly coordinating,
conceptual and advisory responsibilities. Upon the completion of the project, a
determination will be made on whether the newly introduced function of M & E
should continue to be institutionalized with..n the minister's office or should be
incorporated as a separate division under the organizational structure of the
MOE.
4.20      Monitoring will be used as a tool for project management, whereas
Evaluation will be needed for the development and formation of policies and
future investment strategies. Evaluation would include periodic assessments of
input of various aspects of the project on the educational system itself and/or
outputs of the system. Evaluation work will include, for example, among others,
indepth analysis of the impact of the various rehabilitative project inputs on
the actual learning of the pupils; their attendance and changes in enrollment
figures; the effect of in-service teacher training and other teacher incentives
on the attrition rate of teachers; the impact of the school rehabilitation
programues on the CEA'S and their attitude and behavior towards the schools; the
catalytic effect of provision of free books on quality and enrollment and the
willingness of the parents to pay for books.
Monitoring
4.21      Monitoring of project  activities would occur at several levels, from
the PMU as the coordinating entity, to the several department directors
responsible for the implementation of their components. Each level will have
different functions and responsibilities with regards to collection and
transmission of information, on management of project inputs and monitoring of
policy implementation. Responsibility for the regular collection and compilation



_ 43 -
of information, however, and for the preparation of progress reports required for
IDA and MOE review, would lie with the PHU. In order to regularly monitor
project implementation progress and to plan for the efficient implementation of
the next phase, Joint MOEIIDA annual reviews of project management and
implementation would take place at the end of each calendar year (November).
These reviews would cover the results of all project activities, both physical
and educational, achieved over the past year. and would examine the provision of
project inputs needed for the following year, as well as the allocation of funds
in the Government's regular recurrent budget, both for the operation of the
project and for the proper functioning of the education sector. A team of two
short-term consultants would be contracted under the project by September 1990 to
help prepare and organize these joint reviews. This will be a team of two
experts who would perform semiannual missions of two weeks duration each year of
the project. The government provided assurance to this effect at negotiations.
4.22      The Project Management Unit (PMU) of the MOE would play the pivotal
role in project management and implementation. Its major monitoring tool would
be detailed annual work programs, which would contain monitorable indicators of
all project-financed activities (see Annex 11, Plan of Action). These indicators
would ascertain whether implementation targets have been met in the period under
review and would help identify problems which need to be addressed, possibly
through modifications to project design or scope, during the next period of
implementation. Annual work programs would be established by the various MOE
departments responsible for implementing project components in consultation with
the PHU, and would be submitted for the joint MOEIIDA annual review. A first-
year operational plan has been prepared during appraisal and was reviewed during
negotiations.
Evaluation
4.23      Under the direct guidance of the Advisor on M & E, the evaluation
function will be carried out by the existing research and documentation division
of the Department of Planning. The division would coordinate andlor undertake
selective evaluative studies of the impact of various project inputs
(para. 4.20). The studies will be conducted jointly with other departments of
the MOE, for which funds has been provided in the project. The results of the
studies would be submitted for review and follow-up by the annual joint MOEIIDA
review committee.
4.24      The Government provided assurances at negotiations that it would
appoint a monitoring and evaluation adviser within the office of the Minister of
the HOE, with terms of reference acceptable to IDA, would prepare for and
participate in joint annual reviews of project implementation and results
obtained to-date, and of the next year's operational plan which would in
particular include the provision of recurrent funds required to support the
objectives of the project (para. 1.23). Appointment of the Advisor would be a
condition of project effectiveness.



- 45 -
VI. kAGRiE3HTS REACUD AND RlCCUKND&TION
6.01      Following appraisal, the government submitted to IDA for review
Its revised education strategy and associated policy changes in the form of
a letter of education policy intent (Annex 4). Specific measures for
Implementing the policies have been Lacorporated in the plan of action on
Policy and Institutional Development (Annex 11). In addition, the
Government has submitted a five-year education sector financing plan,
Indicating specific levels of expenditure for each level of education
(primary, secondary, post-secondary) as discussed with IDA during the
public expenditure review of November 1989 (paras. 1.23, 1.29).
6.02      During negotiations, the Government reviewed with IDA, (i) the
1990 recurrent education budget proposal, indicating allocation of the
minimum amount required for the financing of the education sector excluding
higher education and providing provisions for major increases in teachers'
salaries and allowances (ii) a first year operational plan for project
implementation, which was acceptable to the Association.
6.03      During negotiations, the Government agreed:
(a) that the capacity for pre-service primary teacher training
will be maintained at its current level, and that any plans
for expansion of such training will be discussed and agreed
with IDA (para. 1.25).
(b) that the incentive package for primary teachers who have
successfully completed the inservice training program under
the project will become effective in July 1991 and will be
implemented when the first cohort of the in-service teacher
upgrading program graduates (para. 2.10).
(c) that the policy measures relating to the primary teachers
career development will be adopted and enacted by September
1990 (para. 2.11).
(d) that the pilot cost recovery scheme for textbooks will be
implemented in the region during the fourth year of project
implementation, will be evaluated by an independent
auditor, and the evaluation results jointly reviewed with
IDA with the objective of extending cost recovery on a
national scale (para. 2.18).
(e) that regulations would be established, to be incorporated
in the conditions of service for Somali teachers and
headmasters by July 1, 1992, requiring the successful
completion of an approved headmaster train4ng program as a
condition for future appointment to the position of
headmaster or assistant headmaster in primary schools
(para. 2.30).
l



- 44 -
V. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.   Benefits
5.01      The project concentrates on the rehabilitation of the education
sector, and in particular on primary edtucation, which plays a seminal role
in the development of Somalia's human resources. It will provide resources
for qualitative improvements and increased access to education, and lay the
basis for long-term sustainable sector development. The project will
encourage communitv participation by developing partnerships between
communities and the MOE for the rehabilitation and maintenance of schools;
improve the quality of primary education which will raise pupil
achievement, and eventually increase labor productivity; and support the
institutional development process within the MOE which will improve
organizational efficiency, allow more effective use of educational
resources and lay a better foundation for further investments in education.
B.   Risks
5.02      Major risks associated with this project are: (a) that the
Government may not provide an adequate budget for education for the FY91 to
94: (b) that teachers and officials of the Ministry of Education and
Culture may leave the education system for more lucrative employment; (c)
that rural communities may not be able to provide sustained support for
their schools; and (d) that the civil unrest may spread, drawing more
resources away from the social sectors and undermining the developmental
goals of the project. The problems of under financing will be reviewed
annually at the macro-level through PFP discussions and Public Expenditure
reviews, and at the project level through annual implementation reviews.
The risk at (b) will be addressed by establishing a more attractive career
structure for teachers and introducing incentives linked to teacher
training. With respect to the risk at (c) project-financed community
education officers will assist the communities in developing viable and
sustainable mechanisms of support. This aspect of the project is of a
pilot nature and it is understood that community support may only be
realized in the form of services, not financing. To cover the risk at (d)
the design of the project allows for flexibility in implementation such as
relocation of construction activities to more secure administrative
regions, and adjustments to the number of textbooks to be provided.



- 46 -
(f) that a National Examination Board will be established with
clear mandates and its own budget (para. 2.37).
(g) that the Educational Facilities Section (EFS) to be
established within the PMU, will be integrated within the
MOE at the end of the project implementation period (para.
2.44).
(h)  that a community, in order to become eligible for a
reconstruction/rehabilitation program for its primary
school, will Mi) establish a Comiunity Education
Association (CEA), (ii) the CRA will sign a contractual
agreement with MOE with respect to specific functions and
contributions to be provided by the community and (iii) the
CEA will be active and functional at the time of
commencement of the construction program. Evidence of
satisfactory progress in community commitment shall be
conditional for MOE to commence the construction/
rehabilitation program in that community (para. 2.27,
2.51).
(i) that the Project Management Unit, to be established under
the project, will be given the mandate of coordinating all
physical and educational aspects of the project, and will
be provided with the required resources and funding to
carry out these tasks (para. 2.54).
(j) that fellowships will be awarded to suitable qualified
persons, for training programs acceptable to IDA
(para. 4.05).
(k) that it will establish a monitoring and evaluation function
within the office of the Minister of the MOE, with terms of
reference acceptable to IDA by September 30, 1990 and will
prepare for and participate in joint annual reviews of the
status of project implementation and plans for the
following year which would in particular include the
provision of recurrent funds required to support the
objectives of the project (para. 4.19, 4.24).
(1) that it would submit, for the four subsequent fiscal years
following 1990, (i) its education budget proposals prepared
in accordance with the five-year sector financing plan and
(ii) statement on actual expenditures on education sector
for the previous years, for consideration during the joint
IDA/WOE annual reviews of project management and
implementation (para. 1.23, 4.21, 4.24).
(m) that the team of external consultants to help prepare and
organize the joint governmentlIDA reviews will be in place
by September 1990 (para. 4.21).



- 47 -
6.04      As a condition of effectiveness, the PMU within MOE shall be
established and the director of the project management unit and the adviser
on evaluation and monitoring attached to the Office of the Minister of
Education shall be appointed and in position under terms of reference
acceptable to the Association (paras. 4.02; 4.24).
6.05      The conditions of disbursements for the primary school
reconstruction component would be (i) satisfactory progress in
establishment and operation of Community Education Associations and (ii)
satisfactory operation of the Educational Facilities Section (EFS)
(para. 2.52).
6.06      Subject to the above conditions and assurances, the project
constitutes a suitable basis for the proposed IDA credit of SDR 19.7
million (US$26.1 million equivalent) to Somali Democratic Republic.



- 48 -
ANNEX 1
Basic Data
Areas          Total                           64 million hectares
Population:    Total                           6.Om
Annual growth rate             3.0
Crude birth rate               48.9 per 1000
Crude death rate               18.5 per 1000
Infant mortality rate          132 per 1000 live birth
Life Expectancy at birth       47 years
Economys       GNP per capita in 1988   US$170
EDUCATION:
(a) Share of the Government budget
1975      1980      1986       1987      1988
Recurrent            12.3      10.8       2.6       1.9        1.6
Capital               9.5       5.3       6.8       2.9        2.4
Total               11.0        8.9       4.6       2.4        2.0
(b)  Enrollment                                    Total           Z girls
Primary                                      159,000             31
Secondary                                     40,000             34
Primary Teacher Training                          600            33
Technical/vocational                            4,500            27
University                                      7,000            20



smeg wmi ow 3MWLB
.~~~~~~uan (. 
; 6   7  8      9 r 10   p12 13   1    14  15  16  17  1 18   19 D a 
* LMEHNTARY     INT ___M__A
I I . * 9EX:a~~~~~SWRDARYt1 MMICA,                            TEMMCIC.TEA2 X
I S."                    ,             '2
M                           .    s~~~~~~~~~      ~    ~~OCATIML TsnAn  I
|PRIMRY                     . SC.ONDARY                      HIGMER



ORaANTZATWIN CHART - Mfl4TRY OF 0OMATION 19g
I     V 1
Primery     Secondg        Technical      Planning      Admini..       Peen n re             l Teacher  Curriculum  _on    ||Adult        I           tra-  I  Central
School.  School.  School.  Dept.   Dept.         Dept.          Trainng      Deeopment    Eulcation       Education     curclr         Uspectorate
oept.        Det.          Orpt.          DepT.                                                   D   lep_t      DEt.           Diet.        Dep.
IP;rimr St.| Sec. Stud.    Tch. Std        P             S  Pde t                                       cot pea.  Pearve  |a|ae  Trang  T rin e |  Yo I     PrimerI
S5ervic        Service    |    1                     Servie            Sevc          Sevc                                                      Centre|         I naetoragtee
ioranc       Esec Schol   Vocaionl ISchool              Accouting      Perennl InsrvieI  Social                    eea_rch   |Priy         IN.V.O.    I  SeCndry
0             School.       Teaching      School        Sudin         Servie         Tranefe       Training      Stde          Servic| 1te   Auiv|a          Servictte     Schools 
Pri*Jy    |COrreon-I  |Teahin          IInterTI     [Supplie          |Diacipllne    Schoolar |  Scec            |Curriculu  |  Ratio     S|a|er          |  Tlehnica
Teacher    ISchool         Srvie         Reief                      I*ve        || Servhic       I  ve        IIt*''    Stervic              Sevc |  |apectorate
{Savice      Servie                       Serice 
[Conity IStati.-                                       |Recor     | |otion       | |Prod             viron.      Fam lc lie |     tIR-   |c   Kinder-   | ocumnt          |
|Service                                  SevI                        Section                       Service       Seric r0ev. F |i   Seric  Serv|icec    IS   e          I
Education  |  irding                                      Auio          ReVIge        Ad| ahr  inietr-  |  Putlicatlon
|                                               |l~~~~~~~~~~~~an.  Gun. Sep.
in-l IRS    I I   *                                          15~~~~~~~~ervice  WW
cr m          m    I~~~~~~~s I. 
Prim     nPrntin
i=s~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~V    Id _iio                                                                                     goe
Service



AP=  4
- 51 -                  Pagel of 4
Ref a AEJX/19-04730
Mr. Edward V.K. Jaycox                             November 25, 1989
Vice President, Africa Region
The World Bank
Washington, D.C.
Dear Mr. Jaycox:
Letter of Education Policy Intent
I am writing to you in connection with the proposed IDA Credit
for the Rehabilitation of Priomry Education, currently under preparation,
and to inform you about the various measures the Government of Somalia has
already taken or ts planning to undertake to support the rehabilitation of
Its education system. As you are aware, Somalia's difficult economic
situation has resulted in declining budgetary allocations and actual
expenditures for the social sectors. The effect on the education sector
has been particularly severe, as low teachers' salaries have resulted in a
serious erosion of the quality of education and, in particular, in a sharp
and continuing decline in primary school enrollments.
Government is fully aware that economic development is
critically dependent on the education level of the population and that
meaningful steps must urgently be taken to arrest the decline of the
education system. To achieve this objective, the Government has decided to
implement a number of education sector finaneing and policy measures which
can be summarized as follow:s
With respect to education sector financints
(a) In line with the Government's commditment to increase the level
and share of expenditures for social and economic sectors, as
agreed with the Bank and the Fund in the Policy Pramework Paper
1989-1991 of April 3, 1989, budgetary allocations and actual
expenditures for education will be iucreased so as to meet the
target of raising primary teachers'incomes to a level at least
equal to two tines per canita GD? by 1995, with corresponding
increases for other teaching and administrative staff of the
Ministry of Education. Recognizing that increases in teachers'
salaries will need to be considered in the context of a planned
review of the Civil Service salary structure, adjustments to
teachers' incomes and those of other education staff will, in
t-he interim, be made through special allowances, for wh1ch
appropriate provision will be made beianina with the 1990
ordinary budget.



ANNEX 4
- 52 -                     Pa9e 2of 4
(b) Expenditures for the various levels of education will be
adjusted within the education budget so as to increase the
allocation for primary education to about 50 percent of total
recurrent expenditures for education in fiscal year 1991. To
achieve this target, the growth of expenditures for other levels
of education will be constrained, particularly those for hiaher
education.
(c) Financial participation In the cost of education by students
and/or parents will be encouraged through cost recovery
measures, such as requiring payment for textbooks to be
introduced on a limited scale as a pilot operation, and by the
introduction of boarding fees at secondary and post-secondary
institutiovs to. partially offset the hi,gh cost of boardiag.
(d) Non-working primary teachers are being dismissed from the civil
service, a process which will be completed in 1991.
A five year financing plan for the education sector reflecting
the above policy understanding has been prepared (attached table). This
indicates the minimum levels of allocations under broad categories (such as
salaries and allowances, instructional materials, rehabilitation, boarding,
costs, etc.) for each levels of education which the government will follow
for the period 1990-1994.
With respect to educational iolicv measures:
(e) Primary teachers currently In service will be required to obtain
professional teaching qualifications equivalent to a regular
teaching diploma Issued by the PTTI, for which the Government
will introduce appropriate monetary incentives and an Improved
career structure within the civil service. Similarly, primary
school headmasters will be required to obtain appropriate
qualifications as approved by the Ministry of Education, as a
condition for their appointment as headmaster.
(f) Teachers, headmasters and other Ministry of Education staff
trained under the proposed project will be required to remain in
the positions or functional areas for which they were trained
for at least five years.
(g) Non-teaching administrative staff of the Ministry of Education,
many of whom are qualified teachers, will be reduced from the
current level of about 2,500 to about 1,000, and redeployed as
teachers or otherwise reassigned in accordance with civil
service procedures.
(h) Pre-service primary teacher training capacity will be maintained
at Its current level of about 450 graduates per year and future
plans for expansion of this capacity will be discussed and
agreed with the Association.



53                        ANNEX a
Page 3 of 4
(i) The financial burden of education on parents and students will
be reduced by waiving requirements for school uniforms and by
adjusting the school calendar to the requirements of the
agricultural season in areas where this is considered essential
to maintain agricultural production.
I trust that this information will clarify the main directions of the
measures the Government of Somalia intends to introduce in the education
sector over the next five years. I shall be most happy to provide further
detail if required.
Yours sincerely,
Abdillahi Mohamed Mire                             Dr. Mohamed Sheik Osman
Minister of Education                     Minister of Finance and Treasure
Signed                                           Signed



ANNqEX 4
- 54 -                             Pa 4 of 4
Table: EdueOtion   Sor Finmncin Plan fgr the Minit r 0f Educlton 1090-94
(in mlillions of "moo 8hililngs, l98 prlc n)
low.      1991      iou       is"       1904
1. Priery                   6       98       1,2       1,517    1,'
Teachers' slary
and *lloa nes       J J 1           on          U2      1,648     1,869
Instructional Materiala   276       296         J79      424        474
Repar and Maintence         as        49         45       s6         as
2. Secondary               495      o1l         719       ON9       956
Teachers salary
and allow nc               146       261        880       444       666
Instructional Materials    11s       119        126       lal       1s8
Bearding Coat              21o       226        225       229       284
Repair and Maintenance      2         22         24        26        26
S. T.chnical/Vocational    99        100        116       125      l8S
Teachers' salary
and allowances              19       2a          so        87        45
Instructional MaeOrials     16        18         18        18        18
Boarding Cost               54        54         66        s6        S
Realr and Mintenamc         is        11         12        14        15
4. Pr-prlary, Non Foesl
an  Adult Educablon     1t         12         14        16       1i
5. Administration          175       264        276       am0        891
Salaries and allowancs       4       228        247       295        858
OUsor                       21        20         81        86         as
6. Total Education
(excluding higher)    1415      1944       2342      2618        a8m6



- 55 -                   PNNEX 5
Page 1 of 9
Proiection of Recurrent Financial Needs of the Education Sector
Background
At Independence in 1960, Somalia inherited an extremely weak
educational infrastructure. Total enrollment in primary Grade I was about
6000 In 1960 rising to only 7000 in 1970. The development of secondary
education was marginal. The small education system expanded modestly in
the 1970,e as progress vas made in improving access to primary education,
and in developing post-primary education Including an university. Pupil
enroilment in primary schools peaked to 272,000 in 1980, indicating an
enrollment ratio of nearly 30S. Secondary school enrollment also peaked to
65,000 in 1982. But since then pupil enrollment has been declining
steadily as Government recurrent funding for education decreased every year
in real terms and as a proportion of total Government recurrent
expenditure. Primary school enrollment ratio regressed to below 10 in
1988.
During 1975-80 Government spent saound 12S of its recurrent
expenditure on education. This amounted to an estimated 2 per cent of
GDP.The share of education in the Government's recurrent expenditure
declined sharply from 11 per cent in 1980 to an average of 1.8 per cent in
1987 and 1988 (see Table 1) which is only about 0.2 per cent of GDP.
Although Government's domestic revenue has declined to 5-6 per cent of GDP
In 1987 and 1988, total recurrent expenditure has been maintained at around
12 per cent of GDP with the help of considerable external grants. Budget
cuts fell entirely on soc! i and economic ministries. The real value of
Goverament,s recurrent education expenditure (adjusted by GDP deflator) has
fsLlen drastically from an index of 100 in 1978 to 10 in 1988. No
estimate of private expenditure on education is available for earlier or
recent years. Virtually all educational expenditure was public, except for
the school children's unlform and some stationery which they have to
provide. Boarding students in secondary schools are fully subsidized, and
so is university education. The steep decline in Government recurrent
expenditure has resulted in a state of decay in education in general, and
primary education in particular, as has been noted earlier in this report.
In short, pupil enrollment is falling; very ill-paid primary teachers are
leaving their jobs; students and teachers have little by way of textbooks
and instructional materials to work vith; physical structures are
dilapidated;and furniture hardly exists in many schools. The situation is
more or less similar in secondary and technicalIvocatio.tal education. Only
the University, supported by generous Italian aid, is iaving growth in
enrollment although high drop-out rate and low progrestion rate persist.
Rationale for Increasing Recurrent Education Expenditure
Recurrent expenditure is seriously underfunded at all levels of
education with the possible exception of the University. Government
expenditure by level of education cannot be ascertained from the budget
which amalgamates all education expenditure, and makes disaggregation only
by category of expenditure, e.g. salaries and allowances, goods and



- 56 -                   ANNEX 5
VajeT2of 9
services, and transfers; (expenditures on goods and services are then shown
by line item such as fuel, travel, stationery, maintenanee etc.). In
1989, out of a total recurrent allocation for of So. Sh. 911 million,
higher education (which is now under a separate Ministry) received So. Sh.
212 million or 23 per cent, and other education received So. Sh. 699
million. Officials of the Ministry of Education (MOE) roughly estimate that
out of the latter amount, secondary education (including technical/
vocational and primry teacher training) received about So. Sh. 245 million
(or 35 per cent), primary education about So. Sh. 287 million (or 41 per
cent), and administration received about 23 per cent (see
Table 3 . lThus, recurrent Government expenditure per student in 1989 is
estimated as So. Sh. 1630 (or roughly US$3.6, at So. Sh. 450 to a dollar),
compareo to an average of about US$40 In sub-Saharan Africa. Expenditure
per se_ondary student is about US$12 which Is also low compared to
coui.tries of the region.
Salaries and allowances absorb an estimated 70 per cent, and
goods and services about 30 per cent the total expenditure on primary
education. While this percentage distribution of expenditure looks good,
the level of expenditure is very low. This means extrmely low teacher
salary, little provision for instructional materials, and neglect of
essential repair and maintenance. Since secondary education also faces
roughly similar underfunding, there is little room for shifting budgetary
allocation from post-primary to primary education.
In order to rehabilitate education in general, and primary
education in particular, a quantum Increase In Government's recurrent
education expenditure is urgently required. Only such increases in sector
financing can ensure that primary education gets the required minimum
funding to pay for augmented teacher salarylallowance, and to supply
textbooks to students. It Is neither feasible nor justifiable to augment
primary teacher salary without raising salaries of other teachers and
education staff. Hence a much larger recurrent budget is required for the
education sector. This also means that the share of education in the
Government's total recurrent expenditure will need to be raised, since the
total recurrent expenditure Is unlikely to increase rapidly.
For rehabilitating and sustaining primary education, Increased
budgetary expenditure will be required mainly for two major and critical
components: (a) Increased teacher salariesiallowances; and (b) supply of
textbooks and teaching materials to students and teachers. There will also
be need for larger funding for repair and maintenance.
Assumptions for prolectina financing requirements
Table 2 shows the numbers of teachers and education staff of
different categories and their average salariesiallowances in 1989 and the
assumed growth In their numbers and emoluments through 1995. It is assumed
that entering students in primary Grade I would increase by 10 per cent per
year. This together with progression, drop-out, and repetition rates would
increase total primary enrollment by about 10 per cent per year, so that
the primary enrollment ratio would increase from about 8 per cent In 1988
to about 13 per cent in 1995. Primary teacher requirement would be
determined by a student-teacher ratio of 31tl In 1990 rising gradually to
3621 in 1995. Secondary student enrollment would increase by about 5 per



- 57 -                    A-M  5
Page 3 of 9
cent per year, and student teacher would remain unchanged. Growth of
technical *ducstion and teacher requirement would be slower.
(a) Salariesiallowances
Whereas in other Eastern African countries primary teacher
salary is on average 5 times per capita GDP and In many developing
countries it is 2-3 times per capita GDP, in Somalia it averages So. Sh.
2165 per month in 1989 or about one-third of per capita GDP. Primary
teachers are mostly secondary school graduates; and many of them have
additional two years training. Their present salary is utter;y inadequate
either for supporting a family or for generating motivation for serious
work on the job. The average salary plus allowance of primary teachers
should be, therefore, raised at least to the level of per capita GDP in a
year or two, and twice per capita GDP in 5-6 years.
It is assumed that salariesiallowances of primary teachers, non-
teaching staff of similar grades, subordinate staff and all National
Service teachers would be increased by 100 per cent In real terms in 1990,
and another 75 per cent in 1991, and then by 20 per cent per year through
1995. All other teachers and education officials would be given real
increases of 75 per cent in 1990, 50 per cent in 1991, and then 20 per cent
per year through 1995 (Table 2).
At the same time efficiency measures would be adopted to
generate some cost saving in several wayst non-teaching administrative
staff would be reduced from 2500 in 1989 to about 1000 by 1992 through
redeployment of staff to teaching jobs (see Table 2); stoppage of salary
payment to absentee teachers would continue and their names would be
removed from the employment roll.
(b) Textbooks and instructional materials
A complete set of textbooks should be made available for every
two students in all primary schools. Teachers should be provided with
teacher guides. Adequate provision should be made for other teaching
materials and supplies. Based on the estimated cost of the textbook
component of the proposed project, the cost of providing textbooks and
instructional materials is assumed as So. Sh. 1400 per student In 1990 and
1991, and So. Sh. 1600 per student in later years. For general secondary,
this cost is assumed as So. Sh. 3000 per student. For technical education,
it is assumed as So. Sh. 5000 per student.
(c) Repair and maintenance
About one per cent of the proposed project,s investment cost for
civil works is assumed as minimum necessary cost for repair and
maintenance in primary education. This is over and above some expected
community contribution in the form of mostly unskilled labor towards
maintonance of school facilities. Rough estimates are used to indicate
minimum repair and maintenance expenditures in other levels of education.
(d) Boardina costs
About 10 per cent of general secondary students and 30 per cent
of technical/vocational students are boarders. The budget shows a very



- 58 -                    ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 9
small amount to support boarding costs. At present food rations are
supplied to *11 boarding students by the World Food Program (VFP) amounting
to an estimated value of So. Sh. 100 per student per day In early 1988
prices; but this Is not shown in the Government budget. The present market
value of this food is much higher. Th. minimum actual cost of food and
boarding per student per day Is assumed as So. Sh. 200 In 1989 prices.
(e) Administration Costs
Salaries and allowances of senior officers, non-teaching staff
and sub-ordinate staff are assumed as the major component of central and
regional administrative costs. Very rough estimates of what Is considered
as minimum requirements of goods and services and repair and maintenance
are added.
Minim=m Recurrent Financinft Reouirements for 1990-1995
Based on the above-noted data and assumptions, minimum recurrent
financing requirements for primary, secondary and technical education, and
for general administration are shown and sumed up in Table 7. These
projections indicate that compared to the recurrent education budget of
about So. Sh. 700 million in 1989,the education sector
(excluding higher education) would require at least about So. Sh. 1400
million in 1990, So. Sh. 2000 in 1991, and about So. Sh. 4000 million in
1995--all in constant 1989 prices.
Since the recurrent budget for higher education (under a
separate Ministry) provides relatively well for the small university
population, and Italian assistance of a recurrent financing nature is quite
generous for the University, it has been assumed for the projection of
financing requirements that no more than 10 per cent annual real Increase
over the 1989 budget would be justlfied or required for higher education.
On this basis, recurrent budgetary expenditure for higher education would
be about So. Sh. 235 million in 1990, rising to So. Sh. 375 million In
1995-- all In 1989 prices (Table 3). The projected sector financing
requirement (Table 3) implies an Increase in the share of primary
education from an estimated 41 per cent in 1989 to 45 per cent in 1990 and
57 per cent in 1995; and a decline in the share of administration costs
from 23 per cent In 1989 to about 12 per cent In the following years
(Table 4). These are changes in the right direction.
Five-Year Financint Plan
The minimum sector financing requirements for 1990-1995
indicated In Table 3 will need to be provided by the public sector. This
is because, over this medium term private (parental or community) resources
cannot be expected to finance any of these requirements - staff salaries,
instructional materials and other essential supplies. Some community
contribution in the form of unskilled labor services towards maintenance of
physical facilities of schools is expected, and this has been implicitly
netted out of the repair and maintenance expenditure requirements shown in
Table 3.



- 59 -                    ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 9
A realistic financing plan for the next five years should seek
to obtain the required resources mainly from the Government's recurrent
budget and some donor assistance In support of recurrent expenditure.
If the proposed IDA project is lmplemented, Its textbook
component for primary schools would disburse *bout So.Sh. 200 million In
1990 nd about So. Sh. 400 million In 1995. If VFP support to boarding
students can be ensurod through 1995 (and preferably reflected In the
budget) an additional about So. Sh. 200 million per year can be obtained to
support recurrent expenditure requirement. Thus, with the proposed IDA
project and continued WFP support of some recurrent costs as poted above,
the minimm required level of MOE recurrent expenditure could be reduced to
So. Sh. 1000 million In 1990, So. Sh. 1600 million in 1991, rising to about
So. Sh. 3500 million In 1995 -- all in 1989 prices.
A financing plan on such plausible assumptions is shown below.
It Is clear that a commitment for a much larger education budget is the
critical requirement for sector financing.
Five-Year (1990-95) Financing Plan for HOE
(excluding Hither Education)
99_0    1991    1992     1993    1994     1995
Minimum Financing
Requirement                      1415     1944    2342      2818    3387     4089
Financing sourcess
(a) IDA project disbursement
for instructional             200      200     250      300      350      400
materials
(b) WFP support for
boarding students             200      200     200       200     200      200
(c) NOE Recurrent budget         1015     1544    1892     2318    2837      3489



a                                          S lf  
*  ttZ  xSX!l iEE"$ 8&|t-8 31|s  ~~~~~~~~~.
Htgatu INNb IS             llRN  
" |      *  t! i      R  |x  w     X lt  f     | r
ill 1 o i        iii'  neEl     s;gu  L;{-   i
! ""^.^,"0s                  1.1; = 
0*0~~~~~ f![- I00   -- |S
6 3o 9 aia    09~I 
s~~~~~~~~~~ xa 



Table  Da 1te Bss NW   ampUom. sead Is Eupe_i"tr. Projections
N_ec of:                        t1816          Am             1901          11            193            1664          low
1. primary pupil               17300         198,4"        112t160        moon          664,0        166,a6        8.8
S. Primary T ewe.               4,450         Gi    *       OS "          I'm            I'm           0,4474        9,14
8. GM. 1.e. pupl                 .  U010                    88.JO0        41.1,         4.75           45,06        46,245
4. a". See. tec.                1I'mO         1,40          1,00           10,0          ,m00         2,100         1,200
6. Tech. $%edge"               $8,610         8.            $,n           8I0'0           ,0N          4,10          4,260
S. T_    1cal tewe               180           18n           1il            140           145           145           10
7. Prt-time teawe.                .            40             41            42            4a             44            45
0. Ume-teacieg able.              mO1 .1no                  1,6            1,084         108           1,08           1,084
0. Ue-techieg Sealr              100           100           100            100           100           100            100
10. le l  e
tO.  ear                      1.000         1.06          1.06           1.6            .00100                       .6
P;rIp                          m           1.00         1,000 1.010   1.000                       11.0       2    000
11. Seherdeiat "of               1'M           I'm           &,66           I,            1,66          1.00 11600
Awer.   . _ l_rieg/e lemee. 1 .._.
(Sb. 146 permeth) foc rle                   1063W35                       6I 3                        to1           on
-O. 46  p.. e-r-p te           r                1                           10             M 
- a. sm,... t.-i,tece.                   _       5            36             163           16        i       
oh   to 1*100 z.-.46          PW        _ *                                 2001          gm            a              20
-  h. 00 p.m. 910ier aff lersontoM66                                                                     iM s
-    I'M  Pm. lb -lst. _tff                     10w            M             10u          M11            us 
- S.  40 p. .t. Sevie teace                     low3          1M                                         to6M 163  116
'10



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 9
Table Is  Ilesims $lim it 3&ttttaga   s 130 isoo.)os
1I60 (buigub)      low1          13n           166           136           low            66
Teashm" ~~                ~( "1111 m-11  111101t o s
t-' 14~-    '1-                                                                                           - "sXUX?
Ia4tetl 1 mscsts                               Vs                          at            414           474           52?
itemar VW Sistinaain                            so            46            4             U 
8. Sessesdms'                    its           436           086           Y1u                          as11,1
*~~~-                               _             _           *      a             -"        *                -  ,
T_e_bse' 6s107 ai  * 1ages                     146           Su1                         444            6             63
IastssbIs.s  mtetsis                           1us           lie           UN            in                           145
Ile"InesuCatsasno                                                           as8            U             2as
-jtpl CZ mltUn                                  0                           2J4      2                    s 
8. Tesbakstlwsssbl..si            46            W            in6           829            UN            186           147
*.   satle" * NW W                         to                                                       49t  s       o
Teeks'slwp ai   lisam1                                 U             U                    87 U3                        U 9
*"I ssb mlgttlsl                           is             to            is            16            1o           1to
S_1e s  Cs                                      g4            64                           a             a             U
3spsie ad btaWmasso                             16            u             8             14166
prow    I      we
ud        IbesOfes                          I s6         1i             1                                          26
6. imdal~bsbos16                             17611         34l           87              8                          468
-   -   -   -   -   -   -_
81v1rtm NWd MI sse                             14            1317U                                       3            421
Govs                                            11368                                                    as            42
(e..Isdiae btgee                          s14" 64                      284            me1           ml6          44111
7. N1~ep  bssbtes                2*     1st    m             m                           no             841           875
. Tutel 1advesksem           1"S4                                                         us            81            4464
-  -  -  -  -  -  -



'63 -                       noWNE  S
Page 9 of 9
Table 4* Projected Ordinary Expenditure by Level of Education
(2 of Total Excluding Higher Education)
1989            PROJECTED
eat.      1990      1992       1995
Primary                     41        45        52        57
Secondary                   28        35        30        27
Technical                    7         7         5          4
Other                        1         1         1          1
Administration              23*       12        12         11
*  Salary of 2500 non-teaching staff included here.



-64-              ARMPX 6
- 64 -             Pag~'55eo 1f 2
CCIltYT EDUCATION ASSOCIATIONS
ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS
1.        Each comunity will be encouraged to form a Community Education
Association (CEA) to support their primary school(s). This would be a
condition of project support and will replace the current parent school
association, which draws membership exclusively from the parents.
2.        CEA will comprise of 7 members: Chairman, treasurer, secretary
and 4 executive members. Six members of the CEA will be elected from the
established influential members of the comunity such as traditional
leaders, religious leader, NABADOONISAMADON, Business-leader, members of
the party etc. However, at leat 3 members of the CEA should also be
parents of children currently attending schools. The Headmaster will be
the ex-officio secretary of the CEA, whereas the DEO will serve as ex-
officio external advisor, as well as the Regional Community Education
Officer (RCEO).
FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF CIA
3.        The CEA's will support activities relating with their schools in
four functional areas: Education, administration, physical facilities and
Income generation, where possible.
4.        Education : The CEA will assist in increasing demand for primary
education among the community. Towards this end the CEA will s
(i) Organize regular meetings of the entire community to discuss on
the role and importance of education, in consultation with DEO
and RCEO.
(ii) Encourage and assist the parents to send their children to
schools, specially the girlsg
(iII) receive periodical reports from the Headmaster on school
attendance, ascertain reasons for absentism, and if possible
jointly address those problems,
(iv) discuss appropriate local school calendar for the year with the
REO and other regional authorities, and
(v) review, the reports of teacher attendance from the Headmaster,
who will forward it to DEO, for administrative review.
5.         Administrative Duties s The administrative responsibilities of
the CEA's will be confined mainly towards the management of parental
contribution, and community contributions to schools. The CEA will collect
from the headmaster the monthly contribution of the parents as determined
by CEA and decide on the relative allocation of the contribution among
three categories of school expenses as follows: Supplements to teachers, to
support servicesl and school maintenance; and arrange for disbursements as
agreed.



ANNEX 6
- 65 -                      Page 2 of 2
6.        PHYSICAL FACILITIES x The CEA will be responsible for
maintaining the physical environment of the school. Towards this end, the
CEA will have two major responsibilities as follows:
(a) Rehabilitation Pro4ram : The CEA will be responsible for
providing at least 10 percent of the unskilled labour required
for the construction or rehabilitation program.
(b) Maintenance a The CEA will be responsible for maintenance of
school facilities Including school latrines, while the
maintenance costs of the teachers housing, will be
responsibility of the occupant teach. But the CEA should also
assure that housing provided for teachers in the school are also
maintained.
In addition, CIA will make sure that water is always available
at the school premises, either through maintenance of the water
supply system or through regular filling of the water tank.
7.        INCOME GENERATION s The CEA may explore possibilities of
various income generation activities for supporting the educational program
of the schools, with other interested NGO's or donor agencies.
RELATIONSHIP WITH MOEC
8.        The primary Education Department (PED) of the MOEC will
establish a, link with each CIA for developing their community education
support activities.
9.        Within the PED, a Community Education Services (CES) will be
established, headed by a Principal Community Officer (PCEO) and 4 Regional
Community Education Officers (RCEOs). The RCEO's will be located at each
of the four regions supported by the rehabilitation program of the project
and will be administratively attached vith the REO, but will work under the
technical guidance of the Principal Community Education Officer.
Functions of Principal CEO s
10.       The PCEO will design the community support program, and will be
responsible for carrying out the approved program. He will also coordinate
and supervise the Regional Community Education Officers.
Functions of Retional Community Education Officer s
11.       The RCEO will visit communities, explain the potential benefits
of a Coammunity Education Association, and will incite the Coummunity to form
such an association. When agreed by the Commiunty, he will assist the
Comuunity in the formation of CUA. In this regard, priority will be given
to those Communities who have shown an expressed interest to the DEO for
forming such an association. The RCEO will also negotiate an agreement
with the CIA, that they will, as a group, diligently carry out the rules
and responsibilities of the CIA para 3 to 7 above. This will form the
basis for the Bank supported project assistance.  The RCEO will also
monitor the activities of each CEA's under his jurisdiction (monthly
reports, visits, organization of annual meetings etc).



BODU&?l REMILITUt O PROM=
Prjosct Cwsnts b Tear
(SO.SN. '000)
bM coats                                                   TuL4
1990       9m          9m          199        1994       199        1996       197         9..    (        S'0001
to VA= 1    N_        .                                             -   417412.0      6,52.0     6852.0      9t23.0    2e434.0   2'434.0    `.434.0    447064.0        sC8.a
2. 11-    lOER 11                                                   -   U30.151.0   51,1.    512,924.0    72115.0    5,544.0    5,544.0  5,5i4.0   2.244 .0   2.150.7
Is _OOlt a IMI_    1331.3                                    95.404,0    976.         0,129.0    34,192.0    3492O.0   2M112.0    2112.0    '112.0    269,049.0        305.,
Toda           t WA                                             95,404.0 14306359.0   39,776.0   93,203.0   415,593.0   10,0.0   10,090.0   104090.0   2961.370.0   19365.2
L lI  ISElIII.  _  tm ma 1m
1. inlN       ltEIEN                                        7311 .0   91543.0  1,011.200.0   60240.0   702,U0M0    2,40.0    2,40.0    29640.0   4023.53.0   4,573.1
2. V11     UTE                                                     -    71,176.0    52610.0    49710    73n516.0   23,73M.0   23,783.0   231,73.0        318,422.0    361.5
3.    l   .keS                                              101,200.0    14,073.0    14.07380    14.080    12,320.0   130         12,320.0   12,30.       192.14.0    219.0
4*. EINKIE                                                          --               204.- -           -                                                  2s9.40.0      33.0
Si-T EtalE1K BlEINKS?8 UE                     DIUIITION        809o3.o  1.00079.*0 1.106,3 ".0      4689.0  m73476,0   33,743,0   38343#0   38,743.0   4.w.s29.0   5192.0
C. USII^T6U
Is UI-NWITT     U FUW I. FACLITIES                          132,0100.  1#317P363.0 2.34m292   2.631,262.0 276741430   145.20  145,929.0  145M.9290  10.476851.0   1f,905.5
-Toa EIUlIATI                                                  132M000   1817.330 2,74,291.0 2,631262.0 274143.0  145M20  145,2.0  145,9M.0  10M4 A51.0  11905.5
*. IEIfUfI  I. I
______ _                                                                                                                                                                               0%
CP%
t. F_                                                        S9 4,0   2Wos,81.0  W12703.0    80497.         24.I77,0    5,9.0    5,993.o    5,93.0       5336.0    651.6               1
2. FLIIIEM IS NW L .          .r                             43,00.      34,025.0   193,10.0   247,11.0    5,110.0    5,110.0    5,110.0    5,110.0    5441155.0       618.4
3. 981m m3 EnKATJE                                          397t*470    62,83.       36538.     27,8.0    27,78.0   130.0   13,024.0   13.024.0    591S4U.0            62.3
4.  t1      -                                                26986.0    32t266.0    5h490         04990    18,819.0          -          -          -     179,069.0     203.5
L P8IO? MM  IIETI                                           28,102.0   14,932.0    69,900    4313.m.0   23P232#0   232.    2M                23,232,0    644263.0    732.1
6.nUEIN                                                     106_091.O   91.9630    59,142.0   144,452.0    14,753.0   11t55.00  11559.0   11,559.0      451,03.0    512.6
WTol JUTUU. SEO.T                                              92153.0   6,55,0   541,897.0   593.527v0   113,884.0   3,91830   53,1840   3,918.0         24983447.0   3,390.5
1.11EC   _ -9.1,0   512OM12.0   281.723.0   166.7390   15,99O   43,148.0   43.148.0   43,143.0   2,03.638.0   2,39.4
Si-Tlt.l FR      El_t                                          309,96.0   512,82,0   281,723,0   16739.0   157,939.0   43,148.0   43,143.0   43,143.0   2,03.638.0   2,339.4
TOt  Mal 3183K Wcum                                            249OI3J0 5.273,303,0 5,220615,0 4#.61.95M0 4.1 M35,   296,32180  296813.0  26828.0  23.049.435.0  26,192.5
pbsdal C_m       l                                            207O7M,0   409t01.1  0473365.   433,107,6   444,36.5             -          -          -   1,972.647*7   W241.6
Pim Cmtl43uls                                               1.t79955 %.529,995,4 16.200.759*6 20.14.5B4.0 23.145977?7 1,804,942.4 24064077,0 2P.299930.3  M6A890231.8   4,065.3
TOta  inET    4Ca36,6 5.S 15S212.339S5 21,903,740.1 25.259.676.5 27,740,359,2 2101,770.4 2360905*0 2,5968318.3 1019912.314.5  32O4M9.5
Foeib Ebm                                                   4.52S.21S9,? 1.459A93.2 17,238,239.1 18701,460,2 21.39586.0 14085.6766 1,219571.7 1.341,341.7  76,971.031.1  25.153.8
U'h
_ _ _  ____    _           _   _  D    _               >  s~~~~~~~%



P -  d -po_ by Tr
1"i  lm          oIJI IiJd            IMn.te                                                   ToWi   WIU  Tout
iL ~~              ~~                         ~            ~dl DrI"U tS"Ades  w1
qIo.u.e '05                                                                     23 63
uw         1991       192       1I9          aW        29915      1996        7         eb 199  ..2 19    291  12 t99   199    im   29199  1zt7   i
_. w m    is
1.  111111 U 131                                                 - 12010M.4    26.317.9    3,2.3    5 9.9   17M2UM,   19.3    21s9.0  I455 .                     -  34       33     94   124  34  LI   9   6.T
2. 2l-3E11    *u0 13432                                          -  .253.07.7 2M2923.5 2.54       .A  M2.     .3   39496.1   44O59   643A2.5  o9.292a.3          -.S).1   71.   PA     344  142  3W   L9 2.'.
3. MR11"m 3  ii3 _i554                                    19291.5    MCA    at254    69..3   236.46.0   24.5                 27.    13,476.0        9t.3     it.   71.    2.4    L9 62  34   2 3  3.4   22.2
hblo4.1 iimm iminm.                                          m.m.s  s.tsam,   2.192-.940.5 *2,a bm561.552 412.2   71,444.9   6.35.6   36.272,6 11.9.497.5 naS62  731.5  vw..179 44.4 14.2
1. VI1gm, r n      1                                    1a3W.?.5 2.5.9.  4,32          .6  3452.2 4.665.2A    MM.    MM                36.2  62.2.2 1460  1.214421.411.4   U3 2Id1           2  12.9  4.1  4-2 5*-O75
2. 1n30  33 33                                                       22L?   324467   M2 3.?7   4 .75.5    3 .4.?  19U1.   26..   12.7J3.3                        -  1U.   75.0    2.  1a1.2 3.2  W   3.0   472n3
3. 1     M1  If46.    M776    54 .9                                                           9M.0   74.31.5   37,2325   97 .7  20,7.2             M1 9   9t.4   17.2   2          1.    17.4 13.2 29.0 19.7  92.
4. ti   [in  wpm,I                                               -           -   111 3             -           -         -         -          -    1194J         -      -   57.2      -      -    *                7.2
3*-Iot.O 23_ M                      1  M  35I31            1.56.4.  2.696h .13.  4.622.9   36W2l7.9  .2234144  274,.4A  31.1-7   =eJ3   1332223.7 2NA 11  31.3 2.5.l    5.2 M2M7 57V 5.7 u1.9  .5.
*  1. 311114T223 V 909514. 9231111211  -      235923.7 5.39.720. 11.92420.7 I5#11&6.4.7 103.6*21.231. 1.4M3.33   2,16.97 2.276.7M.3 56.639,139   176. 2,9.? &M.$. 44W92. 4W.53. 225. 22.9 23.1 15673
- -~~~~~~~
S-IoU. 1. n    IL  r A1 fII                                  2323.7 s9 20.5s 21Q426.7 ISe16.64.7 13.1281.3 13.0 .lO4.?7 1n276o.5   54 1  J    76.7 2.9. s                    , h7?  497   h.. 25  227. 23. 1575
3. _0315166 K_EL                                                                                                     __  _
2.9"AmIll                                                  9353.2    724.05.5  6W2911   31IoA    I7.5    2.431.9   47.466.6   3,427.4  2.               .2       3   M.5  W2.7  II.2  34.1  3.9  9.2  9.   7M143
2. FP 0514   S         R9-2  =                             7341.3 9n3.22.3   73230.? 12is.3.4    33..?   3612.0   43.4                 44,703.3  27W312.    5.2   4.5  264,  332.1   7.2  7    7.9  3.2   ns.2
2.   E1T3                                                 6     o M7431    1     43W2.7   J7.76H.5    677          M2i.2    IOWA.  2234.3  1t59.67   S.4   74.9 6.9  J-.3    .2 19I2 2D.1 23.0  I77.
4. $       _ mmIf                                          4n14.    3W.    m2           ?   2h.39t   2133.0              -         -          -       19.2   32.4   V.    64.7  Pa        2 .     -    -    -   23.9
S.90105       . I3 on  Ig1                                47329.   JM3s.   240.6            2140.6   24b271.T  2446.O  15N73f   2033=.0  222941.9  W.3  1u.   3.4 P                  .0   3.23  3.4 353  V7.1   o9
4. f_tl B                                                  274.47.   2466A    227,49.4   76927.5    Pe27.7   01.44.1   9).9  201410    1727I.9.3  232.2  12.3  75.3  t9.    2    1.1 17.3 235 I                   7.4
W0.41   imion   ff1323                                     I2.46L.  1#7,121.1 2s3.216.7 2942.523.0          76A27.   417.175.2  I4N 7.6  515.424.5 20-362.U1.7 1 .   732.    9.2    7.4 l7     .  67.t 93.3 "9.  S.M.&
E. Fo1    1
2. paw1         _1                                         s21231.0 ,tm.sI.1 1i2432.0,5   8242A4   953.0            .51.9  S1         37.445W.?  m9,*.7     95.4    .3  343.9  224.1  2.2 &63.             49 2.6U.4
tOtl F5LM              11.29 .  S                                           1312.31 l2.05   05 .4   9          3,3   MUM.51     343.24   MO.45.? -4 -.5? -37-4 -426-. -3.9  2                 .       -     43.9 2- -
total h62 Cum1                                               4.736..5 &252235.5 21t3740.23W9476.5 Vv74Mb3W.2 21177042.3A 0. 0 2               l6L3.1 t2.24.5 b=   & A U       7J 69 43079  . J 4 4 4. .0457.5 474.0 13249
nn-  amSS. inmnhn. fw..n   bafhi    insfln n.fl.  _ntft  _lmllf                                                  anil         _nt    .    cSf
. . . _ _ _ _ . _ _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
'.9,
nU.



coWAT1ORA ILfATIoU Pa=T
T*ls     ml 111 11 bab
1"9        1m         1m         113         194       15        1"9        1"7        tl        199    t1    1       1"a 3     119 it"     9   7  Ttl
~~~~~m                                               mm u                    m_  _                   _             -     .  m.  _
iL -w 1114                           277# 69.7 5.30111164 1OoMe.313.21..3624.                     -                    - 4.36,7    i. 2.43.SA343,9-.63.21.1                 -    -      1304
L   M                              1.030 .?   SIM1.4               -          -          -    -                         -  1.U2.3U.3  ).'44              -      -            -    -    -  7.9
C. WE36                                3 .9    36432.2 1.284.45.7 I.413   1.41641.9                -                    - -5.U3MIX.       3-0  4*G   43  3696  392.             -      - toM.t
I. IZW   lIUf  IDME>              131439.l?  1,?t46  3.329847.3 &,Mfa.? 4649.2.4                  -          -         -  4442.315.2 1.103   W.0 1*1374   W7 1bm5           -      - . 4.93.6
E.     C                             7342.1   50,31.4    3.05374    1.55    45.421.-    -                          -        1. 472.4   551.7  231.1  211.2   4.3   1A    -    -    - 143
F. 1EDUM MU1M                        313*364  1,5to  .3  1#,315.Ul.4 1U3    .8213   3745                      -            5.4@427 .6    9.2  712.2  439  3693   V7.7    -                2 - h217.7
E. pomp        W14.5   1421462   262975   2JJ,71h9   32110.5                                       -          -         -  101441.5   IT.9   5.4   61   75 A5.0    -    -    -   341.5
L.111111                              43,7.5 2e5X9.1 1Sl3ll72-.  233M.2722 2b4o,433-2              -          -         -  951..    32. 1474.4    7.?  7W.9  573.1    -    -    -3.17.7
1. E                                  Mif  ;9,994.1   9 .  102.2.    15?2    9.5N.?                -          -         -  2M4OM4.#  225.4  442.1  334.4   424   12.4    -    -    -  WA47
J. W11       ,  5311 90,E151 139      ao.31l   354,4467   71 5915.6  41   .A  2*4116.4             -          -         -  23111.4    5.7  16.*7  259.3  34.19   42          -    -    -   9.?7
TOtalE 165lI11 cUl                    4c725c73$5A Ih01 9 H,1  255.23l 30799 T 25o9MM.S                -         -          - 90.33. 9        1.345 7&.1 MW7 A6471.06      9    -    -    -321342.3
U  sss  n.sw    finin~~~ ~      _ S a   ,   n,SnSin               m     t       tfnns mf.It.. nun                           m w.t
18. - 515
*- 1531.B                            Unuus  fOr9*.4   512.2.4   73.13.0    94M.?1  115.1,0  15.       1292345.4  *UP44.3    6333.4    3.2   2.    24.5   3.7   27.0 3.3 2395 3.A   197.2    W
L. F52.  0 t VANIUf                        -   829V&4   *        .    2395.8   292O.2.   342.M.4  314.9.0  423,4153  1.9Mn.9               -   59.1  U2.0   U5.O  4U.2 n76 74- 77.3  47,9
. W5t IETM  M Noma                         -    ISPOL4   113.33   173.332   217.11.7  25534.   23 3,   351.24.0  14W32.4                   -   4.1  44.2  40.5   5.9  3.4 3.6 5.?A    36.2
3. 1E61552    UI!W5                         -    33..7    93.51.2        242    1m7 -e  263.211.0  m3 1.932  2572.27  1.1M2741.8            -   1.6  3W.    332   41.5 425 4S3 v.0   2.-2
C. tEUi*i                                  -     t127   39 1.7   52111.2  "7,1251.2  3116910.6  917.61743 1009334.9  4.3438 -                   04    12141.81  141.3  IN.8114.6*77.139.3   65.1
F. n6n*6 6       E                         -       31.2   16616U     221.1.3   23M.e   3$42.*5    23113  4n3.3.6  1,323.17.4               -     .1  55.4  60.0  66.4 71.6 74.  77.3   405.5
TOal          IC S O0.90.4 3nou                       90.6 1t# 0.4403J 1.30"59.6  t.64.362.7 2#180370.4 2 .15.0 2.59h. S8s.76.34.6    3.2  141.8  350.4  34.2  411. 4.0 45   474.0 2.65?.2
Total  C     mm                        4736.645.5 15212.30. 2113.740.1 25c2D9676.4 V77740.13J.2 2110h,7.4 2#30.4.0 2.596,343.3 801.92314.5 35.D7 649.6 73136.1 6.347.3 6,476.9 439.0 457.5 474.0 32,499.5
.x~ cm== C--=rt*
.. . ... ........ _ ._   _ _   _. _ .                  _      _       _       _       _    ___ __   _, _ _   _ ___
I.4:
U,|



EWUCATI0N RUAILITATIOU PROJZCT
S_mnrv Accauns  bs Teat
(S'N.I '000)
BDue Cts                                                   hreiz E:: h#e
1M90       19          1M          1993        199        1m         1W         M7         TOa                A mmt
A* CIVL OS                             155,466.0  1I.9891S4.0  29364302.0 2.3189753.0 2.32102.0          -          -          -  9049,477.0  95.0 7692055.5
t. IUCLS                               604.5M.0    17.600.0           -           -           -          -          -          -    6221160.0  100.0   6220160.0
C. FMIU                                   2346.0   4491O    273630   250,015*0   z23O                    -          -          -  12404557.0  90.0 1116.501.J
3. DIStUCII M II rUAUII.S             S806410.0   100w100*0    00,00 0.0    O0000.    70,00G0.0          -          -          -  3v506,480*0  100.0 3506.480.0
.t EUJIFIIT                            430UM.0   192t670.0   149.63.0        29931*0     6,939.0         -          -          -    78340640 100.0  7M33064.0
F. IECIICIL A5SISICtE                  523,296#0   51,134.0   342606.0   275,1420    62194.0             -          -          -  1786,362.0 100.0 17386,362.0
90 FlOT WIWIENT                        23,1900    9,19.0    S33190.0    531190.0    53,190.0             -          -          -    26,9500   0.0           0.0
N. TRIUUIIB                             27DM50.0   679.50.0   4926.0   S565412.0   406616.0              -          -          -  2369,444.0   0.0           0.0
to WE0S9   TRAIhINB                    193,600.0   362,558.0   261,0640    31,68000    86900.0                                      8 -  -    957.702.0 100.0   95,702.0
J. HIiTWMIB * OEACH t EVAJMTION         44,400.0   132,400.0   202,900.0   296,400.0    4,4000 0 0                             -    710,400.0  50.0   355.200.0
Tobl DIIES l COSTS                      241,973M0 5,157166.0 4P951120.0 4,363,513*0 3,857,624.0             -          -          - 21,191756.0  78.9 16719.24.9
A. FATEMALS I SUlIES                    7.040.0    19.1400    19.19,.0    19,1400    19,140.0   19.1.    19,140   19#140.0    141,020.0  50.0    70,510.0
L FILl  O ML * LUIRICITS                     -    48400.0    48,400*0    49,400.0    48,400*0   48,400.0   48400.0   48,400.0    339800.0  70.0   237v160.0
C. WUlO.!E W89*n mD - II                     -    36.080,0    36,080S0    36,08600    36,09800   36,060.0   160.0   36,00.0    252,560.0  95.0   239932.0
Do EWWIT rADIIEIWICE                          -    11,931.0    23,5Z5.0    24,69.0    29,410.0   29,410.0   2910   29,410.0    M794.0  90.0   160,014.6
E. E3 IN AIJNAML                             -        469*0   103,102.0   105,541*0   112,116.0  115,3680  115,36.0  115,368.0    6U132.0  30.0   200,199.6
F. FUhITUE NAINTEIM                           -       117.0    43,248,0    44,61340    4,065.0   48,30.0    ,430,0   48430.0    260,333.0  30.0    84,099.9
TotAl IEU399T COSTS                         7M00*0   11h6t37.0   273,45.0   278,4n.0   2e211.0  26828.0  296N28.0  296.829.0  1.957N.39.0  53.4   991,916.1
Total MELI CISTS                         2,949,013.0 5273303.0 5224615.0 4.66165.0 4150,035.0  296.829.0  296,928.0  h29682.0 23,049o45.0  76.9 17#71t14.9
Pfimicul Contiiimng                     207W737.0   409,91f.l   478365.5   43J,107.6   444346.5           -          -          -  1972.647.7  89.0 10756.629.8
tiee Cmti,fmcigs                      1,679,95,5 9,529.995.4 16200,759.6 20164.594.0 231f45,977.7 1,90942*4 2,064077,0 2299980*3 76M90.231.6  74.8 574502961.4
Totl  LECT COSTS                         4W736966.5 15.212P369.5 21,903,740.1 25259476.5 27,74059.2 2,101,770.4 2,360s905*0 2596906.3 101,91214.5  75.5 7671,031.1
ZU         cmucaf3axz                      2g Z==          : a-   =5=2    _.__                        _ Q --2===
Foie  Eud e                           4,52w9,219.7 11.45996.2 17,2ql239,1 18701460.2 2I,39,586.0 1,0685676.6 16219571.7 1,41934107 76,971,031.1   0.0        0.0
to
a
0



Z1e1iti1i0. ,   I.. .EE           l  iii
II1XEiIh   ..B.    21.....               III| I
11|15Sll1~          .b ,1blS    Ili3
IlXll Slii ;l                  |         1 I 3
II^1|II .I.I   |       tI.Bi...,X..        Ili     I;
SI         I                                IE  l    90
GI b$~I           b|SSE2E        E2e       11i         f
-IIEE ....   *IE **OC; 
~~~~~~~~~~-    '  Sc-||1.   |. .E1. .!| 



71 -                           ANNEX 8
SOMALIAs EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED SCUEDUIZ OF DISBURSIE=NTS
CUJS$'OOO)
IDA Fiscal Year         Disbursement         Accumulated           Accumulated
& Quarter Ending        During Quarter       Disbursement          Disbursement Z
FY91
Sept. 30, 1990                                                          0
Dec. 31, 1990                  -                    -                   0
March 31, 1991                400                  400                  1.5
June 30, 1991                 400                  0oo                  3
FY92
Sept. 30, 1991                540                1,340                  5
Dec. 31, 1991                 540                1,880                  7
March 31, 1992                930                2,810                  10.5
June 30, 1992                 930                3,740                  14
FY93
Sept. 30, 1992             1,050                 4,790                  18
Dec. 31, 1992              1,050                 5,840                  22
March 31, 1993             1,460                 7,300                  27
June 30, 1993              1,470                 8,770                  33
FY94
Sept. 30, 1993             1,470                 10,240                 38
Dec. 31, 1993              1,470                 11,710                 44
March 31, 1994             1,860                 13,570                 51
June 30, 1994              1,860                 15,430                 58
FY95
Sept. 30, 1994             1,330                 16,760                 63
Dec. 31, 1994              1,330                 18,090                 68
March 31, 1995             1,060                 19,150                 72
June 30, 1995              1,060                 20,210                 76
PY96
Sept. 30, 1995             1,330                 21,540                 81
Dec. 31, 1995              1,330                 22,870                 86
March 31, 1996                940                23,810                 89.5
June 30, 1996                940                 24,750                 93
FY97
Sept. 30, 1996               400                 25,150                 96
Dec. 31, 1996                 300                25,450                 97
March 31, 1997                200                25,650                 98
June 30, 1997                200                 25,850                 99
FY98
Sept. 30, 1997               150                 26,000                 99.5
Dec. 31, 1997                 100                26,100                 100



..    ... . . .....  .    ...    .    .    .    . .    .
- t- [    | t | W 3 i-: t t ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,  on FSs  
S -.                                        . *SPp
I                                                      [
a~~~~~~~ 
ii           i                             t f                        8ri 8)3_ 4 .
"                "       o~~~~~~~~~o
on          a
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0 
IIt
on: It             a,           "M: 8
M bMb  # s   ~     " "           S #    3 2   S
0~~~~~0
s                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"ag
6  x



- 73 -                           ANNEX 10
Page 1 of 5
SOM&LIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
MONITORING AND EVALUATION PROCESS
Background
1.        The obiectives of the monitoring and evaluation system (M&E) to
be put in place are to: (i) act as a guide, and a tool, for the effective
and efficient implementation and management of the project; (ii) improve
the feasibility of the project's follow-on activities; and, (iii) keep
track of the implementation of the project's policy aspects. This becomes
especially important for a project which has several components of
innovative and pilot nature that, it is expected, will become the basis of
future policy and be generalized in subsequent phases of a longer-term
donor commitment. Effective M&E should be corrective and informative,
meaning that it would enable decision makers and implementors to make
needed corrections during implementation of the project and draw the
lessons necessary for the design of subsequent activities and phases.
2.        Monitoring and evaluation serve two different functions and
represent different types of activities. Each one would use different
methodological approaches. Monitoring includes the continual gathering of
information on the actual implementation of the project. For example, this
would cover the following activitiess actual implementation of teacher and
headmaster training courses (numbers trained during a course, number of
days, real expenses and disbursements); actual number of classrooms built,
the timing, and the real costs; actual number of people trained abroad, in
what fields, for how long, and real costs; and, the number of textbooks
received by the schools (in the pupils' hands), the size of the books, when
they were received and real costs. Monitoring ie used primarily as a tool
for project management. Evaluation refers to methodologically more complex
work concerning the impact of various aspects of the project on the
educational system itself and/or the outputs of the system. For example.
evaluation work would include: in-depth analysis of the impact of project
inputs on the actual learning of pupils, their attendance and changes in
enrollment figures; the effect of in-service teacher training and other
teacher incentives on the attrition rate of teachers; and, the impact of
the school building program on the CEAs and their attitudes and behavior
towards the school. Evaluation is useful primarily for the development and
formulation of policies and future investment strategies.
3.        M&E should perform the following functions:
(a)   gather relevant and reliable information on the progress
of project implementation;
(b)   provide practical and relevant feedback on the progress of
implementation to the various levels of implementators
(from the national decision-makers to those concerned at
the local level) in a timely manner, and propose
modifications in project implementation accordingly;



- 74 -                          ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 5
this means that the information is directly applicable to
the various users of project monitoring and evaluation.
includings implementators at the local level; MOE
planners, implementators and decision-makers; the PMU; the
World Bank; and,
(c)   be useful for the financial, logistic and programmatic
planning needs of the project.
4.        Information is the lifeblood of any M&E system -- both as it
flows into and out of the system. In order to ensure that it is both
reliable and valid, and that it flows to the those who need to use it for
their work, special care must be given to (i) the quality of the
information that is collected, and (ii) the organization of the feedback
mechanisms that are instituted. In other words, it is necessary to ensure
that the information is used for both project management and policy
formulation, as well as improving the chances of the generalization of the
project's inputs in future phases. A degree of independence is therefore
necessary for effective M&E.
Organization of M&E within MOE
5.        There will be several levels of M&E activities in MOE within the
context of the proposed project. Each level will have different functions
and responsibilities with regards to (i) the collection and transmission of
information, (ii) project management, and (iii) the monitoring of policy
implementation.
6.        Given (i) the innovative nature of several project components,
(ii) the uncertain conditions in which the project will be implemented
(declining enrollments, uncertain budgetary and community commitments and
high inflation), and (iii) the prospects for subsequent phases, the World
Bank will need extensive monitoring information for efficient project
management and evaluations of the effectiveness of the project's inputs.
Joint MOE/IDA reviews of project management and implementation will be
organized at the beginning of each Project Year (PY). They will cover all
aspects of the project's objectives, activities and management, including
provision of sufficient recurrent financial resources through the
Government's ordinary budget.
7.        The following table shows the different units within MOE and
their respective M&E responsibilities. This table indicates the different
levels at which the MIE processes will occur.



- 75 -                                 AM=   10
Page 3 of 5
Adigor  Fiterwinl    HselWt        (IL .     te(buItyeroe $.                l       d 1h   diff 1tm i        ree t
WA Oaluation                       () _' |                                    *t,* c                   - lsadileM
=rgs  ! Alaais or the annual Joint  dild    ed;rgaeAthSthJit
Ose_e.                           bea.  ectc1  tc*1" i5a1  1
c os Dlreetor-Canersl  (I) Priory reepmnelbilita' fef                           as p
IMI b(euPlU)                         sltorig NcW          with world  t       inced activitIes inistais onsosay ct
on -tter of en-gls                                   n. owf Pnang.
tomenution sulas topeAi orde te forored o
(11)b11*11Ifootesneedrd for  h pleneselen deus condc ..dirn  Ir_ ~eoe o
ftoive pr_ect  agstat     ps  pretieli               tvit  In th fI d
Po..prIncdie" project
etothan  r_~rt for D.
;etiva  for thJoint Real_n (p
eagerviet...                     hint, * critiinl    o technical expertise i areas
RParch   a Docuet-  Dlreltr of     (1) CoordiseA evtuatien studies  et reewareb  eI ae"thlodl  we with Scem of
sties Section      Pluming         peltroe  within $  (e.g.I reduced    eth r divi.ior. the waus c   7L.1_*wove estudies
teecher attri lnt rr    of       col ltes on rgenhlsation  bio *In_criy the
dellnin eaollest rete? etc)i    projejt.
(ii 4Pd   -tcncal ndICe o
WE ispleawn- tetien   OirectamMertl  Provide mitewln inteorction seede  n   ilnteinn ad   t records needed for the rlutne
rviee (Teacher                    by the "W.                        collection ofsonltoring lfer_timn. sp  oditficatione
Train- ing Sept:                                                    to  "es-gong lepleeentlonaO etivitlee an Us.bals of
PInl-iso  t  Cont-                                                  fdh reie
rel Ip        ..or- 
etc.)
8.           The Proiect Management Unit (PMU) will play the pivotal role in
project management.  Its major monitoring tool will be detailed annual
work progtrams that will contain monitorable indicators of the project
financed activities. This means that it will be possible to (i) ascertain
the extent to which assigned implementation targets have been realized in a
given PY, and (ii) identify problem areas in order to improve project
implementation through appropriate modifications. The following grid
provides an example of a detailed annual work program that would be a tool
for planning, management and monitoring for a given PY.
--Vdt-       Mtmbetr  Pis".                TinEns  CkknLabasis
In-so"ecs techer     s_eches       give      bides             Indictam        -per dies for trines at pt r d
ining                              nere        dlhu           IsIpowts-       -travl cast for trainees
for each             t~~~~ibes peiod  -teachinga eterilsl
PIsce,                      (eg. sinter of  -fees for tmnraIe. 51 1 Per dy/weeelelsnth
Pays           -per die for trainer at I per da
-trvl or teinser-
School roabeailitaties    clasemosro  of  seters by  district   lapleeasts-tion   -ell coo elboesent
school        dietrict                    period
This detailed annual program of project activities would be the basis for
annual appraisals of the project's financing needs. It would be compiled
by the PMW in close consultation  wich MIOE's Implementation departments
(Teacher Training, Planning, CDC, etc); then it vould be submitted to the
annual Joint Review.  For PY2 to 5. the Joint Review would study it in
conjunction with the results of the monitoring of the previous year's
implementation experience, including provision of recurrent cost financing
from the Goverrment's ordinary budget. This would allow for a linkage
between continued project financing and the corrective processes for
improved- and more efficient implementation. The diagram on the next page
shows how  this process would work ad how  it would be, integrated  into  the
implementation, management and continued financing of the project.
9.           In order to ensure the effectiveness of this process, the
project would finance external expert services to work on: Mi) the



- 76-                           ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 5
preparation of the detailed annual work programs which would be based on
the monitoring results of the previous PY; (ii) the development of
systematic monitoring tools (that could include elements of
computerization); (iii) proposals for corrective measures designed to
improve the implementation processes and procedures; (iv) the reports to
the annual Joint Reviews, including analyses of the implementation of the
project's policy aspects; and, (v) provide in-service training for project
related personnel on the methods and effective use of monitoring
activities. This would be an integral part of the PMU's monitoring
function, and have the advantage of bringing a measure of professional
independence to the monitoring process.
10.       The advisor on H&E will have dizect access to the Minister of
Education and would work closely with the PMU and the external experts. He
will have mainly coordinating, conceptual and advisory responsibilities.
He would be responsible for centrali,vg the all relevant information and
recommendations for policy andlor orger;izational modifications necessary
for the success of the investment strategies on which external (e.g., IDA)
financing is based. The advisor should have had advanced professional
training in areas related to educational policy analysis, and the project
will provide funds for his specialized training in evaluation and
monitoring.
11.       The Research and Documentation section in MOE's Planning
Department should be staffed by professional researchers familiar with the
techniques and methodologies of evaluation. Once this is accomplished,
this section could coordinate and undertake selective evaluative studies on
the impact of proj3;-t inputs on educational outcomes (drop-outs, learning,
te-cher stability).  Some of the evaluative studies could be financed by
the project and other donors. These studies would be conducted with the
concerned MOE departments and the results would be reported to the M&E unit
and discussed during the annual Joint Reviews. Evaluative studies could
includes the effect of teacher training on teacher performance and
motivation; the dissemination and actual use of textbooks in the classroom;
the actual contributions (in kind) of communities to school rehabilitation.
12.       In order to ensure that all these M&E efforts will be
effectively feedback into actions related to project implementation, it
will be necessary to include MOE implementation departments in M&E
activities. If M&E is to have any practical effect, those concerned with
implementation must understand and agree with the results and ensuing
recommendations that come out of M&E.  Every effort must be made to ensure
the effectiveness of this feedback process and its translation into
effective modifications of implementation practices.



- 77 -
10
Page 5 of 5
SEOUg  IAL STEPS OF MONITORING AND EVALULTION
1. Continuous collection of information concerning implementation at the
levels of Limplementation, as per grid in para 8. For examplet
a) for physical reha!bilitation, information would be collected
from REOs, DEOs and periodic visits;
b) for teacher training, information would be collected from the
regional authorities, the Dept. of Teacher Training, and
periodic visits;
c) for textbooks, information would be gathered from the
regional authorities, CDC, SPA and periodic visits;
d) for policy implementation, information would be based on the
analysis of monitoring indicators and periodic analyses of
relevant topics (e.g., financing, personnel management, career
structure).
I.        _                             , 
IU. Analysis of the information by PMU, with intensive participation of
expert services discussed in para 9. Extensive reference will be made to
the detailed annual work program (para 8).
IVaf In the course of the year, there will be feedback from the PHU to the
points of implementation (Teacher Training Dept., CDC, Planning Dept., etc)
withs (i) indications of where improvement in implementation and management
is needed; (1i) proposals for modifications vhere approptiate: and/or (11i)
supplementary or complementary resources.
Vb. Toward the beginning of each PY (around February) of year 'n', the PMU
will establish the b&lance sheet of the activitLes to be undertaken
during the year 'n' (as per the grid in para 8), and experiences of the
prevlous year.   This  balaLce sbeet" will be the basis fort (i)
development of the detailed annual work program for the year which will be  -
discussed during the annual joint IDA-OE reviews of project
Implementation: and, (1i) th annual audLts of project activities and
financing. ID approval of the level of project finaucing for the year
wi;l be based on the findings of the annual joint review.
_ 



-78 -                ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 17
-                      'PLAN OF ACTION ON POLICY AND
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
JuI*Wdyadda Dnqminiga SowaammAiyma
vvoaad x    -    ivo Bwbikta
uo,A/ 4. --vo
Mr. Edward V.K.Jaycox                                    )N ZOY Iy
Vice-President, Africa Region                             Date:
The Wrold Bank
Washington, D.C
Dear Mr. Jaycox:
I attach herewith a draft Plan of Action or Policy and
institutional Development for the Ministry  of  Education.   This  has
been   prepared   by  the  staff  of  the  Ministry  of  Education  in
consultation with the mission members of the appraisal team for the
proposed education rehabilitation project during June 1989. This
plan of action will be followed during the course of implementation
of the proposed project.
With warm regards.
Yours Sincerely,
Abd (       kedMire
Minister of Education



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - .
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
irI
1ii t* 1                                            i
- - - - -                                                 ii - - ----------------
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -|- - - - - - - - - ---------------------
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _  _ _
|     it                                                   |  |1
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
2 8
I.                                                                                                 S
ij~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~d
'      iisF       Fi          X                                     i0                                                                                          g|i3 
,~~~~~~ .32     eee                                                                    :         3               ?             
__ _     __       _     __        _     __       _      __       _     __        _     __       _      __       _     __        _     __       _      __       _           I_i 
04 ~ ~ ~     ~     ~      ~     ~     ~      
2 -    -                                           -  -                              - - -  -   -  -  -  ---       -    -  r w-  -- - -  -  -  -  -   -  -  -  -
-  -  -  --  -  -       -----m-a
-  *--    -        a. -0                                       ----------                               -, -. --a-#-:    - -   -  -                     Ia--I            



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
3 ! .                                                     I        I !   I
ir-a.
i i;     1, .t   .i i                                    -       
8 r          i                  i     i Z8                   i        i            iii                       t
-i --
_   _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  __ - -   -



-     -     - -     -     - -     -       -I             - - - - - - - -                   - - - - - - - - 1          
I'' 
Ig~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
t           - - -       - - -        - - -       - - -       - --I      - - -      -I -                       U      



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
ii~~~~~~r
-  --   --     -     -    --   --   --         -       -       - -   --   --   -            -                    -      -                    -----                                          i ---c
t   I                                                                                    30~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~,            I ~        
-     - -     - -     - -     - -     - -     - -     - -     - -      - -         - -         - -        - -         - -        - -         - -        - -         - -        - -    
a   U                       ii~~~~~~~~~~O
-   - -     -     - -   - -     -     - -   - -     -     - -   - -     -     - -      -      - -     - -        -       - -     - -         -      - -     - -         -      - -    



t t~~~~~ 
t I~~~~~~~~~rf 
I                                                        I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t t I
-             -. -                         - - - - - - - - - - - -                    
-     -     - -     -       -     -       -     - -     -     - -     -       -     - -     -     - -     -       -     -       -     - -     -     - -     -       -     --  -0 



8
-                                                 -------- --                  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  -
81-
- - -      - -   - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -                c
I~~~~~~~4. ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     4
-- --   -  [i    -1 - - - -                   t- --                                         -  - - - - - - -
s     i      i     k      i        i     i        i      i          i          i8ii*i2,  *
3                                                        0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



If~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
- - -                ---------------                 
3-I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
- - - - - - - - - - -          - - -~~ -    '' ----         
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~%
- - -- -  - -  - -- -    - -              ----------             



ii 'iii                                Ii               ttl
41   *' 41
[Iii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
*                  r   '~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-     -     -     -       -                                 - - - - - -                                          
-ii               --------                      -i [I  -I-   -        -----          -----     
-   I&   it  II  .IVIII~~~~~~~~~~~pw   ii    i 



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0
iiF
~~~~~~~Lt~~~~~~~~~~I
4 a
~~~~~~~~~~~~I~~~~~~~~~I
| ti31
If~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
II                                                t ij3e.  2 
UH|               fi ,j                     itp      i   i'  ,3k             ,F
-                      - -  I-7~ -                                  -  - -~ 3 1 -  I--ii,--   
iit  ~~~~~~~~~               e                       ;~~~~~~~~   ~~~~i~
-    -      -    - -    - -    -      -    - -    - -    -      -      -    - -    -     -      -    - -    -      -      -    - -    - -    -      -    - -    - -    -      -  



-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - -  -  -  -  -  -  - - -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -
-*  i                                      6
- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
i l '   1  " I    ! ! I      r  I i f  -.    e ,r -              t I  t -ji  I r  I X    t i5
s.              Us       - lj 3. 3  i  i-    gi                    iii
.~~~~ _.                II
a  ~~    ;~   II~b   *~   j ~I .P
0  0                                    *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
do~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~X
~~~~~~~~~                                                               R~~~~~~~~~~~~I o
- - - -   - - - -- - - -   - - - -- - - -   - - - -- - - -   - - - -- - - -   - - - -- - - -   - - - 
-  -. -.  -                                                                               



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - - 
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
III~ ~ ~~~~~~~~. @i,                               [ j
sit~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -    -     -    -    -    -    -    -    - - - - - - --1 i   -  i    .  I
E ~ ~~ U
i~ ~ - E. -                                    'K          I  .| 1
________________________________



-  -    -    -  --  --  --  -    -    -    -  --  --  -    -      -      -   --  --  --  -                 -       -I
t t~ [ 
tv~~~~~
-  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -    -  -  ---  -    -   -  -  --   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -      -  -  -  -  -  -   -  - 
-   - -   - -     -     - -   - -     -       - -   - -   - -     -     --                    - -      -       -    -     - -   



- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
es ~~~~~~~~a   eb 
5t   8    fit    8        8           gt         8      B       2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e
,~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~ -1 Ji                     - 7'  - ii  - ---   -, -5 - 
4p~~~                             
-   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -   -                     - - - - - - - - - -                  



- - - - - - - - - - .- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
tS                       U 85    *      S                      S         J
! a j  fl i ^ ^ t X s         3 i ~~I.  .                 a - 
.   r  t                   i
1~~~~1~  t                                                        o J 
i1a1
-~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -                                    -    -                        
-     --     --     --     --    1--1 --1 -1                                      



a                                                                   S~
[' i t                     1   2           II^        ji- il   l
(i~ ~~1 !t                                                           S , r 1 1,  
_ _ _ _ _  _   _ _   _   _ _   _   _ _   _   _ _   _   _ _   _   _ _   _  _
E        I 
g ~   ~     S                 8j                               8 --
________________________.  .                    .. 



SOMlALIk: EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
PHU ORGANIZATION CHART
SUPPORTt STAFI
Sectetey 3
Driver    4
Watchean  4
Pbotocopler 1
Wessenger I
EF9                                 PUMRCCIREEN             SDUCnTOp               A" ISTRATICI
Ragng4ser  4                        6 FINANCE               Ed' Officer             Ad ln Officer
Proc Officer            Ago EDO                Age AO
Accountent                                     Clearance Of
Ago Acount
I~                                                                 st
uldto             Building          Buildfl 4          BuLldin8           BuLldln8
Superv  or        5upervlsor        Supervisor         Supervisor         Supervisor
Foreman                    Foreman           Foreman            Foreman
Artlsan 2                  Arti*  n 2        Artisan 2          Arti_n 2



- 96 -
AMNE 13
Page 1 of 11
STATISTICAL PROFILE OF THE SOMALI EDUCATION SYSTEM
This Annex provides the following selecteod statistical
information on the development of education in Somalia. More detailed
information on the education system can be found in the statistical annex
in project files.
Table 1I  Primary Education: Scbools, classes, enrollments and
teachers 1965-1988.
Table 2: Primary Education: Enrollments In Grade One 1973-1988
Table 3s Primary Education: Characteristics by Regions 1988
Table 4: Primary Education: Headmasters/Headmistresses by
Regions 1987 and 1988
Table 5s Primary Education: Projection of School Enrollments
1989 to 1998
Table 6: Secondary Educations Enrollments by Grade and percent
female 1973-1988
Table 7: MOEs Education Sector Units Services by Government
1971-1989
Table 8s  MOE: Number, grade level, and emoluments of MOE staff,
July 1989
Table 9: MOE: Number of Redundant staff by Regions
Table 10: MOE: Primary Teachers Quota for Admission to College
of Education



- 97 -                 ~~~~ANNEX 13
- 97-~                          Page 2-of 11
Table 1: Somalia: Primary Education - Schools. Classes
Enrollments and Teaches 1965-1988
ENROLMENTS      FEMALE S   TEACEERS
YEAR      SCHOOL   CLASS       MP           F                MF     F
1964165     625       1085     26659       5829      22    1175
1965166     301       1130     27138       7222      27    1535    160
1966167     272       1117     31676       7655      24    1211      74
1967/68     254       1094     33177       7769      23    1210      75
1968/ti9    239       1052     41062       7937      19    1186    119
1969170     292       1427     48609       9576      20    1542      92
1970/71     287       1510     50348      12091      24    1654    204
1971/72     310       1767     59846      14547      24    1946.  253
1972/73     243       2085     78133      20075      26    2454    263
1973174     276       2544     96930      27399      28    2842    287
1975/76     232       5148    219517      75526      34    4281    627
1976/77     785       5640    229030      81119      35    6540   1263
1977/78     786       5955    228544      83109      36    8392   2051
1978179     815       6859    263751      95200      36    8141   2070
1979/80     833       7219    271129      89943      33    8695   2509
1980/81     798       7330    271704      98053      36    8122   2365
1981/82     762       6890    239916      85856      36    8391   2524
1982/83               6660    218726      76711      35   10065   2956
1983/84     693       6715    220680      78997      36    9509   2991
1984184     680       6469    2093i5      72843      35   10239   4840
1985/86     670       6037    194335      66189      34    9676   4367
1986/87     633       5499     17180      58607      34    6951   2911
1987188     619       5020    158966      49835      31    6776   2538
Sources Ministry of Education Planning Unit, 1989



ANNEX 13
- 98 -                     Page3 of ll
Table 2: Semaliat Primary Educations Enrollemnt in Grade I
Grade One primary enrolment
Year              Total            Z7
1972173            21,002           29
1973174            24,333           34
1974175*              -             -
1975176           133,605           48
1976/77            68,256           40
1977/78            41,631           40
1978179            62,963           37
1979/80            48,272           37
1980/81            59,809           32
1981/82            47,507           33
1982/83            37,415           34
1983/84            42,840           37
1984/85            34,223           35
1985/86            33,077           35
1986/87            30,431           38
1987188            33,494           34
1988/89            32,300           33
Sources * Ministry of Education Planning Unit, 1989 figures.
*Schools were closed in 1974/75 to allow teachers and secondary
students to participate in the literacy campaigns.



ANNEX 13
-99                           Page 4 of 11
Table 3S Somalia - Primry Educations Characteristics
by Region 1988
Region             PuDil/School         PuplIl(Sem.          Puuilllnt.     Teacherj
Class                Class          Ca 8s
Awdal                   188                  28                   16           0.82
W/Galbeed               473                  38                   33          1.25
Togdheer                139                  31                   21          1.72
Sanaag                   73                  14                   16          0.90
Barl                     86                  17                   21          1.07
Sool                     82                  19                   14          0.89
Nugaal                   96                  22                   15          1.37
Mudug                    86                  18                   16          1.15
Gl/aduud                111                  33                   27          1.38
Hiiraan                 107                  22                   14          2.44
MIShabeele              122                  21                   19           0.92
Benaadir                910                  45                   22          1.74
L/Shabeele              204                  28                   20          1.06
Bay                     159                  28                   15          1.29
Bakool                  104                  19                   57          1.51
Gedo                    109                  74                   16          1.94
M/Jubba                  94                  19                   18          0.96
LlJubba                 163                  23                   18          1.29
Sources Ministry of Education Planning Unit, 1989



-100 -                           Page 5 of II
Table 4. Somlia. Primary Education
Headmaster/Mistresses bv Region 1987-88*
1986/87            1987/88
Name of Reuion          MF       F           MF       F
1.   Awdal                    21       -           15      -
2.   W/Galbeed                50       1           36      -
S.   Togdheer                 13       -          14       -
4.   Sanaag                   14       -          13       -
5.   Bari                     31       -          30       1
6.   Sool                      8      -            9       -
7.   Nugaal                    8       1           12      -
8.   Mudug                    11       -           10      -
9.   Galguduud                20       1          17       3
10.   Hiraan                   42       -           33      -
11.   M/Shabeelle              32       -          26       2
12.   Banaadir                 55       4           55     10
13.   L/Shabeelle              99       2           86      1
14.   Bay                      33       1           31      -
15.   Bakool                   10       3            8      2
16.   Gedo                     26       -           16      -
17.   M/Jubba                  32       -           20      -
18.   L/Jubba                  43       1           41      1
Total                  547      16          472      20
Sources Mlinistry of Education Planning Unit, 1989
*All schools does not have a designated Head.



.. -m- 
en o                                             Tabl- 6: Prolection ot PrtIary Educ tlen Schools Enrol lmt 19-199S
Year            Grade 1     Orode 2      Grade a     Orade 4      dred    6   crao d o 0    reGr      Or" 1  8     YU 9
low              886O0       80600        23824       17066        16002       15746        16702     16092        176060
1990             48660       88660        26616       21800        16695       16674        15468     1?964        194645
1991             47916       87026        81640       26766        2121        16380        15354     16647        212698
1992             52706       40729        84605       295;2        28606       20640        16974     1606         239669
1998             5T979       44d01        U8164       82510        28668       26876        20067     17189        264944
1994             6779        49262        41981       85a7l        81750       29175        2471      211U4        295SB4
19C6             7014        64210        46179       89887        84926       81006        27507     26014        829M35
1996             7769        69031        50797       48271        36416       84110        8028a     29154        662988
-4
1997      0148               694          6676        476 #    42260           87521        88S       82279         9987
199              9876        7218         6464        628          46466       41228        8644      8521         489224



ANNEX 13
-102 -                             Page 7 of 11
Tablo 6. Somallas Secondary Educatlons Knrolmant. by
Grad. & Percent Female. 1973-1988
Year     School
Grade    9     ZP      10  ZS    11       VF    12   2   Total
1972/73          2992    15   2444   14   2405    17   1617 15   9457 15
1973/74    42    3373    18   2623   17   2375    15   2119 17  10500 17
1974/75           -              -             -            -         -
1975/76    39    1827    14   3002   16   2025    13    192 15   7146 15
1976/77    48    6622    27   2104   15   2162    20   1778 23  12666 23
1977/78    48    6890    28   3174   22   2600    21   1514 25  14178 25
1978179    54    8857    25   6934   29   2661    22   2349 26  20801 26
1979/80    55   10701    29   7496   25   3878    25   2298 27  24273 27
1980/81    78   26452    29   9672   26   5604    34   3763 28  45491 28
1981/82   100   22699    32  23191   30   6982    28   4858 30  57730 30
1982/83   109   17776    39  22480   33  18071    30   6672 33  64999 33
1983/84   108   12873    33  17301   39  17962    30  16153 34  64289 39
1984/85   103    9032    22  12193   33  14292    30  16831 34  52346 35
198S/86   109   11451    33   9529   35  11125    32  14200 38  46305 35
1986/87   104   13916    36  10968   35   8122    32   9758 36  42764 35
1987/88   103    9786    31  12895   35   9118    31   8565 37  40368 34
Sources Ministry Oe Education, Plonning Department, 1989



-103 -                                 ANNEX 13
Page 8 of 11
Table 7: Somalia: Education Sector Unit
Services by Government
1071        1076       1o1         1906        1987        10W         10n0
Primary
Nu-br of schools               264         7S0         7t4         700         001         600          600
Number of students          60,164     219,517     271,704     196,490     171,080     160,000      176,000
Secondary
Number ofeschools                           46          76          62          II1          $I 
Number of student                       11,046      46,491      89,758      87,840       7.000       86,000
Vocationol/technic l
Number of schools                                     n.u.          26          22          20           20
Number of students                                   6,200       5,08S       4,100       4,500        8,500
Higher
Number of col lege/epus
Number of students             ne.s         n.0      1,600       5,400       0,000       7,000        7,500
**no university with S campuse for groups of facultioe
.a



- 104 -                    ANNES 13
Page 9 of 11
Table 8: Number, Grade Level and Emoluments of MOE Staff-July 1989
Number                                 Net Salary
of        Basic                         and
Grade    Qualifications    Staff        Salary       Allowances 11 Allowance
Allowunce
All                           1          6.035          7.371         10.650
A12                          10          5.174          2.576         6.155
Al3                          24          4.435          2.408         5.458
A14      University          34          4.287          2.374         5.319
Al5      Graduates           64          4.028          2.315         5.075
A16                         187          3.770          2.240         4.819
A/7                         335          3.546          2.146         4.571
A/8                         991          2.745          1.976         3.828
AY/1                         93          4.446          2.408         5.459
AYl2     Technical          114          3.770          2.240         4.819
AYl3     Teachers           361          3.546          2.144         4.571
B/7      Secondary          307          3.770          1.240         4.018
B/8      Graduates or       494          3.546          1.144         3.770
B/9      Equivalents       1897          2.745            876         2.947
B110                       8136          2.195            524         2.248
C/8      Completed           73          3.546            744         3.450
C/9      Primary             56          2.745            576         2.786
Clio     Education           62          2.195            445         2.184
D/12                        222          1.617            315          1.639
D113                        167          1.347            262          1.392
D/14     Sipporting         337          1.108            216         1.159
Staff with
FI1      different           94          3.770            940         3.777
FI2      skill levels        88          3.546            844         3.530
F/3                         174          2.745            676         2.786
XI1                         358          3.546            844         3.530
Xl2                         206          2.745            676         2.787
X13                         256          1.191            545         2.263
15140
11 Including deductions for pensions and other benefits.
Source: Director of Administration, Ministry of Education



ANNEX 13
- 105 -                      Page 10 of 11
Table 9s SomaliUt Number of Redundant Staff
of Ministry of Education by Resions
4      REGIONS                   GRADE-A   GRADE B  SUP.STAFF         TOTAL
SECONDARY PRIMARY
TEACHERS  TEACHERS
---------------------------------------------------------------------------_
AVDAL                       9          18          2             29
VAQOOYI GALBEED            65          87          9            161
TOGHEER                     5          30          5             40
SANAAG                      4          30          4            38
BARI                        8         125          5            138
SOOL                        1          16          1            18
NUGAAL                     10          33          7             50
MUDUG                       5          26          6             37
GALGADUUD                   8          59          6             73
HIIRAAN                     8         143          7            158
S3IDHEXE                   19         235         20            274
BAY                         3         113          2            118
BAROOL                      1          38          3             4?
GEDO                        4          39          4             47
JIHOOSE                    21         245         19            285
JUSBADA DHEXE               9          80         14            103
SHABEELAHA HOOSE            6         112          8            126
GALBEEKDA XAMAR            51         371         36            458
WAQOOYIGA XAMAR             1           6          1              8
BARIGA XAMAR                4          36          3             43
BARTAMABA XAMAR            16          84          3            103
ERASNADDA DHEXE            70         160         40            270
WAXB.HAVEENKA 7 A.DI.       2          15          4             21
kULL.FARS. 7 LAPOOLE        3          48          4             55
MACHADRA C. FARSAMADA      14           1          6             21
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
347        2150        219          2716
Note: Number of staff to be phased out from Western Zone of Mogadishu
is in process; target is phasing out of 400 to 500 redundant staff
every 3 months.
Sources Ministry of Education, March 16, 1989.



- 106 -                          ANNEX 13
Page 11 of 11
Somalia
Table 10: Teachers quota for Admission to College of Education
P.T.T.I      In The  Field   Total in           lafoole
Muqdisho       1986 Out Put    Feild               202
1988/89          _            196               196               -
1989/90          -            196               196               -
1990/91        150            157               307               39
1991/92        150            126               426              31
1992/93        150            101               521               55
1993/94        150             81               597               74
1994/95        150             65               658            -89
1995/96        150             52               707             101
1996/97        150             42               747              110
1997/98        150             34               779              118



- 107 -
ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 3
SOMALIA
EDUCATION REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected List of Documents in Proiect Files
A. Documents Related to the Protect
'Somalia: Textbooks: development, production and distribution, Working
Paper, March 1989.
*Somalia: National Examinations' Working Paper, March 1989.
,Somalias Improving School Management' Working Paper, March 1989.
*Somaliat Upgrading Primary School Inspection" Working Paper, March
1989.
"Somalia: Planning and Management of the Education Sector" Working
Paper, March 1989.
'Somalia: Upgrading Primary School Teachers" Working Paper, March
1989.
*Somalia: Primary Educations Projection of Enrollment and Teacher
Needs' Working Paper, March 1989.
'Somalia: The Rehabilitation and Development of the Physical
Environment of Primary Schools' Working Paper, February 1989.
'Somalia: Project Management for Education Rehabilitation Project'
Working Paper, June 1989.
Textbooks: Requirement of numbers and packages by grade, schools,
district and regions' working note, prepared by Ministry of Education,
June 1989.
List of textbooks and teacher guides to be provided for primary
education prepared by Ministry of Education, June 1989.
B. Preparation Doc.uments Related to the Proiect
'Community Support Survey: Lower Shebelle, Bay and Gedo regions'
prepared by MOE, January 1989.
'School Mapping Survey: Lower Shebelle, Bay and Gedo regions' Volume I
and II prepared by HOE, January 1989.



- 108 -
ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 3
*Textbook preparation, printing, storage and distribution for primary
schools in Bay, Gedo and Lower Shebelle regions' prepared by MOE,
January 1989.
'School Health Unit' prepared by MOE, January 1989.
Reforms and development of the schools examinations system in
Somalia' Report by UNDPIIDA consultant, October 1988.
'Community Support for the Project Activities' a note prepared by Bank
staff, September 1988.
'Education Rehabilitation in Somalia: The role of the community' a
note prepared by UNICEF, April 1989.
'Institutional Analysis of the Institute of Women's Education' report
by UNDPIIDA consultants, October 1988.
'Analysis of School Inspection, Supervision a-ad Management' report by
UNDP/IDA consultant, October 1988.
'Inservice training of Primary School Teachers' report by UNDPIIDA
consultant, October 1988.
'Textbooks development and distributiono report by UNDPIIDA
consultant, October 1988
C. Documents Related to the Sector
1. Somali Democratic Republic
Ministry of Education and Culture,
-  *School Drop-out Assessment in Lower Shebelle Region.' 1985.
-  'Report on the Survey of Educational Wastage, Northwest and
Awdal Regions.' 1986.
-  'Strategy and Organization Framework of Women's Education
Department.' 1986.
-  'Ten Years of Women's Education in Somalia, 1975-1985.' 1985.
2. IE$S (Improving the Efficiency of Educational Systems) Project, USAID
(Florida State University, Howard University, Institute for International
Research, State University of New York at Albany):
-  'Somalia: Education and Human Resources Sector Assessment."
January 1984.
-  'Somali Civil Service Study.' July 1982.
-  'Enhancement of School Quality in Somalia." August 1985.
-  'The Distribution of Instructional Materials in Somalia."
(Messec and Berger), August 1986 (Draft).



- 109 -
ANNEX 14
Page 3 of 3
- 'An Integrated Strategy for Improving Primary Education in
Somalia.* 1987
- 'Improving the Efficiency of Educational Systems" Feb. 1989
3. United Nations Agencies:
ILO/JASPA (Jobs and Skills Programme for Africa), "Youth Employment
and Youth Employment Programmes in Africa, A Comparative Sub-Regional
Study: The Case of Somalia., Addis, Ababa, 1986.
ILO/JASPA, 'Generating Employment and Incomes in Somalia.' Addis
Ababa, March 1988.
UNESCO (EFD), 'The Needs for Assistance to Primary Education in
Somalia.' Paris, March 1988.
UNICEF. 'Women and Children in Somalia: A Situation Analysis.' 1987.
UNHCR, *Somalia: A Review of the Education Sector." TSS Mission
Report 51188, 11 October - 6 November, 1988, Geneva.
UNESCO, 'Feasibility Study on Low-cost Educational Buildings and
Furniture." Paris, December 1984.
4. World Bank RePorts:
'Somalia: Primary Education Identification and Pre-Preparation
Mission.' (H.E. Perrett) November 1987.
5. Other
Commonwealth Secretariate, 'Manual on Personnel Records & Management
in Education." Draft, June 1988.
GTZ. 'Assessment and Development of Technical Education and Vocational
Training in the Somali Democratic Republic," September 1984.



161RP 21789R
P .DR. OF YFMFN
_ ,,4'     /    DIIBOU I
{ ~~~~~~~~~~~~r ~~~~~~(;uf(f Adc-n 1
<  -gr-S-~~~L)IBU  I'
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~IOF
 \ v ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ANAA                                                             BARI 
D  xLBEED
SOMAI A    <   TGDHEER(                             
EDUCATION                                                SOOL
REHABILITATION
PROJECT                                                            GA
PnoIect Rawgon                                      /_ 
(IDA F..nddl/
l~' Pro1irot Raegiom                               /
Li a (UNCDf  F..ndrd/
@    Natonal apitas          @^/            MUDUG        /
KENYA~N
la)       ~~~~0 0ag
GE O                SAYn                             / IDDL/
VW 19                             SHEBELLE~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~for,.y19
tToundarsc ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~    SH ,   /   |     2
JUB .       i ,   BKO                   IRN 
eo 5_ 8 0~~OWE  SHEBELLE o5 0 !Ot 'OM
LOWER                                      7                                    tTHIOPI 
J. UBA           /-                                                                     
tnetwruay 1990



