늬


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2111 SO
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated     W/1      1       7 1990, between SOMALI
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
,B) the Association has received letters dated November 15,
1989, and November 25, 1989, (the Policy Letters) from the
Borrower describing a program of action, objectives and policies
designed to achieve structural adjustment of the Borrower's
education sector (the Program) and declaring the Borrower's
commitment to the executing of the Program;
(C) the Borrower intends to obtain from the United Nations
Capital Development Fund (UNCDF) a grant (the UNCDF Grant) in an
amount equivalent to approximately three million two hundred
thousand dollars ($3,200,000) to assist in financing part of the
Project on the terms ard conditions set forth in an agreement (the
UNCDF Grant Agreement) to be entered into between the Borrower and
UNCDF; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications thereof set forth below (the General Condi-
tions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
(a)   Section 9.06 (c) shall be modified by adding the
following at the end of such Section:


﻿-2-
"Not later than six months after the Closing Date
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose
between the Borrower and the Association, the Borrower
shall prepare and furnish to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall reasonably request, on the execution of the
Program referred to in the Preamble to the Development
Credit Agreement."; and
(b) the last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(b) "MOE" means the Borrower's Ministry of Education and
Culture;
(c) "NEB" means the Hational Examination Board;
(d) "PED" means the Primary Education Department within MOE;
(e) 1"PMU" means the Project Management Unit established
within MOE in accordance with Section 6.01 (a) of this Agreement
and paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
(f) "CEA" means, with respect to any school, the Community
Education Association for such school registered with MOE in
accordance with the Borrower's Administrative Circular Number
110/7/602 of February 25, 1990; and
(g) "SMTU" means the School Management Training Unit within
MOE.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the


﻿- 3 -
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to nineteen million seven hundred thousand Special
Drawing Rights (SDR 19,700,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special account in the Central Bank
of Somalia or in such other bank acceptable to the Asscciation on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1998,
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not with-
drawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association as
of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b) The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date
and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter
pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in
each year shall be applied from the next date in that year speci-
fied in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c) The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in


﻿-4-
such other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to
time be designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that
Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 15 and September 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semi-annual installments payable on each March 15 and September 15
commencing September 15, 2000, and ending March 15, 2030. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on March 15,
2010, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
(b) Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's
economy, modify the terms of repayment of installments under para-
graph (a) above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the
amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by
the Borrower, the Association may revise such modification to
include, in lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of
such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the
judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change the
grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modifi-
cation.
(c) If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the


﻿-5-
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through
MOE with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate educational, financial and engineering practices, and
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 4
to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange views
on the progress achieved in carrying out the Program.
(b) Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association for its review and comment a report on
the progress achieved in carrying out the Program, in such detail
and at such time as the Association shall reasonably request.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Finanicial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
(b) The Borrower shall:
(i) have the records and accounts referred to in para-
graph (a) of this Section including those for the
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association, as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, a certified copy of the
report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall
have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and the audit
thereof s the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i) maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance
with paragraph (a) of this Section, records and
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii) retain, until at least one year after the Associa-
tion has received the audit for the fiscal year in
which the last withdrawal from the Credit Account
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing
such expenditures;


﻿- 7 -
(iii) enable the Association's representatives to examine
such records; and
(iv) ensure that such records and accounts are included
in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
this Section and that the report of such audit
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to
whether the statements of expenditure submitted
during such fiscal year, together with the proce-
dures and internal controls involved in their pre-
paration, can be relied upon to support the related
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a) A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried
out.
(b) The Borrower has made changes in the Education Sector
Financing Plan for the period 1990-1994 (attached to the Policy
Letter dated November 25, 1989) without consultation with, and
concurrence of, the Association.
(c) The Borrower has failed to make budgetary allocations
satisfactory to the Association for the education sector in any
given year beginning with fiscal year 1990 or has failed to
authorize the use of such funds.
(d) The UNCDF Grant Agreement shall have failed to become
effective by September 30, 1990, or such later date as the
Association may agree; provided, however, that the provisions of
this paragraph shall not apply if the Borrower establishes to the
satisfaction of the Association that adequate funds for the
Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on terms
and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
(e) (i) Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph, the
right of the Borrower to withdraw the proceeds of


﻿-8-
any grant or loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project shall have been suspended,
cancelled or terminated in whole or in part, pur-
suant to the terms of the agreement providing
therefor.
(ii) Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply
if the Borrower establishes to the satisfaction of
the Association that (A) such suspension,
cancellation or termination is not caused by the
failure of the Borrower to perform any of its
obligations under such agreement, and (B) adequate
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower
from other sources on terms and conditions
consistent with the obligations of the Borrower
under this Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional event is specified, namely
that any event specified in Section 5.01 (e) (i) of this Agreement
shall occur with respect to any loan made to the Borrower for the
financing of the Project unless the requirements set forth in
Section 5.01 (e) (ii) of this Agreement are satisfied in respect
thereof.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a) that the Borrower shall have established PMU within MOE
and appointed the Director of PMU, with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association, and that the Director
shall have taken up his or her position; and
(b) that the Borrower shall have appointed the advisor for
the monitoring and evaluation unit (as described in paragraph 9
(c)(i) of Schedule 4 to this Agreement), with qualifications and
experience acceptable to the Association, and that the advisor
shall have taken up his or her position in MOE.


﻿-9-
Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of the Borrower at the time
responsible for finance is designated as representative of the
Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minister of Finance and Revenue
Government of the Somali Democratic Republic
Mogadishu
Somalia
Cable address:                     Telex:
MINFIN                          3612 MINFIN
Mogadishu                       Mogadishu
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                     Telex:
INDEVAS                          197688 (TRT)
Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA)
64145 (WUI) or
82987 (FTCC)


﻿- 10 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
SOMALI DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
By              192    04t'09"
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By       &~z6                '
Regional Vice President
Africa


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1) Civil works                5,200,000        90%
(2) Instructional              4,450,000        100% of foreign
materials,                                 expenditures and
equipment and                              90% of local
furniture                                  expenditures
(3) Vehicles                     450,000        100% of foreign
expenditures and
90% of local
expenditures
(4) Consultants'               1,510,000        100%
Services
(5) Training                   2,650,000        100%
(6) Incremental                  830,000        100% to Decem-
Operating                                  ber 31, 1991,
Costs                                      80% from
January 1, 1992
to December 31,
1993, 50% from
January 1, 1994
to December 31,
1995, and 30%
from January 1,
1996 and there-
after


﻿- 12 -
Amount of the
Credit Allocated           % of
(Expressed in         Expenditures
Cateory             SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(7) Project Manage-              230,000        90% of local
ment Costs                                 expenditures
(8) Monitoring and               530,000        100%
Evaluation
(9) Unallocated                3,850,000
TOTAL
19,700,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
(c) the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means costs
associated with maintenance of buildings and equipment, and
operation and repairing of vehicles, over and above what these
costs would have been without the Project; and
(d) the term "Project Management Costs" means costs
associated with the management of the Project, including
allowances for local staff.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of payments made for expen-
ditures: (a) prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of SDR 100,000 may be made on account of payments made for
expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1990; and


﻿- 13 -
(b) under Category (1) for rehabilitation of any school unless
(i) that particular school has an established CEA recognized by
MOE; and (ii) the Borrower has provided evidence, satisfactory to
the Association, showing that the Education Facilities Section of
MOE is operational and has adequate resources.


﻿- 14 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to restructure and
revitalize the education system as a whole; and (ii) to improve
primary school enrollment, the quality of teaching, and the
overall management of the sector, all in accordance with the
Program.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Primary School Teachers
1.   Development and use of in-service training programs to
improve the professional competence of primary school teachers.
2.   Local and overseas training of teacher training tutors.
3.   Training of about 1500 primary school teachers in academic
and teaching skills.
4.   Carrying out workshops for curriculum specialists, head-
masters, and secondary school teachers.
5.   Provision of vehicles and teaching materials.
Part B:   Textbooks
1.   Production, printing, storage and distribution to schools of
about 1.6 million textbooks and 100,000 teachers' guides, and
acquisition of other school supplies.
2.   Strengthening the Curriculum Development Center's (CDC)
capacity to prepare textbooks and manuscripts through:
(a) training of CDC staff in manuscript preparation; and
(b) the provision of equipment, paper, and vehicles.
Part C:   School Buildings
1.   Rehabilitation of classrooms, offices and warehouses.


﻿- 15 -
2.   Construction of about 700 new classrooms, about 120 houses
for headmasters and about 15 houses for teachers, as well as of
offices, stores, warehouses, water supply systems, latrine blocks
and other related buildings.
3.   Strengthening the capacity of the Schools Building Unit and
the Education Facilities Section of MOE to carry out rehabilita-
tion and construction work through training of their staff and the
provision of materials and vehicles.
4.   Provision of furniture and equipment for schools.
Part D:   Institutional Development
1.   Strengthening MOE's capacity to collect and analyze
statistical data through training of its staff and the provision
of computer equipment.
2.   Developing programs for computer application in education
planning, including training of MOE's staff and the provision of
computer equipment, vehicles and photocopying equipment.
3.   Carrying out: (a) a census of MOE staff; (b) studies for
MOE on (i) personnel management, (ii) financial management, and
(iii) organizational procedures and operations; and (c) eval-
uations of the Project's impact.
4.   Strengthening MOE's capacity in financial and personnel
management through training of personnel officers, financial
administrators, accountants and storekeepers.
5.   Strengthening PED of MOE through: (a) establishment of
Community Education Services; (b) training programs in school
management for headmasters, assistant headmasters and other staff;
and (c) the provision of calculators, radio receivers,
typewriters, photocopying equipment and vehicles.
6.   Strengthening MOE's capacity in school inspection through:
(a) training of school inspectors; and (b) provision of vehicles
and other equipment, office furniture and other supplies.


﻿- 16 -
7.   Strengthening NEB through: (a) training of its staff,
including organizing workshops; and (b) provision of computer
equipment, vehicles and office supplies.
T  P        *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1997.


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD
Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in May 1985 (the
Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for works shall be prequalified as provided in para-
graph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, the Borrower may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Civil works may be procured under contracts awarded on the
basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in accordance
with procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $250,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally,
in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
3.   Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $20,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained
from at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 18 -
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Part A.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraph 1 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts with respect to each contract :
(a) for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more, and goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
$100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract; and
(b) not governed by the preceding paragraph, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out
of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified to
ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract together with
the other information required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association
as part of the evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for the purpose of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be satis-
factory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the


﻿- 19 -
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
Proiect Management and Coordination
1.   The Borrower shall, not later than December 31, 1990, appoint
to PMU, to be established within MOE, staff in numbers and under
terms of reference acceptable to the Association. PMU shall:
(a) coordinate and monitor all educational activities under
the Project;
(b) be responsible for the procurement and distribution of
textbooks;
(c) be responsible for the overall physical rehabilitation
and school construction program;
(d) prepare annual work programs for each MOE department
carrying out the Project;
(e) submit the annual work program to the joint MOE/Associa-
tion annual review referred to in paragraph 9 below;
(f) be responsible for the recruitment of consultants; and
(g) select, in collaboration with other departments of MOE,
candidates for fellowships and prepare training programs under the
Project.
Part A of the Project - Primary School Teachers
2.   In order to maintain an adequate number of teachers at all
time.s the Borrower shall maintain the capacity for pre-service
primary teacher training at current levels and shall not expand
such training programs without prior consultation with the Asso-
ciation.
3.   In order to improve the quality of teachers, the Borrower
shall:
(a) not later than September 30, 1990, establish, to the
satisfaction of the Association, the following: (i) training
programs for primary school teachers to obtain secondary school


﻿- 21 -
teaching qualifications; (ii) procedures for admission of primary
school teachers into the Lafole College of Education; and (iii)
pre-service primary school teacher training programs; and
(b) not later than July 1, 1991, implement a career
incentive package for teachers who successfully complete the four
phases of in-service training. The incentive package, shall
include (i) the award of a Diploma of Primary Teiching, (ii) a
one-step promotion in the civil service grade, and (iii) a monthly
professional allowance of 1000 Somali Shillings in constant 1989
Shillings, to be received so long as the teacher remains a primary
school teacher.
4.   In order to improve the quality of headmasters, the Borrower
shall, not later than July 1, 1992: (i) train headmasters in
school administration and management and other related fields; and
(ii) require completion of an approved headmaster training program
covering these fields as a condition for appointment to the
position of headmaster or assistant headmaster in primary schools.
Part B of the Project - Textbooks - Pilot Cost Recovery Scheme
5.   (a) The Borrower shall implement by July 1, 1993, a pilot
cost recovery scheme for textbooks distributed for academic year
1993-1994 in the Benadir Region. Under the scheme, each student in
the Benadir Region shall be required to pay a user's fee for each
assigned textbook, and the fees will be used to finance future
needs, such as procuring additional textbooks.
(b) At the end of the year, the cost recovery scheme will be
evaluated for possible implementation in other parts of the
country.
(c) The results of the evaluation shall be reviewed by the
Association during the joint annual review referred to in para-
graph 9 below.
Part C of the Project - School Buildings
6.   To assist the Borrower in carrying out Part C of the Project,
the Borrower shall establish an Education Facilities Section (EFS)


﻿- 22 -
within MOE with staffing and under terms of reference acceptable
to the Association. The EFS shall:
(a) conduct school surveys to update information on physical
condition of schools and determine requirements for repairs and
maintenance;
(b) prepare annual work programs for construction and
rehabilitation of schools;
(c) evaluate local building materials and construction
designs for their suitability to local conditions and to community
contribution;
(d) establish norms and standards for construction,
rehabilitation and maintenance of schools;
(e) implement the annual school construction and rehabilita-
tion program; and
(f) monitor and evaluate all school rehabilitation
activities.
7.   Before MOE undertakes any construction or rehabilitation work
for any school, MOE shall enter into an agreement with the
relevant CEA providing, inter alia, for the participation of, and
the specific contribution to be made by, the community in the con-
struction/rehabilitation of the school.
Examinations
8.   In order to improve the quality and effectiveness of exami-
nations under Part D.7 of the Project, the Borrower shall trans-
form the Schools Examination Board into a National Examination
Board (NEB) with staffing and organizational structure acceptable
to the Association. MOE will provide NEB with its own budget. NEB
shall:
(a) formulate policies relating to examinations;
(b) select members of the examination panel; and
(c) evaluate standards and procedures for examinations.


﻿- 23 -
Joint Annual Review of the Program
9.   (a) MOE and the Association shall jointly review progress in
the implementation of the Program and the Project not later than
November 30 of each year. MOE shall thereafter implement the
recommendations of such reviews for the proper implementation of
the Program and the Project.
(b) For the purpose of -the review, the Borrower shall, not
later than November 30 of each fiscal year submit to the
Association: (i) the education budget proposal for the following
fiscal year; (ii) a statement of actual expenditures on the
education sector for the partially completed current fiscal year;
and (iii) a statement of actual expenditures on the education
sector for the previous fiscal year.
(c) In order to assist MOE to carry out the annual review
referred to in paragraph (a) above, the Borrower shall, not later
than September 30, 1990: (i) establish a monitoring and evaluation
unit within the office of the Minister of MOE (to be headed by an
advisor to the Minister of MOE) with terms of reference acceptable
to the Association; and (ii) appoint two short-term consultants
with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association.


﻿- 24 -
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (8), inclusive, set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b) the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
(c) the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of
this Schedule, provided that no payment in excess of $20,000 shall
be made out of the Special Account for any item without the
consent of the Association.
3.   Subject to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, after the
Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a) For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount
of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
draw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)  (i) For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association requests
for deposits into the Special Account -       such
intervals as the Association shall specify.


﻿- 25 -
(ii) Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the docu-
ments and other evidence required pursuant to para-
graph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or pay-
meits in respect of which replenishment is
requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower,
withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into
the Special Account such amount as the Borrower
shall have requested and as shall have been shown
by said documents and other evidence to have been
paid out of the Special Account for eligible expen-
ditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be reauired to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a) if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance Aith the provisions
of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
(b) once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any out-
standing special commitment entered into by the Association pur-
suant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall


﻿- 26 -
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized
in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon
notice from the Association (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the
Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the
Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the
Association into the Special Account shall be made until the
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
(b) If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c) The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in
the Special Account.
(d) Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accor-
dance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including
the General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


