Report No. PID6892
Project Name                     Korea-Economic Reconstruction Loan
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Financial Adjustment
Project ID                       KRPE55992
Borrower                         Republic of Korea
Implementing Agency              World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax: (202) 522-1500
Date PID Prepared                May 3, 1998
Board Date                       December 23, 1997
Background
1.      Country and Sector Background
The Korean economy has demonstrated strong performance for more than three
decades. Since the mid-1960's, the country's gross domestic product (GDP) has
grown at an average of 8.2 percent annually. Between 1991 and 1995, the
economy expanded at about 7.5 percent per annum, unemployment was kept at less
than 2.5 percent, and the current account deficits were in the 1 to 2 percent
of GDP range. Throughout this period the government budget was in surplus in
all but two years and inflation remained in the single digit range.
However, this favorable performance masked weaknesses. Although government
intervention enabled Korea to grow rapidly over the last decades and become an
advanced industrial economy, it also preserved a protected and inefficient
financial sector as well as a highly leveraged and concentrated corporate
sector. Beginning in the early 1990s, Korea's export performance also came
under intense competition in the labor intensive sectors. Korea responded by
relocating production to ASEAN countries and China and by investing heavily in
technology-intensive sectors. Thus, in recent years, Korea has invested
heavily in a narrow spectrum of "strategic" export industries, such as
automobiles and electronics, making it vulnerable to demand and price changes
in a few industries. In 1996, a severe cyclical downturn hit the electronics
sector, and this, combined with the slowdown in other export lines, dealt a
significant terms of trade blow to Korea's economy. As a result, the current
account deficit more than doubled to 5 percent of GDP.
With the eruption of the financial crisis in Thailand, attention focused on
some of the underlying weaknesses of the East Asian economies, and in October
1997 Korea also became the victim of regional contagion. It lost market
confidence and was no longer able to attract sufficient amounts of new credits
and roll over its existing obligations. On November 19, 1997, the Government
formally approached the International Monetary Fund for assistance.
2.      Objectives
The loan provides balance of payments assistance to Korea in implementing a
program of financial and real sector reforms. The financing of the loan and
its reform program would help Korea overcome its immediate liquidity problems,



restore investor confidence and assist in the resolution of fundamental
problems in the real and financial sector.
3.      Description
The package supported by the loan consists of satisfactory macroeconomic
management, remedial actions related to the suspension of merchant banks,
recapitalization of impaired commercial banks, improvements in the operations
of Korea Asset management Corporation and the creation of a consolidated
independent supervisory agency. The program also lays out an agreed agenda for
broader financial and real sector reforms in the coming months. The loan
complements the stabilization program supported by the International Monetary
Fund.
4.      Financing
The loan is a single-tranche operation of US$ 3 billion. It is a single
currency loan in US dollars for 10 years, including 5 years' grace, at an
interest rate of 6-month US dollar LIBOR (reset semiannually) plus 1 percent.
The service charge is as follows: 2 percent of the principal amount of the
loan, payable on effectiveness (to be financed out of the loan and amortized),
1 percent of the principal amount of the loan, payable one year after the
Effective date, and 1/2 of 1 percent of the principal amount of the loan,
payable two years after the Effective date.
5.      Implementation
Korea has a strong track record in the implementation of its undertakings with
the Bank. Implementation of the on-going portfolio of nine investment projects
is consistently rated as either satisfactory or highly satisfactory. Although
this is a single tranche operation, the dialogue with Korea on follow-up
operations will provide the occasion to monitor progress on the implementation
of this loan.
6.      Sustainability
The past 30 years have built a fundamentally strong economy with enormous
physical capital resources, human resources and technological capacity, If new
reforms can reconstruct the basis for allocating capital and opening markets
to new competition, the country has the potential to rebound quickly.
7.      Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
Korea has a strong track record in the implementation of its undertakings with
the Bank.
8.      Poverty Category
N.A.
9.      Environmental Aspects
N.A.
10.     Program Objective Categories
Structural reform.
11.     Contact Point:           The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
-2 -



Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending October 2, 1998.
- 3 -



