                                     Documentof
                               The World Bank

                           FOR OFFICIALUSE ONLY




                                                         Report No. P-7214-KO




                       REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION

                                      OF THE

                               PRESIDENT OF THE


      INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT


                                      TO THE


                            EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS

                                        ON A

                                PROPOSED LOAN


                          TO THE REPUBLIC OF KOREA


                                        FOR

                         ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION




                                 December 19, 1997



This documenthas a restricteddistributionand maybe used by recipientsonly in the
performanceof theirofficialduties. Its contentsmaynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout
WorldBankauthorization.

                           CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                             (As of December 18, 1997)

                           Currency Unit = Won (W)
                           $1.00          = W 1,485
                           W 1.00         = $0.0007


                                ABBREVIATIONS

BIS      -   Bank for International Settlements
BOK      -   Bank of Korea
Chaebols -   Conglomerates
EIS      -   Employment Insurance System
ERL      -   Economic Reconstruction Loan
FTA      -   Fair Trade Act
FTC      -   Fair Trade Commission
GDP      -   Gross Domestic Product
GOK      -   Government of Korea
IMF      -   International Monetary Fund
KDIC     -   Korean Deposit Insurance Corporation
KFTC     -   Korean Fair Trade Commission
LDP      -   Letter of Development Policy
KAMC     -  Korean Asset Management Company
M&A      -  Merger and Acquisition
MOFE     -   Ministry of Finance and Economy
SCL      -   Single Currency Loan




        Vice President:            Jean-Michel Severino, EAP
        Sector Manager (Acting): Pieter Bottelier, EASPR
        Task Manager:              Danny Leipziger, Division Chief, EDIRP

                                                                                      FOROFFICIALUSEONLY


                                               CONTENTS

  Loan And Program Summary .......................................................                           iii

  1. BACKGROUND: VULNERABILITIES TO CONTAGION....................................1

  2. THE KOREAN ECONOMY: STRUCTURAL ISSUES...........................................3

  3. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS........................................................                              5

  4. THE CURRENT FINANCIAL CRISIS........................................................                     6

  5. THE MEDIUM-TERM RESTRUCTURINGFRAMEWORK.............................. 12
          A. Policy Framework for the ERL and StructuralAdjustment Loan
             Programs.......................................................                                 13
          B. The Financial Sector and Capital Markets....................................................... 14
          C. Corporate Governance.......................................................                     19
          D. Competition Law and Policy.......................................................              21
          E. Labor Markets and Social Protection.......................................................     23

  6. THE LOAN.......................................................                                        24
          A. Loan Administration.......................................................                     25
          B. Benefits and Risks.......................................................                      25

  7. RECOMMENDATION.......................................................                                  26


  APPENDIXES

  Appendix 1:Policy Matrix.......................................................                           27
  Appendix 2: Letter of Development Policy.......................................................            30
  Appendix 3: Statistics.......................................................                              44
  Appendix 4: Status of Bank Group Operations in Korea...................................................50
  Appendix 5: Korea at a Glance.......................................................                       52
  Appendix 6: Loan Amount, Terms and Conditions (to be circulated 12/22/97)...............54




  This loan was prepared by a team led by Danny Leipziger(mission leader), Laura Ard (financial
  restructuring), Hoon Mok Chung (Senior Advisor); Leila Cruz (administration), Wei Ding
  (macroeconomics),CliffordGarstang(legal), ShyamKhemani(competitionpolicy), Nicholas Prescott
  (labormarkets/safetynets),HemantShah(fnancial sectorpolicy),DouglasWebb(corporategovernance),
  JanWright(financialproducts),andShahidYusuf(economicadvisor).


This documenthas a restricteddistributionand may be used by recipientsonly in the
performanceof theirofficialduties. Itscontentsmaynot otherwisebe disclosedwithout
WorldBankauthorization.


                                  - iii-




                                 KOREA

            ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTION LOAN

                  LOANANDPROGRAMSUMMARY

Borrower:        RepublicofKorea.

Amountandterms: As specifiedin Appendix6 (to be circulatedon December22,
                  1997).

Description:     Theproposedloanwouldprovidebalanceof paymentsassistance
                 to Koreain implementinga programof financialand real sector
                 reforms.The loan supportsgovernmentefforts to deal with the
                 immediateliquiditycrisisas well as supportto the governnent's
                 medium-termreform program. For the immediate future, the
                 package consists of satisfactory macroeconomicmanagement,
                 remedial actions related to the suspensionof merchant banks,
                 recapitalizationof impairedcommercialbanks, improvementsin
                 the operationsof the Korea Asset ManagementCorporation,and
                 the creation of a consolidatedindependentsupervisoryagency.
                 While promoting steps to immediately improve financial
                  competitionand disclosure,the programalso lays out an agreed
                  agendaforbroaderfinancialand realsectorreformsin the coming
                  months, focusingon (a) financialregulationand supervisionof
                  capitalmarkets,(b)corporategovernance,(c)competitionpolicies,
                  and (d)labormarketadjustmentsandsocialsectorsafetynets.The
                  loan complementsthe stabilizationprogram supported by the
                  InternationalMonetaryFund. The Government'scommitmentto
                  the reformprogramsupportedbythe loanis setoutinthe Letterof
                  DevelopmentPolicy(Appendix2).

Benefitsandrisks: The financingof the loan and its reform program would help
                  Koreaovercomeits immediateliquidityproblems,restoreinvestor
                  confidenceand assistin theresolutionof fundamentalproblemsin
                  the financial and real sectors. In helping to prevent a further
                  erosionof confidence,the loanwilllimitincomeand employment
                  lossesand minimizeadverseeffectsonthe internationalfinancial
                  system.Thereformprogramwillprovidethe basisforan eventual
                  returnto highgrowth.

                  The primaryrisk of the Loan is that despite a large and timely
                  infusionof foreigncapital,the country'sabilityto roll over short-
                  term externaldebtcontinuesto be impaired.Evenif Koreais able
                  to maintainits payments,the situationin early 1998will continue

                                     -iv -


                   to be precarious until market confidence is restored. The Bank
                   intends to mitigate these risks to the extent possible by working
                   closely with the International Monetary Fund, the Asian
                   Development Bank, and Korea's other external partners. Adequate
                   frontloading of the $57 billion assistance program and support
                   from major OECD countries should help mitigate this risk. The
                   Bank's status as a preferred creditor also mitigates this risk.

                   Another risk is that Korea might be unable to satisfactorily follow
                   up its reform commitmnentsin January/February. This could be
                   because the administrative changeover delays reforms or because
                   domestic political opposition unravels today's consensus. It is also
                   possible that a positive market response generates short-term
                   success, and this mitigates the urgency of reform, derailing the
                   long-term structural adjustment loan program. In any of these
                   situations, only a firm government commitment can overcome
                   these obstacles. The Letter of Development Policy was shown to
                  the President-elect, and we have received assurances that this
                   agenda reform provides a sound basis for future adjustment
                   operations. In light of its excellent performance in executing past
                   agreements with the Bank and its high credit rating, these
                   assurances mitigate policy risks.

Poverty Category: N.A.

Estimated          The loan would be disbursed in a single tranche upon
Disbursements:     effectiveness.

Project ID Number: KR-PE-55992.

                                           KOREA

                    ECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTIONLOAN

1.      The proposed loan is an Economic Reconstruction Loan in support of the Republic of
Korea's rapid initiation of a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to achieve
economic reconstruction through long-term stabilization of the Korean economy.' The loan is a
single-tranche, fast-disbursing operation that is expected to be followed by one or more structural
adjustment loans linked to Korea's progress in implementing a broad program of reforms.

2.      The loan represents a resumption of Bank lending to Korea. Korea graduated from Bank
borrowing with the approval of the last investment lending in December 1994. There are no legal
or policy impediments to the resumption of lending.2


        1.BACKGROUND:VULNERABILITIESTO CONTAGION

3.      The performance of Korea's economy has been remarkable for more than three decades.
Its manufacturing development, export growth, macro stability and poverty reduction has been
the envy of other countries. Since the mid-1960s, the country's gross domestic product (GDP)
has grown at an average rate of 8.2 percent annually and per capita incomes exceeded $10,500 in
1996.3 Between 1991 and 1995, the economy expanded at about 7.5 percent a year.
Unemployment was kept at less than 2.5 percent and the current account deficits were in the 1 to
2 percent of GDP range. Throughout this period, the budget was in surplus in all but two years
and inflation remained in the single-digit range. As of year-end 1995, Korea's external debt was
$78 billion and the debt-GDP ratio was a comfortable 17 percent. By all accounts, the economy
was in robust shape with export volume rising by 30 percent in 1995.

4.      This broadly favorable performance masked weaknesses that contributed to the current
crisis. Although government intervention enabled the economy to grow rapidly over the last
decades and become an advanced industrial economy, it preserved a protected and inefficient
financial sector as well as a highly leveraged and concentrated corporate sector. At the same
time, Korea's overall export performance came under intense competition in the labor-intensive
sectors beginning in the early 1990s. Korea responded by relocating production to ASEAN
countries and China and by investing heavily in technology-intensive sectors. In recent years,
Korea has invested heavily in a narrow spectrum of "strategic" export industries, such as the
automobile and electronics sectors, making it vulnerable to demand and price changes in a few
industries. In 1996, a severe cyclical downturn hit the electronics sector and this, combined with



I  For backgroundon Banksupportof long-termstabilization,referto Boarddiscussionsof "TheBank'sReponse
   toFinancialCrisis:InstrumentDesign,"December19, 1997.

2  MemorandumoftheGeneralCounsel,"GraduationPolicy-Korea," November29, 1997.

3  At today'sexchangerate,per capitaGDPwouldbe$5,600.

                                                -2 -


 slowdowns in other export lines, dealt a significantterns of trade blow to Korea's economy. The
current account deficit more than doubled to 5 percent of GDP.

 5.     Korea also is the victim of a regional contagion effect that has focused attention on some
of the underlying weaknesses of the East Asian economies. Since mid-1997, East Asia has
 suffered from unprecedented volatility in currency and financial markets that is disrupting
economic activity in many countries. The instability began in July when the Thai Baht came
under sustained pressure. After at first defending the currency and losing significant reserves, the
Thai authorities finally let the exchange float on July 2 and the currency has since depreciated
significantly. The pressure on the Thai Baht took place against a backdrop of concerns about
overvaluation of the Baht and overheating of the economy. Investors perceived that Thailand was
facing growing macroeconomic and financial sector vulnerability. Large and growing current
account deficits were financed to a large extent by short-term borrowing. The portfolios of banks
and finance companies deteriorated in quality and increased in riskiness, and asset-liability
maturity and currency mismatches grew. The appreciation of the real exchange rate after 1995,
stagnant export receipts during 1996 and 1997, growing signs of weaknesses in the banking
system and in finance companies, and delayed policy responses precipitated the pressure on the
currency and the following sharp depreciation.

6.      The Thailand crisis focused attention on the vulnerability of the other Southeast Asian
countries, notably their macroeconomic conditions, weaknesses in their financial sectors,
concerns about the political situation and commitment to reform, and their future prospects in
general. Inadequate prudential regulation and supervision and weak incentives for prudent
banking-often as a result of implicit government safety nets-and poor corporate governance in
several Southeast Asian countries has led to an inefficient allocation of resources. Large savings
channeled through the banking system masked these inefficiencies. An important source of
vulnerability emerged in recent years, however, through funding on a short-term basis to the
banking system and corporations. These large, short-term borrowings internationally exposed the
countries to the risk of a "bank-run" as problems in banks' portfolios accumulated to too high
levels for investors' comfort. As investors reassessed countries, in quick succession, Indonesia,
Malaysia and the Philippines were then also drawn in as foreign and domestic investors
rebalanced positions. Spillover effects have not been limited to Southeast Asia only and are still
unfolding. Many countries have since suffered large currency depreciations and stock markets
have fallen dramatically throughout the region.

7.     As confidence in the region subsided, foreign investors have been adopting a wait-and-
see approach for most countries-given        uncertainties on short-term prospects and lack of
conviction on their part on improvements in fundamentals and policy measures. External
financing has been sharply reduced and foreign lenders have been unwilling to roll over short-
term loans. Since many corporations and banks were unhedged, there has been an increased
demand for foreign exchange as these institutions try to cover open positions in anticipation of
further depreciation and currency volatility. These factors have created perceptions of further
currency declines, thus increasing incentives for buying foreign exchange today, and validating
and aggravating the currency decline. Because large declines in currencies and tight liquidity
impair the balance sheets of both corporations and banks, credit risks have increased and

                                            - 3-


downwardspiralsand continuedweaknessesin exchangeratesand stockpriceshave resultedin
severalcountries.

8.     In October,Korea was affectedby the crisis as it lost market confidenceand was no
longerableto attractsufficientamountsof newcreditsand rollover its existingobligations.On
November19,the governmentformallyapproachedthe InternationalMonetaryFund (IMF)for
assistance.Since then the exchangerate has depreciatedby 50percent,real interestrates have
risento about30percentandthe countryfacesanextraordinaryliquiditycruncharisingfromthe
scaleof short-termdebtfallingdueandthe difficultiesinrollingoverthis debt.Morethanhalfof
Korea's externaldebt of $120billion (asof September1997)is short-termdebt,of whichabout
$20 billion is falling due beforethe end of the 1997.The lack of willingnessamong foreign
creditorsto extend new credit stems from the concernsover the health of Korea's financial
systemand the strengthandcompetitivenessofits industrialsector.

9.     TherecentdevelopmentsinEastAsiaingeneral,andKoreaspecifically,havehighlighted
the natureof macrofmancialcrisesin a financiallymoreintegratedglobalmarket.An important
dimensionof avoidinga financialcrisisand of recoveringfromit becomesthe preservationof
investor confidence. Investors, in turn, are focusing not only on sound macroeconomic
fundamentalsbut also on the strength of the financial system,on corporategovernanceand
competitionpolicy,and on a varietyof other structuralfactorsthat underpincountry economic
performance.This is especiallyso for Korea,where difficultiesdo not stem frompoor macro
fundamentals,but ratherfromstructuraldeficienciesin the financialand corporatesectorsin a
contextof skittishregionalfinancialmarkets.


          2. THE KOREAN ECONOMY: STRUCTURAL ISSUES

10.    The past 30 yearshave built a fundamentallystrongeconomy,with enormousphysical
capitalresources,humanresources,and technologicalcapacity. If new reformscanreconstruct
the basis for allocatingcapital and openingmarketsto new competition,the country has the
potentialto reboundratherquickly. Thesereformshaveto addressseveralunderlyingstructural
issues.

11.    Role of the State.From the early 1960s,the governmentguided industrializationand
used the bankingsystemto developindustry.Thegovernmentplayedan activerole in defining
the composition of the manufacturing sector, encouraged the growth of conglomerates
(chaebols), and was active in coordinatingthe activities of manufacturersand banks. This
approachwas highlyeffectivein stimulatingoutward-orientedgrowth.Butit also interferedwith
the maturing of market institutionsthat can monitorthe health of businessesand encourage
prudent behavior by key players in the market place. The persistent weaknesses of such
institutionsand governmentregulatorybodiesinfluencedthe behaviorof boththe chaebolsand
the financialsector. The chaebol-ledindustrializationhad majorimplicationsforthe banksthat
financed a big chunk of the investment,either becauseof pressure exerted on them by the
powerfillgroups(that canownupto 4 percentof the sharesinbanksdirectlyand possiblymore
through their associatedfirms) or at the behest of the government,which had until recently

                                                -4 -


continued its practice of directing a portion of bank lending. In the final analysis, the regulatory
framework and system of intercorporate relations were unable to cope with the effects of
globalization.

12.      Industrial Structure. One of the striking features of the Korean economy that has
become more prominent in the 1990s is the share of output and exports controlled by a handful
of large conglomerates that also wield considerable political influence. Four of these groups-
Samsung, Hyundai, Daewoo and LG-are           responsible for a third of total domestic sales and
account for one-half of Korea's exports. These dominant chaebols and other smaller
conglomerates have been locked in a struggle to build market share in a range of sectors, both
domestically and abroad. In the process, they have invested heavily in industries such as
automobiles, steel, shipbuilding, electrical machinery and electronics. This investment has been
financed largely through borrowing from the banking sector. As a result, the top 25 chaebols
have debt-to-equity ratios that average 4:1 and in some instances are considerably greater. The
high and sustained level of capital spending has brought into existence a vast amount of new
capacity, which is significantly underutilized, and has whittled down the already slim profit
margins of the chaebols. Return on sales in 1996was as low as 1.7percent.

13.     Financial Corporate Nexus. Close links between business, the banking sector and the
government strongly affected the readiness of the chaebols to expand boldly and to diversify,
induced banks to ignore the high gearing ratios of their clients, and led to overcapacity. In effect,
prolonged and close government involvement with industrial decisionraking and the activities
of banks implicitly socialized business risks. Many of the largest chaebols came to feel that they
were too big to fail. Likewise, the banks came to believe that the government would bail them
out in the event that some of their investmentswent sour.

14.     The structure of the chaebols and the diversity of their holdings were a strength because
of capital market imperfections, managerial economies and the benefit of vertical integration in a
semi-industrialized economy. However, more recently, extreme diversification has given rise to
problems of focus and of managerial control. A complex web of shareholdings and cross-
guarantees between different firms within a chaebol has not only retarded transparency regarding
ownership and financial health, but also jeopardized the entire conglomerate as individual
companies began to fail.

15.     Financial Sector. The health of the financial system was further affected by deregulation
that started in 1993. This led to a removal of restrictions on cross-border capital flows, allowing
greater financial innovation, increasing competition in financial services, and a blurring of
distinctions between the various financial intermediaries. These changes were accompanied by a
sharp increase in the channeling of international borrowing through the financial system for
onlending to the corporate sector. The easing of financial regulations to incur debt sharpened the
attractions of debt financing and encouraged borrowing that in many instances is proving to be
unsustainable. The sector was further compromised by the Korean system of promissory notes
unsupported by sufficient credit analysis that dominates financial transactions. In the absence of
strengthened prudential supervision, these developments led to accumulation of substantial loan
losses. Conservative estimates, based on assumptions of the level of nonperforming loans and

                                               -5 -


recoveryrates, suggestthat atpresentsome24trillionwon(about6.5percentof projected1997
GDP) would be requiredto restorecapital adequacyof merchant,commercialand specialized
banks.


                            3. RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

16.     Reform in the 1990s. Among the goals of President Kim Young Sam's administration,
which took office in 1993, curbing the power of the chaebols, liberalizing financial markets and
circumscribing the role of the state were high on the list. The elevation of the Fair Trade
Commission to the level of a ministry was one major step. To heighten competitiveness, the
governmentintroducedlaborlegislationto enlargeemployers'freedomto lay offworkersandto
varythe hours worked.Financialliberalizationhas broughtabout a closerintegrationof Korea
withinternationalmarkets;however,governmentinvolvementin financialdecisionmakingwas
not eliminated,underminingthe incentivesof banks for proper credit allocation.Furthermore,
Korea has lagged in the areas of financial regulation, in monitoring and enforcing auditing
requirements, in its disclosure policies, and in its capacity to regulate financial as well as
business activities.

17.     External Developments. Starting in 1995, Korea's trade and current balances began
deteriorating with the deficit on current account reaching nearly $9 billion (2 percent of GDP).
The situation worsened in 1996 with the deficit on current balance widening to almost $24
billion. The immediate cause of this was a slow growth of exports combined with a steep decline
in the prices of major export items such as semiconductors, ships, automobiles and garments.
This adverse movement in Korea's terms of trade has continued through the first half of 1997.
While export earnings rose slowly, imports of capital goods, intermediate products and consumer
items increased rapidly in response to rising domestic demand and also the easing of import
restrictions starting in 1995.

18.     A $15.3 billion deficit on the merchandise account in 1996 was augmented by a $7.5
billion deficit on services resulting from higher outlay on transport services and foreign travel
together with increased payments of interest, royalties and dividends. During 1996, Korea
incurred large deficits with both of its major trading partners-Japan and the United States. The
weakening of the external balance and the associated increase in the total external debt (to $120
billion as of September 1997) were the first overt indications of underlying problems. More
worrisome was the term structure of this debt, more than half ($65 billion) being short-term.
Assumptions of automatic renewal of this debt proved erroneous.

19.     Industrial Situation. The serious problems in the industrial sector began to surface,
starting in early 1997, and drew attention not only to the weaknesses of many conglomerates, but
also to the bankscloselyrelatedto the businessgroups.On January23, 1997,Hanbo Iron and
Steel, Korea's second largest steelmaker, ranked fourteenth in terms of assets among the
chaebols, was unable to honor its promissory notes and was forced to file for bankruptcy. The
subsequentinvestigationuncovereddebtsof $5.8billionto 59financialinstitutions.It was also
revealed that five major banks made large loans to Hanbo with Korea First (with a share capital

                                                 -6 -


of 1.8 trillion won) having lent the company 1.1 trillion won. Hanbo's collapse heightened
awareness of the tendency among the chaebols to add production capacity-in Hanbo's case the
building of the world's fifth largest steel mill-financed        by issuing debt, which raised the
company's debt-to-equity ratio to 1,600 percent.

20.     The collapse of Hanbo was followed in quick succession by a series of other business
failures. First, the Sammi group, another steel producer, was forced to seek the protection of
courts. Next the two key affiliates of the Jinro group, the nineteenth largest chaebol, defaulted on
debt payments in April 1997. Then came Dainong, a retail chain, followed by the Ssangyong
group, the sixth largest chaebol, which was forced to sell its new car affiliate under distress.
Conglomerates were shown to have become greatly overextended because of excessive
diversification and were therefore forced to embark on the painful process of divestiture. In July
1997, Kia Motor, Korea's third largest automaker joined the ranks of the ailing companies,
forcing the government and the banks to come up with a plan to enable the firm to continue
under public-sector ownership. By mid-December, a number of the top 30 chaebols were in
serious financial difficulties.

21.     Policy Management. The government's ability to put forward a credible program to deal
effectively with business failures and to get to the roots of the problem were hampered by two
factors. First, the Executive Branch's ability to act decisively was circumscribed by legislative
setbacks in 1997 and by a succession of corruption scandals. Second, conflicts between major
government agencies-most       notably the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MOFE) and the
Central Bank-interfered with the defining and implementing of needed reforms. Thus, at a time
when trouble was brewing in several East Asian economies and the Korean currency was subject
to pressure, the authorities were unable to convince the market that they were prepared to deal
decisively with the problems of banking and industry. It was not recognized in time that the
contagion effect of the crisis in Southeast Asia would soon engulf Korea and precious months
were lost and difficult decisions deferred.


                      4.THE CURRENTFINANCIAL CRISIS

22.     On August 25, 1997, in the face of mounting evidence of financial difficulties in the
corporate and financial sectors,the governmentcommitted itself to providing financial support to
troubled commercial and merchant banks and a statement that it would ensure repayment of
foreign debt liabilities of Korean financial institutions. It also required the financial institutions
to submit restructuring plans to the governmentthat would be implemented over a period of three
to five years.

23.     The November 19 Package. These measures did little to reassure the market. Confidence
further weakened following the failure of the National Assembly to pass important bills, based
on the recommendations of the Presidential Commission of Financial Sector Reform to institute
financial reforms. On November 19, the Government announced another set of policy measures
to deal with the mounting financial crisis. Major measures include: (a) increased fumdingfor the
Korean Asset Management Corporation (KAMC) to enhance its capacity to deal with distressed

                                              -7 -


assets; (b) incentives to promote merger and acquisition of financial institutions, and rules calling
for the mandatory requirement of restructuring and exit of nonviable institutions; (c) increased
funding for the new Consolidated Deposit Insurance Corporation; (d) further liberalization of
capital account transactions; and (e) enhanced disclosure standards and loan classification
requirements (Box 1).

                              Box 1: THE NOVEMBER 19 PACKAGE

* Enhancing KAMC's Ability to Deal with Distressed Assets. KAMC is authorized to purchase
  distressed assets more aggressively than in the past to facilitate the collection process. Its
  funding was increased from 3.5 trillion to 10 trillion won through a combination of budgetary
  transfers, loans from the Central Bank, and issuance of its own bonds. The Government
  announced it would purchase 50 percent of all identified assets (estimated to be at 32 trillion
  won at the end of October 1997) by the close of the year, and purchase the remaining bad
  assets by the end of two years.

* Facilitating the Restructuring of Financial Institutions. For banks willing to merge on a
  voluntary basis, the merged institution will be allowed to increase its capital base through
  investments by domestic and foreign owners and to expand the scope of its business.

* Providing Deposit Insurance. The capital of the Deposit Insurance Corporation was increased
  from 0.9 trillion to 8.4 trillion won, through the transfer of government-owned shares in
  companies. All deposits not honored by ailing institutions will be fully insured by the
  Insurance Corporation. These deposit protection measures will be effective for three years until
  the end of 2000.

* Liberalizing the Capital Account. Foreign investors will be allowed to buy guaranteed and
  nonguaranteed corporate bonds with maturities over three years, and the individual ceiling for
  foreign investors in any given company will be increased to 10 percent, and the aggregate limit
  increased to 30 percent.

* Strengthening Disclosure Standards and Loan Classification Requirements. The authorities
  will disclose relevant financial data concerning the size and terms of foreign debt, and the
  extent of nonperforming assets in financing institutions. Classification criteria for
  nonperforming assets in accordance with international guidelineswill be introduced.




24.     The announcement of this second round of measures also failed to calm the markets. The
won began a freefall on November 19 when it was announced that the daily exchange rate band
was widened to +10 percent, and the authorities announced that they would cease to intervene.
Between late November and December 11, the won depreciated by 50 percent against the US
dollar. In late November, the authorities approached the IMF and other international
organizations for assistance. By this stage, market sentiment had turned overwhelmingly
negative. The Bank of Korea's usable foreign exchange reserves declined precipitously as the

                                                 - 8 -


Central Bank shifted large amounts of its reserves to the offshore branches of Korean financial
institutions to help finance the repayment of their short-term debt. By the beginning of December
1997, usable foreign exchange reserves of the Bank of Korea (BOK) had dropped to a mere $6
billion, sufficient to cover only about two weeks of imports.

ForeignExchangeandDebtSituation

25.     Korea's difficult macroeconomic and financial difficulties have been greatly complicated
by the large volume of short-term external debt obligations that are coming due in the fourth
quarter of 1997 and the first quarter of 1998. Total external debt amounted to $120 billion at the
end of September 1997, of which $65.6 billion are classified as short-term debts. Adding the
short-term borrowings by foreign banks in Korea (from their main offices abroad) and by
domestic corporations, whose external debt obligations were previously not included in the
official statistics, would increase the amount of short-term external debt obligations by about $40
billion, raising the total short-term debts of Korea to above $100 billion as of the end of
September 1997.

26.     Growing signs of distress in Korea's corporate and financial sectors, combined with the
currency and financial crisis in the East Asia economies, made international creditors reluctant to
roll over Korea's short-term debts. This forced the Central Bank to place sizable deposits of
BOK foreign exchange in the Korean commercial and merchant banks to help them repay debt
obligations of these financial institutions. Moreover, the Central Bank intervened in the foreign
exchange market in an attempt to stabilize the won. These interventions were in the end
ineffective, but depleted Korea's foreign exchange reserves. Usable reserves on December 12
amounted to $8.4 billion. Meanwhile, the pressure on the foreign exchange market arising from
the need to service short-term debts did not dissipate so long as there was uncertainty that
external credits in December 1997 and the first quarter of 1998might not be rolled over.

27.     In the ensuing scramble for funds, Korean financial institutions stepped up their effort to
collect corporate loans, provoking a string of bankruptcies among the chaebols. New financing
from the financial sector dried up, leaving the government the only source of liquidity for parts
of the corporate sector. During early December 1997, the Government and BOK made several
efforts to shore up a number of major corporations and banks by directly injecting budgetary
funds and BOK loans. In the corporate sector, restructuring efforts were initiated by a number of
major companies, including some large conglomerates of Korea. These measures ranged from
cutting wages and bonuses, downsizing the labor force and managerial ranks, to drastic cuts in
capital expenditure and overseas expansion plans. In the financial sector, major efforts were
focused on strengthening loan collection, liquidity management, and increasing the capital base.

28.     Meanwhile, Korea's economy is experiencing the dual shocks of a large depreciation of
the won, which will increase the cost of raw material and intermediate imports, and of
dramatically higher real interest rates and financing costs. During the course of December 1997,
lending rates to the corporate sector increased from the previous range of 13 to 15 percent to a
range of 18 to 25 percent, and can reach the new ceiling of 40 percent. If these very high real
rates persist, the industrial sector will be crippled. Recession will be inevitable as consumption

                                                -9 -


falls in response to higher unemployment, the fiscal stance is tightened and investment levels fall
dramatically due to very high interest rates, a shortage of loanable funds, and dampened demand.
The only sector that can sustain growth is the export sector, and that is dependent on the
restoration of normal creditaccess.

29.      The EmergencyFinancingPackageandPolicyProgram.On December4, 1997,the
IMF Board, under the emergency procedures, approved a three-year $21 billion Standby
Arrangementto support the Korean authorities' macroeconomicstabilizationand structural
reformprogram.The emergencyfinancingpackageanticipatesthe provision,frommultilateral
and bilateralsources,of a total of $57 billion to Korea overa three-yearperiod,with a large
shareof resourcesto be providedduringDecember-January,in orderto overcomethe liquidity
crisis,stabilizethe exchangerate,andrestorea degreeof orderinfinancialmarkets.

30.      Therewasa broadagreementbetweenthe Koreangovernmentandthe IMFonthe outline
of a policy program to be supported by the emergency financing package. However, owing to the
very short timeframe in which initial program negotiations had to be completed, some details on
processes and implementation of reforms in the financial and corporate sectors will be specified
over the course of the next month. Korea has met the IMF requirements fir disbursement
according to the December 3 program.

31.      The Policy Program built upon the authorities' reform effort announced earlier. Its
centerpiece is the restructuring and reform of the Korean financial sector, complemented with
otherstructuralreformmeasures.Theseembracereformsof corporategovernanceand corporate
structure; trade and capital account liberalization;and macroeconomicpolicies designed to
continuethe adjustmentin the external current accounts,build up internationalreserves, and
containinflationarypressurethroughtightermonetarypolicyandsignificantfiscaladjustment.

32.      Financial Sector Restructuring and Reform Measures. Underthe Program,the authorities
are committed to formulate and implement a strategy for a comprehensive restructuring and
strengthening of the financial system. The strategy involves: (a) rehabilitation and exit for
troubled financial institutions; (b)strengthened deposit guarantee system to facilitate
restructuring; (c)enhanced financial sector supervision and prudential regulations; and,
(d)increased competition through market opening, market discipline, and more rigorous
accountingandauditingstandardsandpractices.

         (a)     Rehabilitationand Exitof TroubledFinancialInstitutions:

             Operations of 14 technically insolvent merchant banks were suspended on
             December2, 1997(9 banks), and on December10, 1997(5 banks),with depositors
             fully protected. These banks are required to submit rehabilitation plans to MOFE and
             the supervisoryauthoritieswithin30 days.Licenseswillbe revokedif theirplans are
             not approved,in which case these institutionswill not be eligibleto participatein
             KAMCand willbe closed.If the supervisoryauthoritiesconcludethat the approved
             rehabilitation plans have not been successfully implemented within three months, the
             institutions will be closed.

                                      - 10-


* The remaining merchant banks (16) will be required to recapitalize           to reach a 4
   percent risk-weighted capital/assets ratio by March 31, 1998; 6 percent by June 30,
   1998, and 8 percent by June 30, 1999.

* Two commercial banks in distress are required to prepare a plan,            in about two
   months, to meet Bank for International Settlements (BIS) capital standards within
   four months after approval of the plan. If the head of the supervisory authority
   concludes a rehabilitation has not been successful within four months, the institution
   will be closed. On December 8, 1997, the Korean government provided 11trillion
   won each for the two banks to initiate the recapitalization process, thus effectively
   gaining a majority ownership.

* Other commercial banks are required to make full provisioning for impaired           assets
   and for securities losses by end-March 1998. They will agree with the supervisory
   authority on a timetable by June 1998 to achieve current minimum capital standards
   with a timeframe of six months to two years.

(b)   Strengthening Deposit Insurance:

*  The current general deposit guarantee that provides blanket protection to               all
   depositors is intended to avoid financial panic and to facilitate an orderly restructuring
   of the financial system. To enhance market discipline and minimize moral hazard
   problems, the government intends to eliminate the guarantee by December 31, 2000
   and to replace it by a regular deposit insurance with more limited scope of protection.

(c)   Enhancing Supervision andPrudential Regulations:

*  Passage of a new law on supervisionto set up an independent supervision agency that
   will consolidate the supervisory functions presently distributed among MOFE, BOK
   and other agencies and that will be empowered to undertake supervision of all
   financial institutions, including overseas branches of Korean financial institutions
   (see Figure 1);

(d)   Prudential standards will be upgraded to meet BIS core principles;

* Specialized banks and development institutions are to be subject to the same
   prudential standards that apply to commercial banks, and their activities are        to be
   subject to external auditing under the same rules applicable to other            financial
   institutions.

(e)   Improving Competition and Transparency:

* Foreign financial institutions will be allowed to participate in friendly mergers      and
   acquisitions of domestic financial institutions, and in the case of merchant banks,
   foreign institutions will be permitted to acquire 100 percent of ownership. Foreign
   institutions will be permitted to establish bank subsidiaries and brokerage houses in
   Korea by mid-1998.

                                 FIGURE1: CURRENTVS.NEWFINANCIALSUPERVISORY                                   SYSTEM



Current system                                                                                    New System

              MOFE                                                                                       MOFE

     Financial Policy                                                                              Financial Poicy.
                 Office                                                                                    Office

                                     1''-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.-               ........ .:.............. .....




                                                                                            [
      Monetary Board                                                                              Monetary Board
                                                                                       _  ~~~D.
        Bank of Korea                                                                              Bank of Korea


    .-. ffici,of                "s-i--



                                i 5ED                             :                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~FinELnial
                                                                                                               Super-visor3
                     =                        ~          ~       ~               ~~~~~~~          I
,...-..............................
                                  ...............

  Securites               Investor                                   .  .                               Secretariat
     Protection Fund                           ,
 .................................................
                                               ...I.


                                    Supervi-sD                                                     r                   .     .  g

............................. ....iD,§;5-
                        ..............

,Insurance              Guarantee                      .        l                          D   ...                               .

                   Fund
 .=.................................-... -            --... ..




 ---------------------                        I
                         -------<'--    a----

    Deposi,:.t        Insuanc
                    ,     . ....     .. ..   .                      . .....I..  ... . .
Insurance
 .............................  .......                                                    > ._        .




                                                    .                         6

    Deposit Insurance

            Corporation

                                                 - 12 -


        * Large financial institutions will be required to have their financial statements audited
            by internationally recognized firms. Publication of key data by financial institutions
            (including nonperforming loans, capital adequacy, ownership structure and
            affiliations) will be required by financial institutions twice a year.

        * Accounting standards and disclosure rules will be strengthened according to
            international best practices and conglomerates will be required to prepare
            consolidated statements.

        (f)     Other Structural Reform Measures:

        * Trade and Capital Account Liberalization. A timetable will be set, by January
            1998 and in line with World Trade Organization commitments, to eliminate trade-
            related subsidies, restrictive import licensing and the import diversification program;
            the ceiling on aggregate foreign ownership of listed Korean firms would be further
            increased from 26 to 50 percent by end-1997 (implemented on December 10, 1997)
            and to 55 percent by end-1998; and the ceiling on individual foreign ownership will
            be increased from 7 to 51 percent by end-1997; and a timetable will be set by end-
            February 1998 to eliminate restrictions on foreign borrowing by corporations.

        * Corporate Governance. Government will refrain from intervening in                       the
            management and lending decisions of financial institutions, and refrain also from any
            directed lending, and bankruptcy provisions according to Korean law will be allowed
            to operate without government interference.

        (g)     Macroeconomic Framework for 1998:

        * To support financial restructuring, Korea government's macroeconomic policies in
            1998 aim to achieve a 3 percent growth of GDP, to contain inflation to 5 percent, to
            limit downward pressure on the won, to reduce the current account deficit, and to
            build up international reserves. A tighter monetary policy will be implemented by
            reducing the limits on reserve money and by permitting a rise in interest rates. Fiscal
            policy aims to support financial sector reform within the framework of a balanced
            budget, in order to alleviate pressure on monetary management. Significant fiscal
            adjustment (amounting to 1.5 percent of GDP) is planned to be achieved through a
            combination of tax increases and expenditure retrenchment.


      5. THE MEDIUM-TERM RESTRUCTURING FRAMEWORK

33.    In response to the Government's request toward the end of November to consider a
resumption of lending to Korea, an exploratory mission was dispatched on November 30. The
mission was converted into an operational mission after a few days, staffed December         5 and 6,
and discussion began with the Government on December 8. The approach selected was the
preparation of an Economic Reconstruction Loan (ERL) in the context of a framework of
structural reform (see Appendix 1-Policy Matrix). The program envisages         structural adjustment

                                              - 13 -


lending in 1998 concentrating on reform of the financial sector, as well as in the areas of
corporate governance, competition policy, labor markets, and social protection.

34.     Of necessity, this dialogue cannot be consummated with an agreement at this stage. The
present Administration is about to be replaced, more reflective analytical work needs to be
completed and appropriate counterparts are yet to be appointed. Under the circumstances, the
Bank has a quick-response approach. The Koreans have been clearly advised, at the highest
levels, of the scope, complexity andurgency of the reform program. Evidence of the public intent
and resolve was sought and provided in the form of the Letter of Development Policy, which
clearly scopes out a radical reform program. Finally, the Mission has contacted, with the
concurrence of the current Government, the incoming Administration on the anticipated reform
agenda and the Bank has received confirmation of support from the President-elect.

      A. POLICY FRAMEWORK FOR THE ERLANDSTRUCTURAL ADJUSTMENT PROGRAM

35.     The policy framework, as described in Appendix 1, comprises a package of immediate
measures, to be taken before December 31, 1997, to deal with the immediate crisis and a set of
medium-term reform areas for early 1998. The first package consists of: (a) satisfactory
macroeconomic management; (b) remedial financial policies, e.g., appropriate actions related to
the suspension of merchant banks, appropriate remedial actions to recapitalize impaired
commercial banks, the capitalization and proper operation of KAMC, and improvements in
supervision through the creation of a consolidated independent supervisory agency; (c) financial
sector reforms, including a policy to halt all new policy loans, consolidate deposit insurance
agencies, maintain the principle of the "real name system," and a new requirement for the
conglomerates to prepare consolidated balance sheets; and (d) capital market reforms to allow
full foreign ownership of merchant banks via mergers and acquisitions (M&As), facilitating
greater foreign ownership of domestic banks by reviewing ownership limits and revising ceilings
on foreign ownership of Korean-listed firms to 50 percent on December 12 and to 55 percent by
the end of 1998.

36.     The main actions supported by the ERL take the form of (a) reinforcing compliance with
the agreed program, and (b) providing specificity and technical content to the resolution of
troubled financial institutions and assets. The ERL provides the implementation program for
aspects of the general arrangement agreed with the IMF on December 3, 1997. Specifically, the
ERL makes four contributions.

        (a)     First, the Bank and the Government of Korea (GOK) have agreed [Annex A of the
                Letter of Development Policy-LDP (Appendix 2)] on the Contents of the Bank
                Rehabilitation Plans to be submitted by the suspended merchant banks. The
                specification of these details will accelerate the process of resolution by
                enhancing the quality of plans and underpinning the professional and strategic
                thinking needed to implement such plans. It will allow supervisors to obtain a
                better assessment and improve the quality of the process.

        (b)     Second, agreement'is reached with GOK (Annex B of the LDP) on the Criteria for
                Evaluation of Rehabilitation Plans to be used by the Korean supervisors. These

                                                - 14-


                criteria (capital adequacy, due diligence evaluation of the financial position,
                liquidity, management ability, business plans, etc.) will assist supervisors to judge
                rehabilitation plans and either accept, reject, or modify the plan in a consistent and
                fair manner. The objective being supported is to create institutions whose capacity
                to meet prudential norms can be objectivelyverified.

       (c)      Third, agreement is reached with GOK (Annex C of the LDP) on the Principles to
                Guide the Operations of the Korean Asset Management Corporation, a resolution
               trust corporation-type body that will purchase and dispose of the assets of
                distressed financial institutions. These principles force GOK to adequately
                capitalize KAMC, ensure appropriate due diligence of purchased entities and
               assets (particularly loan classification), subject purchase prices paid to objective
                scrutiny, and require adequate accounting and internal and external controls. This
               agreement helps improve professionalism and arms' length behavior of KMAC.

       (d)     Finally, the ERL embodies an agreement (Annex D of the LDP) on Reporting
               Indicators for Supervision of the Financial Sector. Under this agreement, the
               Korean authorities will provide the Bank on a weekly and monthly basis critical
               statistical information on credit and exchange markets, foreign reserves, and
               financial sector conditions as well as qualitative information and progress reports
               on consolidation and operations of supervisory bodies, resolution of distressed
               institutions, major changes in prudential supervision and forbearance therefrom.
               These reports constitute the major elements of the supervision of the ERL and will
               provide valuable information for follow-up operations.

37.    The ERL program is the first step in an extensive reform program that will lead in the
coming years to a dramatic shift in incentives and policies on corporate governance and the
financial sector that will reverse the decline of the real and financial sectors, establish a firm
basis for more prudent lending, reduce excessive leverage, make transparent interfirm lending
and mutual guarantees, and promote more responsible behavior by both financial entities and the
corporate sector.

38.    The reform agenda will be extended in the coming weeks, noted as the Next Stage of
Reforms in Appendix 1, to include: (a)the financial sector and capital markets; (b) corporate
governance; (c) competition policy; and (d) labor market reform and social safety net actions.
These areas commit the Government to a menu of vigorous reforms to be attacked in a planned
follow-up operation. During the period, the Korean authorities will work to set the stage for this
next phase of reforms while continuing the workout process to set the foundation for proper
financial sector rehabilitation and reconfiguration.

                       B. THE FINANCIAL SECTOR ANDCAPITAL MARKETS

39.    The present crisis has revealed several deep-seated problems in the financial system.
First, Korea's financial sector, while financing a large expansion of the country's productive
capacity, has been insufficiently concerned with risk and the criteria used for allocation of capital
have been flawed. Second, the system has been hampered by not encouraging long-term strategic

                                                - 15 -



financial planning, transparency, full disclosure and prudential controls. Third, the sector has
failed to evolve and diversify in terms of financial instruments, markets, and intermediaries in a
manner consistent with Korea's growing national income level. In particular, Korea lacks size
and depth in nonbank financial intermediation arenas (commercial paper, leasing, factoring, and
venture capital); institutional investor segments (mutual funds, pension funds, and insurance
companies); bond markets; market for asset-backed securities; and particularly equity markets.

40.      One characterization of the basic problem of the financial sector in recent years has been
partial liberalization and capital market opening with insufficient attention to supervision. The
institutional weaknesses of Korea's supervisory agencies, when combined with the historical set
of incentives that stressed the borrower's size rather than creditworthiness, led to an excessively
leveraged and highly vulnerable, bank-dominated financial sector. The future vision of Korea's
financial sector must therefore address the basic weaknesses in supervision as a prerequisite for
further liberalization.

41.      The program of financial sector strengthening to be worked out between GOK and the
World Bank is based on a common desire to use the newly constituted consolidated supervisory
agency in a more effective manner. To this end, the government has agreed to work with the
Bank in establishing a technical training program and to making acceptable progress in the near
term. Improving supervision is only one element of the necessary financial reform program in the
coming months.

42.      Equally important will be a revised set of incentives to stir the corporate sector toward
more responsible behavior and to facilitate the ultimate transformation of the industrial sector to
one compatible with Korea's role in the twenty-first century. Revision in the set of incentives
include: the removal of restrictions on foreign participation in M&As of domestic financial
institutions, consistent with supervisory requirements and sound competition policy, and
allowing ownership of up to 100 percent in merchant banks and up to 55 percent in other
financial and other corporate entities. At the same time, the government has committed itself to
no new policy loans through MOFE and to a process of transparency for any subsidized lending.
Transparency will be also be assisted by the maintenance of basic principles of the "real name"
system.

43.      Financial corporate incentives will also be materially altered within the context of the
agreed World Bank program by the new mandatory requirement for all joint stock companies to
issue consolidated balance sheets. This greater transparency will enable lenders to judge risk
more accurately and reduce the practice of multiple collateralization. In this context, the
government has agreed to the preparation of policy measures to deal with the problem of
excessive gearing ratios in the chaebols, a major policy challenge. Moreover, the follow-up areas
of reform include government commitments to: (a) examine the system of promissory notes;
(b) review the policy on intersubsidiary lending; and (c) undertake a study to improve the overall
payment system. It is fair to say that institutional weaknesses emerging from the current system
of interconnected lending greatly weakened the financial sector's ability to withstand the current
crisis.

                                               - 16-


44.     The issue of moral hazard, which has confused both domestic and foreign lenders, was
further complicated by the recent policy to extend "blanket coverage" to all depositors in Korea.
While understandable in the context of a major crisis in one segment of the financial market with
potential spillovers into commercial banks (and the very real threat of bank runs), this policy
merits reexamination. For this reason, the future reform agenda includes a review of the deposit
insurance policy in consultation with the World Bank.

45.     Clearly, the manner in which the current crisis in the banking sector is dealt with will also
send important signals to the financial community. For this reason, the Bank has agreed with the
government on a speedy and effective irnplementation path for suspended merchant banks and
for impaired commercial banks. Moreover, the government has agreed on a series of principles to
guide the operation of KAMC so that financial entities will suffer appropriate losses on impaired
assets. In terms of government infusions of capital into distressed commercial banks, the Bank
has received assurances that this form of renationalization is short-term and in no way will affect
the independent operations of those banks. Clearly this is an area that requires careful monitoring
and one of the indicators of progress toward the next stage of reforms is the manner in which
rehabilitation plans for commercial banks are undertaken.

46.     A number of measures affecting the future viability of the financial sector will be handled
by the Fair Trade Commission (FTC). A strengthening of the oversight function of the FTC to
include financial business combinations has been agreed. In addition, the Bank will be engaged
in a process of evaluation of the FTC provision mandating a reduction in the level of mutual
guarantees offered subsidiaries and affiliates.

47.     Beyond dealing with the consequences of the crisis (resolution of distressed institutions
and assets) and strengthening of financial regulation and supervision, Korea would need to
pursue a decisive, internally consistent and radical shift toward an efficient, market-driven, and
competitive financial system. Such a system will require Government to focus greater attention
on an enabling framework and prudential supervisionand refrain from interference in managerial
decisions. Additional shifts would entail increasing maturities of financial contracts; a shift from
bank debt toward commercial paper and medium- and long-term bond markets, and a
considerable shift from debt toward equity markets, and from bank dominance to capital markets.
To facilitate this transition, Korea needs to encourage significantly greater competition between
different financial subsectors (banks, quasi-banks, bond markets, equity markets, insurance
companies, mutual funds, and pension funds) to expand choice and competition for savings and
funding opportunities. Finally, the Government needs to review the adequacy of prudential
safeguards for trust accounts and curb markets deposits and encourage provision of appropriate
alternative savings vehicles.

BankSupervision

48.     The supervisionof the financialsectorhas been historicallyweak. The merchantbanks
and the commercialbanks are supervisedseparately,by MOFEand BOK, respectively.While
MOFEhas only a skeletalstaff,BOKhas a full supervisiondepartment.Giventhe nature and
structureof Korea's fmancialsector,a consolidatedsupervisionapproachis clearlyneeded.All

                                               -17-


segments of the sector deserve rigorous oversight, and the current structure allows institutions to
take advantage of the weakest link in the system. Legislation has been introduced to consolidate
the supervisory organizations not only for merchant and commercial banks, but also insurance
and securities industries, andto ensure its independence. Submission of this legislation is an ERL
condition. Satisfactory progress in supervision will be monitored vis-a-vis a future operation, and
systematic reporting to the Bank will be required.

49.     The supervision process has been hampered by the objective of maintaining bank
performance and by an inspection process focusing more on audit checklists than a focus on risk,
capital, bank policies operations, and internal risk management. Off-site surveillance, periodic
regulatory reporting, training, and prudential regulations all deserve evaluation and
strengthening. The asset classification system used by BOK is based on past due status and needs
to also include the ability to repay. The lack of consolidated corporate balance sheets and the
weaknesses embedded therein further exacerbate the ability of bank management and examiners
to evaluate credit. Furthermore, the provisioning practices do not adequately provide reserves for
real and potential loss. The tax treatment for provisioning is restrictive and inhibits adequate loan
loss reserves.

50.     The present crisis has underscored certain important weaknesses in financial and
corporate supervision in Korea. Koreans realize that lack of experience, sophistication and
resources in distressed asset and bank resolution can significantly increase the ultimate cost of
cleanup. There is also awareness within the present government and the broader political
establishment that: (a) Korean financial regulation has fallen behind global best practices;
(b) administrative and political interventions have weakened the enforcement and regulatory
culture; (c) serious differences exist between treatment of related subject matters (banking and
quasi-banking), in institutional authority (between MOFE and BOK), and in rigor of
enforcement; (d) issues of competition, governance and full disclosure require coordination
across different supervisory bodies; and (e)the lack of technical training, resources, and
familiarity with the global models of corporate and financial sector supervision will seriously
hamper quality of supervision.

51.     Thus, Korea needs to develop a medium-term strategy for financial and corporate
supervision to ensure that these long-standing problems are meaningfully attended to even as the
supervisory institutions deal with the serious immediate problems of consolidation of agencies
and resolution of troubled regulated institutions. Korea would greatly benefit from developing,
with external assistance, a medium-term business strategy for effective supervision. Such a
strategy would, inter alia, identify and prioritize the initiatives and work programs of all
regulators and new areas/markets needing prudential supervision; identify the legislative
authority, budgetary resources, training, recruitment, and information system needs of various
agencies; anticipate problems and issues arising from the merger of supervisory agencies; and
help the regulators strike a better balance in important regulatory objectives between market
incentives and direct regulation. In the course of the follow-up operations, the Bank and GOK
have agreed to establish a dialogue concerning the strategic vision and direction of supervision
efforts.

                                                - 18-


CapitalMarketDeepening

52.      To begin to plan for these substantive reforms, the Bank and the Government have
identified priority areas for further analysis and reform as a dialogue for any follow-up operation.
First, agreement,was reached to review the current boundaries between the banking, quasi-
banking, insurance and securities industries. This review will focus on the definition of the core
business of each industry. Such a review will focus on expanding noncore areas, consistent with
prudential considerations, where competition across sectors is permitted, with a view to
encourage greater competition, choice of products, and efficiency.

53.      Second, Korea passed in August 1997 a law providing an integrated legal framework for
nondeposit-taking (quasi-banking) institutions. The scope and adequacy of this legal framework
will be examined in the light of such activities as leasing, venture capital, commercial paper,
specialized lending institutions, asset-backed securitization, mortgages, factoring, and credit
cards. This review will seek to identify further areas of improvements in terms of eliminating
barriers to competition and segmentation.

54.      Third, the Government has decided to undertake a comprehensive review of the legal
framework governing institutional investors. It is recognized that despite their substantial
savings, the Korean citizens lack a choice of high-quality retail savings vehicles. The three most
important investment vehicles currently are low-yielding bank deposits, ineffectively supervised
and nontransparent trust accounts, and informal savings arrangements. Money market accounts,
high-quality government bills and bonds, and opportunities for professionally managed
investments in bonds and stocks are limited. To remedy this, the legal framework governing
mutual funds, insurance companies and pension funds will be examined with respect to taxation,
investment restrictions, price/product/marketing controls, barriers to competition, and
opportunities to improve corporate governance through institutional investors.

55.     Fourth, the present crisis has underscored the need for the Korean government to engage
in long-term management of their foreign exchange reserves and external debt. The Government
should develop a formal asset and liability management strategy to provide insurance against
illiquidity. Korean financial markets also lack adequate long-term sovereign-yield benchmarks
that are the backbone of a private debt market. This next stage of reforms will also include
measures necessary to develop such benchmarks, and the possibility of regular issuance of
sovereign or public-sector debt-within         the confines of fiscal policy-to      maintain such
benchmark secondary market yields.

56.     Finally, there is the need to review the degree of competition between domestic and
foreign financial institutions. Besides improved intermediation efficiency, such competition
could also provide benefits of strategic partnerships between Korean and foreign financial
institutions, twinning arrangements, sale of strategic equity interest, strategic contingent lines of
credit and transfer of credit evaluation skills and technology. Such an exercise will include the
remaining barriers to entry and exit, M&A, restrictions on foreign bank loans or debt issuance by
Korean enterprises, and restrictions on foreign participation in the Korean mutual fund, pension
fund, insurance and securities industries.

                                           -19-


57.    The strategyof acceleratedliberalizationof the Korean financialand product markets
faces several legitimatechallenges:(a) Korea's previous policies have enjoyed remarkable
successuntil veryrecently;(b)thereare substantialpoliticaland economicstakesin the policies
of the past,andthis requiresa campaignof newinfornation;and (c)there arethe usualconcerns
aboutproper sequencingandcapacity.TheBankis willingto workwiththe Govemment,which
hasshownits desireto reform,as is notedinthe attachedLDP.A prerequisiteto embarkonthis
largeagendaisthe reestablishmentof normalcommercialaccessbyKoreanfirmsandbanks,and
a halttopanicsellingofthe won.

                               C. CORPORATEGOVERNANCE

58.    The Korean system of corporate govemancehas been a contributor to the present
financialcrisisby shieldingKoreanbanksandfirmsfromthe marketdisciplinesof intemaland
extemalmonitoringbasedon reliablefinancialdisclosures.For sometimebeforethe crisis,the
authoritieshave been slowly implementingpoliciesdesignedto improvethe transparencyof
corporatefinances,increasethe voice of minorityshareholders,and exploitthe power of the
equitymarketsas a discipliningforce.Whilethosepolicieshavecometoo lateto compensatefor
the consequencesof the past lack of accountability,they providea basisfor the governmentto
sharplyincreasethe paceandscopeof futurereformsif it so desires.

59.    Thenextstageofreformsshouldbe guidedbythe followingprinciples:

       (a)    Improvedcorporategovernanceleadsto better decisionmakingand to increased
              competitiveness;

        (b)    Increasedefficiencyof monitoringagentsis foundedon disclosureto creditors,
              investorsandregulatorsof high-qualityfinancialinformation.

       (c)     Following disclosure, incentives will arise for investors and others to hold
              managersaccountablefortheiractionsandtherebyto improvethe natureof major
               corporatedecisions.

60.     The present standards of financial disclosure by large Korean corporations need
considerableimprovement.TheGovemmenthasrecentlytakena significantstep inthis direction
by announcingthat financial statementsfor associatedcompaniesin the chaebols must be
prepared on a consolidatedbasis. Previously,due to the corporatestructuresof the chaebols
where each firm was in a formalsenseindependentof each other memberof the group, cross-
guarantees could be providedfor bank loans without the necessity to disclose the financial
impactof thosetransactionsonthe businessgroup.Thenew consolidationruleswillensurethat
lendersandinvestorsknowthe truefinancialstateof affairs.Theauthoritieshaveexpressedtheir
willingness to take the next important step of moving to effective implementation of
internationallyacceptedaccountingprinciplesand auditstandardsbybanks,largecompaniesand
conglomerates.

61.     Thecompanionstepto improvedfinancialreportingis changesinthe roleof the internal
and external auditorsof the companies.The Governmenthas taken actions to strengthenthe

                                               - 20 -


independence and qualifications of company auditors and has recognized the need to continue
that process. The provision of audit services in the Korean market by internationally recognized
audit fmns would also be beneficial and the Government is already involved in negotiations with
the World Trade Organization on this issue.

62.      The third dimension of the corporate governance reforms is to bring about changes in the
role and composition of corporate boards and their accountability to minority shareholders.
Boards of directors have not been active monitors of corporate management for a variety of
reasons. Board positions have typically gone to insiders: family members and executives.
Outside directors are rare. Boards are often large and responsibility is diffuse. The Government
intends to revitalize corporate boards through such measures as greater use of outside
professional directors, clarifying the responsibilities of directors to minority shareholders, and
reducing obstacles to lawsuits by shareholders in case directors fail intheir duties, and has agreed
to work actively with the Bank in this regard. The Government also intends to consider
permitting class action lawsuits by shareholders of listed companies.

63.      The final element is to strengthen the role of the capital markets as a disciplining force
through the threat of takeovers or of pressure from strong institutional investors. That element is
linked to the wider goal of capital markets reform in order to diversify the sources of capital
available to Korean companies. In the past, acquisitions of listed companies have been
uncommon and foreign investment has been heavily restricted. Recently, the Government has
moved to liberalize foreign direct investment through an increase in the aggregate permitted
foreign ownership of the shares in a listed company to 50 percent and plans to increase this limit
again to 55 percent by the end of 1998. Given the need to diversify the sources of capital
available to the Korean market, the early removal of the ceiling on foreign ownership would be
highly desirable and would be consistent with announced moves to allow friendly purchases by
foreign banks of shares in domesticbanks. The authorities have also agreed to review restrictions
on new share issues by listed Korean companies, in order to increase access to the equity
markets.

64.      Institutional investors should also be a potent force in pushing for management
accountability. The Korean authorities intend to introduce a legislative framework to support the
creation and supervision of a variety of investment vehicles, including mutual funds and private
pension funds. As a first step, the current restrictions on the voting rights of some classes of
institutional investors will be eliminated. Those restrictions currently require that votes be cast
by these investors in proportion to the votes of other shareholders and thereby preclude an
activist role on important corporate issues.

65.     Together these reforms have the promise to change significantly the environment in the
Korean business sector for transparency, monitoring and decisionmaking. They should thereby
improve capital mobilization and allocation andthe attractivenessof the Korean capital market to
investors. The reforms will be complemented by the commitment of the Government to refrain
from intervening in the management and lending decisions of financial institutions, thereby
permitting normal market disciplines to operate. In this respect, the recent acquisition by the

                                                 - 21 -


Government of controlling stakes in two commercial banks in the course of emergency
recapitalizations is not expected to alter this commitment.

66.     In combination, the proposed corporate governance and financial sector reforms have the
objective of changing the way in which decisions are made on credit and investment issues in the
banks and their corporate customers. They should lead to an increased focus on the financial
impact of major funding commitments and thereby reduce the risk of inappropriate credit
exposures and unwise business decisions. And through better financial disclosure, they will
increase the effectiveness of supervisors and gradually increase the capacity of depositors and
investors to make decisions themselves as to the safety and value of their investments.

                               D. COMPETITION LAW ANDPOLICY

67.     Although Korea first enacted its competition law [the Fair Trade Act (FTA)] in 1981, it
was generally ineffective in fostering domestic market competition. Past government
interventions, such as credit rationing, licensed entry, restrictions on foreign ownership and price
controls resulted in a highly concentrated industrial structure and various anticompetitive
business practices. These distortions in the economic system played a role in firms making risky
investment decisions, and becoming sluggish in their response to changing global market
conditions. Had Korean industry been more integrated into the international economy with
higher levels of foreign direct investment, firms would have been able to cope better with the
current crisis. Unfortunately, the merits of reducing restrictions on foreign ownership, fostering
effective competition and deregulation have only lately been recognized by the Korean
government. During the past few years, Korea has adopted measures to lower trade barriers,
liberalize investment, and began to extend the powers of the Korean Fair Trade Commission
(KFTC) and its role in regulatory economic policy decisions. These efforts require substantial
support and invigoration.

68.     The FTA has the dual objectives of limiting excessive concentration of economic power
and fostering competition by preventing undue firm collaborative activities and unfair trade
practices. It also has the ancillary objectives of protecting consumers and promoting balanced
development of the national economy. The provisions contained in the Act provide a credible
basis for Korea to strengthen the role of market forces in its economic recovery program by
encouraging competition, economic efficiency and consumer welfare. In this connection, KFTC
holds the promise of playing a pivotal role. In discussions held with the Government, this was
explicitly acknowledged. It was agreed that for KFTC to fulfill its mandate, several measures
would be taken.

69.     A key measure is to facilitate the entry and exit of firms. While there are a number of
policy-based barriers to entry-exit, the most immediate pertain to the lack of effective
implementation of the bankruptcy and corporate reorganization laws. The Government agreed
this was an area where improvements were possible, and that it would undertake to review and
explore the early cancellation of the Antibankruptcy Accord. Realistic implementation of the
bankruptcy and reorganization laws, with a view to encouraging corporate debtors and creditors
to maximize the scope for reorganization, will encourage rapid exit and asset allocation of

                                                 - 22 -



insolvent companies. In this connection, it is advisable for Korea also to foster a healthy "market
for corporate control" to discipline inefficient incumbent corporate management who misuse
resources and do not act in the best interests of shareholders. The Government is already
 committed to having improved financial disclosure of mutual guarantees offered by subsidiaries
or affiliate firmnsand the extent of their contingent liabilities.

70.     Mergers and acquisitions are intendedto be facilitated by reducing restrictions on foreign
participation in various sectors of the economy-including the financial sector. However, since
the FTA was extended to cover financial and insurance firms only in December 1996, KFTC is
unlikely to have developed requisite expertise in screening financial sector business
combinations and its capabilities will thereforerequire strengthening.

71.     In order to promote competition further in the Korean economy, the Government had in
recent years taken several important steps. Aside from increasingthe scope of the FTA to include
various sectors of the economy that were previously exempt, KFTC was enlarged into an
independent agency with ministerial rank. To fully realize the benefits that accrue with effective
competition, the Government has agreed to strengthen the application of the FTA with respect to
interfirm anticompetitive agreements, mergers and acquisitions and undue increases in industrial
concentration. KFTC handles a fairly large number of cases annually, the great majority of which
are settled with "warnings" and/or voluntary corrective measures. This, it was felt, reduced the
deterrent effect of the Act and undermined the credibility of KFTC. To alleviate these concerns,
it was recognized that a strategy for the vigorous enforcement of the Act should be developed as
part of the reform agenda to be discussed with the Bank.

72.     The Government had earlier in 1997 increased the "competition advocacy" role of KFTC
in fostering deregulation and privatization. KFTC has been put in charge of the Economic
Regulatory Reform Committee, which reports directly to the Office of the Prime Minister. KFTC
is the agency best positioned to pursue a procompetition agenda and protect the consumer. There
are several areas of the Korean economy where government ownership and/or participation
remains questionable. Included would be the provision of telecommunication and energy-related
services. Privatization and deregulation in these spheres should provide efficiency gains and
revenues that could be effectively utilized to reduce the Government's increased foreign debt
arising from the current economic crisis. Such measures would be consistent with the policy
direction the Government has already adopted during the past few years.

73.     Another set of measures the Government has indicated its intent to pursue relates to
increasing transparency in the administrative and enforcement procedures of KFTC. It was
agreed that information on the criteria used in the disposition of cases and relevant guidelines
merited publication. This would foster greater business and consumer confidence in KFTC being
a truly competent independent agency that was protected from political and bureaucratic
interference. It would also serve to reduce business uncertainty and the costs of complying with
the FTA.

74.     The pursuit of these objectives by KFTC will facilitate a rapid economic adjustment of
Korean industry and more efficient redeployment of resources. To implement the identified

                                               - 23 -


measures effectively and appropriately fulfill the mandate of KFTC, consideration should be
given by the Government to obtaining relevant technical assistance.

                          E. LABORMARKETSANDSOCIALPROTECTION

75.     Labor Market Flexibility. Until recently, Korean labor markets were characterized by a
rigid employment security regime that makes it difficult to accommodate rapid structural change
by shedding workers in declining industries. Redundancies are only possible under four
conditions in accordance with judicial precedents established by the Supreme Court: (a) "urgent
managerial needs" exist for redundancy; (b) every effort has been made to avoid dismissal;
(c) fair and reasonable standards have been applied in selecting the workers to be dismissed; and
(d) good-faith consultations on proposed dismissals have been held with union or workers'
representatives. Additional bottlenecks to labor market flexibility result from the lack of a legal
framework for private provision of temporary manpower leasing services, and restrictions on the
scope of private job placement services. Strict job security regulations can also deter employers
from hiring new workers.

76.      The Government recognizes that the ambiguous legal definition of "urgent managerial
needs" risks inconsistency in the judicial evaluation of redundancy cases and the threat of costly
lawsuits to resolve the resulting uncertainty, especially among large-scale firms characterized by
a high degree of union penetration. In December 1996 the Government sought to clarify the legal
framework for dismissals by passing a new labor law that explicitly specifiedjustifiable reasons
for redundancy, including mergers and acquisitions. However, the negative political reaction
from organized labor caused the law to be repealed and replaced by the Labor Standards Act of
March 1997. This revised legislation codifies the former judicial precedents under Article 31
(Employment Adjustment for Managerial Reasons) but no longer defines specifically the
justifiable reasons for dismissal. Moreover,the effectiveness of the legal provisions under Article
31 was delayed by a grace period of two years after promulgation of the Act, i.e., in 1999, so as
to continue to discourage companies from dismissing workers.

77.      The Government's recent effort to relax the employment security regime marks an
important step toward removing impediments to efficient redeployment of labor. Recognizing
the need to speed up the process of labor adjustment, the Government has expressed a
willingness to review the existing labor market impediments (includingjob security regulations),
and to prepare a program of measures to improve labor market flexibility. These will include
actions to promote redeployment, and deregulate private provision of job placement services and
manpower leasing, in full consultation with labor and management. The extent to which these
additional labor market reforms are successfully handled will prove an important bellwether of
the Government's commitment to accommodate the rapid pace of structural change over the
coming year. These reforms must be carefully integrated and sequenced with efforts to cope with
the painful dislocations arising from the short-term adjustment. They cannot occur independently
of improvements in the social safety net.

78.      Social Safety Nets. In the past, Korea has successfully relied on rapid growth and full
employment to provide an adequate standard of living for the population. The unemployment

                                               - 24 -


rate was as low as 2.0 percent in 1996, but is expected to increase significantly in the
forthcoming period of structural adjustment. The magnitude of these employment effects is hard
to predict, depending on the rigidity of impediments to dismissal and the flexibility of real
wages. The projected slump in GDP growth might cause the unemployment rate to rise to 2.5
percent in 1997, followed by a sharp jump to 3.9 percent in 1998. Accordingly, the number of
people unemployed is likely to double from the 1996 base figure of 425,000 to some 850,000 in
1998. This incremental unemployment is expected to result from bankruptcies, shrinkage of
existing firms, and the economy's inability to absorb new entrants to the labor force.

79.     As the economy will, at least temporarily, be unable to provide the benefits of full
employment, it is important that the Government step in to fill the gap so as to protect the most
vulnerable from the costs of adjustment. The Government has already made important progress
toward this goal with implementation of the new Employment Insurance System (EIS) in 1995.
This includes a carefully designed program of funded unemployment benefits, together with
active labor market measures to promote employment, improve vocational training and facilitate
job search. The unemployment benefits provide a 50 percent replacement rate on earnings with
duration limited in the range from 30 to 210 days depending on age and contributions history.

80.     The availability of unemployment benefit insurance will help to mitigate the social costs
of adjustment for the unemployed workers already covered by the EIS. However, only a minority
of the labor force is presently covered. This amounts to some 4.3 million regular employees
working in firms with more than 30 workers, or less than one-quarter of the 21.6 million people
in the labor force. Enrollment will be extended to firms employing more than 10 workers
beginning in 1998, but actual benefit coverage for this group will not commence until after one
year of contributions, in 1999. However, coverage will continue to exclude temporary contract
and daily employees, plus the self-employed. Since much of the burden of unemployment is
likely to fall on workers without EIS coverage, it will be important for the Government to devise
measures to broaden the coverage of income maintenance programs and other viable means of
providing short-term employment.

81.     The Government recognizes the importance of continuing to evolve modern, durable
social safety nets that complement the other structural reforms and help to mobilize social and
political consensus on the adjustment process by maximizing its favorable consequences.
Accordingly, the Government is committed to monitor changes in the level and distribution of
poverty and to prepare an appropriate mitigation plan. Against this background, the Government
has agreed to assess the adequacy of public expenditures on social safety nets (including
unemployment benefits), and review the long-term viability of social security programs to
protect people against falling into poverty.


                                       6. THE LOAN

82.     The Government has prepared and submitted a Letter of Development Policy (Appendix
2) that describes the current economic crisis and its impact on both the financial and real sectors
of the economy, explains the design of the program of economic reconstruction and presents the

                                                 - 25 -


actions to be taken immediately and in the medium term. The Letter of Development Policy and
the policy matrix (Appendix 1) were discussed with the Government and confimed with the
economic advisors to Mr. Kim Dae-jung, the President-elect.

83.     The only condition of effectiveness of the Loan is approval of the Loan by the National
Assembly.

                                     A. LOANADMINISTRATION

84.     Terms and Conditions. As specified in Appendix 6 (to be circulated December 22,
1997).

85.     Disbursement. The Government will open and maintain a deposit account with BOK.
Upon effectiveness, the Government will submit a simplified withdrawal application to the Bank,
against which the Bank will disburse loan proceeds in one tranche into the Deposit Account.
Disbursements will not be linked to specific purchases, and supporting evidence for
disbursements is therefore not required. The proceeds of the Loan will not be used to finance
expenditures typically excluded under the Loan Agreement (military, drugs, nuclear, etc.).

86.     Accounts and Audit. Upon the Bank's request, the Government will have the Deposit
Account audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank and will furnish to the Bank a
certified copy of the audit report no later than four months after the Bank's request.

                                       B.BENEFITS    ANDRISKS

87.     Benefits. The financing provided and structural measures supported by the ERL would
help Korea overcome its most immediate liquidity problems and assist in resolution of the more
fundamental problems of financial and real sector rejuvenation. The ERL supports several
measures to improve financial sector restructuring and rehabilitate ailing financial institutions
and forms part of a major international effort to support the restructuring of the financial sector.
While it promotes steps to improve financial regulation, competition in financial and real sectors,
and financial disclosure, it also lays out an agreed agenda for broader financial and real sector
reforms, focusing specifically on needed financial regulation and supervision, broadening and
deepening of capital markets, improvements in corporate governance and competition policies,
greater flexibility in labor market adjustments and strengthening of social sector safety nets. The
benefits of this follow-up operation will be essential to the remodeling of the Korean economy
following the immediate crisis.

88.     Risks. The primary risk of the ERL is that despite a large and timely infusion of foreign
capital, the country's ability to roll over short-term external debt continues to be impaired. Under
this circumstance, despite major disbursements by the IMF, Asian Development Bank, and
World Bank, the country might find itself, in the worst case, unable to satisfactorily service its
debt payments. This possibility cannot be excluded because of the extremely low level of
reserves currently held and the major disruptions in the currency markets in the last week.
Despite best efforts to predict the pattern of payments and receipts, the range of uncertainty
concerning these rollovers is still quite large. Even if Korea is able to maintain its payments, the

                                                -26 -


situationinearly 1998willcontinuetobe precariousandwillremainso untilreservesare rebuilt
intoanadequatelevelandmarketconfidenceis restored.TheBankintendsto mitigatethese risks
to the extentpossiblebyworkingcloselywiththe IMF,whichhastakenthe lead in designinga
program of assistance totaling $57 billion. It is assumed that, if necessary, adequate frontloading
of this program and support from major OECD countries will be forthcoming, in parallel with the
Bank operation, and in light of Korea's full compliance with the IMF program. The Bank's status
as apreferred creditor also mitigates this risk.

89.     A second risk is that Korea is unable to satisfactorily follow up its reform commitments
in the January/February timeframe. This could be because the administrative changeover delays
reforms or because domestic political opposition unravels today's consensus. It is also possible
that a positive market response generates short-term success, and this mitigates the urgency of
reform, derailing the long-terrn structural adjustment loan program. In any of these situations,
only a firm government commitment can overcome these obstacles. The LDP was reviewed by
the President-elect, and we have received satisfactory assurances that this agenda reform
provides a satisfactory basis for future adjustment operations.


                                7. RECOMMENDATION

90.     The Koreaneconomyhas many strengthsuponwhich to reconstructa new prosperity.
Three decadesof growth have providedan enormousaccumulationof humanknowledgeand
skills,of capitaland of technology.Moreover,Koreans'willingnessto sacrifice,as evidencedin
its high savingsrate, is matchedby their reputationfor hard work. If the countryenacts the
agendaof reformsithas setforitself,the economycansoonrecover.

91.     I am satisfiedthatthe proposedloancomplieswiththe Articlesof Agreementof the Bank
andI recommendthatthe ExecutiveDirectorsapproveit.




                                                                     JamesD. Wolfensohn
                                                                             President


                                                                     bySvenSandstr6m



Washington,D.C.
December19,1997

Attachments

                                                             -27-                                          APPENDIX1




                                 APPENDIX 1: POLICY MATRIX

        POLICYAREA/OrECIvEs                              ERL PROGRAM                       INDICATORSOFPROGRESSTOWARD
                                                                                               NEXTSTAGEOFREFORMS

A.MacroeconomicFramework                  * Satisfactorymacroeconomicmanagement       Continuedmaintenanceof theagreedmacro
                                             withinanagreedmedium-termnframework framework

B. Financial SectorRestructuring

1.FancwialSector WorkoutProgram           * Suspensionof insolventmerchantbanks

                                             - AgreementontheContentsof Rehabilita- Satisfactoryimplementationof agreedactions
                                             tionPlans(seeAnnexA of LDP)andagree- vis-a-vissuspendedMBs,includinglicense
                                             mentonCriteriatobe usedinjudgingthe      revocationifwarranted.
                                             adequacyofplans(seeAnnexBof LDP).

                                             - PresentationofRecapitalizationPrograms Speedyandeffectiveimplementationof
                                             for allotherMerchantBanks(MBs)to         recapitalizationplansforMBs.
                                             restorecapitaladequacy.

                                          * Intensivesupervisionof distressedcommer- Progresssatisfactoryto WorldBankinpre-
                                             cialbanksandappropriateactionstorestore parationof RehabilitationPlansfor2 major
                                             capitaladequacy.                         banks.

                                          * AdequatecapitalizationoftheKoreaAsset Satisfactoryoperationofthe KAMCin
                                             ManagementCorporation(KAMC)and            accordancewithagreedprinciplesto date.
                                             agreedPrinciplestoguideitsoperations
                                             (AnnexC ofLDP)

2.ImprovedSupervisionFramework             * Submitlegislationfor an independent,con- Demonstratedprogressintheexecutionof the
                                             solidatedsupervisoryagencywithsufficient supervisoryfunctionusingmonitorable
                                             autonomyandcapacity,andprovidefor         indicatorsasagreed(seeAnnexD of LDP).
                                             adequatetransitionalarrangements.

                                           * Commitmnentto implementa programof        ProgressacceptabletotheBanktowardirnple-
                                             externaltechnicaltrainingto improveinsti- mentationof an externaltechnicaltraining
                                             tutionalcapacityfor effectivesupervision. programandan agreedscheduleof implemen-
                                                                                       tation.

                                           * Supervisoryagencieswillreviewtheprovi- ProgresssatisfactorytotheBankinprovi-
                                             sioningcomplianceof financialentitiesand sioningof impairedassetsinallCBs.
                                             reportanynoncomplianceor excessive
                                             forbearancebyJanuary30, 1998.

3.Strengtheningof theFinancialSector

* Haltingalldirectedlending                * No newpolicyloansthroughMOFEwillbe Newbudgetaryprocedureswillbe imple-
                                             made,andanysubsidizedlendingwillbe        mentedtoensurethat thereis apublicdis-
                                             transparentlygivenbysectorministry(e.g., closureof allfiscalassistanceofferedto
                                             agriculture)withcostfullybomebythe        financialentities.
                                             budget.

* Strengtheningthedepositinsurancefunction * Consolidationof thevariousdepositinsur- Reviewthedepositinsurancepolicy,including
                                             ancefunctionsinoneagencywitha clear       coverage,premiumcharged,KDICfunding,
                                             mandateandadequatefundingand              andfiscalimplicationinconsultationwiththe
                                             disclosure.                               WorldBank.

* Improvedefficiencyof financialentities   * Removerestrictionsonforeignparticipation Evaluateadministrativeor policycriteriafor
                                             in friendlyM&Asof domesticfinancial       M&Aoffinancialinstitutionsandstrengthen
                                             institutions,consistentwithsupervisory    theoversightfunctionof theFTCtoinclude
                                             requirementsandsoundcompetitionpolicy, financialbusinesscombinations.
                                             andallowingownershipof upto 100percent Preparationof policymeasuresto provide
                                             ownershipforMerchantBanks.                disincentivestoexcessivegearingratios

                                                                                       (leverage).

                                           * Maintenanceof thebasicprinciplesof the    Same.
                                             "realname"system.

                                                                   -28 -                                            APPENDIX 1


          PoLicYAREA/OBJEcrivEs                               ERL PROGRAM                        INDICATORSOFPROGRESS            TOWARD
                                                                                                       NEXTSTAGEOFREFORMS

                                                                                            Satisfactory implementation of the Fair Trade
                                                                                            Law provision to reduce the level of mutual
                                                                                            guarantees offered by subsidiaries/affiliates
                                                                                            and proper disclosure to all shareholders of all
                                                                                            contingent liabilities (see Corporate
                                                                                            Govemance).

* Increased transparency and improved         * Submit legislation requiring consolidated   Examine the system of promissory notes and
   resource allocation                          Balance Sheets forjoint stock companies     review the "Policy on Intersubsidiary
                                                (see Corporate Governance)                  Lending".

* Improved payment systems                                                                  Commitment to undertake a study to improve
                                                                                            the payment system.

4. MeasurestoDevdop anEfficient,Diversi-
fied andCompetitiveFinancialSystemnot
CriticallyDependenton theBankingSystem

* Increase competition between banks,                                                       Review the definition of the core businesses of
   insurance and securities industries.                                                     each industry, and measures to promote com-
                                                                                            petition between these sectors with a view to
                                                                                            promote savings, improve allocation of capital,
                                                                                            and improve intermediation efficiency.

* Create an integrated legal framework for                                                  Review the existing legal framework for non-
   nondeposit-taking financial institutions.                                                bank financial entities engaged in leasing,
                                                                                            venture capital, mortgage, specialized loans,
                                                                                            factoring, credit cards, etc., to eliminate
                                                                                            segmentation and barriers to competition.

* Promote institutional investors                                                           Consider measures to promote development of
                                                                                            institutional investors such as mutual funds,
                                                                                            public and private pension funds, and insur-
                                                                                            ance companies to increase diversification of
                                                                                            funding sources and investment opportunities,
                                                                                            and create incentives for improved corporate
                                                                                            govemance.

* Sovereign asset liability management                                                      Define a strategy for public asset and liability
                                                                                            management and measures to promote
                                                                                            medium- and long-term private debt market.

* Promote foreign competition                                                               Foster foreign competition in domestic finan-
                                                                                            cial markets by reducing barriers to entry,
                                                                                            restrictions on issuance of foreign debt and
                                                                                            contracting of foreign loans.

C. Corporate Governance

1. Strengthened role of directorsof                                                         Identify measures to promote use of 'outside'
companies.                                                                                  directors, reduce size of boards, and clarify
                                                                                            responsibilities to shareholders.

                                                                                            Review barriers to court actions by minority
                                                                                            shareholders against officers.

2.Improved Financial Disclosure               * Require independent extemal audits ofjoint  Continue negotiations with appropriate inter-
                                                stock companies, based on full consolida-   national bodies conceming the provision of
                                                tion, and adequate disclosure               audit services in Korea by intemationally
                                                                                            recognized audit finns. Review measures to
                                                                                            further strengthen independence and qualifica-
                                                                                            tions of intemal and extemal auditors.

                                                                                            Identify program to more effective application
                                                                                            of international accounting principles and
                                                                                            intemational auditing standards by banks,
                                                                                            large companies and conglomerates.

3. Strengthen Capital Markets                                                               Review restrictions on new issues by compa-
                                                                                            nies based on levels of dividend distribution.

                                              . Facilitate greater equity participation by  Continuation of program to reduce restrictions
                                                foreign banks in domestic banks by          on foreign ownership of listed Korean compa-

                                                             - 29 -                                              APPENDIX 1


          POLICYAREA/OUEcTIvEs                           ERL PROGRAM                           INDICATORSOFPRoGREssTowARD
                                                                                                    NEXTSTAGEOFREFoRMs

                                           reviewing ownership limits.                   nies.

                                                                                         Preparation of a study of the implications of
                                                                                         introducing class action law suits for share-
                                                                                         holders of listed companies.

                                                                                         Abolition of restrictions on the voting rights of
                                                                                         shares in listed companies held by investment
                                                                                         trusts and trust accounts of commercial banks,
                                                                                         subject to prudential restrictions on improper
                                                                                          use of voting rights.

D. Competition Policy

1. Measures to Facilitate Entry and Exit  * Raise ceilings on foreign ownership of listed Review measures to remove impediments to
                                            Korean companies from 26 to 50 percent.       the effective implementation of the bankruptcy
                                                                                          and reorganization laws.

                                                                                          Reduce govemment regulatory and privately
                                                                                          imposed barriers to entry-exit. Strengthen
                                                                                          KFTC's competition advocacy function in
                                                                                          order to implement regulatory refomm
                                                                                          effectively.

                                                                                          Review of theAntibankruptcy Accord with a
                                                                                          view to its early cancellation.

2.Measures to Promote Competiton                                                          Strengthen application of Fair Trade Act, espe-
                                                                                          cially with respect to interfirm agreements,
                                                                                          M&A and prevent undue industrial concentra-
                                                                                          tion.

                                                                                          Develop strategy for vigorous enforcement of
                                                                                          the FTA.

3. Measures to Promote Transparency                                                       Clarify criteria and provide guidelines for
                                                                                          reviews and measurestaken under FTA.

                                                                                          Publish annually relevant information on cases
                                                                                          to foster business and consumer confidence.

E. LaborMarkets/SocialSafetyNets

7.Measures to Pronote Labor Market                                                        Review labor market impediments to industrial
flexibility                                                                               restructuring and prepare a program of mea-
                                                                                          sures to improve labor market flexibility in-
                                                                                          cluding: promoting redeployment, and deregu-
                                                                                          lating private provision ofjob placement
                                                                                          services and manpower leasing services, in full
                                                                                          consultation with labor and management.

2.MeasurestoEasetheSocial Costsof                                                         Reviewtheadequacyof fiscalexpenditureson
Adjustment                                                                                social safety nets (including unemployment
                                                                                          insurance benefits)

                                                                                          Provide report on the level and distribution of
                                                                                          poverty using household survey data, and to
                                                                                          prepare an appropriate mitigation plan.

                                                                                          Review long-term financial viability of the
                                                                                          social security programs.

                                           -30-                            APPENDIX 2




           APPENDIX 2: LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY

                                                                         December19,1997



Mr.JamesD. Wolfensohn
President
IntemnationalBankforReconstructionandDevelopment
1818H Street,N.W.,
Washington,D.C.,20433
UnitedStatesof America


DearMr.President:

                  SUBJECT: PROPOSEDECONOMIC RECONSTRUCTIONLOAN


                               Letter of Development Policy

1.      Formorethanthree decades,the dynamismoftheRepublicof Korea'seconomyhas been
widelyrecognized.Its performancein the areasof manufacturingdevelopment,exportgrowth,
macro stability and povertyreductionhas been the envy of other countries.As of end 1995,
Korea's externaldebtwas $78billionand the debt/GDPratiowasa comfortable17percent.By
all accounts,the economywasinrobustshapewithexportvolumerisingby 30 percentin 1995.
Despitethis broadlyfavorableperformanceKoreahasbecomethe victimof a regionalcontagion
effect that has focused attention on some of the underlyingweaknessesof the East Asian
economies.

2.      Since mid-1997, the East Asia region has suffered from unprecedentedvolatility in
currencyand financialmarketsthat is disruptingeconomicactivityin severalcountries.Market
turbulence commencedin Thailand in June, when the baht came under sustained pressure.
Thailand's predicament drew attention to other Southeast Asian countries, and the crisis
continuedtowiden.Koreawasaffectedin October,withmatterscomingto a headonNovember
19,whenthe Governmentformallyapproachedthe IMFforemergencyassistance.Sincethen the
won/$ exchangerate has depreciatedsteeplyfrom 910 to as high as 1850,interestrates have
risen from 14.5 percentto 24.5 percent,and the countrynow faces an extraordinaryliquidity
cruncharisingfrom the scale of short-termdebt,and the difficultyit is experiencingin rolling
this over.

3.      Theimmediatecause of the crisisin Koreais the inabilityto refinancesomeof the $20
billion in short-termdebtthatcomesdueduringDecember1997becauseof a collapsein market

                                                -31-                                APPENDIX2


confidence and a precipitous loss of usable foreign exchange reserves, to a level of only $7.3
billion by the beginning of December. While the Government is making every effort to resolve
the financial crisis in full compliance with the IMF program, we are seeking urgent World Bank
assistance to implement a program of fundamental economic reconstruction to remove the
vulnerabilities exposed by this crisis. Immediate World Bank support is critical in light of the
pressing economic circumstances, and will provide an effective bridge to the next stage of
structural reform.

                                THEECONOMICRECONSTRUCTION
                             ANDSTRUCTURALADJUSTMENTPROGRAM

4.      The premise of the reform program, of which the Economic Reconstruction Loan
supports the initial stage, is our belief that restoring market confidence and laying a sound
foundation for the future requires a dramatic shift in incentives and policies in corporate
governance and financial policies to reverse the fortunes of the economy, establish a firm basis
for prudential lending, reduce excessive leverage, make transparentand reduce inter-firm lending
and mutual guarantees, and promote more responsible behavior by both financial entities and the
corporate sector. We have announced a series of measures designed to underpin satisfactory
macroeconomic management and resolve the present financial crisis. It is our intention to work
closely with the World Bank on a substantial program of structural adjustment in the coming
weeks and months.

5.      Allow me to review the Government's actions in recent weeks. First, we have
implemented a program of remedial financial policies, including: (i) appropriate actions related
to the suspension of insolvent merchant banks; (ii) remedial actions to shore up capital of
impaired commercial banks, capitalization and operation of the Korea Asset Management
Corporation; and (iii) improvements in supervision through the creation of a consolidated,
independent supervisory agency.

6.        Second, we have undertaken several financial sector reforms, viz.: (i) halting all new
policy loans; (ii) consolidating deposit insurance agencies, (iii) maintaining the principle of the
"real name" system, and (iv) introducing a new requirement for conglomerates to prepare
consolidated balance sheets.

7.       Third, we have implemented capital market reforms to: (i) allow full foreign ownership of
merchant banks via mergers and acquisitions; (ii) facilitate greater equity ownership by foreign
banks by reviewing ownership limits; and (iii) raise the ceilings on foreign ownership of Korean
listed firms to 50 percent on December 12, andto 55 percent by the end of 1998.

8.       Our initial reform measures in the area of financial restructuring will be deepened by a
series of follow-up actions in the coming weeks. These financial sector policy actions will be
augmented by complementary policy adjustments in the areas of: (i) corporate governance;
(ii) competition policy; and (iii) labor market flexibility and social safety nets. The authorities are
committed to undertake a rigorous review of the additional reform measures required in these
areas in order to lay the foundation for the next stage of policy reforms in a medium-term

                                                  -32 -                         APPENDIX 2


program of structural adjustment. At the same time, confirmation of the ongoing workout process
will establish the basis for financial sector retrenchment and reconfiguration.


                               FINANCIALSECTOR RESTRUCTURING


Financial Sector Workout Program

9.      We have agreed upon a well-defined framework for suspension of insolvent merchant
banks. This includes agreement on both the contents of rehabilitation plans (seeAnnex A) and on
the criteria to be used injudging the adequacy of these plans (see Annex B). We will follow-up
to ensure satisfactory implementation of these agreed actions vis-a-vis suspended merchant
banks, including license revocation if warranted. All other merchant banks will be required to
present recapitalization programs to restore capital adequacy. The Government is committed to
speedy and effective implementation of recapitalization plans for merchant banks to meet BIS
requirements. Furthermore, we will consider accelerating the recapitalization plans if the
situation warrants.

10.     We are also committed to intensive supervision of distressed commercial banks and
appropriate actions to restore their capital adequacy. To that end, we are willing to ensure that
progress satisfactory to the World Bank will be made in preparation of the rehabilitation plans
for two major banks, and in provisioning of impaired assets in all commercial banks. We are also
willing to discuss the valuation methods for asset acquisition and the method of loss sharing. To
the extent that the Government has been forced to take positions in commercial banks, the
Government will refrain from affecting management's role and will divest its holdings as soon as
practicable.

11.     In order to support these critical financial sector workout operations, we have provided
adequate capitalization of the Korea Asset Management Corporation (KAMC) and agreed on
principles to guide its operations (see Annex C). Moreover, we are committed to ensure
satisfactory operation of the KAMC in accordance with these agreed principles, particularly that
KAMC will only offer support to financial institutions within the structure of agreed
rehabilitation plans.

Improved Supervision Framework

12.     We will establish the foundation for improved supervision by creating legislation for an
independent, consolidated supervisory agency with sufficient autonomy and capacity and will
provide for transitional arrangements to ensure adequate supervision. Progress in the execution
of the supervisory function will be demonstrated on the basis of agreed monitorable indicators
(seeAnnex D). The Government will take the necessary steps to strengthen institutional capacity
for effective supervision by timely implementation of a program of external technical training in
consultation with the World Bank. The supervisory agencies will review the provisioning
compliance of financial entities and report any non-compliance or excessive forbearance by
January 30, 1998. We are willing to reexamine with the World Bank ways to improve the process
of provisioning to reflect a borrower's "ability to pay".

                                                 33 -                             APPENDIX 2


Strengthening of the Financial Sector

13.      We have agreed to halt all directed lending. No newpolicy loans will be made through
MOFE, and any subsidized lending will be transparently given by the relevant sector Ministry
(e.g., agriculture) with the cost fully borne on the budget. New budgetary procedures will be
implemented to ensurethat there is a public disclosure of all fiscal assistance offered to financial
entities. Care will also be exercised to ensurethat no undue financial support will be extended by
public enterprises to the private sector.

14.      The deposit insurance function has been strengthened by consolidation of the various
deposit insurance functions in one agency with a clear mandate and adequate funding and
disclosure. The Government will review the deposit insurance policy, including coverage,
premium charged, Korean Deposit Insurance Corporation (KDIC) funding, and fiscal
implications in consultation with the World Bank.

15.      In order to improve the efficiency of financial entities, we have removed restrictions on
foreign participation in friendly mergers and acquisitions of domestic financial institutions,
consistent with supervisory requirements and sound competition policy, and will allow up to 100
percent foreign ownership for merchant banks. We will follow up by evaluating administrative or
policy criteria for mergers and acquisitions of financial institutions and strengthen the oversight
finction of the Fair Trade Commission to include financial business combinations. We will also
develop policy measures to provide disincentives to excessive gearing ratios (leverage). We have
maintained the basic principles of the "real name" system and will take steps to ensure
satisfactory implementation of the Fair Trade Act provision to reduce the level of mutual
guarantees offered by subsidiaries/affiliates and proper disclosure to shareholders of contingent
liabilities. In general, we will entertain policy reform to reduce the risks of moral hazard
behavior.

16.      The need for increased transparency and improved resource allocation will be met by
requiring consolidated balance sheetsfor joint stock companies.We will followup by examining
the system of promissory notes and review the "Policy on Inter-subsidiary Lending". We are also
committed to undertake a study to improve payment systems.

Developing an Efficient, Diversified and Competitive Financial System not Critically
Dependent on the Banking System

17.      In order to increase competition between banks, insurance and securities industries, we
will review the definition of the core businesses of each industry and measures to promote
competition between these sectors, with a view to promote savings, improve allocation of capital,
and improve intermediation efficiency. We plan to create an integrated legal framework for non-
deposit taking financial institutions and will review the existing legal framework for non-bank
financial entities engaged in leasing, venture capital, mortgage, specialized loans, factoring,
credit cards, etc., to eliminate segmentation and barriers to competition. We also plan to promote
institutional investors and will consider measures to promote development of institutional
investors such as mutual funds, public and private pension funds, and insurance companies to

                                                 - 34 -                             APPENDIX 2


increase diversification of funding sources and investment opportunities, and create incentives
for improved corporate governance.

18.      Furthermore, we will initiate improvements in our sovereign asset/liability management
by defining a strategy for public asset and liability management and measures to promote the
medium and long-term private debt market. Finally, we will take steps to promote foreign
competition in domestic financial markets by reducing barriers to entry, restrictions on issuance
of foreign debt and contracting of foreign loans.

                                     CORPORATE     GOVERNANCE

19.      We will strengthen the monitoring role of directors of joint stock companies and
strengthen accountability of directors to minority shareholders by actions such as greater use of
outside independent directors, clarifying the roles and responsibilities of directors to
shareholders, and reviewing barriers to court actions by minority shareholders against officers.

20.      We have improved financial disclosure by requiring independent external audits ofjoint
stock companies, based on full consolidation, and adequate disclosure, and will support this
measure in two ways. First, we will continue negotiations with appropriate international bodies
concermingthe provision of audit services in Korea by internationally recognized audit firms, and
review measures to further strengthen independence and qualifications of internal and external
auditors. Second, we will identify a program to move to effective application of international
accounting principles and international auditing standards by banks, large companies and
conglomerates.

21.      We are committed to strengthen capital markets and to review restrictions on new issues
by companies based on levels of dividend distribution. To this end, we have agreed tofacilitate
greater equity participation byforeign banks in domestic banks by reviewing ownership limits.
We will follow up with: (i) continuation of the program to reduce restrictions on foreign
ownership of listed Korean companies; (ii) preparation of a study of the implications of
introducing class action law suits for shareholders of listed companies; (iii) abolition of
restrictions on the voting rights of shares in listed companies held by investment trusts and trust
accounts of commercial banks, subject to prudential restrictions on improper use of voting rights;
and (iv) a review of restrictions on new share of issues by listed companies in order to increase
access to the equity markets.

                                        COMPETITIONPOLICY


22.     In order to facilitate efficient entry and exit of firmns,we have agreed to raise ceilings on
aggregate foreign ownership of listed Korean companies from 26 percent to 50 percent. Our
follow-up actions will include: (i) a review of measures to remove impediments to the effective
implementation of the bankruptcy and reorganization laws; (ii) review of the Anti-Bankruptcy
Accord amongst financial institutions with a view to its early cancellation; (iii) reduction of
government regulatory and privately imposed barriers to entry-exit, as well as a strengthening of
the KFTC's competition advocacy function in order to implement regulatory reform effectively;

                                           - 35-                          APPENDIX2


and (iv) encourageentryand deregulationin the provisionof infrastructureservicesin orderto
improvecompetitiveness.

23.    Ourcomplementarymeasuresto promotecompetitionwill aimto strengthenapplication
of the Fair Trade Act (FTA), especiallywith respect to inter-firmagreements,mergers and
acquisitions and preventing undue industrial concentration,and to develop a strategy for
vigorous enforcementof the FTA. We will also take measuresto promote transparencyby
clarifyingcriteriaand provideguidelinesforreviewsand measurestakenunderthe FTA, andto
fosterbusinessand consumerconfidencethroughannualpublicationof relevantinformationon
cases.

                         LABOR MARKETS ANDSOCIAL SAFETY NETS


24.    We recognizethe need to furtherpromotelabor marketflexibilityin order to facilitate
efficientredeploymentof labor and accommodateneeded structuralchange. Therefore,the
Governmentis committedto reviewlabormarketimpedimentsto industrialrestructuring,and to
prepare an appropriateprogram of measuresto improve labor market flexibility. This will
include:promotingredeployment,and deregulatingprivateprovisionof job placementservices
andmanpowerleasingservices,infullconsultationwithlaborandmanagement.

25.    Werecognizethatwrenchingstructuralchangeswillimposenewhardshipsonvulnerable
groups. Therefore,we are determinedto strengthenmeasures to ease the social costs of
adjustmentTothat endthe Governmentis committedto: (i)monitorand reportonthe leveland
distribution of poverty using multipurposenational householdsurvey data, and prepare an
appropriatemitigationplan;(ii) assessthe adequacyandtargetingof fiscalexpendituresonsocial
safety nets (including unemploymentbenefits); and (iii) evaluate the long-term financial
viability, efficiency and equity of the social securityprograms, and formulate appropriate
reforms.




                                                 Chang-YuelLim
                                             DeputyPrimeMinisterand
                                          Ministerof FinanceandEconomy

                                               - 36 -                         APPENDIX 2


      ANNEX A: TABLE OF CONTENTS-BANK REHABILITATION PLANS

                        MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND ECONOMY

1. CURRENT SITUATION


      1.1      Overview
      1.2      Key sources of weaknesses
      1.3      Asset Quality
      1.4      Off balance sheet items and contingent liabilities
      1.5      Liquidity
      1.6      Shareholders Equity
      1.7      Capital Adequacy
      1.8      Asset/Liability Mismatching
      1.9      Foreign Currency (Open positions; plus creditrisks)

2. GROUP AND MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE

      2.1      Group Structure (Shareholders, Cross-shareholdings, Broader group structure)
      2.2      Governance and Management


3. REHABILITATION PLAN


      3.1      Overview
      3.2      Recapitalization Plan
               3.2.3 Details of Proposed Recapitalization
               3.2.4 Evidence of sources of Recapitalization Funds
      3.5      Liquidity Plan
               3.3.6 Details of Proposed Liquidity Plan
               3.3.7 Evidence of sources of Liquidity
      3.8      Detailed Plan
               3.4.9 Government and management
               3.4.10 Strategy
               3.4.11 Credit risk management and controls
               3.4.12 Financial and other risk management and controls
               3.4.13 Operations
               3.4.14 Informationtechnology
               3.4.15 Human resources
      3.16     Detailed Assets Plan
      3.17     Financial Projections

18. FINANCIAL REPORTING PACKAGE

      The following Financial Schedules should be included with the submission of the
Rehabilitation Plan:

                                           -37 -                             APPENDIX 2



1.     Balance Sheet (Projected December 31, 1997)
2.     RecapitalizationPlan(Equity)
3.     RecapitalizationPlan(BalanceSheet)
4.     Restructuringof Liabilities
5.     Newsourcesof liquidity
6.     RehabilitationPlanProjections
7.     Repaymentof LiquiditySupport
8.     Key Assumptions
9.     CapitalAgency
       ThefollowingadditionalFinancialSchedulesshouldbesubmittedon completionofthe Due
Diligenceprocess(inordertoprovideadditionaldataofthe financialpositionas atDecember31, 1997
basedonactualfiguresatyearend,after duediligenceby theReportingAccountants):

A. BalanceSheet(afterduediligence)
B. Securities
C. Loans(Summary)
D. Loans(andContingents)(Detail)
E. DepositorsandBorrowings
F. MaturityAnalysis
G. CurrencyPositions
H. CapitalAdequacy(afterduediligence)
I. HistoricFinancialInformation

                                             -38 -                        APPENDIX2


    ANNEXB:CRITERIAFORTHEEVALUATIONOFREHABILITATIONAND
 BUSINESSPLANSOFSUSPENDEDANDOPERATINGFINANCIALINSTITUTIONS



       The followingprovidesthe key benchmarksthat should be imposedon suspendedand
operatingfinancialinstitutions.Theseelementsrepresentcriticalthresholdsthat, if not met, will
triggeran automaticresolutionprocess(purchaseof selectedassetsand liabilities,closure,etc.).
The criteriaare minimumthresholdsagainstwhichsubmittedplanswillbe evaluated.In specific
cases,the authoritiesmayimposeadditionalcriteriaastheydeemnecessary.

       (a)    Recapitalization/ CapitalAdequacy

              (i)     GuidelinesforCapitalAdequacyRatios:

              * Require minimum capital ratios based on Basle risk-weighted capital
                  adequacycalculations.

              * Requirerecapitalizationto be a permanent source of funds with specified
                  Basleriskweightedcapitaladequacyratiosto be met overthe next 3-5 years,
                  consistentwithbalancesheetprojections.

              * Specifyseparatecapitaladequacyratios dependingonthe proposedfinancial
                  institutionentity:(a) a stand-alonemerchantbank with existingand/or new
                  investors,(b)merchantbankmergerwithanotheror groupof merchantbanks,
                  (c)merger with another financial institution (e.g., merchant bank with
                  commercialbank).

              .   Define the compositionand calculationof capital; the Basle Committee
                  standardsforcapitaladequacydefinitionshouldbe usedwithspecificreserves
                  againstspecificloansexcludedfromTier2 capital.Creditwillonly be given
                  to forms of capital so defined will be given in the measure of capital
                  adequacy.

              * Requireall lossesand doubtfulassets identifiedthroughcomprehensivedue
                  diligenceandotherwisebe takenpriorto the injectionof new capitalreserves.
                  In the caseof injectionof publicassetsor money,existingshareholdersmust
                  firstrealizethe identifiedlosses.

              * Requiredetailedevidenceof the sourcesof capital funds through copiesof
                  documentsevidencingcommittedsources.

              * Foreigncapital,up to 100percent,will be consideredequivalentto domestic
                  capitalforpurposesof capitaladequacy.

                                    - 39 -                              APPENDIX 2


(b)  Due Diligence Evaluations

     (i)    Require an independent due diligence review of the subject companies'
            balance sheet and income statement to identify loss and doubtful assets
            and to provide a greater understanding of the nature of the subject
            company, ownership structure, and its operations. All related subsidiaries
            that influence the liability and health of the subject institution must be
            covered. Off balance sheet items should also be evaluated.

    (ii)    A limited list of approved (by the authorities), qualified external auditors
            shall conduct the reviews. Auditors cannot perform reviews of a customer
            with which they have had a previous audit relationship in the past three
            years. Auditors will follow the designated terms of reference provided by
            the authorities and will be granted full access to information necessary to
            complete the due diligence reviews.

(c)  Repayment of Liquidity Facilities Provided Directly or Indirectly by KDIC/Bank
     of Korea and Other GovernmentalEntities

            Require that the submitted rehabilitation plans provide for repayment of
            any previously such provided liquidity facilities with certain specified
            timeframes.

(d)  Liquidity Management

     (i)    Require that evidence of sufficient sources of funding and liquidity are
            provided. All efforts should be expended to ensure that the institution does
            not once again require funding support from public sources of liquidity.
            Evaluate the sources of future planned liquidity in light of balance sheet
            projections and plans for growth. Such sources and projections must be
            reasonable in light of realistically anticipated economic and financial
            market conditions. Sources must be evidenced by documented sources of
            arranged letters of credit, standby letters of credit. Liquidity/cash must be
            deposited in an account and ready for access on the day of business
            resumption. The level and availability of funds must be verifiable three
            days prior to business resumption.

    (ii)    For the upcoming year, the domestic and foreign currency asset and
            liability maturity mismatch for zero to seven days must be closely matched
            with demonstrable backup facilities available to fund any shortage. The
            bank should submit a plan to lengthen liabilities to achieve a more
            balanced position by June 1998. Gap positions in any timeframe (15-day,
            30-day, 60-day, etc.) should not exceed 10 percent of total assets with
            similar cumulative position limitation. Reporting must be developed to
            allow monitoring of the complete gap and asset liability structure of the
            balance sheet.

                                      -40 -                               APPENDIX 2


(e)  Criteria for Management Qualifications

     (i)      Require rigorous management qualifications for executive and senior
             management team. The individuals or committee responsible for the
             evaluation of the rehabilitation plans should require sufficient capability,
             experience and a high level of integrity are possessed by the management
             team.

    (ii)      Management must possess sound historical performance and evidence no
             history of mismanagement, violations of law, or other suspect activity.

    (iii)    Proposed management must not be known to have engaged in less than
             responsible business dealings.

    (iv)      Managementmust not possess a poor debt service or tax payment history.

     (v)      Final discretion for the approval of submitted management tearns should
             rest with those responsible for plan evaluation and decisionmaking.

(f)  Business and Strategic Plans and Projected Financial Position

     In order to support response to the above recommended conditions and to gain
     further insight into shareholders' and management plans to address current
     weaknesses and future business intent, projections and strategy should be
     provided. Plans for improving business efficiency, establishing sound policy and
     procedure in areas of credit decision making, credit policy, credit review;
     investments, asset liability management, financial audit, internal control, overall
     risk management and risk monitoring should be included. Details of the
     information and data that should be included in the rehabilitation plan are
     contained in a separate schedule.

(g)  Notification of Decision

     The specification for rehabilitation criteria should inform the subject institution
     that if the plan, upon submission not past the set due date, are not determined by
     the evaluation body to be viable in any element, the authorities will close and
     revoke the institutions' license with institutional and asset resolution to follow.

                                                -41-                               APPENDIX2



         ANNEXC: KOREAASSETMANAGEMENTCORPORATION(KAMC):
                           PRINCIPLES TO GUIDEOPERATIONS

DesignatedPurpose

1.      The purpose of KAMC is to purchase assets from financial institutions and thereafter
dispose them on a timely basis, but according to optimal market timing to avoid an unmanaged
flow of assets into the marketplace.

2.      The prescribed method of asset purchase by KAMC is directed by a preestablished scale
according to classification of the asset and its underlying collateral. Thereafter, the value of the
asset is to be adjusted according to the "calculated actual selling price of the collateral" with the
resulting difference settled with the selling institution.

3.      Any loss resulting from the process described in (2) above will be realized immediately.
Any profit or loss incurred after sale of the asset by KAMC will be taken on KAMC books.

4.      Funds generated from KAMC asset sales will be used to acquire further assets from
financial institutions.

Key Underlying Principles for KAMC Operation

1.      KAMC should be adequately capitalized and should maintain capital ratios sufficient to
support ongoing operations and to encouragemethodical asset inventory turnover.

2.      KAMC's overall operating strategy should reflect sound commercial principles.

3.      Asset purchase and inventory holding accounting should be based on established
valuation methodologies (generally should be cash flow based).

4.      Rigorous, documented operating procedure and internal controls should be in place,
including procedure and controls over asset transaction and bidding process.

5.      KAMC should receive regular, independent audits of the consolidated company
according to international accounting standards.

6.      Any form of financial institution support through the KAMC asset purchase program will
be provided only as a part of approved rehabilitation plans.

                                                -42-                               APPENDIX 2



             ANNEX D: REPORTING INDICATORS FOR SUPERVISION OF
                                  THE FINANCIAL SECTOR

1.     Under the Economic Reconstruction Loan, the Republic of Korea agrees to report to the
World Bank on a regular basis the following key information pertaining to the status of the
financial system andthe operations of the supervisory agencies.

2.     Weekly Report. This report will contain:

       (a)     Current situation of the total and usable Bank of Korea (BOK) reserves;

       (b)     Statistics and description of major developments in major interest rates and
               exchangerates;

3.     Monthly Report (Foreign Exchange). This report will contain:

       (a)     Current situation and projections (for the next two months) of the total and usable
               BOK reserves, and principal inflows and outflows affecting aggregate reserves
               (including debt service payments on short and long term external debt, classified
               by real and financial sector);

       (b)     Statistics and description of experience with respect to rollover of short-term
               external debt of financial institutions, as part of foreign exchange exposure;

4.     Monthly Report (Financial Sector). This report will contain:

       (a)     Current situation and principal movements in the volume of funding provided by
               BOK and Government (GOK) to:

               (i)     each of the largest five commercial banks, all merchant banks and all
                       public banks;

              (ii)     breakdown of system aggregates by principal sectors such as commercial,
                       merchant, public banks, and specializedbanks;

       (b)     Information on principal balance sheet aggregates including loans and assets,
               deposits and other funding, liquidity, nonperforming loans, loan classification,
               provisioning, capital adequacy ratios, and funding provided by BOK and GOK
               broken down as in 4 (a) above.

       (c)     Description of the major current and expected trends affecting credit markets and
               liquidity situationof the banking system.

       (d)     Description of the major current and expected trends affecting real sector liquidity
               and credit situation,bankruptcies, and any changes in govermmentpolicy.

                                 -43 -                        APPENDIX 2


(e) Status of suspended financial entities, progress on rehabilitation plans,
    Memorandumof Understanding,Cease and Desist or other directed actions
    against financial entities, due diligence evaluations, plans for mergers,
    acquisitions,closures,andreopenings.

(f) Supervisory/governmentalactions-such as those pertaining to organization,
    personnel,budgetand otherresources-to establishoperationalinfrastructurefor
    resolutionof troubledfinancialinstitutions.

(g) Progress report on consolidationof supervisoryagencies,explainingproblems
    encountered,budget, personnelsituation,interruptionof supervisoryactivities,
    and inspectionschedules.

(h) Principal changes in CAMELprudentialregulationand details on forbearance
    fromprudentialnormsinthe samedegreeof detailas in4 (a)above.

(i) Progress report describingmajor KAMC actions includingassets purchased,
    guaranteed,disposedof,financingprovidedandreceivedand expectedchangesin
    KAMC'sfinancial,legalandoperationalstatus.

                                                 -44 -                        APPENDIX 3




                                     APPENDIX 3: STATISTICS

                       TABLE 1: KOREA: MACROECONOMICFRAMEWORK,1992-98



                                          1992   1993   1994   1995    1996    1997Est. 1998 Proj


Real GDP growth (percent change)            5.1    5.8    8.6     8.9     7.1     6.0       2.5
  Consumption                               6.8    5.3    7:0     7.2     6.9     5.1       1.4
  Gross fixed investment                   -0.8    5.3   12.0   11.7      7.1    -3.0     -14.2
  Stockbuilding                            -0.5   -1.0    1.4    -0.5     0.9    -3.0       1.2
  Net foreign balance                       1.7    1.4   -1.7     0.5    -0.3     7.0       5.4

Saving and investment (in percent of GDP)
  Gross domestic investment                36.6  35.1    36.1   37.0     38.2    36.0      33.5
  Gross national saving                    35.1  35.2    34.9   35.1     33.3    32.9      32.9
  Current account balance                  -1.5    0.1   -1.2    -2.0    -4.9    -3.1      -0.6


Prices (percent change)
  Average CPI inflation                     6.2    4.8    6.2     4.5     4.9     4.3       5.0
  End-period CPI inflation                  4.5    5.8    5.6     4.7     4.9     4.2       5.2
  GDP deflator                              6.1    5.1    5.5     5.6     3.4     3.0       4.1


Government Budget (in percent of GDP)
 Revenues                                  18.3   19.4   20.1   20.7     21.9    21.6      23.6
 Expenditures                              19.0   19.1   19.7   20.3     21.6    22.1      22.6
 Balance                                   -0.7    0.3    0.5     0.3     0.3    -0.5       1.0


Money and credit (end of period)
 M3 growth                                 21.8   19.0   24.7    19.1    16.7    15.4       9.0
 Reserve money growth                      10.9  27.5     9.2    16.3   -12.2    -9.5       9.0
 Three-year corporate bond yield           16.2   12.6   12.9    11.7    12.6    18.7      --


Trade (percent change)
 Export volume                              8.4    6.8   14.9   23.8     18.9    24.8       9.6
 Import volume                              2.0    6.5   21.5   21.1     12.6     7.5      -3.6
 Terms of trade                            ---     4.4    1.2    -3.5   -11.7    -7.9      -3.7


Balance of payments (in $ billion)
 Exports, fo.b.                            75.2   80.9   93.7   123.2   128.3   138.6     143.8
 Imports, f.o.b.                           77.3   79.1   96.8  -128.0  -143.6  -145.1    -137.4
 Current account balance                   -4.5    0.4   -4.5    -8.9   -23.7   -13.8      -2.3
 Reserve cover                              2.2    2.5    2.6     2.5     2.0     0.8       2.4


External debt ($ billion)
 Total external debt                       42.8   43.9   56.8    78.4   104.7   101.5     126.8
 External debt in percent of GDP           14.0   13.3   14.7    17.2    21.6    22.9      30.7



Source:Bank of Korea.

                                                    -45-                                  APPENDIX 3


     TABLE2: KOREA: BALANCEOFPAYMENTSANDFINANCINGREQUIREMENTS,                                 1993-98
                                                 ($ million)


                                              1993         1994       1995       1996      1997Est   1998P'oi

Currentaccountbalance                           385       -4,531     -8,948   -23,716      -13,881     -2,342
Tradebalance                                  1,860       -3,145     -4,747   -15,306       -6,491      6,438
  Exports                                    80,950       93,676    123,203   128,303      138,586    143,840
  Imports                                    79,090       96,822    127,949   143,609      145,077    137,402
Servicesandtransfers(net)                    -1,476       -1,385     -4,201     -8,410      -7,320     -8,780

Capitalaccountbalance                         2,610        9,146     15,987    23,741      -11,126      3,342
 Directinvestment                              -540       -1,318     -1,880     -1,981      -1,432     -1,000
 Portfolioinvestment                         10,725        6,805      8,518     11,207       7,679       678
 Tradecredits                                -2,021        3,163     3,096      4,310         409       -112
 Depositmoneybanks/a                         -3,449        2,591     4,014      5,721      -15,463      2,976
 Other                                       -1,285         374       3,685     3,490         277        800
 Errorsandomissions                            -820       -2,470     -1,446       994       -5,596         0

Overallbalance                                2,994        4,615      7,039        25      -27,937      1,000

Financing                                    -2,994        4,615     -7,039        -25      27,937     -1,000
Changein reserves(-increase)Lb               -3,009       -4,614     -7,039        -25      16,937    -23,000

Memorandumitems:
Currentaccountbalance
  (asapercentofGDP)                              0.1        -1.2       -2.0       -4.9        -3.1       -0.6
 Grossinternationalreserves                  20,261       25,673     32,712     33,237      44,150     67,150
Usablereservecover(monthsof imports
  of goodsand nonfactorservices)L                2.5         2.6        2.5         2          0.8        2.4


LaAdjustedupwardto includethe impactofforeigncurrencyliquiditysupportby the Bankof Koreato overseasbranchesof
  DMBs.
LbAdjustedtoexcludethe impactof foreigncurrencyliquiditysupportbytheBankofKoreato overseasbranchesofDMBs.

Source: BankofKorea.

                                                  -46-                              APPENDIX 3


   TABLE3: KOREA:SUMMARYOFCONSOLIDATED                  CENTRALGOVERNMENT          OPERATIONS,
                                                1992-98



                                              1992    1993   1994      1995     1996 1997Est 1998
                                                                                                Prj


                                                             (Intrillionsof won)

Totalrevenue                                  43.8    51.5   61.7      72.8     85.5   92.2    107.2
Centralgovernmentrevenue                      43.8    50.7   61.1      72.1     84.2   91.6    105.8
 Taxrevenue                                   35.4    39.4   47.2      56.8     65.0   70.5     78.7
 Socialsecuritycontributions                   2.4     4.1    4.6       5.4      7.4     7.9     12.5
 Nontaxrevenueand capitalincome                6.0     7.2    9.3       9.9     11.8    13.2     14.6
Publicenterprises'specialaccountsrevenue       0.0     0.8    0.6       0.7      1.3     0.6     1.4

Expenditures                                  45.5    50.7   60.3      71.6     84.4   94.1    106.2
Centralgovernmentexpenditures                 45.0    49.0   60.1      71.1     82.4   91.5     102.6
 Currentexpenditures                          35.4    39.1   45.7      49.9     55.4    63.9     71.0
 Capitalexpendituresandnet lending             9.6     9.9   14.4      21.2     27.0    27.5     31.6
Publicenterprises'specialaccountexpenditure    0.5     1.7    0.2       0.5      2.0     2.7     3.6
Centralgovernmentbalance                       -1.2    1.7    0.9        1.0     1.8     0.1     3.2

Consolidatedcentralgovernmentbalance           -1.7    0.8    1.4        1.2     1.1    -1.9      1.0
Financing                                       1.7    -0.8  -1.4       -1.2    -1.1     1.9     -1.0
 Domestic                                       2.0    -0.4  -1.0       -0.9    -0.8     2.2     -0.7
 Foreign                                       -0.3    -0.4  -0.4       -0.3    -0.3    -0.3     -0.3

                                                             (InpercentofGDP)

Totalrevenue                                   18.2   19.3   20.2      20.7     21.9    21.6     22.7
Centralgovernmentrevenue                       18.2   19.0   20.0      20.5     21.6    21.5     22.4
 Taxrevenue                                    0.1    14.8   15.5       16.1    16.7    16.6     16.7
 Socialsecuritycontributions                    1.0     1.5   1.5        1.5     1.9     1.9     2.6
 Nontaxrevenuesandcapitalincome                 2.5    2.7    3.0        2.8     3.0     3.1     3.1
Publicenterprises'specialaccountsrevenue       0.0     0.3    0.2        0.2     0.3     0.1      0.3

Expenditures                                   18.9   19.3   20.2       20.3    21.6    22.1     22.5
Centralgovermmentexpenditures                  18.7    18.4  19.7       20.2    21.1    21.5     21.7
  Currentexpenditures                          14.7    14.7  15.0       14.2    14.2    15.0     15.1
 Capitalexpendituresandnet lending              4.0    3.7    4.7        6.0     6.9     6.5      6.7
Publicenterprises'specialaccountsexpenditure    0.2    0.9    0.5        0.1     0.5     0.6      0.8
Centralgovernmentbalance                       -0.5     0.6   0.3        0.3     0.5     0.0      0.7

Consolidatedcentralgovernmentbalance           -0.7     0.3   0.5        0.3     0.3    -0.5      0.2
Memorandumitem:
 NominalGDP(in trillionwon)                   240.7   266.8 305.4      352.0    390.0  425.8    471.8



Source: Ministryof FinanceandEconomy.

                                                  -47-                       APPENDIX 3


               TABLE4: KOREA:RESERVEMONEYANDFINANCIALSURVEY,1992-98
                                  (Inbillionsofwon;endofperiod)


                                     1992       1993    1994    1995    1996  1997EFL 1998 '4

Netforeignassets                    13,530     16,395  20,303 22,707  24,858   9,982   33,082
 Assets                             14,391     17,412  21,607 23,356  25,488   11,121  34,221
 Liabilities                          861       1,017   1,304    649     630    1,139   1,139

Net domesticassets                   4,577     6,685   4,901   6,598     864   13,290  -7,711
 Publicsector                       -1,403     -1,762  -3,197  -4,307  -3,991  -5,491  -5,491
 Privatefinancialsector             32,170     36,788  37,132  37,233 34,164   14,852  -6,148
 Otheritems                        -26,190    -28,341 -29,034 -26,327 -29,308  3,928    3,928

Reservemoney                        18,107     23,080  25,204  29,306 25,722   23,271  25,371

Financialsurvey
Netforeignassets                     6,007      9,156   9,421   5,198   -711  -24,396  -5,641
Netdomesticassets                 292,271     345,777 433,242 521,819 615,672 734,172 779,447
 Publicsector                        8,764     11,248  11,384  8,979   9,616   11,098  12,099
 Privatesector                    299,390     352,872 443,855 528,981 628,444 747,278 791,552
 Otheritems                        -15,883    -18,343 -21,997 -16,141 -22,387 -24,205 -24,205
Totalliquidity(M3)                298,277     354,933 442,663 527,017 614,962 709,775 773,806

Memorandumitems:
Reservemoney
 Twelve-monthpercentchange            10.9      27.5      9.2    16.3   -12.2    -9.5     9.0
M3
 Twelve-monthpercentchange           21.8        19.0   24.7     19.1    16.7    15.4     9.0


Source: BankofKorea,MonthlyStatkticalBulletin.

                                           -48-                           APPENDIX3


       TABLE5: ASSETSOFTHEKOREANFINANCIALSYSTEM(END-SEPTEMBER                 1997)


                                                    In billion won    In percent of total
                                                                    financial system assets


Deposit money banks                                     733,984              59.75
15Nationwide commercial banks                           273,750              22.28
Trust accounts of commercial banks La                   266,669              21.71
Korea Housing Bank Lb                                    30,456               2.48
10 Regional commercial banks                             52,783               4.30
49 Foreign bank branches                                 28,121               2.29
4 Specialized banks                                      82,205               6.69
    Industrial Bank of Korea                             29,499               2.40
    National Agricultural Cooperative Federation         42,145               3.43
    National Federation of Fisheries Cooperative           4,972              0.40
    National Livestock CooperativesFederation              5,589              0.46


Nonbank financial institutions                          494,480              40.25
3 Development Institutions                               99,462               8.10
    Korea Development Bank                               71,082               5.79
    Export Import Bank of Korea                          11,303               0.92
    Korea Long-Term Credit Bank                          17,077               1.39
Investment Institutions                                 159,342              12.97
    30 Merchant banks                                    53,744               4.37
    25 Investment Trust Companies                        97,948               7.97
    Korea SecuritiesFinance Corporation                    7,650              0.62
Savings Institutions                                    147,529              12.01
    Mutual Credits                                       55,179               4.49
    Mutual Savings and Finance Companies                 37,553               3.06
    Credit Unions                                         18,200              1.48
    Community Credit Cooperatives                        27,475               2.24
    Postal Savings                                         9,122              0.74
35 Life Insurance Institutions                           88,147               7.18


       Total Financial System                         1,228,464             100.00


La Trust account business is carried out by the commercial banks but classified by BOK as
   nonbank financial intermediation.

Lb Korea Housing Bank became a commercial bank in August 1997.

Source: Bank of Korea.

                                                         -49-                                    APPENDIX 3


            TABLE6: KoREA:EXTERNAL                 DEBTBYMATURITY             ANDBORROWER,      1992-97
                                                      ($ million)


                                                    1992         1993         1994       1995     1996   Sep 1997

Medium-andlong-termdebtLIa                          24,308      24,705       26,458      33,137  43,711   54,071
 Financialinstitutions                              12,207       13,034      13,897      19,612  27,693   35,075
   Nonbankfinancialinstitutions                      7,729       9,043       10,388      13,590  17,524   22,625
   Conmmercial  banks                                4,478       3,991        3,509       6,022  10,169   12,450
 Publicsector                                        5,592       3,828        3,551       3,031   2,412    2,112
 Privatesector                                       6,510        7,843       9,010      10,494  13,607   16,884

Short-termdebt/a                                    18,511       19,165      30,391      45,301  60,984   65,626
 Financialinstitutions                              11,303       11,369      19,406      29,670  38,976   39,868
   Interoffice"A"account/b                           4,523       4,835        7,699      92,210  11,295   12,411
   Refinance                                           137           20         193        663    1,425    1,684
   Nonresidents'deposits                               91          126          138        203     287       352
   Other                                             6,552        6,288      11,376      19,594  25,969   25,421
 Privatenonbanksector                                7,208        7,796      10,985      15,631  22,009   25,758
   Tradecredits                                      4,462       4,245        6,196       9,448  14,095   15,661
   Loansfor oil imports                              1,467        1,697       2,252       2,835   4,410    4,346
   Advancereceiptsof exports,andothers               1,279        1,854       2,537       3,348   3,504    5,751

          Total In                                  42,819      43,870       56,849      78,438  104,695  119,697

Memorandumitems:
   Borrowingsof nonresidentnonfinancialentitiesInId 16,667       18,764      22,503      32,456   46,220  51,2821&
    Tradefinancing                                   8,921        9,935      11,249      16,157  22,250   23,243Lc
    Constructionfinancing                            2,488       2,760        3,139       3,734   4,920    5,277,k
    Other                                            5,258        6,069       8,115      12,565  19,050   22,571IL
   Debt/GDPratio                                      14.0         13.3        14.7        17.2    21.6        ...
   Netdebt/GDPratioLf                                  4.2          2.2         2.6         4.1      7.2       ...


la Contractedonshore.
LbExternaldebtof branchesof foreignbanks.
LnExternalborrowingofbranchesorsubsidiariesofKoreancorporationsresidingabroad.
LdSomeamountof thisdebtcouldbe includedinexternaldebtcontractedonshore(i.e.,doublecounted).
IQEnd-June1997.
LfGrossdebtlessforeignassetsof thebankingsystem.

Source: BankofKorea.

                                                                                 -50-                                                                    APPENDIX4




                        APPENDIX4: STATUSOF BANKGROUP OPERATIONSIN                                                                  KOREA

                                              IBRDLoans and IDACredits in the Operations Portfolio

                                                                                                                                    Difference
                                                                                                                               betweenexpectedand           LastARPP
               Loanor     Fiscal                                                          Originalamountin Smillion          | actualdisbursementsLa | supervisionratingL
 ProjectID    CreditNo.    year        Borrower                 Purpose           IBRD        IDA     Canceled     Undisb.      Orig.     FrmRev'd     DevObj      ImpProg

Numberof ClosedLoans/credits:121
ActiveLoans
KR-PE-4167 IBRD34690 1992 GOK                            VocationalSchoolsD           30.00       0.00      0.00          .92         .88        0.00     HS         HS
KR-PE-4165 IBRD34680 1992 GOK                            ScienceEd.&Library           50.00       0.00      0.00         2.05        1.90        0.00     HS         HS
KR-PE-4170 IBRD36130 1993 RepofKorea                     PtrlDist& SecMgmt           120.00       0.00      0.00       25.21       25.21       23.55       S          S
KR-PE-4171 IBRD36120 1993 Govtof Korea                   EnvironResearch&E            60.00       0.00       0.00       19.08       14.73        0.00      S          S
KR-PE-4169 IBRD35900 1993 ROK                            Seoul&KwangjuSewe           110.00       0.00      49.25       31.36      79.28       30.03       S          S
KR-PE-4174 IBRD36940 1994 GOK                            EnvTechnologyDevel           90.00       0.00       0.00       19.98       17.99        0.00     HS          S
KR-PE-4168 IBRD36930 1994 GOK                            Sci&TechEducSect            190.00       0.00      0.00        75.25       16.90        0.00     HS         HS
KR-PE-4172 IBRD36890 1994 KoreaGovernment                FinclIntermediation         100.00       0.00        .18        1.46       *4.86        0.00     HS          S
KR-PE-35079IBRD38300       1995 GOK                      WasteDisposalProje           75.00       0.00       0.00       68.54      31.70         0.00      S          S
KR-PE-4175 IBRD38280       1995 KoreaGovernment          PusanUrbTransp.&Mg          100.00       0.00       0.00       72.65      34.49         0.00     HS          HS
KR-PE-4173 IBRD37930       1995 KoreaGovernment          PortsDev& Environ           100.00       0.00       0.00       64.51      41.18         0.00      S          S

  Total                                                                            1,025.00       0.00      49.43     381.01       259.40      53.58


                                                ActiveLoans         ClosedLoans       Total
TotalDisbursed(IBRDandIDA):                           594.55            7,107.11    7,701.66
   ofwhichhasbeenrepaid:                                 4.19           6,073.12    6,077.31
TotalnowheldbyIBRDandIDA:                             971.38            1,033.99    2,005.37
Amountsold            :                                  0.00             131.51      131.51
 Ofwhichrepaid         :                                 0.00             131.51      131.51
TotalUndisbursed        :                             381.01                0.00     381.01


La Intendeddisbursementsto dateminusactualdisbursementstodateasprojectedatappraisal.
1k Followingthe FY94AnnualReviewof Portfolioperformance(ARPP),a letterbasedsystemwas introduced(HS=        highly Satisfactory,S  satisfactory,U = unsatisfactory,HU = highly
   unsatisfactory):seeproposedImprovementsinProjectandPortfolioPerformanceRatingMethodology(SecM94-901),August23, 1994.

                                         -51-                         APPENDIX4


     Statement of IFC's Committedand Disbursed Portfolio,as of November30, 1997
                                      (In$ million)


                                         Committed                 Disbursed
FYApproval       Company         Loan Equity Quasi   Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic

1968/74/76/77/78/KLTCB           0.00   13.37   0.00  0.00   0.00 13.37 0.00    0.00
 80/90/94198
1971/74/76/9/80/HanaBank         0.00    2.17   0.00  0.00   0.00  2.17  0.00   0.00
 82/85/89/91/94/
 97/00
1974/76/77/79/80/LGElectronics   0.00   11.43    0.00 0.00   0.00 11.43  0.00   0.00
 84/85/87/88/89/
 91/92/93/96
1977/9/87/90     KDLC            0.00    1.22   0.00  0.00   0.00  1.22  0.00   0.00
1983/91          KDIC            0.00    1.72   0.00  0.00   0.00  1.72  0.00   0.00
1985             KDIC-Seoshin    0.00    0.31   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.31  0.00   0.00
1985             KDIC-SKChemical 0.00    0.12   0.00  0.00   0.00  0.12  0.00   0.00

  Total Portfolio                0.00 30.34     0.00  0.00   0.00 30.34  0.00   0.00

                                 ApprovalsPendingCommitment
                                LM Euyan SQuit Pnt
1988             GOLDSTAR(12)RI   0.00   2.62    0.00  0.00

  TotalPendingCommitment         0.00    2.62    0.00 0.00

                                                                  -52 -                                               APPENDIX 5


                             APPENDIX 5: KOREA AT A GLANCE


POVERtY and SOCIAL:                                                     East     High-
                                                           Korea        Asia   income       Developmentdismond^

PopulationmidA1995   (millions)                              44.9      1t709      902
GNPpercapita1995fuSS)                                        9,700       830    24,370                Lifeexpectancy
GNP195ofbllions JSS)                                         435.1     1,418    21,982

Average:annualgrowth, 1990-95-

Population(I )                                                 0.9        1.3      0.7      GNP                                 Gross
Laborforce(:)                                                  1.9        1.4      0.8      p
                                                                                            per   iprimary
Mostrecentstlwnat       ltestyear availablesInce1989)-                                      capita                          enrollment

Poverty:haadcountIndexN(96   ofpopulation)
Urbanpopulation(96of tol poputaion)                             81         31      78
Life expectancyat birth(years)                                  72         68      77
Infantmortaliiyrpe1,000live births)                             11         36       7                Accessto safewater
Childmanurittin (96of:childranunder5)                            .         17
Accesstoisafeiwater:(%ofpopulation)                             89         77      94
                Illiteracyege(96 of populalion
                              tS+)                               2         17      <5
Grosspranar     Onrollment(1of chool-gepopulafion)            1010       117      104            -    Korea,Rep.
  Male                                                        100        120      104                 High-incomegroup
  Female                                                       102       116      104

KEYECONOMICRATIOSandLOcG1TERIITRENDS.

                                                  1975       1986       1994     1995
                                                                                            Economicratios'
GDP;(billonsUSs)                                   21.2      94.3      380.8     455.5s
GrossdomesticinvestmentUGDP                       .27.0       29,6      36.1      37.1              Opennessofeconomy
Exportsof goodsand nor-factorservicealGDP          27.8      34.1       30.1      33.2              O
GrossidomesticsavingslGDP                          18.5       30.9      35.3      36.1
Grossnational eavingsIGOP                          17.7      281        34.7

CurrentaccountbialencelGDP                          -9.2      -1.6        0.4
Interest.pymentslGOPi:                              1.6        2.9        0.6        ..     Savings                        Investment
TotaldebtGDOP                                      39.6       60.0      14.3
TotaldebtaserviceIexportsi                         12.9      27.3         7.3.
PresentvalueofdebtlGDP                                 ..        ..     13.1
Presentvalue ofdebUexports               .             ..        ..     45.8                            Indebtedness

                                      1976:4    1985485      1994       1995. 199644
(average annual.growth)                                                                               Korea,Rep.
GDP                                        7.5      8.5        8.4        9.0
GNPpercapita                              13.2      7.7        7.3        7.8                         High-incomegroup
Exports,ofgoodsandnfsI                    .12.3    10.5       16.2      18.3



STRUCTUREof the ECONOMY

                                                  1976       1985       1994      1996       Growthratesof output andInvestment(%)
fX of GDP)
Agriculture                                        24.1       12.5        7.0                20
Industry                                           33.4       41.0      42.8
  Manufacturng                                     26.1       29.3      26.8         ..      15
Services                                           42.5       46.5      50.1

Privateconsumption                                 70.4       59.0      54.1      53.6      -101                  2     9     94    96
Generalgovemmentconsumption                        11.1       10.1       10.6     10.4                      GDI     -     GP
Importsof goodsandnon-factorservices               36.3       32.8      30.8      34.2


(averageannualgrowth)                           1975W     1985-95       1994      1S95      Growthratesof exportsandImports(%)

Agriculture                                          0.6        0.6       1.2      2.8       30
Industry                                            13.0        9.8       8.8     10.2
  Manufacturing                                     13.7        9.5      10.4     10.6       20
Services                                             6.1        9.3         ..               10

 Privateconsumption                                  6.7        9.4        8.9    12.5o
Generalgovemmentconsumption                          4.8        6.7       4.4      2.8              s      Q      92    93    94    95
GrossdomesUtcinvestment                              8.4      11.9       15.8     11.1      .10
 Importsof goodsand non-factorservices              10.0      14.5       21.8     22.1                     Exporh      Imports
 Grossnationalproduct                               14.9        8.7        8.2     8.7


 Note: 1995data arepreliminaryestimates.Figuresin italicsarefor yearsotherthenthosespecified.
  Thediamondsshowfourkeyindicatorsin the country(in bold)comparedwith itsincome-groupaverage.Ifdataaremissing,thediamondwill
   beincomplete.

                                                           - 53 -                                              APPENDIX 5



                                                                                                      RepublicofKorea

PRICESand GOVERNMENTFINANCE
                                             1975     1985      1994     1995      ntio     %
Domestic prices                              15l9                                      a    (%)
(6 change)                                                                        15r
Consumerprices                               25.3       2.5         .0
ImplicitGDPdeflator                          25.7       5.4       5.6      5.3

Governmentfinance
(% of GDP)                                                                         0 -                          I

Currentrevenue                                  ..     20.7         ..       ..             90           92     93      94    95
Currentbudgetbalance                            ..      5.9                                  -    GDPdef. -0-CP
Overallsurplus/deficit                          ..      0.7

TRADE
                                             1975      1985     1994     1995
(rnillions US$)                                                                       Exportand Inpot  levels (mH. US$)
Total exports (fob)                             ..   30,283         ..       ..   100,000

  Clothing                                      ..
  Footwear                                      ..        ..        ..       ,.     75,000

  Manufactures                                  ..   28,681
Total imports(cii)                                   31,136                        60000.


  Fuelandenergy
  Food                                                7,333
                                                ..    1,795                        25,020

  Capital goods                                 ..   11,081         ..       ..

Exportpriceindex(1987=8100)                     ..       72         .        ..             as  go    el    92   03    94  95

Import price index (1987=100)                   ..       77         ..       ..                   orarts       n Impors

Terms of trade (1987=100)                       ..       94          -       *-


BALANCEof PAYMENTS
                                             1975      1985     1994     1995
(mili7ons USQ)                                                                     Current account balance to GDP ratio (%)
Exportsof goodsand non-factorservices       5,799    32,035   105,700        ..    4
Importsof goodsand non-factorservices       7,544    30,555   103,600
Resourcebalance                             -1,745    1,480     2,100

Netfactor income                             -369    -2,945      -900
Net current transfers                         158         0      200                     92

Currentaccountbalance,                                                                   so        01     2|          04   0    |
  beforeofricialtransfers                   -1,956   -1,465     1,400        ..   -2

Financingitems(net)                          2,321    1,657    -1,269
 Changesin netreserves                       -365      -192      -132        *-  |4

Memo:

 Reserves including.gold (mnill.USS)          797     2,972    21,586   21,936
Conversionrate(7ocaLUS$)                     484.0    870.0     803.5   771.3

EXTERNALDEBTand RESOURCEFLOWS
                                             1975      1985     1994     1995
(millions USS)                                                                   | Compiion    of tobl debt,1994 (mill. USS)
Totaldebtoutstandinganddisbursed             8,411   47,133    54.542            i                     A
   IBRD                                       404     3,594     2,380                                2380 B
   IDA                                          92      107        85                       G                   635
                                                                                           13850                       E
Totaldebt service                             769     9.047     7,922        ..                                     6313
   IBRD                                         31      524       773
   IDA                                          1         2         4

Composlionof netresourceflows
  Oflical grants                                48        2         0
  Offidal creditors                           496        84      -887
   Privatecreditors                            855     2,566    4,798
   ForeigndirectInvestment                      57      234       809
   Portfolioequity                               0       94     2,525            !                             F
                                                                                                             31239
WorddBankprogram
   Commitments                                383       500       480         ..   A- IBRD                         E- Bilteral
   Disbursements                               204      368       282         ..    B-IDA      D-Ol rmultllateial F-Pvate
   Prindpal repayments                           8      258       591              C-IMF                           G-Short-tsrm
   Netflows                                    196      110      -310         ..                          _I
   Interestpayments                             24      268       188
   Nettransfers                                172      -158     -496

 Note:Dataarefromthe IntemationalEconomicsDepartmentdatabase,andhavenotbeenrevisedbythe CountryDepartment.               12119197

                                                                         APPENDIX6

                  LOAN AMOUNT,TERMS AND CONDITIONS
              ProposedEconomicReconstructionLoan to Republicof Korea

Amount:            $3,000,000,000

Currency:          USDollars(USD)

Maturity:          10years,including5 years'grace

Interest:          6-monthUSDLIBOR,reset semiannually,plus 1%

Servicecharge:     2% ofthe principalamountof the loan,payableon effectiveness
                          (tobe financedoutof the loanandamortized)
                   1%ofthe principalamountof the loan,payableoneyearafterthe
                          EffectiveDate
                   1/2of 1%oftheprincipalamountof the loan,payabletwo years
                          afterthe EffectiveDate

                   All unpaidservicechargesdue andpayableimmediatelyineventof
                   cancellationor prepayment

Commitmentfee:     Standard

Loanchargewaivers: Ineligiblefor currentor futurewaiversof interestor commitment
                   charges

Prepayment:        StandardSCLprovision(Bank'sredeploymentcost)

