FILE COPY                                Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2036-IN
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA
FOR THE
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION
PROJECT
June 30, 1.977
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of June 21, 1977)
Rs 1.00            Paise 100
US$1.00            Rs 8.80
Rs 1.00            US$0.1136
Rs 1 million       US$113,600
(Since September 24, 1975 the Rupee has been officially valued
relative to a "basket" of currencies. As these currencies are
now floating, the US Dollar/Rupee exchange rate is subject to
change. Conversions in the Appraisal Report were made at US$1
to Rs 9.00.)
FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARDC    -   Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CB      -   Commercial Bank
GOI     -   Government of India
GOM     -   Government of Maharashtra
ICB     -   International Competitive Bidding
SLDB    -   State Land Development Bank



IOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:        India, acting by its President.
Beneficiaries:   State of Maharashtra for irrigation works and roads; Agri-
cultural Refinance and Development Corporation for re-
financing on-farm development loans made to farmers by
the State Land Development Bank and commercial banks.
Amount:          US$70 million.
Terms:           Standard
Relending Terms: (a)  India to Maharashtra:   As part of Central Assistance
for development projects on terms and conditions
applicable at the time;
(b)  India to the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation (ARDC): At interest rate of not less
than 6.75% and 7.25% per annum (with 0.25% per
annum rebate for prompt repayment) for refinancing
loans, with terms of 9 and 15 years respectively;
(c)  ARDC to the State Land Development Bank (SLDB)
and to commercial banks: Annual interest of not
less than 7.5% with maturities according to
maturities of loans to be refinanced;
(d)  SLDB and commercial banks to farmers:  Repayable
over 9 years, after 2 years of grace, at 10.5%
per annum interest for secured loans.
Prolect
Description:   The purpose of the project is to complete the on-going
construction that can be completed within about four years,
of irrigation infrastructure in the Jayakwadi Irrigation
System on the upper Godavari river, to modernize part
of the infrastructure in the adjacent Purna Irrigation
System, and to provide the next stage (covering about four
years) of command area development in Jayakwadi. The
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
project will alleviate food shortages, improve
farmer income in the project area, and provide
additional employment opportunities.
The project consists of:
(a) completion of the Jayakwadi Left Bank Canal (LBC)
to km 208 and of the Right Bank Canal (RBC) to
km 132;
(b) completion of the Jayakwadi irrigation distribution
and drainage canal network for about 95,000 hectares,
and lining of all canals;
(c) rehabilitation of irrigation distribution works and
provision of drainage on about 30,000 hectares of
the Purna command area;
(d) command area development including land grading
and shaping on about 45,000 hectares of Jayakwadi,
a road program covering 40 km of district and
345 km of village link roads, and strengthening of
extension services;
(e) construction of eleven market centers;
(f) a program to monitor the efficiency of the irrigation
system and to evaluate project benefits;
(g) procurement of vehicles and equipment for project
management and O&M; and
(h) assistance to GOM for future project preparation.



Estimated Cost:                                            (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
Jayakwadi Irrigation Network        46.1     18.9       65.0
Equipment for Operation &
Maintenance                        0.9      1.3        2.2
Lining of Jayakwadi Distri-
butaries and Minors                5.5      1.7        7.2
Jayakwadi CAD                        8.7      1.9       10.6
Monitoring and Evaluation            0.8       1.0       1.8
Purna Modernization                  2.9      1.0        3.9
Road Program                         5.3      1.0        6.3
Extension Services                   1.5      0.2        1.7
Market Center Construction           0.3      0.1        0.4
GOM Project Preparation              0.2       -         0.2
Base Cost:                     72.2     27.1      99.3
Physical Contingencies               8.8      3.3       12.1
Price Escalation                    21.1      7.5       28.6
Total Project Cost:           102.1     37.9      140.0
Financing Plan:                                             (US$ million)
Local   Foreign    Total
IDA                                 32.1      37.9     70.0
Local Financing:
GOM                               65.7       -       65.7
ARDC, SLDB & CBs                   4.3       -        4.3
102.1      37.9    140.0
Estimated
Disbursements:                                 (US$ million)
FY78   FY79    FY80     FY81    FY82    FY83
Annual:          2     10      16      17      17        8
Cumulative:      2     12      28      45      62      70
Rate of Return:  Between 13% and 19%, depending on project component
(between 10% and 12% if sunk cost are included); overall
economic rate of return: 16.8%.
Consulting
Services:      8 man-months of engineering consulting services in the
framework of project monitoring for assistance in setting
up measuring equipment and in processing and evaluating
measuring results.
Appraisal
Report:        No. 1486a-IN dated June 30, 1977.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO INDIA FOR THE MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to India in an amount equivalent to US$70 million on
standard IDA terms to help finance construction and rehabilitation of irriga-
tion works and command area development in the Jayakwadi and Purna irrigation
systems of Maharashtra. The proceeds of the credit - except for part of on-
farm development works (US$5.5 million) - would be channelled to the Govern-
ment of Maharastra in accordance with GOI's standard terms and arrangements
for the financing of State development projects. For on-farm development
works, GOI would relend US$5.5 million of the credit to the Agricultural
Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC) for 9 and 15 years at not less
than 6.75% and 7.25% per annum, respectively. ARDC would in turn on-lend the
funds to the State Land Development Bank (SLDB) and participating commercial
banks in the project area at annual interest of not less than 7.5%. SLDB and
the commercial banks would relend the funds to farmers with repayment periods
of 11 years, including 2 years of grace, at 10-1/2% annual interest.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.        An economic report, "Economic Situation and Prospects of India"
(1529-IN dated April 25, 1977), was distributed to the Executive Directors
on May 3, 1977. Country data sheets are attached as Annex I.
Background
3.        India is exceptional among the Bank Group's member countries for
its size and diversity; the country is divided into more than 20 States with
a population of some 630 million speaking over 60 languages. Since Independ-
ence the trend in growth of GNP has been about 3.5% per annum, or a little
over 1% per annum in per capita terms, while over the five years 1971/72 -
1975/76 it fell to as low as 2.5% per annum, in spite of the record harvest
of 1975/76. This unsatisfactory performance is in part the result of the
low availability of investable resources: while India's domestic savings
effort compares well with other countries at the same average income levels,
the rate has very rarely exceeded 17% of GNP; similarly, the net transfer of
resources from abroad has never been above 3% of GNP, and fell to as little as
0.8% between 1969/70 and 1973/74. The investment rate puts India in the lower
third of all developing countries. More significant perhaps is the fact that
in spite of a marked rise in the investment rate from about 10% in the early
1/ Parts I and II of this report are substantially the same as Parts I and II
of the President's Report for the Bombay High Offshore Development
Project (Report No. P-2062-IN, dated June 20, 1977).



- 2 -
1950's to about 18% over the past fifteen years, the trend in GNP growth has
remained about the same. This indicates a marked decline in the efficiency of
capital use, as a result of increasing capacity underutilization, long project
gestation, and increased emphasis on relatively capital intensive projects and
sectors.
4.        Since Independence the growth of the socio-economic infrastructure
(transport, education, health services, etc.) has been impressive, but has
often been achieved at high cost and has yielded results of variable quality.
Many industrial and agricultural investment schemes have been highly successful,
but others have taken excessively long to be completed and have operated well
below full capacity. In some regions of the country, growth and structural
change have been rapid and compare favorably with developments in many other
parts of the world; in other regions there has been stagnation, and in some,
decline. Although national income has increased in most years, there has
been no rise in the living standards of the vast mass of rural and urban poor,
conservatively estimated at 200 million people with per capita incomes of US$70
per annum (converted at the official exchange rate) and US$250 on a purchasing
power parity basis.
5.        The structure of the economy has been slow to change.    Agriculture
remains the dominant sector, with its share of national product declining
only gradually from about 50% to 42% over the last twenty years. The share
of manufacturing industry has increased only slowly and, since the late 1960s,
has remained approximately constant at about 16%. There has, however, been
a shift in the composition of manufacturing production, with consumer, inter-
mediate, and capital goods now contributing about one third each, compared
with an overwhelming preponderance of consumer goods 25 years ago.
Recent Trends
6.        In March, 1977, a party other than Congress formed a Government for
the first time since Independence. The state of the economy was not a promi-
nent election issue; in fact the economy was generally stronger than at any
time in the last six years. Although the growth of GDP in 1976/77 is not
expected to have exceeded 2%, this was on top of the very good growth of 8.8%
in 1975/76. Agricultural production is expected to have fallen by about 3%,
but only because of the return to a more normal harvest of 110-114 million
tons of foodgrains after the record 121 million tons of the previous year.
Industrial growth was around 10% in 1976/77, which is significantly above the
rates achieved in the late 1960's and early 1970's. Exports continued their
bright performance, rising by 25% in nominal terms. The overall resource
position, with record foreign exchange and foodgrain reserves, is exception-
ally strong, and gives the Government considerable room for maneuver.
7.        In agriculture the bumper crop of 1975/76 was largely due to
remarkably good weather conditions; the good crop in 1976/77 - a foodgrain
harvest in the region of 110 million tons would be the second largest on
record - was produced under generally normal weather. A conspicuous change
was the increase in fertilizer use, which rose by more than 20% over 1975/76,



- 3 -
following marked declines in fertilizer prices. Industrial production bene-
fited from fewer labor disputes, fuller utilization of installed capacity
in both private and public sectors, a more liberal import policy, relatively
good power availability, and increased demand because of higher consumer
incomes, expanded exports and higher public expenditures. However, whole-
sale prices which had fallen 14% from September 1974 through March 1976,
rose 11% from the end of March to December 1976. This upsurge may be a new
inflationary trend or merely a. correction of the previous sharp decline in the
relative prices of a range of agricultural commodities.
8.        The balance of payments situation has improved dramatically since
the 1973-1975 period. In 1975/76 the trade deficit was $1,530 million, which
was more than covered by US$1,560 million in net aid, US$205 million in net
purchases of currency from the IMF, and US$559 million in net miscellaneous
capital and invisibles (mostly private remittances); indeed, this large
aggregate net resource inflow led to a US$794 million increase in foreign
exchange reserves, to a level of almost US$2.2 billion. In 1976/77, the
trade deficit is estimated to have fallen by US$1,130 million, due to a rise
of US$1,145 million in exports. The decreased trade deficit, along with a
further increase in the net inflow of miscellaneous capital and invisibles
from abroad of US$470 million, more than offset the fall of US$350 million in
net aid and the substantial repurchases of currency from the IMF, and allowed
a US$1.5 billion addition to reserves, which reached a level of US$3.65
billion at the end of March 1977.
Development Prospects
9.        The favorable economic situation gives the Government the opportun-
ity to address the longer-term constraints on growth. The basic task is to
raise the overall rate of growth from its historic range of 3% to 4%. In the
long run this will require raising more resources for investment. But it
will also be important to achieve significantly better utilization of avail-
able resources, partly through an immediate boost to industrial demand.
10.       In agriculture, the basic problem remains that, despite the record
foodgrain crop in 1975/76 and the good crop in 1976/77, the long-term growth
rate of foodgrain production has been unacceptably low, at about 2.5% per
annum over the last seventeen years, and only 2% in the last ten. This has
meant that only in good years has there been any margin of production to
cater to per capita growth in food consumption, and in normal years it has
been necessary to import food. There is considerable scope for stepping up
growth both by increasing the use of inputs and by raising the productivity
of existing capacity. Three promising developments in regard to the first
are the sharply higher outlays on irrigation in the Fifth Plan Period along
with a renewed determination to complete projects expeditiously; the indica-
tions that private investment in tubewells is picking up again after a slow-
down in the early 1970's; and the recent recovery of fertilizer demand. With



regard to more productive use of existing capacity, there is increased aware-
ness in the Government that the benefits of irrigation projects can be much
increased not only through command area development but also through more
efficient design and operation of major surface irrigation infrastructure.
Also, hopes have been generated for increasing productivity on both irrigated
and rainfed farms through a reorganized and improved extension and research
system, which has been recently introduced in several States in northern and
eastern India.
11.       A strong effort to raise agricultural growth is essential, not only
to meet food requirements, but also because of the pervasive influence of
agriculture on the levels of activity in other sectors of the economy. This
effort must also be so structured as to increase the incomes of small and
marginal farmers, in order to increase production since they operate 25% of
the cultivated land and account for somewhat more than 25% of production,
and for welfare reasons, since they make up about 70% of rural population
and constitute the majority of those living below the poverty level.
12.       The industrial sector is poised for rapid growth, as the most serious
constraints on the supply side have been removed by the improved situation
with respect to power, coal and imported raw materials and components. There
has been a progressive liberalization of controls and the 1976/77 Central
Budget announced a reduction of some taxes on private industry. In many
cases management of public enterprises has improved, as is reflected in their
markedly higher production and profitability as a group. In the medium
term it is the demand for industrial output that will determine industrial
growth. In certain industries, export demand will provide a strong pull on
production; this is true, for example, for iron and steel, certain chemicals,
some electrical equipment, processed agricultural products, and vehicles.
But the impact of increased exports on overall industrial demand will grow
only slowly given the current low share of exports in sales. If the higher
growth and productivity in agriculture discussed earlier were to materialize,
it would provide a significant stimulus to industry. It is difficult to
specify the linkages explicitly; but because of the large share that agri-
culture holds in GNP, the coefficients do not have to be large for agricul-
tural growth and the concomitant growth in demand for industrially produced
inputs and mass consumption goods to boost overall industrial demand signi-
ficantly. A higher public deficit and increased public investments are
the instruments most directly under Government control, and also those that
can increase demand for industrial products most immediately. The interim
budget of the new Government moves strongly in this direction with a 240%
increase in the planned budget deficit over 1976/77.
13.       Improvement in the supply of energy augurs well for India's
ability to meet the needs of a more rapidly growing economy. Organization-
al and transportation problems in the coal industry have largely been over-
come, production is sufficient to meet demand, stocks are comfortable, and
the industry has good prospects for meeting both domestic and export demand.
Supply of electricity continues to be a concern, because of the vulnerability
of hydro power to variations in the monsoon and the continued existence of



- 5 -
local shortages, even when the overall power situation is satisfactory. But
several institutional improvements promise to reduce the future incidence of
shortages: underutilization of capacity has been virtually eliminated in
well-established power stations; progress has been made in the organized
exchange of power between states thus relieving localized power shortages;
and the problems of slow implementation of power investment due to delayed
delivery of materials and equipment have virtually disappeared. In addition,
the delays caused by the inability of State Electricity Boards to finance
projects expeditiously have been eased by their improved financial position
following tariff increases, and by increased Plan outlays by the Central
Government. The medium term prospects for the oil and gas sector have been
further improved by major new finds of oil and gas near the large offshore
Bombay High field. Crude oil from Bombay High was brought to shore for the
first time in May 1976; production reached an annual rate of 2 million tons
by March 1977, and will rise to a level of 12-13 million tons by 1984/85.
Although India will continue to import crude at or somewhat above the current
level, much of the foreign exchange burden of rapidly rising imports will be
avoided by the development of these resources. Prospects are also bright for
further discoveries offshore, given the current high level of exploration
activity.
14.       Underlying all other development issues is that of population.    Al-
though India's population growth rate of a little over 2% is not high in com-
parison with most LDCs, the size of the absolute increment - 13 million
annually - is daunting. It appears, however, that population growth may have
passed its peak in the 1960's, and it is expected to continue to slow down,
both because the birth rate will continue to decline and because the death
rate will not fall as steeply as in the past. With a sustained family planning
effort, it should be possible to lower the population growth rate to 1.1% per
annum by the end of the century. Our "best guess" projection of India's
population by 2000 is 880 million. Many of the benefits of family planning
policy will only be felt beyond the turn of the century, but the decline in
fertility will bring about an early change in the age structure of the popu-
lation. The school age group will grow more slowly or not at all after 1981
thereby reducing the pressures on the primary and secondary education system.
The labor force, however, will continue to grow at a fast rate until the end
of the century.
15.       India's balance of payments position should be comfortable for the
next few years. The combination of past global inflation and increased ex-
ports have reduced the proportion of export earnings needed for debt service
from 30% in 1970/71 to 16% in 1976/77. The ratio is not likely to rise above
this level in the next few years. Given continuing favorable policies, the
volume of exports should continue to grow by 7% to 10% annually in the near
future; and import needs for fertilizer, POL and foodgrains will continue to
require a diminishing proportion of available foreign exchange. The large
inflow of private remittances shows no immediate signs of declining and should
continue to bolster the foreign exchange position in the medium term. Imports,



- 6 -
including a variety of capital goods, have already been liberalized signifi-
cantly. Increased public investment and a revival of the domestic economy is
likely to generate substantial additional import demand. However, this should
be quite manageable, given the currently comfortable foreign exchange position,
bright export prospects, and continuation of the current real level of net aid.
The present situation presents an opportunity to raise the level of investment
and, consequently, reach a more satisfactory level of long term growth.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
16.       Since 1949, the Bank Group has made 50 loans and 85 development
credits to India totalling US$1,762 million and US$4,338 million (both net
of cancellation), respectively. Of these amounts, US$816 million has been
repaid, and US$1,432 million was still undisbursed as of May 31, 1977.
Annex II contains a summary statement of disbursements as of May 31,
1977, and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       Since 1957, IFC has made 14 commitments in India totalling US$58.4
million, of which US$13.0 million has been repaid, US$7.6 million sold and
US$6.9 million cancelled. Of the balance of US$30.9 million, US$24.4 mil-
lion represents loans and US$6.5 million equity. A summary statement of IFC
operations as of May 31, 1977, is also included in Annex II (page 2).
18.       In recent years, the emphasis of Bank Group lending has been on
agriculture. The Bank Group has been particularly active in supporting minor
irrigation and other on-farm investments through agricultural credit opera-
tions. Major irrigation, marketing, seed development, and dairying are other
agricultural activities supported by the Bank Group. Also, the Bank Group
has been active in financing the expansion of output in the fertilizer sector
and, through its sizeable assistance to development finance institutions, in
a wide range of geographically scattered medium- and small-scale industrial
enterprises. IDA financing of industrial raw materials and components for
selected priority sectors has been instrumental in facilitating better capac-
ity utilization in industry. The Bank Group has also been active in support-
ing infrastructure development for power, telecommunications, and railways.
Family planning, education, water supply development, and urban investments
have also received Bank Group support in recent years.
19.       The direction of assistance under the Bank/IDA program has been
consistent with India's needs and the Government's priorities. The emphasis
of the program on agriculture, industry, power, urban development and water
supply remains highly relevant. Projects designed to foster agricultural
production through the provision of essential inputs such as credit for
on-farm investments, command area development of existing irrigation schemes,
intensification and streamlining of extension systems, and seed production
form an important aspect of the Bank Group's program for the next several
years. Special emphasis will be given to projects benefitting small farmers.



- 7 -
Projects supporting water supply, sewerage, and urban development also form
an integral part of the Bank's lending strategy to India for the next several
years. Lending in support of infrastructure and industrial investments will
focus on agriculture-, export- and energy-related projects.
20.       The need for a substantial net transfer of external resources in
support of India's economy has been a recurrent theme of Bank economic re-
ports and of the discussions within the India Consortium. Thanks in large
part to the response of the aid community, India has successfully adjusted
to the changed world price situation. However, the basic need for readily
usable foreign exchange assistance, to augment domestic resources, assure
effective utilization of existing capacity, stimulate investment and acceler-
ate economic growth, remains. As in the past, Bank Group assistance for
projects in India should include, as appropriate, the financing of local
expenditures. India imports relatively few capital goods because of the
capacity of the domestic capital goods industry. The import component of
projects tends to be especially low in such high-priority areas as agriculture,
educatioh, and family planning. For the Bank Group to be able to make an
appropriate contribution to the financing of projects in these sectors, it is
important to cover a proportion of local expenditures.
21.       It is clear from the review of the Indian economy that as much as
possible of India's external capital requirements should be provided on con-
cessionary terms. Accordingly, the bulk of the Bank Group assistance to
India has been, and should continue to be, provided from IDA. However, the
amount of IDA funds that can reasonably be allocated to India remains small
in relation to India's needs for external support, and some Bank lending
to India, for which the country is creditworthy, is appropriate. As of
May 31, 1977, outstanding loans to India totaled US$973 million, of which
US$494 million remained to be disbursed, leaving a net amount outstanding
of US$479 million.
22.       Of the external assistance received by India, the proportion con-
tributed by the Bank Group has grown significantly. In 1969/70, the Bank
Group accounted for 34% of total commitments, 13% of gross disbursements,
and 12% of net disbursements as compared with an estimated 58%, 24% and 29%,
respectively, in 1975/76. On March 31, 1976, India's outstanding and disbursed
external public debt was US$13.1 billion, of which the Bank Group's share
was 25%. The Bank Group's share is expected to remain around this level in
the future. Because Bank Group assistance to India is predominantly in the
form of IDA credits, debt service to the Bank Group will rise slowly. In
1975/76, about 15% of India's total debt service payments were to the Bank
Group.
PART III - AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION IN INDIA
General
23.       Agriculture is the most important sector in India; it engages 70%
of the labor force, has recently contributed about 42% of national product



and accounts for a major share of exports. Consequently, investments in
agriculture have been given priority by GOI and the State Governments, espe-
cially since the mid-1960s, and deserve continued emphasis in the future.
24.       Since independence, the overall growth rate of agricultural produc-
tion has averaged about 3% per annum. This low overall rate of growth in the
agricultural sector obscures considerable variations over shorter periods of
time, between crops, and between regions. The overall rate has been very much
affected by the serious droughts in 1965 and 1966 and again in 1972 and 1974.
At the same time, the success of high yielding varieties of wheat led to in-
creases in wheat production of about 20% p.a. between 1967 and 1971. Other
foodgrain crops, notably rice, have not enjoyed anything like the same success,
as the introduction of high yielding varieties has encountered difficulties
arising from local climatic and ecological conditions. The effects of the
green revolution, which primarily affected wheat, have been concentrated in
northwestern India, largely on account of the availability of irrigation in
that area.
25.       Despite the progress made in many aspects of food production,
India's agriculture remains heavily dependent upon the weather. A major
factor in reducing this dependence will be the rehabilitation and expansion
of irrigation and the more effective use of existing investment in irriga-
tion facilities. The Government is also placing emphasis on the improved
supply of inputs such as seeds and fertilizer, agricultural credit, and
extension services.
Irrigation
26.       Over the first half of the twentieth century, the area under irri-
gation in India increased by only about 1% p.a. to reach slightly more than
20 million hectares in 1950/51, or about one-seventh of India's cultivated
land. About half of the irrigated area was served by major and medium
irrigation works.
27.       Irrigation has received increased attention since independence, and
substantial resources were devoted to it throughout the four Five-Year Plans.
The area covered by major and medium surface systems and by groundwater devel-
opment more than doubled to 19.6 million hectares and 16.0 million hectares,
respectively, compared with an estimated ultimate potential for irrigation
of 57 million hectares from major and medium surface schemes and 35 million
hectares from groundwater utilization. During the same period, minor surface
irrigation expanded more modestly from 6.4 million ha to 7.5 million ha, com-
pared with an estimated potential of 15 million ha. While the increase in
area brought under the command of new irrigation projects has been impressive,
the increase in area actually irrigated has been more modest than the figures
imply - particularly in the case of major and medium irrigation schemes. At
the same time, in areas actually receiving water, irrigation efficiencies
remain low.



- 9 -
28.       The Second Irrigation Commission of 1972 and the National Commis-
sion on Agriculture, which reported in 1973, found that the under-utilization
of irrigation potential was attributable to the lack of integrated develop-
ment in the irrigation areas, insufficient farmer training and extension ser-
vice, and lack of administrative coordination. It has been estimated that
the majority of recently completed irrigation projects require additional
investments of up to US$600 per ha before they can become fully productive.
Accordingly, for the Fifth Plan period (1974-79) various measures have been
designed to improve utilization, and a Command Area Development Department
has been set up in the Ministry of Food and Agriculture to coordinate work
on a list of high priority projects.
29.       In view of the emergence of farm technologies dependent on effec-
tive water control - and given India's already substantial investment in
major irrigation - the economic return on investment that improves water de-
livery or else facilitates better use of the water provided can be very high.
Consequently, rehabilitation and modernization of irrigation infrastructure
as well as command area development has been given high priority under the
Fifth Plan proposals, and a relatively large proportion of public sector
investment in irrigation has been allocated for these purposes. Plan
allocations have been supplemented by the resources of agricultural and
commercial banks participating in financing command area development pro-
grams through farm credit. In addition, major institutional changes have
been proposed affecting the coordination of services in command areas and
the administration of credit.
30.       While emphasizing the need to improve water utilization through
command area development, the Government is at the same time pursuing the
objective of increasing the area under irrigation, in particular where only
incremental investments are required. Thus, completion of on-going irri-
gation developments is given equally high priority as command area devel-
opment.
Agriculture and Irrigation in Maharashtra
31.       Maharashtra, with an area of 310,000 square kilometers and a popu-
lation of about 51 million, is one of the largest states in India. Some 70%
of the population is classified as rural and depends on agriculture for its
livelihood. -One-third of those dependent on agriculture are landless laborers
and their families. About two-thirds of the State is cultivated. Jowar, rice,
wheat, maize, bajra and pulses are the principal food crops. Important cash
crops are cotton, oilseeds, sugarcane, groundnuts and tobacco. Only about 8%
of the total cropped area is under irrigation. The rest depends upon rainfall,
which ranges from 4,000 mm annually west of the coastal mountain range to only
600 mm in the rainshadow east of the range. Six districts, covering about
one-quarter of the State area, are classified as "drought-affected."
32.       Because of the limited rainfall over much of the area, an extensive -
rather than intensive - system of agriculture has developed. Farms are large,
on average twice as large as the national average. Cropping intensity is
only 105% in contrast to 122% for the country as a whole. Crop yields per
hectare are extremely low and, for some crops, are among the lowest in India.



- 10 -
33.       Irrigation development in Maharashtra, except for some tanks and
minor canal systems, initially was very slow and has gained momentum only
since the mid-1950's with the beginning of the First Plan. Since then,
Maharashtra has invested heavily in major and medium irrigation projects -
among them the Purna project, which received Bank Group assistance in 1962
($13 million Development Credit of July 18, 1962, Cr. 23-IN, see para 36
below). It is expected that by the end of the Fifth Plan in 1979 the total
irrigated area in the State will have increased to about 2.5 million hectares,
with 1.8 million hectares under irrigation from major and medium schemes.
34.       Despite these efforts, returns have so far been low.    The lag in the
utilization of major and medium irrigation projects has been even more serious
in Maharashtra than in India as a whole. The reasons for the delayed growth
of agricultural production in the irrigated areas of Maharashtra are manifold.
They include: lack of effective authority by the entities responsible for
project execution; lack of efficiently implemented water allocation plans in
line with generally accepted cropping patterns; excessive seepage and lack of
drainage networks; inequitable and wasteful water use within the chaks 1/ due
mainly to incomplete watercourses and inadequate land shaping; and unco-
ordinated and undertrained agricultural extension services.
35.       To correct these deficiencies, the Government of Maharashtra (GOM)
in 1974 established five Command Area Development Authorities (CADA) for the
State, including one for the Jayakwadi/Purna commands. It also secured some
financial assistance for on-farm development, through the Maharashtra Land
Development Corporation (MLDC), from the State Land Development Bank (SLDB) and
commercial banks, organized and partly refinanced for this purpose by ARDC.
36.       The Bank Group has been directly involved in agrirnilt r'1 rct- .iLies
in Maharashtra through three previous IDA credits. The tLrst credit (Cr. 23-
IN), $13 million, for the original Purna Irrigation Project, was approved in
July 1962. This project, which was completed in 1968, provided the main in-
frastructure for irrigating the 60,000 hectare left bank area of the Purna
River valley. It included two dams and reservoirs, one for storage and one
for re-regulation, a 45 km long fully lined main canal and 723 km of distri-
butaries. It also included a small hydro-electric power plant, to be operated
only when water availability exceeded irrigation requirements. The project was
carried out to the design standards of the time with a lightly irrigated crop-
ping pattern and with low cost as the main objective. Part of the infrastruc-
ture needs rehabilitation and modernization - to bring it into line with moder:1
design standards -, which would be included in the proposed project. Through
the Maharashtra Agricultural Credit Project, for which a $30 million IDA credit
was approved in February 1972 (Cr. 293-IN) and fully disbursed by June 1976,
funds were made available for refinancing loans to farmers in Maharashtra for
minor irrigation, land development and land reclamation. The Drought Prone
Areas Project, for which IDA provided a $35 million credit in January 1975
(Cr. 526-IN), includes two districts in Maharashtra.   It consists of an inte-
grated set of measures designed to improve agriculture in dry areas under
1/   A "chak" is an area served by a watercourse, normally "etween 25 and
40 hectares.



- 11 -
rainfed conditions. This project is proceeding satisfactorily, although in
the Maharashtra districts it suffered some initial delay mainly because of
inadequate technical staff.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
37.       The Jayakwadi and Purna Irrigation Systems, two adjacent schemes
covered by the project, are located in the drought-prone central western
Deccan. In this area, more than in other parts of India where water resources
are more plentiful, strictly enforced water discipline and measures for saving
water in conveyance are essential in project design. Such measures are: (a)
water conservation through water allocation planning and irrigation system
management techniques and the construction of a lined canal network to minimize
seepage losses; and (b) increasing the cropping intensity of the large farms,
which are characteristic of the project area, by a comprehensive program of
on-farm development and strengthening of agricultural supporting services.
The project introduces these measures in the Jayakwadi and Purna commands. It
contains the following components: irrigation works, command area development
and a village road network within the planned 183,000 hectare Jayakwadi Stage I
command area; and modernization of canal structures and provision of drainage
works in 30,000 hectares of the Purna command area. The project is limited to
works that are planned to be completed within about four years.
38.       The project was prepared with assistance from the FAO/IBRD Coopera-
tive Program and appraised by the Bank in September and October 1976. A
Supplementary Project Data Sheet is attached as Annex III. A report entitled
"Appraisal of the Maharashtra Irrigation and Command Area Development Composite
Project," Report No. 1486-IN, dated June 30, 1977, is being circulated separ-
ately to the Executive Directors. Negotiations of this project were held in
Washington in April 1977. The Borrower, the Government of Maharashtra, and
the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation were represented by a
delegation headed by Mr. Vineet Nayyar.
The Proiect
39.       The proposed project would complete the next slice, comprising about
four years, of infrastructural investment in Maharashtra's largest irrigation
scheme, the Jayakwadi irrigation scheme, and initiate modernization of the
adjacent Purna irrigation project. It would also be the first step in a 10 to
15 year command area development (CAD) program, designed ultimately to cover
over one million hectares in the State, including about 277,000 hectares in
the Jayakwadi and about 60,000 hectares in the Purna commands. It would also
strengthen the extension service in both areas and provide a monitoring and
evaluation system for generating a data base for planning future irrigation
and command area development projects in similar drought-prone areas.
40.       The Jayakwadi irrigation scheme is the first major phase of a long-
term program for development of the upper Godavari river basin in Maharashtra,



- 12 -
begun in 1965. Implementation of this scheme is planned in two stages. Stage
I, for which the dam (Paithan) and reservoir have been completed, is a gravity
flow scheme designed to command ultimately 183,000 hectares. Stage II would
comprise an additional 94,000 hectare development on an extension of the Right
Bank Canal (RBC) and include an additional dam and reservoir along the RBC at
Majalgaon. Within Stage I, about 53,000 hectares will have been brought under
irrigation by mid-1977.
41.       About 175,000 people live in the total Jayakwadi project area, 55%
of which are members of farm households, 34% landless laborers and the remain-
ing 11% village artisans or shopkeepers. Net farm income for the 14,500 farm
families in the project areas, presently ranging from about Rs 1,000 to
Rs 2,500 per year depending largely on farm size, would increase under the
project by four to five times. The average farm size for the entire area is
about 6.5 hectares, with a large proportion of farms covering 5 or more
hectares. The Maharashtra Land Ceilings Act, which is being enforced, imposes
limitations on the size of holdings ranging from 7 hectares for perennially
irrigated land to 22 hectares for dry crop land. The landless in the area,
living in extreme poverty, depend for their livelihood almost entirely on the
ability to find work as hired laborers. But farm wages are extremely low,
averaging Rs 1.5 to 2 per day for women and Rs 2.5 to 3 per day for men. At
present, much of the labor force is unemployed or underemployed. Farmers on
95,000 ha in the Jayakwadi area will receive water for the first time, and with
it the opportunity for sharply increased incomes. Exploiting this opportunity
will require dramatic changes in their methods of cultivation and, given the
relatively large holdings, will present difficult management tasks. The water
itself will have to be managed, involving construction of channels and other
on-farm developments; and its availability presents the opportunity of in-
creasing cropping intensity and growing higher value crops. These, in turn,
will require learning new cultural practices, arranging purchased inputs,
hiring labor and securing credit.
42.       In Jayakwadi, principal rainfed crops in the wet season are sorghum
(jowar), pearl millet (bajra), pulses and cotton. In the dry season, main
crops are sorghum (both for grain and fodder) and pulses, together with some
wheat. When irrigation began (1975/76), hybrid sorghum was widely introduced
and dry season sorghum was partially replaced by improved wheat varieties.
With these changes, cropping intensity and yields rose quickly. Nevertheless,
agricultural production in tnose parts of the project areas that are already
receiving water has not met earlier expectations because of deficiencies in
CAD, and inadequate roads and agricultural supporting services.
43.       A summary description of the original Purna Irrigation Scheme, com-
prising a command area of about 60,000 ha adjacent to Jayakwadi, is in para 36
above. In this project, primary land development has been carried out pro-
gressively, mostly by farmers. The scheme has had a mixed success thus far.
Water supply has shown wide annual variation, but generally has been suffi-
cient to sustain an economically viable cropping pattern and moderate crop
yields. In 1975, the operation of the canal system at peak flows for extended



- 13 -
periods together with the impetus provided by the establishment of the Com-
mand Area Development Authority (CADA) (see para 45 below) helped boost
agricultural output to a record high. It is unlikely, however, that this
level of operation can be sustained without deterioration of the irrigation
conveyance system, which is inadequately constructed for such degree of
utilization. Cropping patterns in Purna are similar to those prevailing in
irrigated areas of Jayakwadi.
44.       The proposed project, besides providing or rehabilitating infra-
structure, would start an extended program to correct existing deficiencies
and to secure corresponding improvements in areas receiving irrigation for
the first time. It would comprise in the proposed four year implementation
phase: completion of the Jayakwadi Left Bank Canal (LBC) between km 100 and
208 and of the Right Bank Canal (RBC) between km 20 and 132; completion of
the Jayakwadi distributary and drainage canal network to serve about 95,000
hectares of the Jayakwadi command area, as well as lining of all canals; re-
habilitation of irrigation distribution works and provision of seepage con-
trol drainage for about 30,000 hectares in the Purna command area; on-farm
development, in particular land shaping and field channels, for about 45,000
hectares in Jayakwadi coming under irrigation for the first time; construction
of 345 km of village link roads and improvement of 40 km of existing district
roads in the project area; construction of 11 market centers in Jayakwadi and
Purna; and the provision of monitoring facilities to help determine operation
and seepage losses and to measure actual project benefits in Jayakwadi. The
project would further include strengthening of agricultural extension services
and studies for further development in both the Jayakwadi and the Purna proj-
ect areas.
Project Implementation
45.       Policy formulation and planning of project works as well as con-
struction of the project and its subsequent management and operation would be
the responsibility of the Jayakwadi/Purna Command Area Development Authority
(CADA), one of the five CADAs set up in 1974 to decentralize administrative
decision making and to facilitate closer coordination of the many and varied
development activities in the State's larger irrigation projects (see para 35).
The CADAs exercise their responsibilities during project construction by
directing and coordinating the work of executing GOM departments and agencies
and, after completion of irrigation systems, by direct management. The Jayak-
wadi/Purna CADA is headed by an Administrator with all the necessary powers
to integrate all activities of the various GOM agencies and departments and
external agencies such as ARDC, SLDB and the participating commercial banks
(CBs), under the general direction of a Project Executive Committee. Except
for a small headquarters coordinating staff, the CADA Administrator would
draw on departmental staff assigned to the project, over which he would have
complete administrative control. For design and construction of on-farm
development works, CADA would rely on the Maharashtra Land Development
Corporation (MLDC). Funding for the project would continue to be included
in the respective departmental and CADA budgets.



- 14 -
46.       Existing engineering designs for canals and structures in the proj-
ect areas follow established Indian practice and are based on criteria estab-
lished by GOI's Central Water Commission. Under the project, the design
of the irrigation system would be modified to improve operational control.
Except for items proposed for international tendering, all surveys, canal and
structure designs and specifications are scheduled to be completed at least
6 months ahead of the proposed start of construction of each component.
Labor-intensive methods for p-roject construction work would be used where
feasible. Canal structures, except for span portions, would be constructed
of masonry using hand-quarried stone from nearby basalt deposits. As Jayakwadi
is an ongoing project, contractors for works to be procured locally are largely
already mobilized, and only a minimum start-up time would be required.
47.       On-farm development would be planned and carried out according
to new technical and economic standards agreed among GOM, ARDC, CADA and
MLDC and acceptable to the Association. On-farm development would be com-
pulsory for all farmers in a chak, where two-thirds of the farmers or farmers
holding two-thirds of the land agree. Experience indicates that the great
majority of farmers would opt to have their land developed. Implementation
would be by the farmers themselves or - in most cases - by MLDC, which, to
expedite land development work, would receive construction advances under
arrangements with GOM for that purpose. Water-courses (field channels and
drains) and simple masonry structures would be constructed by small village
contractors. All excavation would be done by manual labor. Financing would
be available to all farmers from the State Land Development Bank or from com-
mercial banks participating in the project. Loans for eligible farmers secured
by mortgages would be for 11 years, including two years of grace, at 10-1/2%
annual interest. Farmers, who are ineligible for such ordinary loans, e.g.
because of defective land title, would receive unsecured Special Loans on the
same terms but with a slightly higher interest rate. Secured loans would be
refinanced at the rate of at least 75% by the Agricultural Refinance and
Development Corporation (ARDC), to which a portion of the credit proceeds
would be relent for this purpose (see para 49). Unsecured loans would be
fully refinanced by a Special Loans Account agreed upon among GOI, GOM and
ARDC to be set up in ARDC, with a 50% contribution by GOI and 25% contribution
each by GOM and ARDC. It would be a condition of disbursement from the pro-
ceeds of the credit for command area development that GOM has issued the
necessary executive order applying the Special Loans Account provisions to
the project.
Project Cost and Financing
48.       The estimated total cost of the project is US$140 million equivalent
(net of taxes and duties), including US$38 million (27%) in foreign exchange.
The principal cost components net of contingencies are: Jayakwadi major net-
work (US$65.0 million), command area development (US$10.6 million), lining of
distributaries and minors in Jayakwadi (US$7.2 million), Jayakwadi and Purna
road program (US$6.3 million), modernization of Purna irrigation infrastruc-
ture (US$3.9 million), and equipment for Jayakwadi operation and maintenance



- 15 -
(US$2.2 million). The balance is made up by: extension services (US$1.7 mil-
lion), monitoring of project performance, consisting of equipment and 6 man/
months of consultancy services (US$1.8 million), market centers (US$0.4 mil-
lion), project preparation (US$0.2 million), physical contingencies for all
items (US$12.1 million) and expected price increases (US$28.6 million).
49.       The proposed credit of US$70 million would cover 50% of project
costs, including all foreign exchange costs and US$32 million of local costs.
Local cost financing is justified in India for projects such as this for the
reasons discussed in paragraph 20. The Government of Maharashtra would finance
47%. The balance would be contributed by ARDC, SLDB and the participating
commercial banks. Of the proceeds of the credit, GOI would channel US$64.5
million to GOM on the standard terms and arrangements on which development
funds are being provided to State governments by the Center. US$5.5 million
would be passed on by GOI to ARDC with 9 or 15 years maturity (depending on
maturities of loans to be refinanced) at not less than 6.75 and 7.25% annual
interest, respectively. ARDC in turn would refinance at least 75% of the land
development loans extended to farmers by SLDB and the commercial banks at not
less than 7.5% annual interest, repayable in accordance with the terms of the
loans to the farmers.
Procurement and Disbursement
50.       The proceeds of the proposed credit would be used to finance:    civil
works (US$55.6 million), vehicles and equipment (US$11.4 million), and con-
sultancy services (US$0.05 million). The remaining US$2.95 million would be
left unallocated to meet physical and price contingencies.
51.       The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment for project management,
road construction, deep cut excavation on main canals, 0&M, agricultural sup-
porting services and project monitoring is US$10.9 million (net of contingen-
cies). Of this total, an estimated US$4.5 million would be subject to inter-
national competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines.
A preference limited to 15% of the c.i.f. price of imported goods, or the
prevailing customs duty if lower, would be extended to local manufacturers
in the evaluation of bids. About US$6.4 million worth of vehicles and equip-
ment are not suitable for ICB: US$1.7 million represents groups of contracts
costing less than US$100,000 each for which international tendering would be
quite inefficient; the remaining US$4.7 million consist mainly of field vehi-
cles and trucks for which, because of existing servicing and spare part supply
facilities, there are considerable benefits to be derived from procuring local
models. They would therefore be purchased locally through normal procurement
procedures of GOM which are acceptable to the Association.
52.       Civil works on the Jayakwadi Main Canals (US$30 million net of con-
tingencies) would be procured under ICB, each tender for a minimum value of
US$6 million; except for an ongoing contract, which was awarded prior to
appraisal through local competitive bidding procedures acceptable to the
Association.  The unexpended portion of this contract after July 1, 1977 is
estimated at US$3.0 million and would be eligible for financing from the
credit. Tenders on ICB contracts would be divided into up to ten subcontracts



- 16 -
to encourage the participation of local contractors, who would be entitled
to a 7-1/2% preference in bid evaluation. The remaining civil works included
in the project are individually small, scattered over wide areas, and would
need to be carried out in periods between cropping seasons. Much of the con-
struction work and on-farm development would be carried out intermittently as
determined by seasonal weather conditions and by the on-going agricultural
activities in the project areas. In these circumstances it would not be fea-
sible or economic to combine these works into contracts sufficiently large to
attract international competition. It is therefore proposed that these works
be carried out by local contractors under small, mainly annual, contracts to
be let on the basis of competitive bidding. For road construction and some
CAD works, the firms likely to bid would not possess all the equipment required.
Since the necessary equipment is simple and unlikely to be misused, it would
be provided under the project to be hired out to the successful bidders.
53.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed against the foreign
exchange cost of imported equipment or against the ex-factory price of equip-
ment manufactured locally. For imported items procured locally, disbursements
would be at the rate of 70%. Disbursements for civil works would also be on a
percentage basis (75% for lining of distributaries and minors and 60% for the
balance). Full documentation would be required for all disbursements, except
for payments of up to Rs 50,000 for civil works and Rs 20,000 for equipment
and vehicles, for which disbursements would be made against certificates of
expenditure. The supporting documents for these payments would not be sub-
mitted to the Association but would be retained by GOI and GOM for inspection
by project review missions. The credit would be expected to be fully disbursed
by March 31, 1983, about one and one-quarter years after the completion of the
project.
Benefits and Economic Justification
54.       In the Jayakwadi command area, the project would complete the infra-
structure needed to irrigate for the first time 95,000 ha; it would line all
canals and would cover 45,000 ha under a first stage CAD program.    The annual
increase in production, including 110,000 tons of foodgrains, expected at full
development is valued at US$24 million. At full development, under the inten-
sified cropping pattern, the project would annually provide 38,000 man-years
of additional employment in agriculture, mainly that of landless laborers (see
para 41 above). The annual net income of 14,500 farm families would increase
roughly five times. The economic rate of return is 17%, or 14% for the irri-
gation infrastructure area alone and 19% for the full CAD area. The benefits
include the quantifiable benefits of the net value of increased production and
the value of water saved by canal lining; the costs include those of the infra-
structure (excluding sunk costs), canal lining and CAD components. Including
sunk costs, the rate of return decreases to 10% and 12%, respectively. These
calculations do not make allowance for the fact that, as described in para. 41,
unemployment (and poverty) in the project area is severe and that, therefore,
the real economic cost of labor employed in this project is below the market
wage. If construction labor were shadow-priced at half its market wage, the
rate of return would be 12.5% with sunk costs and 21.5% without. Furthermore,



- 17 -
no attempt has been made to quantify the benefits, which, in addition to agri-
cultural production, the local population would derive from some parts of the
CAD component, such as roads.
55.       In the Purna area, modernization of infrastructure will have costs
and benefits similar, relatively, to those for the Jayakwadi project compo-
nents. For drainage construction, which would save at least 8,000 hectares
from severe production losses due to waterlogging, the rate of return would
be about 13%. Since the economic rate of return is 17% for the Jayakwadi
component of the project, which represents 94% of project base cost, and since
the return on the Purna component, accounting for 6% of project cost, is about
13%, the overall economic rate of return for the total project is 16.8%.
56.       Net annual farm incomes in the project areas, presently averaging
Rs 1,600 per family, would increase under the project with full CAD to an
average Rs 12,300. At full project development, with CAD fully implemented,
the average beneficiary would pay annual charges totalling Rs 664/ha. This
would be sufficient to ensure recovery of 35-40% of total project cost, includ-
ing O&M and capital cost, within 30 years at 10% interest. As this would
represent 31% of the net incremental benefits generated by the project, it
would not be practicable at present to increase water charges further. How-
ever, Maharashtra would in the future review and, if necessary, increase water
and water-related charges in the Project Area from time to time to collect
full operational and maintenance cost and, to the extent possible, cost of
infrastructure investment (Section 3.06 of the Maharashtra Project Agreement).
For on-farm development works, investment costs would be fully repaid by the
farmers as payments on loans. Given the extreme poverty of the area and
recognizing that average farm income at full development of the project would
still lag behind average farm income in other irrigated areas of India, GOM's
current policy with regard to cost recovery is a satisfactory basis for pro-
ceeding with the project.
Project Risk
57.       Investment risk on the CAD portion of the project is small, given
the substantial experience already gained by CADA on a pilot basis in the
project area. Also, given the favorable experience in the Purna project and
on the 50,000 ha already under irrigation in the Jayakwadi area, it can be
expected that, with an assured water supply, farmers will be able to adjust
to the introduction of irrigation in the project area and learn to manage
their farms at the higher levels of productivity now made possible. On the
other hand, the Jayakwadi infrastructure component involves risks. Some
difficulties may arise, at a later stage, in supplying sufficient irrigation
water to the Jayakwadi system. To secure an adequate supply of water to all
parts of the command, GOM has given assurances: (a) that a water allocation
plan appropriate for the design cropping pattern would be introduced by the
time of project completion; and (b) that water allocations from the Paithan
reservoir to power generation would be subject to prior water requirements
for irrigation (Section 3.05 of the Maharashtra Project Agreement). Moreover,
lining of all distributaries and minors in Jayakwadi, as provided under the
project, would further reduce uncertainties about water availability. With
full system lining and with these assurances, overall investment risks under
the project are acceptable.



- 18 -
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
58.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between India and the
Association, the draft Maharashtra Project Agreement between the Association
and the State of Maharashtra, the draft ARDC Agreement between the Association
and ARDC, the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 7 (d)
of the Articles of Agreement o-f the Association, and the text of a draft reso-
lution approving the proposed credit are being distributed to the Executive
Directors separately.
59.       The execution of a Subsidiary Loan Agreement between India and ARDC,
and the issuance by Maharashtra of the necessary governmental order applying
the provisions of special loans for ineligible farmers to the Project have
been made conditions of disbursement in respect of the CAD component of the
Project.
60.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the Articles
of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
61.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
June 30, 1977



0                                                   0
4~~~~~~C                    sr.
-  tic.  0,  cc~~~t  00c-C2  aC'- 4C. >.  . c . -  -.   -- -C 2t
50  meo 4  ..)  , i -tS.Ua  04 - 0--           0  1ii
MI 01 0                          q N  1 Xf.0  a-      5  0!
-  .-.    4m-O                   I0 N  M
7  &i            SI                  .0*       4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i  I . 
o ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a . N b-.0          I
0  21.t  0  0 t%N,,CC IC   4  ,  I  .     '2.  .  4  .   --
7 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ _ n ~ 01- o 0NW"N 1-  9 ..~  0
01                                         0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 



ANNEX I
page 2 of 4
NOTES
Unless otherwise onl-d, dots fort 1960 refer to soy ven     betwe-  1959 end lvc     fur 1970   -  - ae  i968 and 1970 and for Most Recent Estiente between
1973 an     175.
55 Brazi   has bee- selecte,d as an objective country he,    a- of its sine and    ,,pen      r nble,o of reginesi innqoailty.
INDIA          1960    I    1951-hi -necage,     /b  1951-60      I    Ran,1  nf .-pl .iocder 15 and 65 aned eve       tn lcbr forc    age 10 and noer,
Id  Regstrd    .oplcat      foInck        /   1962      If   .gisnt-d, notal      prCitiing in the tonotry;      _/a   Incloding
nidwives;     lb  1958;     Ii  1960-62.
197i0    I   Ratio of popeistion ond,e 1U sod 69 and I-,-re'    labor Irtn age, 15 and ever        lb  1967-680     Ic  cnccd-ng nidwin-;
/d 1967.
0os rRECENT ESTIM4ATE:     Is  197,      /b  Rai" of popolacine os--e    1i and 65 and -ve    to labor force ageIS an d ovr;       Lt   1976.
Id  Inrluding, nidwIv;       Ie  1960-71 sorge          f  Ppopatiscc  10 yer     .ad ove
ENiONESIlA     1970    L.   1961-71,     lb  19-1;    /c   Including   Ld.inee      /d  Total hespita1 bndc incomplete.
PHILIPPIMES    1970    Ia   i percentage of ..sp'eynamt;      /h  Nt, inelc-ing priste vocational schools.
BRAZEL         1970     I   Ecnoobica11Y active PoPoI.iat   ,    /   Honpitdl Parc...ne,     /c   Inside, only.
RIO. April ii. 1977
DEFINITIoNS OF SOCIAL IgDICATORS
Land A-. (01- k.2)                                              P.P.I.t~~~~~~fno iotlo  POt  or t- --eo  -Popolation di-od,d by noobr of prottil-
fcl-Tctl   nt ac  ,snson picing lsnd cr00 and celand n                 ~    ~      clog -Ilo coa   rnn      rdot     aeo     1rindf-or      ,tnrtfind'
Agric. - Mot..:L        ntntev ogrf      atoa           - sd tnipoioniiy or             IuIn.. Iand ...IIiiinr  pCrnonI      Cih training It_petIe,t.-
peroaenti    for crope, pas~t-re, earket & kctch-o garden      .r to lie           fneoiat2o   per honoita1 bed -. Ppulation dcnidd by coobor of h-optta
fa1l a.                                                                             bedn _naiIabie. in pnhiic and pr,i-ar   gcnea- 1-d o1ocislte-d honpi-I
cod rohhiitaItio centers     enlu        - oring hone  and -otobl-ai-to
CNP nPravia ;Sj        - GNP P--r capita -stinasee at curret n-nket pnite-,             for ountCodIal. ad  r_vnio     core.
caoltdbp no-eCI--rsco     nethd an Wor ld Anch AtIan (19 73-75 bosts);        P-r caPita eunvip of clris1        of reCoiremeent) - toapoto,d from
lgoh, 1970 an '1 195 data.                                                           e-Cry nqoiant        0ntfood      uPppi-o aniloble -c contry pot captia
11 ano -1L.I                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~per dap, anilsboople1 oprile  de-tcnprdcIoI, iopo-ts          on
,,_,Iatio anduta     statistic                                                         enP-rta, ond chans- in etoCk;Int       _nppi. onrolodo aninal mod,      on
Pcstio  b(id- r. nlio)-As of J.ly firet:          if co t avilable,                 qaantcinie  Indin food proonneing and bnsg            ttloce         00m
a--rg, of tao end-ypeon - in-tes; 1I60, 1970 and 1971 daaIetsn                                    sinoLed by FAO basd cI phsIoln0ira]        ,vdn fornon
-ctinity and bh.lib L no ridrg ennirt-oota1 tomyeraotr, body noghts,
Pooaio  densItypr      koaeh      - 4lid-year population Per aqre kiln-             age nod.a.n diotriatione vIf populatio, and oil'-00       107. for uac
Popnalaion dens ity  p. p   sonar  in of crnt. iand - Ci-oputed as above for          fCc caPita ..Poly ofprotein (nro- Per day) - fr-t-i content of pot
-gio 1us  land only.                                                             capita rot sopply of food per day, ont supply of fool In Jdefinedu
aba, rrqiremeot       forall              ... .e otolhnbd by 00c  cnoc
Cr.do- birth r-te Prr thua.an.   annrage,- AnnaaI lion births per thou....d             total pr-srie per 'o.y And 20 grain    of aninal w0d pulnt prit-i. o
of  ld-pra.r Poplati-n; Inn-pear    rith,,ntl  .verlle   enIng i    1950 and          ablyb t0 grav   ,h-ild be anoo    poteIn. those otno.I
1970. and fto-y araeaenadinei            151   o   i    onre      laelletIoo                      l     tai        oa   prutLco and 25 cro      f aIIu    pnt
rde, deth rot,     E I        . ...sa .. atrucAsoal de-tis per thb....nd of t~id-     aanocgefar 'ho, world,          -proond by FAO    n  ho, 7 ltd hald Food
yesr popsiatior tan-Ycr arthtbeir, avrgssdJog in 1960 and 1970 and               Survy
lion-yar anne0,  ndicg In 1975 for eons recent ontinate.                      Pot C,aita protein nopply iron           ..olad edenII  P rttL.  u-pply nf food
infant eartslity race f/thou) - Arna-1 dot,hs of it antn under cnn year                 de-i,,d iron aniovln And pulses in gra      Per da.y
of  ge  e  hsadlo          its                                                    Death rote, (/thoo.a) e   1-4 - Annual deaths per Ihouao c-e          r
Lifeeoootae  a  birh lts) -   -Aesge noeber of -oersof life remaI-             1-   nr,t       SlIo      st, g       iop     ug'id     Ioo     oeco       f
leg~ an birth; a,inaly fiu-y-ear       & nrs rseding -n 1960, 1970 and                alutroe     .
1975 fa,rod... .ping coo-ri-s
llner  ef.rodnoIcon ,tce - Aorage -ob-r of Ive -.iach Let       uoocill               idoo..tice
boar Iv hersco "r.rPrprdoctioe Pe_-       ifsh    npree       preset afo-          Adluote,d          -ritttalo  - pro-ay  -oh-l - iEi-11-nt If .1ul    age, u
opeclfi   ferc,ilit pratna  _icul   fit-er      s  agonid ing in 1960,                proag       ocpi     ysholgopopolact-n          -ociodn     Iidrv   ug,d
197f0 and 1901 frdvlpi0c,cre                                                          -lyan6,ldoldfodfvntlvtsc                            pra,     edotin
pnpialn   oreh  d   i. - localI - fe-Ponod a-i-a     grnatii -talon f -id-           tr ..o.otrtns with uiteo       dotn,eolI oo           naY -oo-od1002
peat      I p aIIIo ion 1950-hO, 1960-70 and 197W-75.                                 sinc  non  pcpils    n  ebos. or abov   the affiola1 -cho-   age.
.Poelatina groath rate (%) - arhan - Cospotd      .1be grooth rate of total           Adiasted enrolment ratio - necoodary vshovl - Conputed on uhov,
pnpo.itatc, diffr-cnt dci" CsiT-    of urban sr .snap affectc...par-                  neoondarp odo-tlo     oar       tlatforoa-ofap                    pri-ry
bility o   ds    n     Iagc..i ....                                                   inotr-tcion, prontilos    a cr000,oot    oIortohe        cri.g
fdhaf-eneltio    11 tII.ail - Ratio of nrbaa      0 totai pcpclation,                   eirac-ti-n for    ap fiof 12'to 17 y--r ofug.otnodoc
difretdfinicc-e of urban araany aff, -t conparability of daIs                    ---sa   ar  gneralyp -nclded.
onongo'llsr _                                                                       Year of schooling p-oido,d (fistt and sacond ln1-10       - Trul1y-nnoIf
A. ~trttre  pr,    - Children (0-i4 pnato , wcrking-ag Iil(1-6h yearn),           stn'cg      t seon' lary leceI, nctinli-n-totin           n   ho Pu--
rtire   6e    nacd   Poe)o      petecc_ of nid-y-c population.                   tially or.. coplotIly nided.
Ago1 depeedrar  rai -U gacto of ppo      -i1-uI      15 and 65 nod on-r to            Onoati,t e_   rlloc     7. nIf neonodarv  - yectionl InlUso
Ecn ln dpenec    ai    - calts of popalac.t, coder 10 and 65 and oc-               i       _dpn  nl  or on .P in artet" ofssndt     isttInon.
to the, lsbne force ivag    grcp or 15-64 p-ors.                                   AdoIc 11iteroyrae 2.      - tItrato   udoits   able to `,red asi  ario0a
F sisdacng - oc-                                                                                 IyortneWlorsI, (poncarine  h0   C-Cocalati-e ou-s- of  Pc...ontogn of Ltota  udoIt Popolation aged 15 yc--  and 0000
aoatpIors.of birth-control d-mirs onder a-pi-e of ostio...l fanipy
planning progtae since ilo_tepion.                                                  H-isla
fall tpanion -asars   (I If "ared na"   e    - erertg             rff etld        Per.nos Pc. roo...    c.2     Ae-age, number of por--n po-t       i
soce   of ohild-bnarig ape 115-44 yeas_      b   n    Irth-control desie              oncoplod   on,erLiool   oeiignin orhue areas, d-neiigs        old
toal  crried we-    n  ae       groo.                                             nn-t ec-e            t tuClin  and conou"pld parts.
EII.I.y-t                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Onto 'ce d c  1i-ga cithotpodwaeI ~ )- Oo-;i-d tc-r,ticoal
mot. laboer                                                                             dooIlingn in rchna -J,.d    - to al rnuoc ,itho-c In-ido or ct-dc pcpod
ftllbrfurcc (ti-anand) - E-rn-toal       octi- epersnio,   -1olding              cater 0sciliti'    a .  toetgof all -ocpi-d darlcocs.
-nd fcrce   and  ...oploypoc hi occluding I.....sie-o, stodonin, nit,_           Acon10-et         ioto  1o     l   wlec)-Croiio                   lig
uni7  ti-ni      arc    nut-go     ar  not  onparbl-.                                 -db II trinity on     -   9co  goatlet  an 1oro    If __11 d_lvilg, in'
L.rforce in  gri-AItu-    I%) -Agri-It-,,     lahor mien. (in farming,               ctbs   -i. -ctal Iman
fatsrp,t y,hostingI And fishing) an per-n-tgo of total labon Inre.                  oaldo,AIi gso.n        Lo,dcelo      icty(.- Conyc_ed as alc          for
_ e'lne    I% of Iabnt force) - Osopinped a-      .... ally definno as                 -nra   e enlings only.
Pens nos  hc ar  chln and nilling to tab    a   b, coI o   a   " job na
gion   day ,trnaine d oat of a Job,and 5,I oh   , _Ior  for a speosfiod             co-pm,tioe
UC! m.. period nor c ooneding 000 Inek; nayI tocbe -oe-bal, hoit.e.o               Radio -ec-e      (pot tho .PoP) - All tYPos of    -tonelots for radio brood-
'rnines dot toC different definitians      n.  plynd a-.   --lte  of                oai    oaoilpobI              t per.ch asad of poPl1cion, -'sy  d-
data.1,,e.g   -P.Yon IoInet office ntacinct ,  -apl e  s      tPa In-ry               tiltee      -rI     o'sooorcaad is year           allo  I  --larc-    'If
aeplyneIst  . iara-e.                                                             radio net wan in ciffe    ; data for r-cet Y-rar    oo0     be   o-po..able
cio-enotcou crios,I,ccn          licosing
le. D-iftnhtlbio  - Perncotag, of PreC- elin-.     Iboth    I,cah ,,ie            P-e-egor ai     (net srho-~   '- Pa.ogrer             prs.ottct
k III)rcnie     db-roto 57., tithe-t "e7%, p-i-oc      207 ..ad psorea(               -etlog le-n tvn    oe1Iih.  -sa,nlcdns a1bula--ns         l,-on- at"i,
40%- hn....hs1ds..deay,                                                                              ls
Ellet,icic  khb/nr pert.'      - Asnu-   Coonuopte-   of ind-noocol, on-
linic,cno  lend  --tinos p - Pa-nni-ge- at I-odne, by          lh-Ir             -ireial , p.bl- anod prls-.le nI,It- cotsynhla           ot    ln   aia
1.--po_crest 10.if ladonr.                                                        cral      ba.    npd      eln    aa   wtCat ail-toa     ho i  Insuepson
arId bo  oil cog pord   ,,ern  cd,I. cpothtof fintr   1ic       _
(keith .. ii Nstriolnn                                         ~~~~~N-nstitc il-/Yr get Cap) - Pr capita ... a  Ia nninopt-on iv hilogr..i
Pec    ..   erPyiii-         Popoistion d lided by -uohe    of pr,ttiticg               i-' io..  I -Lt d--d-co      driopn        ntiproo           opi
phy.sti tIl q-slifj~le   e a ceditaI e-isl at oni-t-ipy        -eI.                                                d11P--                      f-     p



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 4
BOONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA
GNP PER CAPITA IN 1979   USS 150
3z/                                   ~  ~~~~~~~~~~~AJUA RATE OF GROWTH (%. constant Prices) s
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1975/76
US    Bln.                                            1960/61-1964/65    1965/66-1969/70    1970/71-1974/75
GNP at Market Prices            82.8       100.0                                         3.8                3.7                2.6
Gross Domestic Inveotment      .6.7         20.1
Gross National Saving          16.0         19.3
Current Account Balance        -0.7        -0.8
Resource Gap                   -1.5         -1.8
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND PRODUCTIVITY IN 1971
Vlue Added (at factor  ost)          Labor Force             V.A. Per Worker
USS Bln.            %                Mil.     96             US     p     of National Average
Agriculture                    24.5             46.6               130.0   72.1            188           64
Industry                        11.8            22.3                20.2   11.2            582          199
Services                       t6.3             311,                W.2    16.7            512 186
Total/average                  52.6            100.0               180.4   100.0           292          100
GOVERNNENT FINANCE
General Government                                     Central Government
(Ra. Bln)         96 of GIP                     oRe. BlGlP
1975/76      1975/76   1973/74-1975 76               1975/76       1975/76   1973/74-1975/76
Current Receipts                 133.34        18.5         16.7                      79.11         11.0          9.8
Current Exrpenditures            118.77        16.5          5.                       70.05          9.7          8.8
Current Surplus/Deficit          14.57          2.0          1.4                       9.o6          1.3          1.0
Capital Expenditures a/          54.27          7.5          6.2                      40.75          5.6          4.6
External Assistance (net)        13.89          1.9          1.3                      13.89          1.9          1.3
MONEY. CREDIT AND PRICES               1965/66    1971/72   1972/73    1973/74   1974/7'    1975/76    September 1975    September 1976
(Billion Rn outstanding at end of period)
Money and Quasi Money                    61.4      122.4     142.2      169.1     187.2      213.6         199.0             238.3
Bank Credit to Public Sector             40.8      69.o       82.5      92.9      102.6      108.5         112.8            112.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector            28.1      64.4       76.o       90.1     109.5      134.2         106.0            143.8
(Percentage or Index Numbers)                    January 1976     January 1
Money and Quasi Money as % of GDP        24.0       26.4      27.9       27.1      26.2       27.9
Wholesale Price Index
(1961/62 = 100)                      131.6      188.4     207.1      254.2     313.0      302.8         290.0            320.5
Annual peroentage changes in.
Wholesale Prioe Index                     7.7        4.0       9.9       22.7      23.1                                       10.5 v
Bank Credit to Public Seotor             12.9       21.3      19.6       12.6      10.4        5.7                            4.7
Bank Credit to Private Sector            12.8      13.6       18.0       18.5      21.5       22.5                            24.6
g/ The per capita GNP estimate is at market prices, calculated by the conversion technique used in the
World Atlas. All other conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
2/ Quick Estimates.
S/ Computed from trend line of GNP at factor cost series, including one observation before first year and
one observation after last year of listed period.
/ Transfers between Center and States have been netted out.
!/ All loans and advances to third parties have been netted out.
t/ Net bank credit to Government Sector.
B/ Bank Credit to Commercial Sector.



ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT DATA                                                   ANNEX I
BALANCE OF PAYIM=S                 1973/74      1974/75      1975/76      1976/77  /           MERCHANDISE ElPORTS (AVXRE 1973/74-1975/76)
Us$ Millio                                                        US Mln.
Exports of Goods                    3,239        4,174        4,555        5,400               Sugar                       342          9
Imports of Goods                   -3,971       -5,794       -6,085       -5,850               Jute Manufactures          317          8
Trade Balanoe                      -  732       -1,620       -1,530         -450               Tea             2/ 249                   6
NFS (net)  j/                        n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.                Cotton Textiles            413          10
Iron Ore                   206           5
Resource Gap                         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.                Engineering Goods          391          10
Othere                   2.071          s2
Interost Payments (net)            - 233         - 260        - 250        - 280               Total                    3,989         100
Other Factor Payments (net)          n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Not Transfers  i/                    n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.
Balanice on Current Acoounts         n.a.         n.a.         n.a.        n.a.                EXTBAL DEBT, MARCH 51, 1976
rJS8 Bil1i on
Official Aid
Disbursements                   1,249        1,766        2,326       2,050                Repayable in foreign currency          12.3
Amortization                    - 459        - 519        - 516       - 560                Repayable through export of goods       0.7
Transactiona with IMF                  75          515          205       - 365                Total Outstanding and Disbursed        13.0
All Other Items                       205           80          559       1,100
DEBT SERVICE RATIO FOR 1 976/77        15.5  percent /
Increase in Reserves (-)             -105           38        - 794      -1.495
Gross Reserves (end year)           1,416        1,378        2,172       3,667                I3RD/IDA IMENNG. December 51. 1976     (ust lln.)
Net Reserves (end year)             1,341          783        1,332       3,202
IBND       IDA
Fuel and Related Materials
Outstanding and Disbureed           452.7      3208.4
Importe                               720        1,451        1,417       1,625                Undisbureed                          510.3     1140.5
of which. Petroleum                719        1,451        1,417       1,625                Outstanding including
JUndisbursed                         963.0     4348.9
Exports                                20           26           41         n.a.
of which: Petroleum                 16           17           22         n.a.
RATE OF EXCCRHANGE /
Prior to mid-Deoember 1971        US$1.00  =  Rs 7.5                                            After end June 1972    t   Floating Rate
Rs 1.00  = USSO.135333                                        Spot Rate March 31, 1976
Rid-December 197, to              US01.00  = R- 7.27927                                                    approx. USS1.00 - Rs.   8.80475
end June 1972                   Rs 1.00  = USSO.137376                                                   approx. Re 1.00 = USS   0.113575
h/ Eftizated.
i/  Included with  All ofher items.
k)/ Aid and trade figures converted to rrS dollars using exchange rates as indicated in inside front
cover of this report or noteo to individual tables.
y Including garmenta.
./  Amortization and interest payments (excluding IMF transactions) as a peroentage of merchandise exports.



ANNEX II
Page 1 of 12
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDIA
A.  STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS
(As of May 31, 1977)
Loan or                                                                                 io
Credit No.   Year   Borrower          Purpose                           (Net of Cancellation)
BANK     IDA      Undisbursed
39 Loans/                                                           1,089.2
43 Credits fully disbursed                                                   2,344.8
614-IN       1969   India      Tarai Seeds                             13.0     -             3.7
203-IN       1970   India      Punjab Agricultural Credit               -       27.5          3.6
226-IN       1971   India      Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Cr.          -       24.4          0.6
250-IN       1971   India      Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit           -       35.0          3.8
264-IN       1971   India      Cochin II Fertilizer                     -       20.0          0.8
267-IN       1971    India     Wheat Storage                            -        5.0          3.7
278-IN       1972   India     Mysore Agricultural Credit                -       40.0          1.2
294-IN       1972   India      Bihar Agricultural Markets               -       14.0         11.1
312-IN       1972   India     Population                                -       21.2          8.7
342-IN       1972   India      Education                                -       12.0         11.1
356-IN       1972   India      IDBI                                     -       25.0        12.4
377-IN       1973   India      Power Transmission III                   -       85.0         27.6
378-IN       1973   India     Mysore Agricultural Markets               -        8.0         7.2
902-IN       1973   ICICI      Industry DFC X                          70.0     -             9.2
390-IN       1973   India      Bombay Water Supply                      -       55.0         37.8
392-IN       1973   India      Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit        -       38.0          7.4
403-IN       1973    India     Telecommunications V                     -       80.0         15.6
427-IN       1973    India     Calcutta Urban Development               -       35.0         15.1
440-iN       1973   India      Bihar Agricultural Credit                -       32.0         17.6
456-IN       1974   India      PP Apple Processing & Marketing          -       13.0         10.7
481-IN       1974    India     Trombay IV                               -       50.0         18.3
1011-IN       1974   India      Chambal (Rajasthan) CAD                 52.0     -            40.3
482-IN       1974    India     Karnataka Dairy                          -       30.0         29.6
502-IN       1974    India     Rajasthan Canal CAD                      -       83.0         56.6
520-IN       1974    India     Sindri Fertilizer                        -       91.0         30.2
521-IN       1974   India      Rajasthan Dairy                          -       27.7         27.4
522-IN       1974   India     Madhya Pradesh Dairy                      -       16.4        15.8
526-IN       1975   India     Drought Prone Areas                       -       35.0        28.8
1079-IN       1975    India     IPFCO Fertilizer                       109.0     -            88.1
1097-IN       1975    India     Industry DFC XI                        100.0     -           57.3
532-IN       1975    India     Godavari Barrage Irrigation              -       45.0         32.4
540-IN       1975   India      ARC Credit                               -       75.0        32.2
541-IN       1975   India      West Bengal Agrc. Dev.                   -       34.0        31.0
562-IN       1975   India      Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) CAD             -       24.0        21.1
572-IN       1975   India      Rural Electrification                    -       57.0        54.6
582-IN       1975   India      Railways XIII                            -      110.0        46.0
585-IN       1975   India     Uttar Pradesh Water Supply                -       40.0        39.5
598-IN       1975   India      Fertilizer Industry                      -      105.0        97.5
604-IN       1975    India     Power Transmission IV                    -      150.0       150.0
609-IN       1975   India      Madhya Pradesh Forestry T.A.             -        4.0         4.0
610-IN       1976   India      Integrated Cotton Development            -       18.0        18.0
616-IN       1976   India      Industrial Imports XI                    -      200.0          7.0
1251-IN(TW)   1976   India     Andhra Pradesh Irrigation               145.0     -          145.0
1260-IN       1976   India      IDBI II                                 40.0     -           40.0
1273-IN       1976   India     National Seed                            25.0     -           25.0
1313-IN       1976   India      Telecommunications VI                   80.0     -           60.2
1335-IN       1976   India      Bombay Urban Transport                  25.0     -           25.0
680-IN       1977   India     Kerala Agric. Dev.                                30.0        30.0*
682-IN       1977   India     Orissa Agric. Dev.                                20.0        20.0*
685-IN       1977   India      Singrauli Thermal                               150.0       150.0*
687-IN       1977   India     Madras Urban Dev.                                 24.0        24.0*
695-IN       1977   India     Gujarat Fisheries                                  4.0         4.0*
1394-IN(TW)   1977   India      Gujarat Fisheries                       14.0                 14,0*
Total                                                             1,762.2  4,338.0
of which has been repaid                                          789.2     27.0
Total now outstanding                                               973.0  4,311.0
Amount Sold                              114.6
of which has been repaid             111.5
Total now held by Bank and IDA                                      973.0  4,311.0
Total undisbursed                                                  493.8     937.8     1,431.6
1/ Prior to exchange adjustments.
*   Not yet effective.



ANNEX II
Page 2 of 12
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS
(As of May 31, 1977)
Fiscal                                              Amount (US$ million)
Year          Company                             Loan     Equity   Total
1959      Republic Forge Company Ltd.              1.5       -        1.5
1959      Kirloskar Oil Engines Ltd.               0.9       -        0.9
1960      Assam Sillimanite Ltd.                   1.4       -        1.4
1961      K.S.B. Pumps Ltd.                        0.2       -        0.2
19>3-66   Precision Bearings India Ltd.            0.7      0.3       1.0
1964      Fort Gloster Industries Ltd.             0.8      0.4       1.2
1964-75   Mahindra Ugine Steel Co. Ltd.           11.8      1.0      12.8
1964      Lakshmi Machine Works Ltd.               1.0      0.3       1.3
1967      Jayshree Chemicals Ltd.                  1.0      0.1       1.1
1967      Indian Explosives Ltd.                   8.6      2.9      11.5
1969-70   Zuari Agro-Chemicals Ltd.               15.1      3.8      18.9
1976      Escorts Limited                          6.6       -        6.6
TOTAL                           49.6       8.8      58.4
Less:  Sold                             6.0       1.6       7.6
Repaid                          13.0        -       13.0
Cancelled                        6.2       0.7       6.9
Now Held                        24.4       6.5      30.9
Undisbursed                      5.6        -        5.6



ANNEX II
Page 3 of 12
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION-
Generally, the implementation of projects has been proceeding
reasonably well. Details on the execution of individual projects are
below. The level of disbursements was US$551 million in FY76 or 62%
of Bank Group commitments to India in that year. The undisbursed pipeline
of US$1,432 million as of May 31, 1977, corresponds roughly to com-
mitments over the preceding two-year period and reflects the leadtime
which would be expected given the mix of fast and slow-disbursing projects
in the India program.
Ln. No. 902    Tenth Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of India
Project; US$70.0 million loan of June 8, 1973; Effective
Date: August 16, 1973; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Ln. No. 1097   Eleventh Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation of
India Prolect; US$100 million loan of April 2, 1975;
Effective Date: July 1, 1975; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
These loans have supported industrialization in India through a
well-established development finance company. Loan 902-IN is fully committed
and commitments are progressing satisfactorily for Loan 1097-IN. Disburse-
ments under Loan 902-IN are ahead of schedule.
Ln. No. 614    Tarai Seeds Project; US$13.0 million loan of June 18, 1969;
Effective Date: September 12, 1969; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
This loan to the Tarai Development Corporation is to assist in
the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds of high yielding
varieties. The corporation is working effectively and has developed an ex-
cellent reputation for quality seed. Expansion of three processing plants
is well under way. Delivery of some equipment in damaged condition, and
retendering, because of poor response for some others, has delayed delivery
schedules necessitating an extension of the Closing Date by one year to
December 31, 1977.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report
any problems which are being encountered, and the action being taken
to remedy them. They should be read in this sense and with the under-
standing that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of
strengths and weaknesses in project execution.



ANNEX II
Page 4 of 12
Cr. No. 203    PunJab Agricultural Credit Project; US$27.5 million credit
of June 24, 1970; Effective Date: September 4, 1970;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 226    Andhra Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$24.4 million
credit of January 8, 1971; Effective Date: May 10, 1971;
Closing Date: -June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 249    Haryana Agricultural Credit Project; US$25.0 million credit
of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 250    Tamil Nadu Agricultural Credit Project; US$35.0 million
credit of June 11, 1971; Effective Date: November 2, 1971;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 278    Mysore Agricultural Credit Project; US$40.0 million credit
of January 7, 1972; Effective Date: September 25, 1972;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 391    Madhya Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$33.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 392    Uttar Pradesh Agricultural Credit Project; US$38.0 million
credit of June 8, 1973; Effective Date: October 31, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 440    Bihar Agricultural Credit Project; US$32.0 million credit
of November 29, 1973; Effective Date: March 29, 1974;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 540    Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
Project; US$75.0 million credit of April 28, 1975;
Effective Date: August 5, 1975; Closing Date: Dec-
ember 31, 1977
Apart from the Punjab project, which consists of mechanization
equipment only, all the above agricultural credit projects are similar in
structure, being designed to provide long- and medium-term credit to farm-
ers through credit institutions for such on-farm investments as tractors,
minor irrigation and land-leveling. Disbursement of the minor irrigation
components are on schedule. Tractor procurement was delayed following
changes in both the supply and demand situations after the projects were
originally appraised, which prompted GOI to request that indigenous as well
as imported models should be eligible for IDA financing under these credits.
The Executive Directors approved this request in December 1973 and those
credits which have tractor components have been amended accordingly. Tractor
procurement is proceeding satisfactorily. Credit 540 is a continuation



ANNEX II
Page 5 of 12
nationwide of the previous program of agricultural credit projects, which
were confined to individual states. ARDC will continue to act as the
financial intermediary for refinancing agricultural credit.
Cr. No. 267    Wheat Storage Project; US$5.0 million credit of August 23,
1971; Effective Date: November 14, 1972; Closing Date:
September 30, r978
The Food Corporation of India is making satisfactory progress
in the execution of this project. Piling and foundation work is nearly com-
pleted. Silo construction has begun and staff training is in progress.
Cr. No. 456    Himachal Pradesh Apple Processing and Marketing Project;
US$13 million credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date:
September 26, 1974; Closing Date: December 31, 1978
This project was designed to promote the development of apple
processing and marketing in Himachal Pradesh, and comprises grading and
packing centers, cold storages, a juice processing plant, road improvements
and cableways. The project encountered initial delays due to managerial
and technical problems, however, remedial measures have been taken to over-
come these difficulties. A recent review mission found a satisfactory
improvement in the prospects for successful project implementation.
Cr. No. 403    Telecommunications V Project; US$80.0 million credit of
June 25, 1973; Effective Date: July 30, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1977
Material supply problems which delayed the start of this project
have been resolved and physical achievements were at record levels during
fiscal year 1976. However, to cover the delivery and installation of im-
ported transmission and switching equipment, the closing date was extended
by one year to December 31, 1977.
Cr. No. 377    Power Transmission III Project; US$85.0 million credit
of May 9,, 1973; Effective Date: October 10, 1973; Closing
Date: September 30, 1977
Cr. No. 604    Power Transmission IV Project; US$150.0 million credit of
January 22, 1976; Effective Date: October 22, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1981
For Power Transmission III all equipment has been ordered; there
will be a substantial cost overrun due to international price increases, part
of which is being met from Power Transmission IV. For Power Transmission IV,
bids for most of the equipment have been invited.



ANNEX II
Page 6 of 12
Cr. No. 264    Cochin II Fertilizer Project; US$20 million credit of
July 30, 1971; Effective Date: December 2, 1971; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
Cr. No. 481    Trombay IV Fertilizer Expansion Project; US$50.0 million
credit of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: August 21, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1977
Cr. No. 520    Sindri Fertilizer Project; US$91 million credit of December 18,
1974; Effective Date: February 27, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1978
Ln. No. 1079   IFFCO Fertilizer Project; US$109 million loan of January 24,
1975; Effective Date: April 28, 1975; Closing Date: March 31,
1979
Cr. No. 598    Fertilizer Industry Project; US$105.0 million credit
of December 31, 1975; Effective Date: March 1, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The Cochin Fertilizer Project is being commisssioned, about 31
months behind the appraisal estimate. Progress on the Trombay IV project has
been good although project completion may be delayed by about four months
because of longer than expected delivery times for critical equipment. Under
the Sindri project plant construction and erection is proceeding generally
according to schedule except for a one-month delay due to anticipated delays
in receipt of some materials. Commencement of commercial production is ex-
pected by March 1978. The anticipated cost to complete the project is pre-
sently running within budget. The IFFCO project was delayed by about a year
as a result of a change in feedstock from fuel oil to naphtha and delays in
completion of engineering contracts. The project is now progressing satis-
factorily based on naphtha as feedstock. Site work has begun, process- and
time-critical equipment is being ordered, and engineering work is well under
way. Credit 598-IN is designed to increase the utilization of existing
fertilizer production capacity. The project has encountered delays in sub-
project preparation and investment approvals by the Government. Further,
some of the sub-projects identified earlier may not materialize because of
reconsideration by the Central and State governments. The Central Govern-
ment has submitted a list of sub-projects to replace the ones that are
likely to be dropped. Because of the above, the project is likely to be
delayed by 6-12 months.
Cr. No. 294    Bihar Agricultural Markets Project; US$14.0 million credit
of March 29, 1972; Effective Date: July 31, 1972; Closing
Date: December 31, 1978



ANNEX II
Page 7 of 12
Cr. No. 378    Karnataka Wholesale Agricultural Markets Project; US$8.0 mil-
lion credit of May 9, 1973; Effective Date: September 7, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
These projects were designed to help with establishment of whole-
sale markets in a number of towns in Bihar and Karnataka. Progress under
the Bihar project has generally been satisfactory. Markets construction in
Bihar was delayed due to legal challenges arising out of the state's acqui-
sition of land for market sites; however, these difficulties have been satis-
factorily resolved. Construction of markets is well advanced and a number
have opened for business. Progress under the Karnataka project is much less
satisfactory, however, largely due to deficiencies in market planning, design
and construction. These problems and remedial actions have been brought to
the attention of the State and Central Government. The project is being mon-
itored closely to try and bring about the necessary improvements in implemen-
tation.
Cr. No. 312    Population Project; US$21.2 million credit of June 14, 1972;
Effective Date: May 9. 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1978
This credit is designed to finance an experimental and research
oriented population project in Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. The project's
infrastructure, which would provide the optimum facilities (buildings, equip-
ment, staff and transport) according to GOI standards in selected districts
in each state, is almost complete. The two Population Centers, which will
design and monitor research aimed at improving the family planning program,
are now functioning.
Cr. No. 342    Agricultural Universities Project; US$12.0 million credit of
November 10. 1972; Effective Date: June 8, 1973; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
The project involves the development of the agricultural uni-
versities in Assam and Bihar. Initial lag in implementation on account
of late appointments of project staff has been overcome. Campus plans
have been approved, and construction has started in Assam and is scheduled
to start in Bihar by mid 1977. Disbursement which has been slow because
of initial delays should accelerate now that construction and equipment
procurement are under way.
Cr. No. 356    Industrial Development Bank of India Project; US$25.0 million
credit of February 9, 1973; Effective Date: June 22, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1977
Loan No. 1260 Second Industrial Development Bank of India Project;
US$40.0 million loan of June 10, 1976; Effective Date:
August 10, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The first IDBI Project (Cr. 356) had a slow start mainly due to
institutional problems in the participating State Financial Corporations.



ANNEX II
Page 8 of 12
However, the credit is now fully committed. In order to continue Bank
Group's involvement in assisting small and medium scale industries, the
second operation (Ln. 1260) was approved on June 10, 1976, and more than
10% of the loan amount had been authorized by mid-May 1977.
Cr. No. 390    Bombay Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$55.0 million
credit of January 22, 1974; Effective Date: March 13, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
A substantial cost overrun on the project from US$158 million
equivalent to about US$375 million equivalent has been caused by inflation
and price increases resulting from delays in appointment of engineering con-
sultants and redesign of certain project components. The project has been
redefined and rephased to fit the financing available from the Credit, local
loans and bonds, and internal cash generation of the project entity. The
revised cost estimates for the implementation period 1975/76 to 1979/80
amount to US$266 million equivalent excluding interest during construction.
All major contracts for civil works, equipment and materials have been
awarded. This is expected to considerably speed up disbursements which
has been slow. Financial performance of the project entity during 1975/76
was satisfactory, and major rate increases from April 1, 1976 should ensure
continuing financial viability of the project entity.
Cr. No. 616    Eleventh Industrial Imports Project; US$200.0 million credit
of February 24, 1976; Effective Date: April 1, 1976; Closing
Date: June 30, 1977
This credit was signed on February 24, 1976, and became effective
on April 1, 1976.
Cr. No. 427    Calcutta Urban Development Pro_ject; US$35.0 million credit
of September 12, 1973; Effective Date: January 10, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1978
Following considerable increases in project costs, GOI and IDA
finalized a project redefinition in April 1976, to accommodate the project
to funding available. It is now expected to be substantially completed by
March 1979. Agreements have been reached on consultants services and
technical assistance, as provided for under the project.
Cr. No. 482    Karnataka Dairy Development Project; US$30 million credit of
June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 23, 1974; Closing
Date: September 30, 1982
Cr. No. 521    Rajasthan Dairy Development Project;; US$27.7 million credit
of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: August 8, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982



ANNEX II
Page 9 of 12
Cr. No. 522    Madhya Pradesh Dairy Development Project; US$16.4 million
credit of December 18, 1974; Effective Date: July 23, 1975;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
These three credits totalling US$74.1 million support dairy devel-
opment projects organized along the lines of the successful AMUL dairy coop-
erative scheme in Gujarat State. The Karnataka Project which got off to a
slow start has begun to show improvement under new management appointed
recently. Farmer response has been good and about 250 dairy cooperatives
with small farmer participation are functioning effectively. Two Dairy
Unions have been established. Close supervision is being maintained. In
Madhya Pradesh good progress has been made. About 110 new dairy cooperatives
societies have been established. Detailed design studies for plant construc-
tion are complete. Technical services investments are being made. Contracts
have been placed for livestock imports. The Rajasthan project is also doing
well. Four milk unions have been formed and excellent progress has been made
in organizing the servicing of nearly 350 dairy cooperatives at the village
level. Plant-designs are ready, and procurement is to start soon. KDDC
decision to procure plant equipment jointly with RDDC and MPDDC on the same
tender should lead to a recovery of considerable time lost earlier.
Cr. No. 532    Godavari Barrage Project; US$45 million credit of March 7,
1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Both the civil works and equipment tenders have been awarded after
international competitive bidding. Work is in progress.
Ln. No. 1011   Chambal (Rajasthan) Command Area Development Project; US$52
million loan of June 19, 1974; Effective Date: December 12,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 502    Rajasthan Canal Command Area Development Project; US$83 mil-
lion credit of July 31, 1974; Effective Date: December 30,
1974; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Cr. No. 562    Chambal (Madhya Pradesh) Command Area Development Project;
US$24 million credit of June 20, 1975; Effective Date:
September 18, 1975; Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Ln. No. 1251   Andhra Pradesh Irrigation and Command Area Development
(TW)         Composite Project; US$145.0 million loan (Third Window)
of June 10, 1976; Effective Date: September 7,1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
These projects, based on existing large irrigation systems, are
designed to improve the efficiency of water utilization and, where possible,
to use water savings for bringing additional areas under irrigation. Canal
lining and other irrigation infrastructures, drainage, and land shaping are



ANNEX II
Page 10 of 12
prominent components of these projects. In addition, provisions have been
made to increase agricultural production and marketing by reforming and
upgrading agricultural extension services and by providing processing and
storage facilities and village access roads. Progress of these projects
is generally satisfactory and particularly successful with respect to
agricultural extension.
Cr. No. 541    West Bengal Agricultural Development Project; US$34 million
credit of April 28, 1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project became effective on July 31, 1975. Successful reor-
ganization of agricultural extension services has been a major achievement,
but preparations for lending operations have been slow mainly due to poor
coordination of project agencies. IDA and the government of West Bengal
have agreed on measures to improve coordination and on a timetable covering
a range of project activities. Progress with preliminaries for procurement
of equipment, markets construction and riverlift completions are satis-
factory.
Cr. No. 526    Drought Prone Areas Project; US$35.0 million credit of
January 24, 1975; Effective Date: June 9, 1975; Closing
Date: June 30, 1980
Progress varies among components but overall is satisfactory.
Expenditure to date is less than anticipated but is reasonable because
price inflation has been much less than expected. Disbursement perform-
ance is poor and the Borrower has been requested to expedite claims.
Greater attention is now being paid to data collection to measure project
performance. This is essential since several components are innovative.
The Systems Research Institute of Poona has been contracted to design an
information system to facilitate monitoring and evaluation.
Cr. No. 572    Rural Electrification Prolect; US$57.0 million credit of
July 23, 1975; Effective Date: October 23, 1975; Closing
Date: December 31, 1979
Eleven states have now fulfilled the conditions of eligibility for
on-lending under this project [compared with six at the time of appraisal]
The project got off to a slow start, due principally to the need to adapt
specifications and tender documents to international competitive bidding
procedures, but these problems have been overcome. As of September 1976,
orders had been placed for 60 approved rural electrification schemes, and
tenders had been invited or were in the course of preparation for others.
Cr. No. 582    Railways XIII Project; US$110.0 million credit of August 26,
1975; Effective Date: October 10, 1975; Closing Date:
September 30, 1977
The project is intended to cover most of the foreign exchange
requirements of Indian Railway's (IR) investment program from April 1, 1975,



ANNEX II
Page 11 of 12
through March 31, 1977. Since the approval of the project, increased pro-
duction in steel products in India and further developments in IR's indigen-
ization program have resulted in a less than anticipated foreign exchange
requirement. It is expected, therefore, that of a total Credit of US$110
million, some US$30-40 million may be undisbursed at the end of the current
project period. During the year 1975/76, IR carried 223 million tons of
freight traffic, 6% more than forecasted. The project is being implemented
satisfactorily.
Cr. No. 585    Uttar Pradesh Water Supply and Sewerage Project; US$40.0
million credit of September 25, 1975; Effective Date:
February 6, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1980
The project had a slow start due to delays in preparation of techni-
cal reports for regional and local water authorities. The technical reports
for about a third of the project have now been finalized and construction
works started in October 1976, about one year behind schedule. All consul-
tants for engineering, organization, management and accounting services for
the Jal Nigam (Water Supply Development Corporation) and the Jal Sansthans
(water authorities) have been engaged. Significant institutional develop-
ment can be expected only after the consultants submit their final recommenda-
tions. The project is expected to be completed by March 1980, approximately
9 months behind schedule.
Cr. No. 609    Madhya Pradesh Forestry Technical Assistance Project;
US$4.0 million credit of February 26, 1976; Effective
Date: May 26, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
This project will identify a sound resource base for pulp and paper
manufacture and related industries, develop suitable logging systems, and
undertake a feasibility study to determine optimal use of the existing wood
resources in the Bastar District of southern Madhya Pradesh. It also includes
a study of ways to integrate the area's tribal population with future develop-
ment. After initial delays due to difficulties in employing key personnel,
project implementation is now satisfactory. For the feasibility study, proj-
ect authorities have prepared a short list of three foreign consulting firms,
who are now being asked to prepare detailed proposals. On the basis of these
proposals, the final selection will be made shortly.
Cr. No. 610    Integrated Cotton Development Project; US$18.0 million
credit of February 26, 1976; Effective Date: November 30,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Ln. No. 1273   National Seed Project; US$25.0 million loan of June 10, 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
Good progress has been made since negotiations. The National
Seeds Corporation (NSC) has withdrawn from seeds production as planned, hav-
ing handed over to State Seeds Corporation (SSC). Detailed production pro-
grams, by variety and responsible institution, have been prepared for breeder,



ANNEX II
Page 12 of 12
foundation and certified generations. GOI and State Governments have made
equity contributions to SSC thus ensuring financing of major project activity.
Orders will shortly be placed for processing machinery to provide bridging
capacity pending the construction of new processing plants. Tender documents
for the first purchases of farm machinery have been finalized.
Ln. No. 1313   Sixth Telecommunications Project; US$80.0 million loan
of July 22, 1976; Effective Date: September 14, 1976;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
Disbursements have commenced and the project is progressing satis-
factorily.
Ln. No. 1335   Bombay Urban Transport Project; US$25.0 million loan of
December 20, 1976; Effective Date: March 10, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1980
Procurement work is well in hand. Contracts for 275 single and
175 double deck bus chassis have been awarded and bidding for corresponding
bus bodies is in progress. Civil works for bus facilities have been partly
commissioned and bidding for 18 of 31 traffic engineering schemes is in
progress. Preparations for technical assistance envisaged under the project
are under way.
Cr. No. 680    Kerala Agricultural Development Project; US$30 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: July 1, 1977
(expected) Closing Date: March 31, 1985
Cr. No. 682    Orissa Agricultural Development Project; US$20 million
credit of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: July 1, 1977
(expected); Closing Date: December 31, 1983
Ln. No. 1394   Gujarat Fisheries Project; US$14 million loan and US$4
(TW) and       million credit of April 22, 1977; Effective Date:
Cr. No. 695    July 22, 1977 (expected); Closing Date:   June 30, 1983
Cr. No. 687    Madras Urban Development Project; US$24.0 million credit
of April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected)
Closing Date: September 30, 1981
Cr. No. 685    Singrauli Thermal Power Project; US$150.0 million credit of
April 1, 1977; Effective Date: June 30, 1977 (expected);
Closing Date: December 31, 1983



ANNEX III
INDIA
MARARASHTRA IRRIGATION AND COMMAND AREA
DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITE PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I        Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken by the country to prepare the project
2 years.
(b) The agency which has prepared the project
Government of Maharashtra, Irrigation Department
IBRD/FAO Cooperative Program.
(c) Data of first presentation to the Bank and date
of the first mission to consider the project
September 1976.
(d) Date of departure of appraisal mission
September 10, 1976.
(e) Date of completion of negotiations
April 25, 1977
(f) Planned date of effectiveness
October 15, 1977
Section II       Special Bank Implementation Action
None
Section III      Special Conditions
Conditions for disbursements for CAD component:
(i) Subsidiary Loan Agreement between GOI and ARDC
(para 49);
(ii) GOM order for applying special loans provisions
(ineligible farmers) to the project (para 47).






ORD 12594 
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION AND COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITE PROJECT                                                  0             20      0     4
Project Area           E   P[-1-o o A,4
.....P,oDooed Conol Coonsl ctlon ol Rehob,Irtion ...................o
P--Pdpo -d RRods
Co-oo -o p- f.I R D
EN.'-d2 Rooo&
AURANGABAD                                         E    l     Eenn
\~ ~ ~~~~C      ST UCT ABAD/A                                En Pose Telephon; m e lnln
\          ~~D  I S  T  R   I C   T   A-"'^ 14^              W dS   TE 1.1^- 51110S 
* MooMarke-
5~b M-,k-~
Proposed Do- ond oke (No, Por of P,-ol
:Z:VE-ol "0 Dos a-d L.I.o
,XP,O '*rr\7:                                                                                                                                    NAN NAM  U ED4 ~ -~--D  cl bound:ll  P A R B H A N I   \  ;PARIA*
3~~~~~~                                                                                                                          ~    ~~ BAv  D I. T R I C T 
D A   JI ST R I CT
.550  *'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"~~~~~~~~~~~~~'*"'"O~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~"" 4' ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ J



