Report No. 1486a-IN
India: Appraisal of the                                                        FILE COPY
Maharashtra Irrigation Project
June 30, 1977
South Asia Projects Department
Agriculture Division C
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
H
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00         =    Rupees (Rs) 9.00 1/
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES (METRIC SYSTEM)
1 meter (m)                           =     3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)                      =     0.62 miles (mi)
1 hectare (ha)             3          =     2.47 acres (ac)
I million cubic meters (Mm )          =     810 acre-feet (ac-ft)
1 thousand million cubic felt (TMC) =       28.32 Mm3
1 cubic foot per second (ft s)              0.0283 M /s
-3
1 liter per hectare (1/ha)            =     14 ft  /1,000 ac
I ton                                 =     1,000 kilograms (kg)
2,205 pounds
1/   Until September 24, 1975, the Rupee was officially valued at a fixed
Pound Sterling rate. Since then it has been fixed against a 'basket'
of currencies. As these currencies are floating, the US Dollar/Rupee
exchange rate is subject to change. Conversions in this report have
been made at US$1 to Rs 9.00, which was the short-term average rate
prevailing at the time of appraisal.



FOR OMCAL USE ONLY
PRINCIPAL ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS USED
ARDC        =      Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
CAD         =      Command Area Development
CADA        =      Command Area Development Authority
CB                 Commercial Bank
CWC                Central Water Commission
DA          =      Department of Agriculture
GOI         =      Government of India
COM         =      Government of Maharashtra
ICAR        =      Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICB         =      International Competitive Bidding
ID          =      Irrigation Department
LBC         =      Left Bank Canal
LCB         =      Local Competitive Bidding
MLDC        =      Maharashtra Land Development Corporation
O&M         =      Operation and Maintenance
PEC         =      Project Executive Committee
PWD         =      Public Works Department
RBC         =      Right Bank Canal
SLA         =      Special Loan Account
SLDB               State Land Development Bank
SOI                Survey of India
TMC         =      Thousand Million Cubic Feet
ZP          =      Zilla Parishad
GLOSSARY
Bajra       =      Pearl Millet
Chak        =      Area served by watercourse, between 25 and 40 ha
Command
Area De-
velopment  =      The provision for all necessary physical works
and agricultural supporting services to enable full
realization of benefits from irrigation projects
Jowar       =      Sorghum
Kharif      =      Wet season (June to September)
Mundi              Market
Murrum      =      Used locally to describe decomposed laterite or
other firm gravel soils suitable for road con-
struction
Nulas       =      Gullies
Rabi        =      Dry season (October to March)
Taluka      =      A sub-division of a District
Zilla
Parishad   =      District council
FISCAL YEAR
GOI, GOM and agencies -    April 1 - March 31
ARDC, Cooperatives    -    July 1 - June 30
Commercial Banks       -    January 1 - December 31
I This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discbosd without World Dank authorization.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS ............................                i - iii
I.    INTRODUCTION .........................1.............. 
II.  BACKGROUND ..................1.................... 
The Economy .. .............. ........................                 1
Agriculture and Irrigation in India ....              ............     1
Agriculture and Irrigation in M4aharashtra ..........                  2
Project Formulation ................................                   3
III.    THE PROJECT AREA ...................................                   4
General ......,.,.,,.,.              ........................          4
Climate ........................                                       4
Topography and Soils    ..                                             4
Geology and Groundwater Resources .................           .        4
Population, Land Tenure and Labor .................           .        5
Existing Irrigation and Drainage ..............                        5
Present Agricultural Supporting Services ..........                    6
IV.    THE PROJECT ........................................                   7
Detailed Description ...............................                   7
Jayakwadi Scheme ........           ...........................        8
Purna Scheme .........          ..............................         9
Water Supply, Demand and Quality .....              ..............    10
Roads .      .............................................            10
Market Centers ........           .............................       11
Engineering Design .................................                  11
Construction Methods ...............................                  11
Implementation Schedule    ..         ...........                     11
Project Monitoring and Evaluation ..................                  11
Preparation for Further Development in
Jayakwadi/Purna  ........          ..........................      12
Cost Estimates .                                                      12
This report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission comprised of
Messrs. W.G. Rodger, B. Kanchanalak, A. Seager (p/t), C.J.R. Bridge,
K. Unhanand, and C. Brinck (Bank); J.K. Lee and J.A. Ward (Consultants).
A contribution to this report was also made by Mr. P. Ljung (Bank).



-2-
Page No.
Financing           ..................................................                14
Procurement  ............ .   * .................... ...............* *               14
Disbursements  ............................... ............                           16
Accounts  and Audits  ....  ..... . .................                                 16
Environmental  Effects  of  the  Project  ...........               ......            17
V.     ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT  ...... ........... ........                              17
A.   Project Management  .............................                                17
B.   On-Farm Development  .                ...................... .....               18
C.   Farm  Support  Services                   ..........................             19
D. Operation and Maintenance
and  Water Allocation  .....               ....................              20
E.   Cost Recovery  * ............                 ............ .                     21
VI.    PRODUCTION,  MARKETING,  PRICES AND  FARM  INCOMES  .....                               21
Agricultural  Production                     ...........................              21
Marketing  and  Prices  ........                   .......................            22
Storage  and  Processing                  ..........................                  22
Farm  Incomes  and  Repayment  Capacity  .                     ............           22
VII.      BENEFITS  AND  JUSTIFICATION  .........................                               23
Impact on  the  Economy  ......                 ........................              23
Rate  of Return                   .....................................               23
Risk  and Uncertainty  ......               ...................... .. .               24
VIII.      AGREEMENTS  REACHED  AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                       .........        25



-3-
ANNEXES
1.   Climatic Data
2.   Project Works:    A.  Project Scope
B. Jayakwadi Irrigation and Drainage Works
C. Jayakwadi CAD Component
D. Purna Project
E. Road Program
3.   Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.   Cost Estimates, Equipment
5.   Schedule of Expenditures, Proposed Allocation
of the Credit and Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6.   Organization & Management, Project
Financing
7.   Agricultural Supporting Services
I. Agricultural Research and Education
II. Agricultural Extension
III. Input Supply Services
IV. Agricultural Credit
8.   Agricultural Production, Marketing and Prices
9.   Crop Inputs, Farm Budgets and Payment Capacity
10. Economic Analysis
CHARTS
1.   Implementation Schedule (17034)
2.   CAD Organization at State and Regional Level (17037)
3.   CAD Organization at Project level (17038)
MAPS
1.   Project Area (12594R)
REFERENCES
1.   Jayakwadi/Purna CAD Project (Maharashtra), Report No. 18/76
IND 28, FAO/World Bank Cooperative Programme Rome, June 30, 1976.
2.   Purna Irrigation Project, State of Maharashtra India, IBRD Report
No. TO-326b, July 10, 1962.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The World Bank Group endorses India's program of increased agricul-
tural production through completion of irrigation projects under construction,
accelerated command area development (CAD) in irrigated areas, and provision
of new organizational structures to achieve these objectives. Under the
composite project approach adopted, irrigation and CAD sub-projects are dealt
with simultaneously on several command areas under improved organizational
arrangements common to the whole State. The techniques developed would be
replicable for similar irrigation projects.
ii.       The proposed Maharashtra Irrigation Project would be the first Bank
Group involvement in major irrigation development in the drought-prone central
Deccan plateau where the transformation from extensive rainfed agriculture and
the efficient utilization of limited water supplies are essential for full de-
velopment of the region. The project would, therefore, feature an all-lined
canal system, water allocation planning and specialized extension assistance
to the farmer beneficiaries to cultivate their crops under year-round irriga-
tion. The project would serve as a model for major irrigation development of
drought-prone areas.
iii.      The project would complete the next four-year slice of infrastruc-
tural investment in Maharashtra's largest irrigation scheme, the Jayakwadi
project, and initiate modernization of the adjacent Purna irrigation project.
The project would be the first step in a CAD program ultimately covering over
one million hectares in the State. It would provide: a village link road
system for about 95,000 ha in Jayakwadi and 30,000 ha in Purna; irrigation
and drainage network extension and remodeling for these command areas; and
undertake 45,000 ha of land development in two command areas of the Jayakwadi
project. Improved agricultural supporting services, particularly extension,
would be financed under the project.
iv.       In subsequent stages of the project, spread over the next 10 to
15 years, GOM plans an ultimate development of up to 277,000 ha; this would
depend on improved water use through a combination of CAD and canal lining
as proposed in the IDA-assisted project. The data base for optimum planning
of this ultimate development would be generated by a monitoring and evalua-
tion system set up under the project.
v.        Maharashtra is the third largest State in India in terms of both
area and population. About 75% of the population is dependent on agricul-
ture, The net area irrigated is more than two million hectares.



- ii -
vi.       In the Jayakwadi area, most land holdings are held by owner opera-
tors. Irrigation facilities to be completed by the project would serve 14,500
farm families living in the command area. The average farm size is 6.5 ha.
The present average net annual farm income, under the uncertain conditions
of rainfed farming, is estimated to be Rs 1,600 (US$178) per family. Under
the project, with the provision of irrigation facilities in the full CAD area,
net annual farm income would increase to Rs 12,300 (US$1,367) per family or
US$228 per person.
vii.      At full development in YeaLr Ten, the project would increase annual
foodgrain production by about 111,000 tons, provide 38,000 man-years of addi-
tional employment and produce an annual economic net value of production of
Rs 219 M (US$24.3 M).
viii.     Total project costs, are estimated at US$140 M with a foreign ex-
change component of US$38 M (27%). The proposed credit of US$70 M would
finance the foreign exchange costs of the project and 31% of local costs,
or 50% of total costs. The Government of India (GOI) would relend the pro-
ceeds of the loan (except disbursements for on-farm development) to the Gov-
ernment of Maharashtra (GOM) in accordance with its standard arrangements
for State development projects. On-farm works would be financed by farmers
using loans from commercial and land development banks. The banks would be
refinanced by the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC)
at a rate of at least 75%. The loans for ineligible farmers would be drawn
from a revolving fund set up in ARDC and funded through GOI, ARDC and GOM
contributions.
ix.       Out of US$10.9 M worth of vehicles and equipment to be procured
under the project, US$4.5 M would be subject to international competitive
bidding.  About US$6.4 M worth of equipment would be purchased locally through
the normal procurement procedures of GOM. Civil works on the Jayakwadi main
canals, estimated at US$30 M, would be grouped into tenders of at least US$6 M
and subject to international competitive bidding, with a 7.5% preference for
local contractors. Other civil works in irrigation, drainage and road con-
struction, valued at US$28 M, cannot be grouped into contracts large enough
to be of interest to international contractors and would be carried out
through small contracts.
x.        To ensure full cooperation among all departments concerned with
CAD, GOM has set up a CAD organization at State, regional and project levels.
It has nominated administrators for the Command Area Development Authority
(CADA) at the project level. On-farm development works in the project areas
would be compulsory and the full cost of works would be recovered from the
beneficiaries through the medium of institutional credit-or land revenue.
Satisfactory legislation empowering the GOM to carry out the works has been
enacted.
xi.       Water and other charges related to irrigation assessed against
project beneficiaries would be maintained at a level required to recover the
operation and maintenance costs and a significant part of capital investment
in the irrigation and drainage systems.



- iii -
xii.      The economic rate of return for the Jayakwadi project is estimated
at 17%. For the infrastructure area only it is 14% while for the full CAD
area it amounts to 19%; with the inclusion of sunk costs, the rate of return
decreases to 10% and 12% respectively. If construction labor were shadow
priced at half its market wage, the rate of return would be 12.5% with
sunk costs and 21.5% without. The rate of return for the Purna improvement
project would be 13%.
xiii.     The project is suitable for a credit of US$70 M on standard IDA
terms. The Borrower would be the Government of India.






INDIA
APPRAISAL OF THE MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of India (GOI) has requested IDA assistance in fi-
nancing the Jayakwadi Irrigation Project and in modernizing the contiguous
Purna Irrigation Project. The project would include those works which can be
completed within four years from July 1, 1977. The Purna Project partially
financed by Credit 23-IN for US$13 M in 1962 is fully functional but requires
modernization and drainage protection to sustain the new intensified cropping
patterns. The project would be the second composite irrigation and command
area development project undertaken with Bank Group assistance in India, the
first being the Andhra Pradesh project (Loan 1251-IN, 1976).
1.02      Project preparation, assisted by a team from the FAO/World Bank
Cooperative Programme resulted in a draft report (Jayakwadi/Purna CAD Project,
Maharashtra - No. 18/76 IND 28) dated June 30, 1976 (Reference 1). The pre-
sent report is based on the findings of an Appraisal Mission comprising Messrs.
W.G. Rodger, B. Kanchanalak, A. Seager (p/t), C.J.R. Bridge, K. Unhanand
and C. Brinck (Bank); J.K. Lee and J.A. Ward (Consultants) who visited
Maharashtra in September and October 1976.
II. BACKGROUND
The Economy
2.01      India covers some 3.3 million km  of which 43% is cultivated,
mainly for foodgrains and pulses, and about 9% under some form of irrigation.
Population is about 600 million. Rapid population growth, now at about 2.3%
annually and a relatively poor natural resource base have imposed sharp limit-
ations on India's economic growth. Nevertheless, national income has grown at
nearly 4% per year since 1950, compared with less than 1% during the preceding
50 years. In 1975, per capita GNP was about US$150.
2.02      The GOI development plans place great emphasis on alleviating pov-
erty and creating employment. They involve promoting labor-intensive techn-
iques in all sectors where this is feasible and raising the productivity of
subsistence farmers. Government policy aims at supplying the minimum needs
of the poorest segments of the population, and curbing consumption by the more
affluent by appropriate tax measures.
Agriculture and Irrigation in India
2.03      Agriculture is the most important sector of the economy.  It provides
the livelihood for about three-fourths of the population and contributes nearly



- 2 -
one-half of national income.  It also provides the base for a significant part
of India's exports. Over the last decade, in particular, GOI planning has
emphasized agriculture and sought to increase foodgrain production by the
increased use of fertilizer, plant protection chemicals, and improved seed
varieties. In support of this, GOI has modernized and expanded its agricul-
tural credit institutions and accelerated the development of irrigation to
reduce dependence on the vagaries of weather. Despite these endeavors, growth
in agricultural output over the ten-years ending in 1972 was only about 3%
annually -- just a little more than population growth. Performance in the
ten years was seriously affected by the droughts of 1965, 1966, 1972 and 1974
which, above all, demonstrated the need for an increase in the irrigated area.
2.04      Irrigation in India at the end of the 19th century covered 14 M
ha. By 1950, the irrigated area had been increased to 21 M ha and, in the
next 25 years this area was doubled to 42 M ha of which about three fifths
is irrigated from surface water supplies and two fifths from groundwater.
Despite the efforts since 1950, the full potential of the land so irrigated
has not been realized.  Of 690 major and medium irrigation projects initiated,
only 421 have been completed and on these due to underutilization of irrigation
facilities only modest agricultural increases have been achieved. To correct
these inadequacies, the 1972 Indian Irrigation Commission recommended that
comprehensive Command Area Development programs be undertaken on the existing
and future projects under the direction of specially created CAD project
authorities. The project appraised in this report would combine the con-
struction of new irrigation works with CAD activities in a so called com-
posite irrigation and CAD project. It would be the second such operation
financed by the Bank Group in India. The first was the Andhra Pradesh project
(Loan 1251-IN, 1976).
Agriculture and Irrigation in Maharashtra
2.05      Maharashtra State with an area of 31 M ha and a population of 51 M
(1971) is the third largest State in India in terms of both area and popula-
tion. About two-thirds of the State is cultivated. Some 70% of the popula-
tion is classified as rural and is dependent upon agriculture for its live-
lihood. Approximately one-third of its rural people are landless laborers
and their families.
2.06      Rainfall and thus agricultural productivity varies significantly.
The area west of the Shayadri coastal range receives 2,500 to 4,000 mm per
year which supports a dependable agriculture. The area immediately to the
east of the range is in a rain shadow and precipitation is only 600 to 700 mm.
However, rainfall increases towards the eastern border of the State where it
is about 1,600 mm per year. Because of the rainfall constraint over much of
the State, an extensive system of agriculture has developed. Farms are large,
averaging 4 ha compared to the 2 ha national average and the cropping intensity
is only 105%. Crop yields are extremely low. In 1971-1972, a medium drought
year, the yields of sorghum, millet, wheat and gram were among the lowest
reported in India.
2.07      Although the need for irrigation has long been recognized, it was
not until the State was reorganized in 1956 that serious attention was given



- 3 -
to the construction of major surface water irrigation projects. By 1974, 8%
(1.3 M ha) of the cultivated land area was provided with irrigation facili-
ties. Of this 0.7 M ha were major and medium projects developed by GOM and
0.6 M ha were in minor schemes developed by private individuals or groups.
It is anticipated that by the end of the Fifth Plan (1979), the irrigated
area will be about 2.5 M ha, composed of 1.8 M ha in major and medium projects,
and 0.7 M ha in minor projects.
2.08      While substantial progress has been made in construction of irriga-
tion works over the past two decades, the lag in the utilization of facilities
provided under major and medium irrigation projects has even been greater
than in India as a whole.
2.09      The agricultural potential of irrigated areas is not being realized
because of several reasons. These include: (i) lack of effective direction
and coordination of efforts; (ii) absence of effectively implemented plans to
allocate water equitably throughout the command areas in accordance with the
needs of cropping patterns agreed regularly between the farmers and the proj-
ect authorities; (iii) poor canal management due largely to limited operation
and maintenance (O&M) attention and inadequate O&M budget allocations; (iv)
excessive seepage losses in the unlined reaches of minor distributary canals;
(v) lack of drainage networks to reduce seasonal waterlogging resulting from
canal seepage, monsoon rain accumulation and return flows from farmers' fields;
(vi) inequitable and wasteful water use within the typical 25 ha commands
(chaks) due mainly to incomplete watercourses as well as inadequate land shap-
ing; (vii) uncoordinated and under trained agricultural extension services;
(viii) inadequacy of farm input supplies on a timely basis; and (ix) poor in-
ternal road networks which restrict the essential on-the-spot assistance to
farmers and increase farm-to-market transport costs. These deficiencies,
prevail both in the Purna Project and to a lesser, but still important degree,
in the irrigated parts of the Jayakwadi system.
2.10      To initiate correction of organizational deficiencies described
above, GOM set up five Command Area Development Authorities (CADA) in 1974
including the Jayakwadi/Purna CADA. Since then, GOM has negotiated financial
assistance from Commercial (CB) and State Land Development Banks (SLDB) for
the on-farm development promoted by these Authorities. Up to the present, the
Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation (ARDC), which refinances the
CBs and SLDB, has approved 94,000 ha of on-farm development, including 18,000 ha
in Jayakwadi. The project would enable the on-farm development on another
45,000 ha.
Project Formulation
2.11      Special emphasis has been placed in project formulation on seeking
solutions to the problems peculiar to the drought prone Central Western Deccan.
These relate to: (a) conservation of the limited water resources by appropriate
water allocation planning and irrigation system management techniques and by
construction of an all-lined canal network, to minimize seepage and operational
losses and (b) increasing the cropping intensity by a comprehensive program of
on-farm development and development of agricultural supporting services.



-4-
III. T]1E PROJECT AREA
General
3.01      The project areas, located in the upper Godavari River basin, lie
within the Aurangabad, Bhir, Parbhani and Nanded Districts of the Marathawada
administrative region about 300 km east of Bombay. The project areas are
connected to Bombay, Pune, Hyderabad (Andhra Pradesh State) and other prin-
cipal centers by main road and raiL links. Within the irrigation command
areas which contain some 600 villages, roads are inadequate. The town of
Aurangabad, with a modern airport and daily flights to Bombay and Delhi, is
project headquarters and the regional administrative capital. Of the three
main towns in the area, which include Parbhani, Nanded and Aurangabad the
latter is the principal agricultural processing center.
Climate
3.02      The subtropical climate of the project area is typical of the
drought-prone Central Deccan. Three distinct seasons dominate: the wet
monsoon (kharif) June-September, the milder dry winter (rabi) October-March,
and the hot windy summer March-May. Although annual rainfall averages about
800 mm and some 80% occurs during the kharif, it fluctuates widely between
years. Rainfall uncertainty and seasonal distribution are major factors
constraining agricultural production in this otherwise high potential area.
Rainfall in the project area varies from 650 mm in the west to 1,000 mm in
the east.  Mean daily temperature varies from 42 0C in May to 13 0C in January
(Annex 1).
Topography and Soils
3.03      The project area lies at 1,300 ft.  Topography is gently rolling
with over 50% of the area having less than 1% slope; sharp descents occur only
at the edges of the riverine gullies. Surveys show the soils to be generally
deep, calcareous, expansive clay loams (black cotton soils) capable of sus-
tained high crop production under controlled irrigation and drainage; canal
profiles intersecting these soils require lining to ensure a stable canal
section. About 60% of the project area requires land shaping (Annex 2) to
enable efficient water use and to ensure soil conservation. Apart from scat-
tered pockets in Purna, soil salinity and alkalinity hazards are minimal.
Geology and Groundwater Resources
3.04      The area is underlain with basaltic trap rock at 3 to 5 m depth
with an intermediate murrum layer of clay sand and gravels between the rock
level and surface soils. Below the murrum and shallow weathered upper rock
strata, the basement is impermeable. Large canals passing through the exten-
sively fractured rock areas require lining to reduce seepage losses. Ground-
water is limited. However, local f-armers have developed large diameter shallow
wells-cum-tanks which are used for irrigating sugarcane, bananas, groundnuts
and other high value cash crops. The wells utilize surface water return flows
and thereby improve overall irrigation system efficiency. Their economic



-5-
viability and efficiency of additional wells as components of future more
intensive agricultural development would be evaluated during the project.
Population, Land Tenure and Labor
3.05      The population of the Jayakwadi area is about 175,000 of which
55% are members of farm households, 34% landless agricultural laborers and
the remainder (11%) artisans or shopkeepers in the villages. According to the
1971 census, 86% of the farm operators in the project area owned the land they
operated, and 14% rented part or all of the land they farmed. The average size
of farm was 6.5 ha and a large proportion (80%) of the area was in 5 ha or
larger farms. The GOM has reported that since 1971, enforcement of the Land
Ceilings Act has reduced the average size of farms and that land made surplus
under the ceiling had been fully distributed by December 1976. The act imposed
the following limitations upon size of holdings: perennially irrigated land
- 7 ha; assured seasonally irrigated land - 11 ha; irrigated land without an
assured water supply and paddy land in assured rainfall areas - 14 ha; and
dry crop land - 22 ha.
3.06      Sample surveys indicate large numbers of landless laborers who are
almost entirely dependent on hired labor opportunities for their livelihood;
and at present, there is much unutilized and underutilized labor. Farm wages
are extremely low, averaging 1.5 to 2 Rs/day for women and 2.5 to 3 Rs/day
for men. Present farm incomes are also very low, averaging about Rs 1,640
per farm or Rs 273 per person (US$182 or US$30 per person), compared to the
poverty level of Rs 504 as of June 1976 (Annex 9, Table 9).
Existing Irrigation and Drainage
3.07      Jayakwadi Irrigation Scheme.  This development is the first major
phase of a long-term program for development of the upper Godavari River
basin. Under the Godavari River Basin Agreement of December 1975 between the
States of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Orissa
an adequate water supply for the project area is guaranteed (Annex 3). De-
velopment of the Jayakwadi project is staged. Stage I, a gravity flow project
presently underway and of which the project appraised would form part will
total 183,000 ha -- 141,000 ha in the Left Bank Canal (LBC) area and 42,000 ha
in the Right Bank Canal (RBC). Stage II would comprise an additional 94,000 ha
right bank development served by a yet to be constructed reservoir at Majalgaon.
This reservoir, situated at the tail end of the RBC would benefit from surplus
supplies transferred along the RBC (sized for this purpose) from the schemes'
main reservoir at Paithan. Later Stage II development includes additional
pump-lift areas.
3.08      The GOM started Jayakwadi in 1965 and has completed the main storage
reservoir at Paithan. It is currently constructing the LBC and RBC networks.
By mid-1977, about 53,000 ha of Stage I, mostly on the LBC, will have been
irrigated. This area will also have had primary land leveling completed.
3.09      Prior to the provision of irrigation, main kharif crops were sorghum
(jowar), pearl millet (bajra), pulses and cotton; and the principal rabi crops
were sorghum (providing both grain and fodder) and pulses together with a
limited amount of wheat. With irrigation, both cropping intensity and yields



-6-
have risen quickly; kharif hybrid sorghum is widely used and rabi sorghum has
been replaced to some extent by wheat. Much remains to be done in increasing
production of irrigated areas through better water management, improved land
development, strengthened agricultural extension and provision of farm input
supplies on a timely basis.
3.10      Purna Irrigation Scheme.  The canal network of this 60,000 ha scheme
served from two reservoirs on the Purna River (a left bank tributary of the
Godavari River) was completed according to the design standards of the 1960
era and irrigation facilities were supplied to the whole command by 1968/69.
Primary land development has been carried out progressively, mostly by farmers.
The scheme has had a mixed success in its eight years of operational life.
The water supply available during these years has shown wide annual variation
but generally has been sufficient to sustain an economically viable cropping
pattern and moderate crop yields. However, agricultural production has in-
creased only slowly due particularly to: lack of coordinated crop and water
planning; inadequate agricultural extension and timely provision of farm in-
puts; some limited but insidious drainage deficiencies; and limitations im-
posed by the low standard of land shaping. In 1975, the operation of the
canal system at peak flows for extended periods together with the impetus
provided by the establishment of CADA, helped boost agricultural output to a
record high. It would appear, however, that this level of operation cannot
be sustained without deterioration of the rather inadequately constructed
irrigation conveyance system.
3.11      Cropping patterns in Purna are similar to those prevailing in irri-
gated areas of Jayakwadi. From 1975, wheat and to a lesser extent upland
irrigated (but not flooded) rice, have been emphasized by GOM.
Present Agricultural Supporting Services
3.12      Agricultural extension.  Elected District councils (Zilla Parishad
(ZP)) are prominent in agricultural production management and are responsible
for the direction of the extension agents. This is in line with GOM's devolu-
tion policy aimed at inspiring greater local consciousness in increasing food-
grain production. However, this arrangement has tended to dilute the quantity
of agronomic advice given to farmers as the agents' duties have gradually
become more diversified, and are now directed into such additional activities
as social welfare and administration at the expense of agricultural extension.
3.13      Farm inputs.  Quality seed, fertilizer and plant chemicals are
supplied by private traders and cooperatives with planning and coordination
assistance by the ZP and more recently by CADA. Prospects of the system
meeting future increased demands for inputs are generally favorable.
3.14      Agricultural Credit.  Short- and medium-term credit are provided
by Cooperative Societies and the CBs. This arrangement has served past needs
adequately. Future requirements will be so much greater, however, that con-
siderable overhaul and expansion of credit facilities are required. The ARDC
plans to organize more branches of CBs to increase their activities in provid-
ing short-term credit.



-7-
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The project would comprise the continuation of development, over the
four years starting July 1977, of the Jayakwadi and Purna Irrigation Schemes.
At Jayakwadi, it would include the provision of irrigation, roads and other
infrastructure on about 95,000 ha and on-farm development of 45,000 ha of this
area. This would bring the area developed under the scheme to 148,000 ha by
1981 leaving 35,000 ha of Stage I development to be completed in future years.
At Purna, principal project activities would comprise remodeling irrigation
works and providing drainage on 30,000 ha of the existing 60,000 ha of irri-
gated land.
4.02      Because the project would be IDA's first major irrigation involve-
ment in the drought-prone Central Deccan region of India, it would set the
standards and test alternative development methods for this underutilized
region. The project would emphasize facilities and services necessary for
efficient water use both in the canal system and at farm level.
Detailed Description
4.03      The project would include:
(a) completion of the Jayakwadi LBC between km 100-208; the
RBC between km 20-132;
(b) provision of a distributary canal system for an irrigation
and drainage canal network to serve about 57,000 ha of the
LBC command and about 38,000 ha of the RBC. All the irriga-
tion network would be lined;
(c) rehabilitation, upgrading and construction of 385 km of
district and village link roads in Jayakwadi and Purna;
(d) rehabilitation of irrigation distribution works and provi-
sion of drainage serving about 30,000 ha of the Purna scheme;
(e) on-farm development (CAD) in the Jayakwadi area comprising
land shaping and field channels, covering 25,000 ha of LBC
and 20,000 ha of RBC areas;
(f) 11 market centers in Jayakwadi and Purna;
(g) provision of monitoring facilities in Jayakwadi to help
determine the efficiency of the irrigation system and to
evaluate operation and seepage losses; and a system to
evaluate project benefits in Jayakwadi;
(h) procurement of vehicles and equipment and provision of
buildings for project management, agricultural extension
and O&M in Jayakwadi and Purna;



- 8 -
(i) provision of a strengthened extension service covering
Jayakwadi and Purna; and
(j) assistance to GOM for future project preparation.
Jayakwadi Scheme
4.04      Irrigation and Drainage.  The scheme consists of the Paithan sto5age
dam and reservoir; a 208 km long concrete lined LBC with3capacity of 102 m Is;
a 132 km long concrete lined RBC wtith a capacity of 63 m Is and sized to func-
tion in addition to directly serving its own command area, as a transfer (link)
canal to convey surplus Paithan water to a reservoir planned to be constructed
at Majalgaon and major and minor distributary canals leading from the LBC and
RBC down to the outlets to the typical 25 ha irrigation service area (chaks).
The Paithan Dam and portions of the irrigation system are complete. Irrigation
water will have been supplied to about 53,000 ha mainly on the LBC by mid-1977.
4.05      Under the project, the LI3C would be extended from km 100 to km 208.
About 12 km of this reach is in deep cut (up to 21 m) and is already 30% com-
pleted. Some 127 main canal structures, about 60 km of branch canals and about
490 km of distributary canals would also be constructed. The distributary
canals would be lined and would include water control structures. A total of
about 230 km of natural drainage channels would be improved and about 210 km
of intermediate drains connecting the chaks would be constructed.
4.06      The RBC would be extended from km 20 to its terminal discharge
point into the future Majalgaon reservoir at km 132. The RBC works would
include 188 main canal structures, and 380 km of distributary channel con-
struction; the distributary canals would be lined and would include the
necessary water control structures. Drainage system improvements would in-
clude enlargement of about 150 km of natural drainage channels and 140 km of
connecting drains.
4.07      Canal lining.  Efficient water use is a prerequisite for successful
development of the drought-prone Central Deccan region. Lining of the canal
system is essential to reduce seepage losses in the permeable subsoil condi-
tions of the project area. Lining would reduce operational losses and would
assure equitable year-round water distribution throughout the command area.
The lining of the entire canal system is justified on the basis of water
saving. The rationale and justification for canal lining is described fully
in Annexes 2 and 3. In the absence of lined canals and CAD, water shortages
would plague the 183,000 ha scheme area at full development.
4.08      Command Area Development.  All project lands in Jayakwadi require
on-farm development within the individual 25 ha chaks to enable efficient
water use. The CAD works, which are described in detail in Annex 2, comprise:
(a) communal items such as watercourses, field drains and associated small
water control structures; and (b) land shaping and grading on individual farms.



9-
4.09      The entire 95,000 ha project area requires an on-farm channel net-
work and more than 50% of the area also requires land shaping and grading.
The CAD works would be completed on a chak by chak basis, each within a single
working season to minimize interruption of cultivation. Due to organizational
constraints, the largest CAD program feasible in a four year period would be
45,000 ha; 20,000 ha in the RBC command and 25,000 ha in the LBC command. The
program would be planned and implemented according to technical and economic
standards agreed to among GOM, the ARDC, CADA and the Maharashtra Land Develop-
ment Corporation (MLDC) which are acceptable to IDA.
4.10      Layout plans and cost estimates would be prepared for each chak.  A
survey would be carried out on a 15 x 15 m grid with contours at 0.30 m inter-
val and plotted at a scale of 1:1,250. Individual files would be prepared for
each farm owner showing the proportionate costs of the communal works and the
individual cost of the land shaping costs within the farm. All watercourses
would be constructed by manual labor. Land shaping and grading would be done
by existing MLDC wheeled and crawler tractors supplemented with equipment
procured under the project. Average costs which are based upon GOM's exten-
sive land development experience are expected to be about Rs 2,000 per ha.
Purna Scheme
4.11      As Purna was built largely without farm and project drainage facil-
ities, it seems likely that without installing drainage, some 1,500 ha would go
out of production each year due to waterlogging. The proposed modernization
of the Purna project would include: drains to evacuate surplus water to the
natural drainage ways (nulas) and to regrade and enlarge the nulas; village
link roads; upgrading and rehabilitating the distributary canal system in
line with the new water demand patterns; selective extension and improvement
of canal lining and additional water control structures. Because Purna is
an ongoing project, improvement works would have to be constructed in a man-
ner to avoid interruption of cultivation. This would limit irrigation work
construction to the March through June cropping off-season and the drainage
work improvements to the November through June dry period.
4.12      The IDA assisted project would effect first stage improvements on
about 30,000 ha, mostly in the Basmath branch canal command. It would include
the following main items:
(a) construction of 27 km of seepage interceptor drains, 82 km
of connecting drains, and regrading of 140 km of nulas;
(b) remodeling of 700 canal structures and selected reaches
of canal lining mostly downstream of the canal regulators;
(c) provision of 60 additional water control and conveyance
structures, and
(d) lining of about 625 km of existing watercourses.



- 10 -
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
4.13      Water Supply.  The Jayakwadi irrigation water supply which supple-
ments rainfall is from the Goclavari River flow regulated at the completed
Paithan reservoir which can also generate up to 12 MW of hydroelectric power.
Purna water supply is from the Shidheshwar and Yeldari reservoirs. Ground-
water exploitation is small but the farmers' combination wells/tanks would
continue to have a localized role. Paithan reservoir operation studies which
are based on the 56 year stream flow record indicate that the 4,200 Mm (148
TMC) average annual inflow would be sufficient to meet project demands for
full development provided that efficient water use and priority of reservoir
releases for irrigation over power generation are ensured. An appropriate
assurance was received from GOM.
4.14      Jayakwadi Project Water Demand.  Although crop water requirements
at field level have been reasonably well identified both in the project area
and in other comparable Indian conditions, the canal and watercourse system
efficiency is less well established. Systematic observation has been defi-
cient. Until at least two years of reliable observations are obtained which
would be done by the project, it will be impossible to determine the system
efficiency more accurately. In the absence of directly observed data, esti-
mated efficiencies have been used to calculate a water balance. (Annex 3).
4.15      Jayakwadi Project Water Balance.  Results of water balance studies
show that at the completion of the IDA assisted project in 1981, the 148,000
ha area would be adequately served by the project water supply (less than
10% deficit) in nine out of ten years provided the canal system was completely
lined. Subsequent to the IDA assisted project and assuming the same rate of
development of irrigation infrastructure development, the whole 183,000 ha
Stage I area would be under irrigation command by about 1983. In the ultimate
Stage I development, the project water supply would be adequate provided full
lining and land development were implemented.
4.16      Floods.  The Godavari River would not pose a flood problem.  The
spillway and dam are capable of accommodating a maximum probable flood of
39,000 m 3s, which is about 70% larger than the original GOM design value
(22,700 m Is).  The most se5ious flood on record occurred in 1968, it had a
peak flow of about 15,300 m /s, and was equivalent to a 100 year flood.
4.17      Quality.  The water supplied to the project areas is of good quality
and suitable for sustained irrigation.
Roads
4.18      The road improvement program would provide a village road network
covering the Jayakwadi area and about half of the Purna area. A layout has
been designed to provide all-weather access from the main network roads to
market centers. Roads for project O&M would be built along both banks of the
left and right bank canals and parts of the distribution system. The road
improvement program would include:



- 11 -
Jayakwadi   Purna   Total
---------- km -----------
(a) Improvement of existing
District roads, and               -         40       40
(b) Construction of new village
link roads                      280         65      345
Market Centers
4.19      The project would include construction of six market centers in
Jayakwadi and five in Purna (see Map 12594R). Each market center would be
constructed on State land and comprise a market yard of approximately 5 ha
leveled land area bounded by fencing and walling. It would also include
livestock pens; waterbound macadam roads and vehicle parking areas as well
as water supply and drainage (para 6.02).
Engineering Design
4.20      Project planning studies, designs and estimates of the irrigation
and drainage systems and associated works are carried out by the Irrigation
Department (ID) engineering staff. Some modifications of GOI's Central Water
Commission (CWC) criteria would be made to improve operational control; these
would include the provision of additional regulators on the LBC and RBC, lin-
ing of distributary and minor canals to the chak outlets, and modifications
of drop structures on the branch canals and major and minor distributors to
control flow adequately and assure water deliveries from all canal offtakes.
Drainage requirements would be identified and a drainage system provided.
Construction Methods
4.21      Labor-intensive construction methods would be used for most project
construction work. Canal structures, except for span portions, would be
masonry. The stone would be hand quarried from the nearby basalt deposits
which underlie most of the project area. Coarse aggregate for reinforced
concrete would be produced by manual labor from excavated rock.
Implementation Schedule
4.22      Project implementation would take about four years and would be
completed by 1982. Equipment on hand and contractors already employed would
be used to execute the first year's program. The first contract covering LBC
and RBC works to be undertaken under ICB would start about January 1978 to
allow sufficient time for finalization of tender documents and completion of
bidding procedures.
Project Monitoring and Evaluation
4.23      The project would include a program to monitor irrigation efficien-
cies and to assess the agricultural, economic and social impact of the proj-
ect. Funds would be provided for: installation of flow recording stations;
eight man-months of engineering consulting services for assistance in setting



- 12 -
up equipment and for data processing; the provision of services from the
Irrigation Research Division and agro-economic surveys by the agricultural
universities at Aurangabad and Parbhani, which would be reviewed and analyzed
by the GOM Planning Department.
Preparation for Further Development: in Jayakwadi/Purna
4.24      The project would provide funds for studies for further developments
in both the Jayakwadi and Purna scheme areas. These studies would include:
conjunctive use of groundwater and irrigation return flows; integration of
Paithan and Majalgaon reservoir supplies for the extension of Jayakwadi Right
Bank command area; and determination of the technical and economic viability
of further modernization works in Purna.
Cost Estimates
4.25      Costs are based on contract prices for similar works and equipment
awarded in 1976 and have been adjusted for inflation to reflect prices anti-
cipated in July 1977. The civil works exclude the cost of machinery provided
for in the project cost estimates. Equipment procured for construction will
be used for O&M works after the construction phase is completed. Total project
costs, are estimated at US$140 M of which some US$38 M or 27% is foreign ex-
change. Duties and taxes are insignificant and are therefore not included.
The following assumed annual price escalation rates have been used. For
civil works 8% for FY78/82; equipment and services 7.5% for FY78/79 and 7%
for FY80/82. Based on past experience, costs for administration, design and
construction supervision are estimated to be 20% of construction costs. An
average physical contingency factor of 17% was adopted to reflect the status
of engineering design and estimating.
4.26      Details of the project costs are presented in Annex 4 and are
summarized below:



- 13 -
Percent
of Base
Local  Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign  Total   Cost
------Rs Million-------   -----US$ Million-----           %
(a) Jayakwadi
1.  Paithan Left
Bank and Right
Bank Network       414.7    170.0    584.7  46.1          18.9    65.0       65.5
2.  Equipment for
Operation and
Maintenance          7.7      12.1      19.8   0.9         1.3      2.2       2.2
3.  Lining of Dis-
tributaries
and Minors          49.0      15.8      64.8   5.5         1.7      7.2       7.3
4.  CAD                 78.0      17.1      95.1   8.7         1.9    10.6       10.7
5.  Road Program        37.8       7.3      45.1   4.1         0.9      5.0       5.0
6.  Extension
Services            10.3       1.4      11.7   1.1         0.2      1.3       1.3
7.  Monitoring
Program              7.6       8.7      16.3   0.8         1.0      1.8       1.8
8.  Market Yard
Construction         2.1       0.7       2.8   0.2         0.1      0.3       0.3
Sub-total       607.2    233.1    840.3  67.4          26.0    93.4       94.1
(b) Purna
9.  Purna
Modernization       26.0       8.7      34.7   2.9         1.0      3.9       3.9
10. Road Program        10.2       2.0      12.2   1.2         0.1      1.3       1.3
11. Extension
Services             3.4       0.1       3.5   0.4         0       0.4        0.4
12. Market Yard
Construction         1.1       0.1       1.2   0.1         0        0.1       0.1
Sub-total        40.7       10.9     51.6   4.6         1.1      5.7       5.7
(c) Project
Preparation
13. GOM Project
Preparation          1.8       0         1.8   0.2         0       0.2       0.2
BASE COST          649.7    244.0    893.7  72.2         27.1    99.3    100.0
Physical
Contingencies       79.0      29.5    108.5   8.8         3.3    12.1
Price
Contingencies    190.2        67.2    257.4  21.1         7.5    28.6
TOTAL PROJECT
COST              918.9    340.7  1,259.6 102.1           37.9   140.0



- 14 -
Financing
4.27      The proposed credit of US$70 M would finance about 50% of the total
project cost covering the foreign exchange component of US$38 M and 31% of
local costs. The credit would be made to GOI. All capital investments would
be financed by GOM from its development budget, which would include a GOI
contribution. Operation and maintenance costs would be financed by GOM
from its regular budget.
4.28      Assurances were obtained from GOI that:  the proceeds of the credit,
except disbursements for on-farm development, would be made available to GOM.
Agreement was reached with GOM that it would include in its annual budgetary
proposals sufficient funds to execute the project in accordance with the
implementation and expenditure schedule (Annex 5, Table 1). The GOM repre-
sentatives confirmed further that the budget proposed for fiscal year 1977/78
currently pending with the State legislature provided sufficient funds for the
first year of project implementation.
4.29      On-farm development works (US$7.2 M) where not executed by the
farmers themselves in accordance with standards set by GOM/MLDC, would be
financed from loans which would be made available to them under the project
by SLDB and the participating CBs. These loans would have maturities of up
to 11 years, including two years of grace, with repayments increasing progres-
sively over the loan repayment period, and bear interest of 10 1/2% annually.
They would be re-financed, at least 75%, by ARDC. ARDC's refinancing would
be for periods in line with maturities of final loans, and bear interest of
not less than 7.5% annually. The ARDC would in turn be refinanced from the
Subsidiary Loan of $5.5 million that GOI would make available to ARDC from
the proposed credit for 9 and 15 years, depending on maturities of the loans
to be refinanced, at interest rates of not less than 6.75% and 7.25%, respec-
tively. The execution of a subsidiary loan agreement for this purpose between
GOI and ARDC, satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition for disbursements from
the credit for the command area development component. The CAD development on
land of farmers who have neither resources of their own or are eligible for
ordinary bank loans from SLDB or the CBs because of defective land title or
overindebtedness would receive special loans on the same terms but with a
slightly higher interest rate.  These special loans would be fully financed
from a Special Loans Account agreed upon among GOI, GOM and ARDC and set up
with their funds.  Details are given in Annex 6 and in ARDC's Guidelines
for the special loans to finance on-farm development works in the command
area dated September 15, 1976 which is acceptable to the Association. It
would be a condition for disbursement for the CAD component that GOM has
issued the necessary executive order applying the provisions of Special Loans
for ineligible farmers in the project area.
Procurement
4.30      Civil Works.  A review has been made of the suitability of project
civil works for ICB and the following conclusions have been reached: (Amounts
in the following discussion are basic costs, net of physical and price con-
tingencies and administration and engineering staff costs but include the



- 15 -
cost of materials such as cement and steel which would be supplied by GOM
at a fixed price to the contractors. No force account work will be involved
in the implementation of the project.)
(a) Works on the Jayakwadi Main LBC and RBC (US$30 M). Contracts
for these works, would be let for ICB, (each tender for a
minimum value of US$6 M) except for an ongoing contract which
was awarded through local competitive bidding procedures ac-
ceptable to the Association. The unexpended portion of this
contract after July 1, 1977 is estimated at US$3 million and
would be eligible for financing under the credit. Tenders
would be divided in up to ten sub-contracts to encourage
local contractor participation. Participating local con-
tractors would be entitled to a 7.5% preference.
(b) Works on Jayakwadi and Purna Irrigation Distribution and
Drainage Systems (US$21.3 M). These works would be indi-
vidually small and scattered over a very large area and
would need to be carried out in periods between cropping
seasons. Under these conditions, it would not be feasible
to group these works into large contracts suitable for
ICB;
(c) Roads and Market Yards (US$5.1 M). Because of the need
for the road program to keep pace with other project ele-
ments, particularly the completion of the irrigation
distribution and drainage system, the works must be
spread over four years and cannot be grouped into a
tender which would attract large contractors.
(d) On-farm Development (US$7.2 M). These works would be
spread throughout the LBC and RBC areas. They would
need to be planned and implemented on short notice and
in a limited period of time to avoid unnecessary damage
to growing crops. For these reasons, the works would
not be grouped into large contracts for ICB.
4.31      Except for works on the Jayakwadi main canals, which are suitable
for ICB, it is proposed to carry out all other civil works by small piece work
contracts which would be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
under GOM procedures which are satisfactory to IDA. For road construction and
some CAD works, the firms likely to bid would not possess all the equipment
required and such equipment would be procured under the project and rented to
the successful bidders.
4.32      Equipment.  The estimated cost of vehicles and equipment for proj-
ect management, road construction, and deep cut excavation on the LBC and
RBC, O&M, agricultural supporting services and monitoring would be US$10.9 M.
Of this total, an estimated US$4.5 M would be subject to ICB in accordance
with IDA guidelines. A preference limited to 15% of the cif price of im-
ported goods or the prevailing customs duty, if lower, would be extended to



-16 -
local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids. The remaining US$6.4 million
worth of vehicles and equipment would be purchased locally, using the normal
GOM procurement procedures since they are not suitable for ICB. These include
US$1.7 million which consists of groups of contracts costing less than
US$100,000 each; the remaining US$4.7 million consist mainly of field vehicles
and trucks for which, because of existing servicing and spare part supply
facilities, there are considerable benefits to be derived from procuring
local models. Agreement on the procedures outlined beginning in 4.30 were
reached at negotiations.
Disbursements
4.33      Disbursements would be made as follows:
100% foreign expenditure of directly imported equipment; or
100% local expenditure (ex-factory) of locally manufactured
equipment; or
70% local expenditure of imported equipment procured
locally;
75% of civil works for lining of distributaries and minors; and
60% of all other civil works.
Full documentation would be required for the major contracts on the
Jayakwadi main LBC and RBC. Disbursements for other works such as irrigation
distribution and drainage systems, roads and market centers and on-farm devel-
opment would be made against certificates of expenditure. The supporting
documents would not be submitted to IDA for review but would be retained by
GOI and GOM and the participating agencies for inspection by IDA during the
course of review missions. The estimated schedule of expenditures, the pro-
posed allocation of the proceeds of the credit, and an annual disbursement
schedule are presented in Annex 5. It is expected that disbursements would
be completed by March 31, 1983, about one and one half years after the comple-
tion of the project. A condition for disbursement of the CAD component would
be that a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA has been executed
between GOI and ARDC.
Accounts and Audits
4.34      The implementing agencies would be subject to normal Government
control and auditing procedures which are satisfactory. Assurances were
obtained from GOM at negotiations that the audited accounts and financial
statements would be submitted to IDA within nine months after the end of
each fiscal year.
4.35      Auditing procedures for ARDC are satisfactory.  Assurances were
obtained from ARDC that it would require participating banks to maintain
separate accounts for project lending which would be audited and submitted



- 17 -
to IDA within four months after the end of each fiscal year, together with an
audited ARDC statement of project lending to such banks.
Environmental Effects of the Project
4.36      Assurances were obtained that GOI and GOM would take all such mea-
sures as considered necessary to minimize the hazards of malaria and other
water-related diseases in the project area. With these assurances, the
project would have no adverse environmental effects.
V. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT
A.   Project Management
The Jayakwadi/Purna Command Area Development Authority
5.01      Construction of the project and its subsequent management and opera-
tion would be the responsibility of the Jayakwadi/Purna Command Area Develop-
ment Authority.
5.02      The Authority was created in 1974 and is one of the five estab-
lished in Maharashtra. The Authority's principal executive is an Administra-
tor resident in Aurangabad who is responsible to an Executive Committee (EC)
comprised of Regional Heads of Departments, Members of the Legislative Assembly
and Cultivators. The EC, through its composition (Figure 17037) permits the
participation of elected officials in planning and policy making. The Author-
ity falls within the purview of the Marathwada Region CAD Board which is
chaired by a State Minister and composed of elected and appointed officials.
The Regional Board acts as a filter between the Regional CADA and the State
Cabinet Subcommittee which directs CAD policy. The Cabinet Subcommittee is
chaired by the Chief Minister of the State and includes the Ministers of
Agriculture, Irrigation and Power, and Finance. The chain of command reflects
both GOM's desire to involve the peoples' representatives in planning and
decision making at Regional and scheme levels and the substantial powers that
it has provided to the Authority's Administrator who, unlike even the heads of
line Departments, has, through the Subcommittee, a very close link with the
State's Chief Executive. The Secretary of the Subcommittee is the CAD Com-
missioner and he is responsible for preparing annual development and financial
plans for each CAD scheme. Such plans are prepared in conjunction with the
Secretaries for Finance, Agriculture, Irrigation and Power, Public Works and
such other Ministries as are involved in CAD schemes. Administratively, the
CAD Commissioner is located in the Ministry of Agriculture and CAD affairs
are part of that Ministry's portfolio.
5.03      The Administrator of the Jayakwadi/Purna CADA has two deputies; one
responsible for operation and maintenance services (engineering) and the other
for production support services (agriculture). These three officials, together
with a very small staff would direct and coordinate the work in the scheme
areas, of the following State agencies and departments:



- 18 -
Irrigation and Power Department: planning and construction
(down to the chak outlet) of the drainage and irrigation
systems and O&M of principal reservoirs. Additional Chief
Engineer, Aurangabad, in charge.
Agriculture Department: agricultural extension, including
on-farm water management and other farmer support services;
coordination of farm input and short-term credit supply;
crop production recording and agricultural statistics.
Superintending Agricultural Officer, Aurangabad, in charge.
Public Works Department: planning, design, construction
and maintenance of PWD roads and buildings. Superintend-
ing Engineer, Aurangabad, in charge.
Revenue Department: land revenue administration. Collectors of
the four administrative divisions of the scheme areas in charge.
Maharashtra Land Development Corporation: design and
execution of on-farm development works. Project Manager in charge.
5.04      The Administrator and his deputies would manage directly (a) the O&M
of the canal system including irrigation water allocation and (b) maintenance
of farm access roads. The Assistant Administrator (Engineering) would super-
vise a team of engineers provided by the Irrigation and Public Works Depart-
ments for these purposes. Importantly, the Authority would also be involved
in promoting farmers' organizations and for handling subjects such as credit,
input supplies, and water management.
B.   On-Farm Development
5.05      On-farm development would be compulsory for all farmers in a chak
where 67% of the farmers or holders of 67% of the land agree to the prelimi-
nary plan and cost estimates drawn up by MLDC. The works would involve land
shaping and construction of watercourses and drains. Experience indicates
that the great majority of farmers would opt to have their land shaped by MLDC
and that all would wish to have the "common" work constructed by MLDC. Farmers
would be eligible for credit for such works from CBs and the SLDB which would
divide the scheme area between them for this purpose. A standard condition of
eligibility for credit would be evidence of clear land title and no arrears in
repayment of credit advances. Currently, it is believed that more than 75% of
project participants would be eligible. To cover non-eligible farmers and thus
to ensure that there would be no financial obstacles to farmer participation,
ARDC has agreed with GOI and GOM to establish a Special Fund to refinance
loans to non-eligible farmers (para 4.29).
5.06      On-farm development plans for each participating chak would be drawn
up by MLDC and submitted to CADA and the local ARDC Director for approval.
Following approval of such plans, individual loan agreements would be concluded
with the chak's farmers and MLDC would start work utilizing advances made by
GOM.  Repayments would be scheduled in line with the anticipated growth in the



- 19 -
beneficiary's repayment capacity. These arrangements are satisfactory; they
are currently being employed at Jayakwadi where ARDC has already sanctioned
funds to cover 18,000 ha of on-farm development.
C.   Farm Support Services
5.07      Research.  The research base, centered on Parbhani Agricultural
University (located in the Jayakwadi command area) is generally satisfactory
for the needs of the project.
5.08      Agricultural Extension.  GOM has agreed to reorganize and strengthen
its extension services in the project area. The Department of Agriculture
(DA) would be responsible for the strengthening of Agricultural Extension
Services in the project area and for the construction of staff quarters and
the procurement of equipment, vehicles and supplies. Motorcycles to be used
by the extension personnel would be sold by DA to the staff on terms and con-
ditions that are acceptable to IDA and a mileage allowance would be provided
to the staff by the DA. Under the project, the DA's existing staff would be
supplemented by the transfer from District Council staff and recruitment of
agricultural graduates. The project extension staff would be headed by a Joint
Director of Agriculture, who would also be appointed CADA Additional Adminis-
trator. The project would be subdivided into three extension divisions each
headed by a Deputy Director of Agriculture. Each division would consist of
sub-divisions, (or irrigation units) each of about 10,000 ha, headed by an
Agricultural Officer who would have under his control Agricultural Supervisors
at a ratio of about one per 250/320 farmers. This would enable regular visits
to be made every two weeks by the ASs to each group of contact farmers (repre-
senting farmers from about eight adjacent chaks). Subject Matter Specialists
would be employed to provide support at the Project and Divisional levels.
5.09      Seeds.  Foundation seed is produced by the universities and the
National Seeds Corporation with accredited farmers used as primary growers.
Certified seed is largely produced by registered farmers and private seed
firms. The Marathwada region is virtually self sufficient in seeds and
exports about 25% surplus to its needs. Since 1967, seed certification has
been efficiently carried out by the Maharashtra Seed Certification Agency in
conformity with the India Seeds Act (1966). Under the All-India Seed Program,
the Bank 1/ is assisting Maharashtra in setting up a State Seeds Corporation
to control the production, processing and distribution of certified seed.
The incremental demand of approximately 3,000 tons of seeds required at full
development generated by the project is expected to be readily available.
5.10      Farmer Organizations Multipurpose Cooperative Societies (including
Agricultural Credit Societies) already operate throughout the project area
where they provide a variety of services including: the channeling of short-
and medium-term credit; supply and distribution of farm inputs; and storage
1/   Report No. 106a-IN "Appraisal of National Seed Project" May 1976.



- 20 -
and marketing. Village councils are also active and are expected to increas-
ingly coordinate agricultural production facilities at farm level under the
guidance of the CADA organization. Cooperative water management below the
chak outlet would be undertaken by irrigation associations organized by CADA.
5.11      Agricultural Credit.  Long-term credit mainly for land development
would be provided in the project area by SLDB and CB (para 4.29). Short- and
medium-term credit is issued principally through the Central Cooperative Banks
(members of the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank) operating at the village
level through Agricultural Credit Societies. Membership of Credit Societies
in the project area is high (at least 50% of cultivators). Other institutional
sources of short- and medium-term credit are the CBs, which are the exclusive
source of credit in some areas, as well as the newly established rural banks.
The credit structure in the project area is well developed and would be ade-
quate for project requirements.
D.   Operation and Maintenance and Water Allocation
5.12      Operation and Maintenance.  Responsibility for day-to-day O&M of the
canal system would continue to rest: with CADA and would be exercised by ID
engineers assigned to CADA headquarters, division, subdivisional and section
levels and would be headed by the Additional Administrator (Engineering). The
ID would prepare a new O&M manual setting out the detailed procedures required
to be followed by the CADA operators. This would take account of the annual
water allocation plan (para 5.13). Agreement was reached with GOM that it
would operate and maintain the project works in accordance with sound engineer-
ing principles and it would make the necessary budgetary provision including
direct budget allocations and use of labor engaged under the States employ-
ment guarantee scheme. On average, the present requirement is equivalent to
about Rs 75/ha. The O&M of project works within the chaks would be the res-
ponsibility of each chak's farmers, who would be organized by CADA in informal
water users associations. Roads other than PWD-maintained roads would be
maintained by CADA and ZPs.
5.13      Water Allocation Plan.  The Jayakwadi and Purna projects operate
without a comprehensive water allocation plan and presently there is excessive
water application in the head reaches of the canals. Future cropping patterns
(Annex 8) are based upon equitable distribution of water over the whole area.
Under the project, water allocations would be based initially on the cropping
patterns of the "minor" canal commands. Subsequently, the water allocation
plan and operational procedures would be refined to permit water allocation
on a chak by chak basis. This would ensure that all commanded land would
receive an equitable share of the available water supplies. The GOM has
stated categorically that its priority for allocating water is: first, kharif
and rabi foodgrains and cotton; second, limited areas of perennials (bananas
and sugarcane); and third, when residual reservoir water exceeds an annually
determined minimum level by the month of March, selected areas of hot weather
crops. Agreement was reached with GOM during negotiations that a water allo-
cation plan of the latter type would be introduced before the end of the
project implementation period.



- 21 -
E.   Cost Recovery
5.14      The 1972, GOI Irrigation Commission concluded that irrigation projects
should not impose any burden on the general revenue. The Bank supports that
policy and during project preparation, GOM agreed that the fullest measure of
cost recovery compatible with the farmers' ability to repay would be instituted.
Maharashtra already imposed comparatively heavy taxes on the farming community
including some of the highest current irrigation charges in India. These have
been increased three-fold in the past decade. At full project development with
CAD fully implemented and with current irrigation and related charges, the av-
erage project beneficiary in the CAD area would pay annual charges and assess-
ments totaling Rs 664/ha. This charge which would be equivalent to about 31%
of the net incremental farm income per ha, represents 47% of the project rent
(Annex 9) and would recover 35-40% of total project costs amortized over 30
years at 10% interest.
5.15      These charges are considered appropriate given present conditions.
An assurance was received from GOM that it would review and, if necessary,
increase its water and water-related charges in the project area from time to
time with the objective of collecting full operational and maintenance costs
and, to the extent possible, cost of infrastructure investment, having regard,
inter alia, for the incentives and repayment capacity of farmers in the proj-
ect area.
VI. PRODUCTION, MARKETING, PRICES AND FARM INCOMES
Agricultural Production
6.01      The transformation of the 95,000 ha in the Jayakwadi Project from
rainfed agriculture in a drought-prone area to fully irrigated land would
result in an increase in cropping intensity (95% to 127%) and in crop yields
from some of the lowest in India to a reasonable level. These changes would
in turn result in significant increases in the production of foodgrains,
cotton and sugarcane. Increases would be significantly greater in the area
on which on-farm development would be carried out than in the area which would
benefit only from irrigation infrastructure. At Purna, the improved production
levels presently being reached under CADA guidance would be consolidated and
progressively improved and extended to the whole 60,000 ha area. In all cases,
the strengthened agricultural extension service would play a major role in
achieving and sustaining agricultural output. Crop production at full develop-
ment is detailed in Annex 8 and is summarized as follows:



- 22 -
Anticipated Future Annual Production in Jayakwadi
Irrigation Infrastructure Area
(50,000 ha)                Full Package Area (45,000 ha)
W/0 Irrigation  With Irrigation   W/0 Irrigation  With Irrigation
Yield  Product. Yield  Product.   Yield  Product. Yield  Product.
(t/ha) ('000 t) (t/ha) ('000 t)   (t/ha) ('000 t) Ct/ha) ('000 t)
Crops
Wheat      0.46      2      1.40      16        0.46      2      2.30      27
Sorghum    0.59    13       1.95      36        0.59    12       2.75      46
Paddy      0.40      1      1.60       6        0.40      1      2.00      11
Cotton     0.45      3      1.60      16        0.45      3      2.00      18
Sugarcane 57.00    60      80.00    200        57.00    55      80.00    180
Marketing and Prices
6.02      Marketing.  Future State and national demand for foodgrains would
assure markets for project output. Marketing of agricultural produce is
regulated by the Maharashtra Agricultural Produce Marketing Act of 1963 which
requires all produce to be channeled through official markets. These are
administered by a committee comprising representatives of growers, traders
and local government. Markets operate on a daily basis, five to six days a
week, and all produce is sold by auction. Most farm produce is transported to
market by farmers on bullock carts. Plans have been formulated by the market
committees for one new main market and five sub-markets to be constructed in
Jayakwadi and five sub-markets in Purna in order to reduce the distance far-
mers have to transport their produce. These would be completed by 1981 re-
sulting in a total of 24 market centers serving the two projects.
6.03      Prices of Agricultural Products.  Price estimates for the economic
analysis are based on the Bank's world market projections for internationally
traded commodities. Financial prices used in this report are current prices
in the project area adjusted for seasonal variations. No major changes in
Government policies are anticipated which would substantially affect these
prices or the relationship of one to another.
Storage and Processing
6.04      Storage facilities are currently adequate but additional capacity
will be needed to meet project induced production. Storage operations are,
in general, efficient and well organized. Present processing facilities are
satisfactory and capacity is expected to rise to meet the anticipated pro-
duction levels.
Farm Incomes and Repayment Capacity
6.05      Farm budgets have been prepared for three farm sizes to represent
future without and with project conditions under the project at full develop-
ment. The net annual farm income after allowing for input costs, hired labor



- 23 -
and depreciation of draft animals, implements and machinery but before the
deduction of water related charges is shown below. The incomes are:
Future with Project
Future
Without
Farm Size    Project      50,000 ha area    45,000 ha area
(ha)       (Rs)             (Rs)                (Rs)
2         1,039           4,383                6,416
5         2,358           9,266               13,376
8         3,232          12,540               18,170
6.06      Details of farm incomes, project rent and repayment capacity are
given in Annex 9. The results indicate that the beneficiaries would repay
under existing programs the full costs of CAD, operation and maintenance
costs and part of the cost of the irrigation infrastructure. This would give
a rent recovery index of 47% in the full package area (45,000 ha) and 32% in
the irrigation infrastructure area (50,000 ha).
VII. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
7.01      The Project objectives would be compatible with those of the Fifth
Five-Year Plan. They would be to increase the production of foodgrains, pro-
vide employment opportunities to landless laborers and part-time small farmers,
and improve the welfare of the low income families in the project area.
Impact on the Economy
7.02      At full development, the Jayakwadi project would have the following
impact on the economy:
(a)  increase the annual production of foodgrains by 111,000 tons;
(b)  provide the equivalent of 38,000 man-years of additional
employment in agriculture, mainly to the advantage of
landless laborers;
(c)  increase the annual average net incomes of the 14,500
families on project lands by approximately five times; and
(d)  produce an annual incremental net value of production
(economic) of Rs 219 million M (US$24.3 M).
Rate of Return
7.03      The Rate of Return for the Jayakwadi project is estimated at 17%.
Comparable rates for the irrigation infrastructure area alone and for the
full CAD area are 14 and 19% respectively.



- 24 -
7.04      The inclusion of an appropriate part of the past investments (sunk
costs) would reduce the rate to 10% and that for the full CAD area to 12%.
However, if in addition to the inclusion of sunk costs, the rate of exchange
for future investments is shadow priced at Rs 11 to US$1 and the cost of con-
struction labor for future work is shadow priced at half the going wage rate
(Rs 1-1/2 per day), the Rate of Return would become 12% and that for the full
CAD area would be 14%. If construction labor were shadow priced at half its
market wage, the rate of return would be 12.5% with sunk costs and 21.5%
without.
7.05      Prior to Bank involvement in the project, G9M planned 3to line only
1,458 km of canals with capacities in excess of 1.4 m /s (50 ft /1). Under the
project, a further 570 km of minor distributaries Welow the 1.4 m Is capacity
would be lined and be expected to save about 90 Mm of water annually. The
cost of such additional lining would be US$7.7 M--equivalent to an annual cost
of US$0.8 M over a 30-year period at 10% interest. Such lining would result
in annual Venefits of about US$2.3 M (based on a value of water estimated at
US$0.025/m at canal headworks). The rate of return of lining is 18%. Such
lining is essential for the irrigation of the full 183,000 ha in Stage I of
the Jayakwadi.
7.06      Over the last few years, about 3,000 ha of land in the Purna scheme
have suffered severe production losses due to waterlogging. This process is
anticipated to continue until at least 8,000 ha conservatively estimated to
be at serious risk are affected. In such a waterlogged area a 50% loss of
production is anticipated. The rate of return for the Purna program of
improvements is about 13%.
Risk and Uncertainty
7.07      Infrastructural Investment.  Given the assurance that priority of
Paithan reservoir releases will be for irrigation, the project water supply
is adequate to meet the projected cropping pattern. The rate of return is
moderately sensitive to an increase in the cost of the project or to a de-
crease in the annual benefits, but it is less sensitive to a delay in the
realization of the project benefits. Moreover, since the benefits that will
result from the construction of the irrigation infrastructure will run in
parallel with the completion of such work, a delay in the completion of the
irrigation infrastructure would be partially off-set by a parallel reduction
in the expenditure for such irrigation infrastructure. The CADA organization
set up by the Government is equipped to ensure the timely supply of farm in-
puts, and a dynamic agricultural extension service able to help the farmers
in utilizing the water. The CADA's recent record is good. The risk of in-
ordinate delays in utilization of irrigation potential after it is created
is, therefore, negligible.
7.08      Command Area Development:.  Given the extensive experience gained
from the ongoing CAD program, the investment risk associated with the CAD
component is limited.



- 25 -
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Agreement on the following points have been reached with GOI and GOM:
(a) GOM would include in its annual budgetary proposals suffi-
cient funds to execute the project in accordance with the
implementation and expenditure schedule (Annex 5, Table 1).
The GOM representatives confirmed further that the budgetary
proposals for fiscal year 1977/78 currently pending with the
State legislature provided sufficient funds for the first
year of project implementation (para 4.28); and
(b) each would take such measures as considered necessary to
minimize all hazards of malaria and other water-related
diseases in the project area (para 4.36).
8.02      Agreements have been reached with the GOI that:
(a) the proceeds of the credit, except disbursements for on-farm
development would be made available to GOM (para 4.28);
(b) ARDC would require the lending banks participating in the
project to maintain separate accounts for project lending
and would ensure that the annual audited accounts of such
banks would be submitted to IDA within four months after
the end of each fiscal year, together with an audited ARDC
statement of project lending to such banks (para 4.35);
8.03      Agreements have been reached with GOM that:
(a) the accounts and financial statements would be submitted to
IDA within nine months after the end of each fiscal year
(para 4.34);
(b) GOM would operate and maintain the project works in accord-
ance with sound engineering principles and it would make
the necessary budgetary provision including direct budget
allocation and use of labor engaged under the States employ-
ment guarantee scheme. On average, the present requirement
is equivalent to about Rs 75/ha (para 5.12);
(c) it would introduce a water allocation plan giving irrigation
a priority over power and providing for the equitable division
of water among the users before the end of the project imple-
mentation period (paras 5.13 and 4.13); and
(d) it would review; and if necessary increase its water and water-
related charges in the project area from time to time with the
objective of collecting full operational and maintenance cost
and, to the extent possible, cost of infrastructure investment,



- 26 -
having regard, inter alia, for the incentives and repayment
capacity of farmers in th e project area (para 5.15).
8.04      A condition for credit disbursement of the CAD components would be
that:
(a)  a subsidiary loan agreement satisfactory to IDA has
been executed between GOI and ARDC (para 4.29).
(b) GOI had issued the necessary executive order applying the
provisions of Special Loans for ineligible farmers to
the project (para 4.29);
8.05      With the above agreements and condition of credit disbursement, the
proposed project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$70 M on standard
IDA terms. The Borrower would be the Government of India.
June 30, 1977



ANNEX 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Climatic Data
Jan.   Feb.   Mar.   Apr.   May   June   July   Aug.   Sept.   Oct.   Nov.   Dec.   Total
Rainfall (mms)-/
Average                             7       6      7      10     17    142    165    149    188         51      24     10      776
75% Probability                     0      0       0       0      0      l11    129    116    147       40       0      0      543
Mean Relative Humidity-2/
Parbhani                           51     43      37      36     44    64       73      75     72       59      55      54
Aurangabad                         52     41      33      34      47    76      87      87     84       64      56      55
Mean Temperature ( C)-
Parbhani                           21.3   24.7   28.3   31.7   32.8  29.8   27.5   26.6   26.8    25.8   22.9   20.8
Aurangabad                         21.8   24.0   27.9   31.1   32.4  29.0   25.7   25.2   25.4    25.6   23.2   21.4
Wind Velocity (km/d)-/
Parbhani                           84     106    123    177    295   310    332    258    177           87      71      62
Aurangabad                        187      218    257    305    410   461    451    413    300    202    180    161
Sunshine (hrs/day)-5/
Parbhani                           10.2   10.7    9.8   10.1   9.4   7.1    4.7    5.3    6.3           8.9   10.6    9.8
1/  Average of 4 stations.  1914-1970.                               Aurangabad - Latitude 190 53' N; Long. 750 20' E.
2/  Parbhani 1960-75.  Aurangabad 1931-1960.                               Elev. 581 metres
3/  Parbhani 1960-75.  Aurangabad 1931-1960.                         Parbhani - Latitude 190 16' N; Long. 760 47' E.
4/  Parbhani 1960-75.  Aurangabad 1931-1960.                               Elev. 439 m
5/ Parbhani 1960-75.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
A. Projetct Scope
1.        In 1962, GOM commenced construction of the 277,000 ha 1/ gravity
flow Jayakwadi scheme, the State's largest irrigation scheme. The scheme
which is divided into two Stages is; planned for completion by about 1987.
The government completed the contiguous 60,000 ha Purna project in 1968.
Both projects are based on the water resources of the upper Godavari basin.
The project areas are shown on May 12594R.
2.        Jayakwadi Stage I, now under construction would command 183,000 ha;
142,000 ha on the Left Bank and 41,000 ha on the Right Bank. So far GOM has
completed: the Paithan storage reservoir with facilities for a later 12 MW
hydroelectric power development; 122 km of main LBC and 20 km of the main
RBC; irrigation and drainage networks serving about 49,000 ha on the LBC and
4,000 ha on the RBC, as well as intermediate standard land development on the
53,000 ha under irrigation. Jayakwadi Stage II project, now under detailed
survey and planning, would command an additional approximate 94,000 ha. It
would comprise: the Majalgaon storage reservoir which would be linked by the
Paithan RBC to Paithan reservoir and would benefit from water supplies surplus
to Jayakwadi Stage I water requirements.
3.        The Purna irrigation and power scheme comprises the Yeldari storage
dam (with associated hydro-electric: generating capacity of 23 MW) and the
Sidheshwar diversion Weir; a 45 km main canal and a 723 km long distribution
system serving 60,000 ha.
4.        The GOM's ultimate plan for development includes the following com-
mand areas:
1/   GOM also plans future additional pump lift irrigation areas at Jayakwadi.
28



ANNEX 2
Page 2
Project Area
(1,000 ha)
(a)  Jayakwadi                                     '000 ha
Stage I
Paithan Left Bank Canal                          142
Paithan Right Bank Canal                          41
Subtotal                              183
Stage II
Majalgaon RBC                                     94
Total Jayakwadi                             277
(b)  Purna                                             60
Total Jayakwadi and Purna                  337
5.        The current best estimate for implementation at Jayakwadi over the
next 11 years is as follows:
FY1977     1981      1987
Irrigation Infrastructure              ----'000 ha -------
Paithan LBC and RBC                       53        148       183
Majialgaon                                -          -         94
Total Jayakwadi                      53        148      277
On-Farm Development (CAD) Works
Paithan LBC and RBC                       53         98      183
Majalgaon                                  _         -        -
Total Jayakwadi                      53         98      183
6.        The IDA-assisted project would include all infrastructure and CAD
works which would be completed during the four year period FY1978 through 1982.
It would complete Jayakwadi Stage I up to a total 148,000 ha and would commence
remodeling and drainage improvement works in Purna. The works included in the
Bank assisted project are given in Table 1.
29



ANNEX 2
Page 3
B. Jayakwadi Irrigat:ion and Drainage Works
Engineering Design
7.        The Paithan Dam and canal designs follow established GOI criteria
and practices. Designs for the canal prism are sound and canal embankments
are wide enough to contain a 4:1 seepage line from the canal water surface
to natural ground.  Compacted clay cutoffs under the embankments are pro-3
vided.3 In the past, lining was provided for all canals down to the 1.4 m /s
(50 ft /s) flow level. Drains are provided to relieve hydrostatic pressure
from groundwater on the back side of the lining. Designs of structures, prin-
cipally masonry with key reinforced concrete elements, are adequate. Cross
drainage waterways are designed for the 100-year frequency flood and appear
ample for the existing natural drainage channels. Designed irrigation canal
capacity is at least 0.7 1/s/ha in a11 reaches. Off-take structures are de-
signed to deliver the required flow to a branch canal at one half design flow
depth in the main canal, which is approximately 0.7 of the depth for the design
flow. Cross regulators were originally spaced at about 20 km intervals, but
design revisions have resulted in roughly a 15 km spacing. Canal lining of
the LBC up to km 122 is mainly of precast concrete slabs 0.5 m by 0.5 m laid
on 6 cm thick bedded on a prepared layer of consolidated selected soil fill.
There have been problems of quality control in concrete slab manufacture and
in transporting the unreinforced slabs. Lining is now constructed of plain
cast-insitu 8 cm thick concrete of 1:3:5 mix of portland cement:sand: aggre-
gate. Although on the whole, a better finish is being obtained with insitu
concrete compared to the precast slabs, quality problems remain. The Irriga-
tion and Power Department is aware of these problems and is taking active
steps to overcome them.
System Improvements
8.        The completed portion of Jayakwadi and the Purna projects which are
partially lined canal systems and which have been brought under the new CADA
management, have demonstrated a degree of flexibility which has achieved some
success in timely water delivery, but they require further improvement, aimed
at more efficient water use. Conservation of water supplies would be essential
to ensure GOM's long range target of irrigating an ultimate 277,000 ha in
Jayakwadi and to reach irrigation intensities of 130% or more in both schemes.
To achieve these objectives, the following actions, which would be undertaken
under the Jayakwadi project, are:
(a) an annually agreed water-allocation plan aimed at optimum
use of canal supplies together with corresponding water
delivery schedules guaranteed by CADA to the farmers
irrigation associations;
30



ANNEX 2
Page 4
(b) the establishment of an O&M system which is responsive to
crop water requirements and changing weather conditions
through the provision of staff and housing, a telecom-
munication system and adequate annual funds;
(c) independent monitoring of water deliveries to provide a
more scientific basis for operational improvement and to
help identify deficiencies in the physical facilities;
(d) completion3of lining3of distributaries and minor canals
from 1.4 m /s (50 ft Is) down to the 1.5 ft /s chak
outlets in order to reduce seepage and spillage losses;;
(e) on-farm land development within the 25 ha chaks comprising:
watercourses and drainage channels; land shaping and
grading and soil conservation bunds;
(f) cooperative water use among farmers within the 25 ha
chaks to assure equitable distribution of water; and
(g) an agricultural extension service trained for and focused
towards providing water management guidance to farmers.
Project Performance Monitoring
9.        In the design and appraisal of an irrigation project, many assump-
tions have to be made in the determination of important aspects of the proj-
ect (e.g. water demand, yields and benefits). There are usually no reliable
data for conveyance efficiency, water application efficiency, cropping pat-
terns and yields. Since the relationships of the assumed values to the actual
values could greatly affect the evaluation of a project, it has been decided
to include a performance monitoring program in this project to obtain actual
data for use in the design and appraisal of future projects. These data will
also be used to modify certain features of existing projects to improve the
general performance as well as to optimize the benefits.
10.       Water Use Studies:  Water use studies will include conveyance and
field efficiencies. For conveyance efficiency investigation, rate of flow
will be measured at various control points in the irrigation system -- for
example, main canal heads, head regulators, and turnouts in distributaries
and minors. The analysis of the data obtained and operation records will
yield data on operation and seepage losses.
11.       Field efficiency will be investigated by measuring the inflow and
outflow at chak and field plot levels. The studies will include plots grown
to different crops using different water application method. The study pro-
gram would include setting up a number of gauging stations at selected loca-
tions throughout the project areas. Recorders would be installed at each
station to record rate of flow in the canals on a continuous basis. These
recorders and gauging stations would be properly calibrated. Whenever
31



ANNEX 2
Page 5
practicable, the data obtained would be computerized. Consultants would assist
in setting up flow measuring equipment and the data processing method.
12.       Project Benefits:  A program would also be set up to determine the
actual cropping pattern, cropping intensity, and the change of cropping pattern
with on-farm development works, yields and the resultant social and economic
impact. The studies would be conducted throughout the project implementation
period. A reduced scheme, depending on results of earlier findings, would
continue until the year 1987 at least.
13.       The monitoring program proposed is relatively simple.  The data ob-
tained would be important and useful not only in connection with the design
of future projects but also for modification of ongoing projects.
14.       The cost estimate including equipment required for the monitoring
program is shown in Tables 10 and 18, Annex 4.
Canal Lining
15.       Year-round high water demanding cropping patterns impose severe
stress on unlined canals and increase the losses of scarce water. This is
particularly valid in the typically attenuated irrigation distribution systems
such as Jayakwadi I which has 2,000 km of canals.
16.       Losses fall into several, often interrelated, categories:
(a)  Seepage:  slow to rapid percolation through the sides
and bed of the canals.
(b)  Operational:  rapid changes in the water demand pattern
which cannot be matched in time by adjusting reservoir
releases or by effective redistribution within the system --
thus resulting in non-productive releases through to the
waste-ways.
(c)  Accidental:  overtopping spillage; breaches, incorrect
or unresponsive gate settings.
17.       Because the excavated reaches of main canals and the head reaches
of distributary canals, intersect permeable weathered rock and murrum they
are subject to severe seepage losses. Similarly, seepage is a critical
factor in the high embankment canal reaches where it may lead to destructive
breaching. The smaller canals intersect extensive areas of black cotton soils
(expansive clays) which are subject to intensive shrinking and cracking as a
result of the intermittent flows typically experienced in the rotationally
operated distributary network and again result in high seepage losses. In
addition, it is extremely difficult to maintain the design cross section of
unlined canals through the black cotton soils.
32



ANNEX 2
Page 6
18.       Canal losses have a dual adverse effect:  they reduce the project
area which can be commanded with the available water supply and contribute
to waterlogging and possible salinity. In the drought prone Deccan where
water supplies are scarce, reduction of canal losses is an important factor
in irrigation network design. The restriction of the potential command area
due to water losses together with waterlogging damage has a significant eco-
nomic impact on agricultural production. The tail end water users suffer
greater losses than those at the head. Under the special conditions which
prevail in Jayakwadi and Purna, it is nearly impossible to guarantee a year-
round uninterrupted water supply to tail end users on unlined canals. For
this reason tail end users are relatively reluctant to participate in land
development.
19.       A fuller discussion on the combined effect of CAD and canal lining
on water savings is given in Annex 3. Briefly, canal lining is estimated to
increase conveyance efficiency (CE) from about 55% to 75% by reducing losses
and by increasing the responsiveness of the system to rapid changes in the
demand pattern. Lining has a significantly beneficial effect in facilitating
effective water allocation plans and also decreases maintenance and operation
problems.
20.       Because unlined canals require larger cross-sections for equivalent
conveyance capacity, there is a trade-off between the costs of lining and
additional excavation. There is a positive cost saving from lining areas
where a large proportion of excavation is in rock.
21.       The GOM has long recognized that canal lining is imperative in the
Deccan3projects.  It has planned to line all canals down to the 1.4 m Is
(50 ft Is) level.  Under the Broposed project, the residual 570 km of canal
down to the 0.04 m Is (1.5 ft Is) would also be lined.
22.  3    The order of magnitude of costs and benefits of lining canals below
1.4 m /s to the chak outlet are:
US$ Million
(a)  Cost of lining distribjtary and iinor
canals less than 1.4 m /s (50 ft Is)
capacity;                                                 8.2
Less saving in excavation cost;                           0.5
Net Cost                                                  7.7
At an anticipated 30-year life using
10% interest, the annual cost would be:                   0.8
(b)  Annual denefit due to water saved by lining
(90 M m )                                                 2.3
33



ANNEX 2
Page 7
Scheduling Engineering Designs and T'ender Documents
23.       The time required for completing construction drawings, schedules of
quantities, specifications and tender documents is dependent on the completion
of topographic and engineering site surveys, and on the finalizing of canal
alignments. The standard GOM procedure is:
(a)  prior to the project, an overall topographic map to 2 m con-
tour interval is prepared to Survey of India (SOI) standards;
(b) based on (a), the project canal network is laid out in
schematic fashion and generalized cost estimates are
prepared;
(c) following the GOI sanction of the project, detailed
topographic mapping to 30 cm contour interval is
commenced covering successive land blocks (10,000-
15,000 ha) each commanded by an individual distri-
butary canal;
(d) when these detailed topographic maps are completed for
each block, the detailed construction drawings are pre-
pared and construction quantities estimated. Land acquisi-
tion is initiated, and
(e) bid calls are then made for the first 6 to 12 months of
construction work, usually packaged in small contracts
for small labor contractors.
24.       The significance of this procedure is that steps (c) through (e)
overlap.  Thus, project works are commenced before the final detailed de-
signs are completed for the whole project.
25.       The procedure is inherently flexible because of the small packaging
of contracts.  To transform this procedure to one suitable for large con-
tracts, time-consuming preparation of much more complicated and sophisticated
documentation is involved. In the case of projects already under construction,
it would cause a serious disruption of the smooth pace of construction and a
delay in bringing the irrigation blocks under command. As an inducement to
large contractor participation, GOM would announce the whole scope of con-
struction contract work envisaged under the project at the time of issue
of the first tender.
26.       As a compromise position, it would be possible to package the main
canal works in large contracts by accepting a 6 to 9 month delay while proceed-
ing with the canal distribution system under small contracts.
27.       Engineering surveys are completed for RBC, almost completed for
LBC and would be completed in 1977 for branch canals and distribution systems.
Engineering design for LBC, RBC, branch canals and distribution systems would
34



ANNEX 2
Page 8
be completed by 1979. Drainage system design and construction would start
during the project development as soon as drainage requirements are identified.
C. Jayakwadi CAD Component
General
28.       The irrigation distribution system would be constructed down to the
0.04 m /s (1.5 ft /sec) outlet from the minor canal which commands a chak of
about 25 ha and contains an average of about four farms (average farm size
6.55 ha). The combined effect of on-farm land development and the agricultural
supporting services program would lead to more efficient water use and higher
crop yields. Land development would be carried out under the provisions of the
Bombay Land Improvement Act, 1942. Farmers would sign consent bonds in favor
of the financing bank; they would agree to the works being carried out and
to repay the costs involved.
On-farm Development Works
29.       The project CAD consists of two works categories:
(i) Category I. The irrigation and drainage infrastructure within the
chak. These are items common to the entire block of land under an outlet and
can be termed community items. They consist of field channels and drains,
together with all necessary masonry structures and road crossings. Lining
would be carried out on about 30% of the length of the field channels.
(ii) Category II. Land shaping and grading of the individual farms
within each chak. Land shaping involves smoothing the land to
provide a uniform longitudinal grade (not in excess of 0.3%) in
order to achieve uniform flow of water. Land grading involves
regrading the cross slope down to the specified norm (0.6%).
30.       In the case of Category I works, the costs would be recovered from
the farmers and pro-rated according to farm size. For Category II works, costs
increases on the individual farm would be recovered.
31.       Topography.  The cost of land development will vary according to the
existing slopes. An assessment of the areas under different slope groups in the
project has been interpolated from detailed surveys of 1,200 blocks covering an
area of about 48,000 ha.
Class     Slope % Group    % Area
I          0-0.6            31
II          0.6-1            21
III          1-2               34
IV          2-3               11
V          above 3            3                   35



ANNEX 2
Page 9
32.       Planning and Design Work.  Layout plans and cost estimates would be
made for each chak and individual farm within the chak. Two meter contour
interval maps interpreted from aerial photography are available. Surveys
would be carried out on a 15 m x 15 m grid with contours at 0.30 m intervals.
The map scale used would be 1:1,250. Unsuitable soils, as demarcated from
preirrigation soil surveys conducted by the ID, would have already been
omitted in the irrigation system layout. To facilitate surveys and design,
the ID would furnish survey data and permanently marked positions of turnouts,
by complete distributaries, at least one year ahead of the land development
survey program. Existing field boundaries would not be realigned and field
channels and drains would follow the existing boundaries as far as possible.
Individual estimates would be prepared for each farm owner giving the propor-
tionate costs of the Category I works and the individual cost of the Cate-
gory II works within the farm.
Irrigation and Drainage Infrastructure
33.       Each holding would be provided with an individual turnout.  The
alignment and bed slope of field channels would be such as to ensure that
all fields are brought under command. Division boxes would be provided as
required. The head portions of field channels would be lined and 30% of the
total length of field channels would be lined at an estimated cost of about
Rs 11 per meter. Permanent masonry structures would be built wherever
necessary for both field channels and drains. Principal field channels would
have an escape to a drain or a nula. Each farm would be provided with an out-
let to a field drain.  Access to fields are traditionally available by informal
right-of-way access or along the borders of neighboring fields. These rights-
of-way connect with Government tracks and roads. Permanent structures would
be provided where field channels and drains cross access roads, tracks and
rights of way.
34.       Land shaping and grading.  This would be carried out in accordance
with specifications agreed among CADA, ARDC and the implementing agency (MLDC).
Specifications are given below:
36



ANNEX 2
Page 10
Natural Slope %         0-0.6       0.6-1.0        1-2        2-3     Above 3
Type of Land
Shaping/Grading       Shaping    Grading         Grading   Grading   Grading
Max. Length of
Strip (meters)        100         100            100       100        100
Width of Strip
(meters)               30          30             20        15         10
Longitudinal
Slope % (Maximum)       0.3         0.3            0.3       0.3        0.3
Cross Slope %
(Maximum)               0.6         0.6            0.6       0.6        0.6
Size of Small
Bunds (Sq m)            0.18        0.18           0.18      0.18       0.18
Size of Large
Bunds (sq m)            0.45        0.45           0.45      0.45       0.45
Spacing of Large
Bunds (meters)         90          90             80        60         40
Grading would be done down to a cross-slope of 0.6% and strip width will vary
from 10 to 30 meters.  For irrigation, farmers would sub-divide fields into
borders of 3 to 5 meters wide which would reduce the differential slope be-
tween two borders to about 2.5 cms.
Implementation
35.       Under the overall control of the CADA, the works would be the direct
responsibility of MLDC which has considerable experience in land development.
Category I works would be done by manual labor. Land shaping and grading in
Category II works would largely be done by machinery using wheel tractors and
low hp crawler tractors.
36.       Costs have been derived from the extensive experience gained by MLDC
and CADA and on a 400 ha pilot project established in the command area of the
project (Table 2).
37.       Project Support.  The project would provide the additional machinery
required by MLDC (Table 2).
37



ANNEX 2
Page 11
D. Purna Project
38.       The Purna irrigation and power project, assisted by IDA in 1962
(Credit 23-IN, $13 M) was completed in 1968 and is fully described in Ref-
erence 2. Project performance since 1970/71 is as follows:
Yeldari
Reservoir     Water Supplied        Cropped        Cropping
Water Year       Inflows        to Main Canal         Area          Intensity
(July-June)       (Mm )            (MEm )             (ha)             (%)
1970/71           1,813             380            no record
1971/72             467             510             25,300             44
1972/73             140             337             23,800             42
1973/74           1,076             385             20,300             36
1974/75             339             373             22,700             40
1975/76           2,167             526             44,600             78
1976/77             567              -              76,000 /a         133 /a
La   Target - 42,000 ha already cropped in kharif 1976/77 and an additional
34,000 ha targeted.
39.       Disregarding the very small additional Shidheshwar inflows, the
seven-year record shows that annual in5lows averaged only 940 Mm or 70% of
the average annual inflows of 1,340 Mm computed at appraisal. Up to and
including 1975/76, canal supplies averaged about 71% of the designed irriga-
tion demand.
40.       AlthougV live storage in Yeldari and Shidheshwar reservoirs is
only about 980 Mm interannual carry over has helped significantly to sustain
irrigation supplies in the 1971/72, 1972/73 and 1974/75 dry years. However,
only about 40% of Yeldari inflows were utilized for irrigation. This under-
utilization was a result of: large reservoir spills particularly in the very
wet years; water allocation for hydroelectric power generation, and slow
growth of farmers' land preparation for irrigation.
41.       Since 1975, GOM and CADA have implemented a new policy, ordering top
priority for foodgrain production using irrigation to the full. The 1975/76
and 1976/77 cropping increases confirm the relative success of this policy.
38



ANNEX 2
Page 12
42.       Drainage facilities to remove surplus storm rainfall accumulation,
canal seepage and excessive return flows from farmers' fields were not in-
cluded in the original project. This deficiency was acknowledged in the
April 1973 re-appraisal. About 3,000 ha are now adversely affected and are
expected to increase in proportion to the continuous canal flows required
to sustain the year-round cropping pattern.
43.       In the absence of drainage works it is estimated that about 1,500
ha of additional land would be adversely affected annually and would reach a
conservatively estimated total of 8,000 ha which would suffer an anticipated
annual 50% production loss.
44.       The original project works, particularly those on the minor distri-
butary canals, were rather lightly constructed. Many of the original small
masonry water control structures have deteriorated and require remodeling. In
addition, selective lining is required on parts of the distribution system.
The head reaches of field watercourses also warrant lining. Details of
rehabilitation and remodeling are listed in Table 2.
45.       Improved land development (CAD) to standards similar to those being
implemented in Jayakwadi were considered for inclusion in the Purna works
which would be financed under the project. Purna is an ongoing project where
farmers have already invested in primary land development and farmers fields
are under cultivation for at least 9 to 10 months each year. Although improved
land development would be extremely beneficial and would ultimately be re-
quired to develop the full potential agricultural production under efficient
irrigation, farmers acceptability is not yet fully known. The program would
have to be planned in appropriately timed schedules to avoid interruption of
cultivation. During the project, GOM would study more fully the technical
organizational and economic implications and requirements of additional CAD
works in Purna and prepare, as appropriate, a future CAD program in close
consultation with the farmer beneficiaries.
E. Road Program
Background
46.       Although the project areas have sufficient access to major external
market centers, communications within the command areas are sparse. A com-
ponent covering both Jayakwadi and Purna would, therefore, be included in
the project to commence a longer-term remedial program of road improvements.
This would comprise upgrading selected District roads and the construction
of village link roads.
39



ANNEX 2
Page 13
Existing Roads
47.       The density of State and District roads in the area is in accordance
with the Public Works Department's (PWD) Road Master Plan for the 20-year period
1961-81 and is adequate for the traffic. Important cities can be reached via
the National highways Pune-Hyderabad, Bombay-Agra and Bombay-Hyderabad, all
of which are connected to the road network of State and District roads in the
area. In addition to the road network, the South Central Railway runs through
the area with connections to Bombay, Hyderabad and other main cities via the
railroad junctions in Nanded and Parbhani.
48.       The main road network of India consists of four categories:  National
highways, State highways, Major District roads and Other District roads. These
roads form a "grid" in the road master plan. Some lower standard District
roads are constructed as links to some of the villages (link roads) and as
roads between villages (village roads).
49.       National highways have two lanes, 7 to 8 m wide carriageways with
bituminous surfacing and 2 to 3 m wide shoulders. The State highways have
single lane carriageways, partly upgraded to a wider cross section depending
on the traffic volume, and mostly paved as the National highways. The width
of the shoulders is 2 to 3m.
50.       Major District roads are similar to State highways but may not have
bituminous surfacing; drainage is often inadequate. Other District roads are
similar to major District roads but have a carriageway width of 6 m instead of
7 to 8 m. They do not usually have bituminous surfacing.
51.       All the above road categories have a wide embankment, considerably
wider than the total width of carriageway and shoulders. As oxen-drawn traffic
declines in the future on some parts of the road network there may be less need
for the same width. The alignment usually follows long, straight lines with
relatively few curves, visibility is normally good, and the riding quality of
the roads generally acceptable. There has been deterioration on perhaps 10
to 20% of all the main roads in the project area. In general, the drainage
and raising roadway levels are required. Maintenance is of a variable standard
due to a shortage of budget funds. The existing main road network in the area
includes:
(i)  Jayakwadi, Left Bank           1,330 km
(ii)  Jayakwadi, Right Bank            330 km
(iii)  Purna Area                       330 km
The lower standard roads in the area, i.e. link and village roads, have a
carriageway width of 3.7 m which is in accordance with Indian design standards.
The top layer is generally gravel but in some cases the gravel surface is
sealed by a bituminous coating. Drainage and maintenance in general is in-
adequate.
40



ANNEX 2
Page 14
Existing Traffic
52.       Reliable traffic counts are not available for the roads within the
area. However, driving on the roads in the project area gives an overall
impression of low traffic density. The number of bullock carts and particu-
larly trucks and buses on the main roads is far below the capacity of the
road network.
Topography and Soil Conditions
53.       The terrain in the command area is generally flat.  The general
slope in the vicinity of the canals is normally 1% to 3%. Good rock material
suitable for road construction is available in the area. The same applies
to murrum 1/ which usually does not need to be hauled long distances to
construction sites. Top soils in the command areas are mainly so-called black
cotton soils. These soils have clayey properties with high susceptibility
to water and consequently the bearing capacity of the subgrade is considerably
reduced when the soil becomes wet.
Organization and Management
54.       The National highways are administered and financed by the Central
Government of India (GOI) through the Road Wing within the Ministry of Ship-
ping and Transportation in Delhi. State highways and District roads are ad-
ministered and financed by the State Government of Maharashtra through the
PWD.
55.       The roads of lower standard mentioned above are administered by the
District Councils, Zilla Parishad (ZP). They are financed by the State or
through the Council's own resources. Those roads have the purpose of improv-
ing communication and transportation conditions between the villages and the
main road network and/or connecting villages to each other and to the markets
trading the farmers' production.
56.       Some of the lower standard roads have been constructed by the Irriga-
tion Department (ID) and PWD: others by the District councils. Many of the
lower standard roads are service roads for the canal system. Some are ade-
quately constructed but some have a poor pavement and are short of drainage,
probably depending on different supervision standards during construction and
on the degree of regular maintenance. These lower standard roads are often
constructed by applying labor intensive construction methods under the Employ-
ment Guarantee Scheme introduced by the State as an unemployment relief
measure.
1/   The term "murrum" is used locally to describe decomposed laterite or
other firm gravel soils suitable for road construction purposes.
41



ANNEX 2
Page 15
Maintenance
57.       National highways are ma:Lntained by a the State PWD and are financed
from GOI funds. State highways and District roads, however, are maintained by
PWD with from State funds.  Link and village roads are supposed to be main-
tained by the local District CouncLls from their own resources or from grants
from the State Government.
Proposed Road Program
58.       The program consists mainly of the construction of link roads similar
to those already completed in the project area, together with pavement improve-
ment and drainage of the Nanded-Purna-Mategaon road. Link roads have been
selected on the criteria that the villages in the area should have an all
weather connection to the main road network and to a market center located
not farther than 10 to 15 km from the village to enable a farmer to reach
the market and return on the same day. The road program comprises (Tables 3,
4 and 5):
(a) Construction of 345 km of new macadam link roads.
(b) Improvement of Nanded-Purna-Mategaon District road (40 kms).
(c) The procurement of equipment for road construction.
Details of the Jayakwadi Left Bank and Right Bank and Purna roads are
given in Table 3.
On average, the overall road density after implementation of this
link road program will be about 1.2 km road per square km of irrigable area.
Design Standards
59.       Standards for these roads would follow those of the Indian Roads
Congress standards. Width of the right-of-way is 20 m, the formation width
6 m and the carriageway 3.7 m. The final pavement thickness would depend on
the properties of the subgrade soil expressed in California Bearing Ratio
(CBR) values but would average about 30 cm, with the top layer of graded
crushed stone aggregate without bituminous coating of the surface. Murrum
is used in the shoulders. In most: cases, the alignment would follow existing
cart tracks between adjacent holdings to avoid or minimize right-of-way
problems.
Implementation
60.       The road program would be carried out during a four-year period,
1978-81 by local contractors after local competitive bidding. The selection
of final alignment, survey, design and other engineering tasks as well as
supervision of the work during the construction phase would be the responsi-
bility of the Irrigation Department (ID) with PWD acting as consultant.
42



ANNEX 2
Page 16
Standard material and quality control tests would be performed by PWD-trained
personnel in the field and in the PWD's District laboratories. Heavy con-
struction equipment such as rollers for compaction would be supplied on rent
to the small contractors.   Each contract would be localized to ensure optimi-
sation of regard to equipment and supervision.
June 1977
43



ANNEX 2
Table 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Infrastructure Works
Jayakwadi Project
Paithan Left Bank Irrigation System
Left Canal Earthwork (km 100-208) (km)                             108
Left Canal Structure (km 100-208) (No.)                            127
Aqueduct (9), siphon (3), slab culvert (19),
H.P. culvert (9), superpassage (3),cross
regulator cum escape (7), bridge (50), head
regulators to distributaries (27)
Branches (km 100-208) (km)                                          60
DLstributaries & Minors (57,100 ha) (km)                           490
Paithan Right Bank Irrigation. System
Right Canal Earthwork (km 20-132) (km)                             112
Right Canal Structure (km 20-132) (No.)                            189
Aqueduct (11), slab culvert (28), H.P. culvert (3),
superpassage (3), cross regulator (8), escape (7),
bridge (64), head regulators to distributaries (65).
Distributaries & Minors (37,900 ha) (km)                           320
Paithan Left Bank and Right Bank Drainage System
Left Bank
Improvement of natural drains (km)                              230
Drainage channels (from chak to natural drains) (km)             210
Right Bank
Improvement of natural drains (km)                              150
Drainage channels (from chak to natural drains) (km)            140
Purna Project
Irrigation System
Temoaelling oT canals and structures
(60 new, 700 remodelling or repair) (No)                           760
Embankment strengthening (km)                                       90
Lining(Improvement),                                          300,000
Lining of 30% of field channel (km)                                625
Drainage System
Interceptor drains (km)                                            27
Drainage channel (from chak or interceptor drains to
natural drains) (km)                            82
Improvement of natural drains (km)                                140
44



ANNEX 2
Table e
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Works
CAD Component
Cost Estimates
A.     Construction Works _/                                                      Total
FY 1977/78      1978/79     1979/80      1980/81      1977/81
Program Ha                    5,000        10,000       15,000       15,000      45,000
Cost per ha Rs                2,000         2,000        2,000        2,000       2,000
Cost per Yr Rs(Millions)       10.0          20.0         30.0         30.0        90.0
B.     Surveys
Program                      15,000        15,000       15,000          -        45,000
Cost/ha Rs                       80            80           80          -
Cost/Yr Rs (Millions)           1.2           1.2          1.2          -           3.6
C.     Total Cost Construction and Survey
Cost/Yr                        11.2          21.2         31.2         30.0    Rs  93.6
US$ 10.4
D.     Purchase of Plant and Vehicles
Units Required            Unit Cost         Cost
FY  78  79  80  81   Total                          US$ '000
Crawler tractors c.w. Blades
(65 hp)                      -   -  10   -    10       -        37              370
Farm Tractors (80 hp)           -   -  25   -    25                17              425
"   Leveling blades    25  25  25   -    75                 .6               45
if   T"  Tyne Cultivators    5   5   5   -    15                  .4                6
Trucks 5-7 tons                 1   1   -   -      2               14               28
Field cars 4 2.d.               8   8   -   -    16                 6               96
Pick-up 3/4Ton                  1   1   -   -      2                8               16
Automobile                      1   -   -   -      1              4.5                5
T17
Spares 25%        248
Total US$       1,239
1/ Includes physical contingencies (15%) and Engineering and Adminsitration (25%).
45



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Jayakwadi Left Bank - Proposed Roads
Description of the Roads                              New Linkroads (km)
Loni Colegaon (Remaining Portion)                             3.0
Phulwari Approach to Ashti-Pathri Road                        1.7
Kesaprui Approach to Ashti-Parthri Road                       3.0
Warkhed Approach to Ashti-Pathri Road                         0.7
Mardasgaon Approach to Ashti-Pathri Road                      6.0
Wadi-Newali                                                   2.8
Patuda Approach to Wadi-Gopagaon Road                          2.0
Nathra-Manjpath                                                6.0
Chelegaon-Gunj                                                6.2
Babultara Approach to Pathri-Loni. Road                       1.0
Takalgaon Approach to Pathri-Loni. Road                       1.0
Babulgaon-Loni                                                3.0
Itali-Renapur                                                 3.7
Chati Pimpalgaon Approach to Pathri-Pokharni Road             3.0
Sarola-Takalgaon                                              2.5
Khavana-Pimpari-Renakhali                                      2.0
Hadgaon-Khavana Pimpari                                        3.0
Bharaswada Approach to Pathri-Pokharni Road                   0.5
(a) Loni-Kansur                                               4.0
(b) Kansur-Dakupimpari                                        5.0
(a) Kekarjawala-Waghala                                       4.7
(b) Waghala-Mudgal                                            6.2
(a) Ramatakli-Wazur                                           4.0
(b) Wazur-Thar                                                3.5
46



ANNEX 2
Table 3
Page 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Jayakwadi Left Bank - Proposed Roads
Description of the Roads                             New Linkroads (km)
Amrapur-Sarangpur to Lobara-Rampuri Road                      3.5
Pohadul Approach to Kindela Ramatakli Road                    1.0
Hatkarwadi-Pangargavan                                        5.0
Mohalsangvi-Gondgaon                                          1.5
Braemanath Approach to Parbkani-Gangakhad Road                3.0
Surpimpari-Wadgaon                                            2.0
Kakaswadi Approach to Pathri-Pokharni Road                    3.0
Wadowadi-Indewadi Approach to Pathri-Pokarni Road             1.5
(a) Daithan-Sayala-Sunagaon                                   6.2
(b) Wunagaon-Muli-Dharkhed                                    6.3
(a) Golegaon-Develgaon-Deothana                               6.5
(b) Deothana-Megoowadi                                        3.5
Malsona-Chasari                                               1.5
Chasari-Kharwadi                                              1.5
Amrapur-Tadpangari Approach to Parbhani-Daithana Road         3.5
Porwad Approach to Parbhani-Gangakhad Road                    3.0
Tamparpimpri Approach to Parbhani-Gangakhed Road              6.0
Ramatakli-Kinola                                              4.5
Solapuri-Dharasur                                             3.5
Total, km               145.0
47



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Jayakwadi Right Bank - Proposed Roads
Description of the Roads                             New Linkroads (km)
Dadegaon Approach to Mungi Road                              6.5
Saigon Approach to Mungi Road                                2.5
Hingani Approach to Mungi Road                               2.5
Kuran Pimpri-Hingani                                         7.5
New Borgaon Approach to Mungi Road                           6.5
Malagaon Approach to Kambi Road                              3.5
Balgaon Approach to Georai Road                              2.5
Rambhau Tanda Approach to Jalna Road                         2.5
Sawleshwar Approach to Jalna Road                            2.5
Aagar Nandur Approach to Jalna Road                          2.5
Nagzari Approach to Jalna Road                               2.5
Hingangaon Approach to Karchwali Road                        1.5
Gondi Approach to Karchwali Road                             1.5
Pangulgaon Approach to Karchwali Road                        2.5
Mirgaon Approach to Georai Road                              1.5
Pangdori Approach to Georai Road                             1.5
Borgaon Approach to Georai Road                              4.5
Rahori Approach to Georai Road                               4.5
Gangawari Approach to Majalgaon Road                         4.5
Rajapur Approach to Majalgaon Road                           2.5
Doiphodwadi Approach to Talwada Road                         2.5
Belgudwadi Approach to Talwada Road                          2.5
Katwadi Approach to Majalgaon Road                           2.5     48



ANNEX 2
Table 4
Page 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Jayakwadi Right Bank - Proposed Roads
Description of the Roads                              New Linkroads (km)
Takalgaon Approach to Majalgaon Road                          3.5
Sailu Approach to Majalgaon Road                              3.5
Deshmukhwadi Approach to Rampuri Road                         2.5
Tapegaon Approach to Rampuri Road                             2.0
Tapenimgaon Approach to Majalgaon Road                        5.0
Sirpatantarwala-Rampuri                                       4.0
Gopat Pimpalgaon-Rampuri Road                                 5.0
Kaudgaon Thadi Approach to Majalgaon Road                     4.0
Sonthadi Approach to Majalgaon Road                           4.0
Hivra Approach to Majalgaon Road                              4.5
Govindwadi Approach to Majalgaon Road                         3.5
Kalegaon Dhadi Approach to Majalgaon Road                     4.5
Dubhait Approach to Majalgaon Road                            4.5
Mahatpuri Approach to Majalgaon Road                          3.5
Jaikwadi Approach to Majalgaon Road                           2.5
Chincholi Approach to Majalgaon Road                          1.5
Daregaon Approach to Majalgaon Road                           1.5
Govindpur Approach to Majalgaon Road                          2.5
Total, km    135.5
49



ANNEX 2
Table 5
INDIA
MAHARASHTLA IRZRIGATION PROJECT
Purna Area -- Proposed Roads
Description of the Roads                            Length in km
Nanded-Degao-Malegaon                                     16.0
Limbgaon-Talni-Nila                                       10.5
Pangra Approach to Nanded-Purna Road                       3.5
Purna-Barbadi                                              4.0
Warona-Khadhi                                              3.1
Pasadgaon-Chimegaon                                        4.0
Shelgaon Approach to Nanded Road                           2.5
Kamtha-Nandusa                                             4.5
Khadki-Sheni                                               5.5
Malegaon-Birgaon                                           4.5
Mohegaon Approach to Basmath Road                          1.7
Basmath-Dagadgaon                                          4.7
Total, km  64.5
50



ANNEX 3
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Water Supply
1.        The Godavari River Basin.  The Godavari River Agreement of 1975
between Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Orissa and Karnataka
States gov rns the use of this interstate river (total catchment of about
313,000 km ). This allows Maharashtra to utilize all inflows of Paithan res-
ervoir. There are no interstate water right problems which would affect the
Jayakwadi project.
2.        The Jayakwadi Project derives its water supply mainly from the
Godavari River on which the Paithan reservoir was completed in 19T3.  Upstream
4f the reservoir, the river drains a catchment of about 22,000 km ; less than
20% of which has high rainfall (2,000-3,000 mm yearly), whereas the remaining
has Low rainfall (700-800 mm).
3.        Paithan Reservoir Inflow.  The Paithan reservoir inflow data for
a period of (1914-1970) were reconstituted based on rainfall-runoff correla-
tion developed with the measured data at the dam site during 1965-1969, and
adjusted to reflect the upstream uses as we l as the prior filling of the
upstream project reservoirs (about 2,000 Mm in total capacity) at the begin-
ning of the kharif season. ASter the upstream uses, the remaining annual
flow averaging about l,800 Mm would pick up another 2,200 Mm from the free-
catchment and 300 Mm from the rsturn flow (10% of the net upstream diver-
sion), and would become 4,300 Mm when rSaching Paithan. Allowing for the
future minor scheme uses of about 100 Mm3, the net runoff to be available for
the project use, would be about 4,200 Mm yearly. The reconstituted monthly
flows from 1914 to 1970 are given in Table 1.
4.        Sediment Load:  Tstal river sediments transported into the reservoir
were assesed at about 16 Mm per year (0.73 mm/yr.) reflecting the basin slope,
geological formation, rainfall intensity and vegetal covers prevailing in the
catchment areas. After adjustment for the possible trap by the existing u-
stream dams and weirs, the remaining annual sediments 3would be about 11 Mm /yr.
Over a period of 50 years it is estimated that 300 Mm  of the sediment would3
be deposited in the useful Storage. This will reduce the storage to 1870 Mm
from the original 2,200 Mm at the end of the next 50 years. This is
acceptable.
5.        Power Release and Downstream Requirements:  The dam would provide
regulating storage with priority for irrigation. The spills from the dam
would generate power at the proposed 12 MW power plant. The surplus spills
51



ANNEX 3
Page 2
in excess of the power requirement would be released through the spillway.
The releases both for power and through the spillway would serve to main-
tain the downstream flow in the Godavari River.
Water Demand
6.        Crop Water Requirements;:  Water requirements were based on the
design cropping pattern shown in Annex 8, Figure 1 and were calculated using
the WATREQ computer program developed by the Bank. Crop consumptive use
(summarized in Table 2) was calculated from climatic data (Annex 1) using the
modified Perman method and crop coefficients by the methods as set forth in
the FAO Irrigation and Drainage Paper No. 24. Effective rainfall was estimated
by using the monthly effective rainfall method developed by the US Department
of Agriculture (SCS). Two studies on effective rainfall were made: one using
the actual rainfall data recorded monthly over 56 years (1914-1970) and the
other based on the 75% probable alnual rainfall. A pre-irrigation of 75 mm
was allowed for cotton, hot weather groundnuts and wheat. Six studies on
diversion requirements were made by applying three alternative conveyance and
two alternative field irrigation efficiencies to the resultant crop water
requirements. Sample computer printouts are shown in Tables 3 and 4 (turnout
requirements using estimated effective rainfall on a 75% probability basis)
and Table 5 (diversion requirements using effective rainfall calculated from
actual historic data).
7.        Efficiencies.  Although the crop water requirements for optimal
yields and the supply characteristics of Paithan reservoir operation can be
predicted with some degree of conlidence, the overall irrigation system effi-
ciency between reservoir release point and the crops is less easy to establish.
Measurements throughout India including the project area generally have a
wide margin of possible error. Since 1974, water measurement programs have
been planned in Bank-assisted projects and instrumentation is currently being
installed but conclusive results are not yet available. In the absence of
direct measurements, the following efficiency estimates have been assembled
using a concensus of available experience, adequate to establish a credible
project water balance.
(a) Canal conveyance efficiencies were derived from a consideration
of the seepage and operational losses described in Annex 2.
Fully Lined        Partially /a
System          Lined
Operational and Accidental
Losses (%)                         10-15             15-20
Seepage Loss (%)                   10-15             15-20
Expected Canal Conveyance
Efficiency (%) (Rounded)             75               65
/a   Canals less than 1.4 m Is (50 ft Is) capacity not lined.
52



ANNEX 3
Page 3
(b) Field Efficiencies depending on the degree of on-farm develop-
ment (CAD) were adopted as:
CAD Area        Non-CAD Area
Field Efficiency (%)             68 (Average        45
of 65 and 70%)
(c)  The Overall Project Irrigation Efficiency, the multiple of
the conveyance and field efficiencies, was computed for the
148,000 ha area (presently proposed project of 95,000 ha and
53,000 ha existing area) and for the full 183,000 ha Stage I
development. To confirm sensitivity of water supply adequacy
under alternative development conditions, the following matrix
was adopted, incorporating two conveyance efficiencies (re-
flecting the extent of canal lining) and two field efficien-
cies reflecting the condition with, and without on-farm
development.
Overall
Project Efficiency
With    Without   Total    Fully   Partially
CAD      CAD       Area     Lined      Lined
(ha)     (ha)      (ha)      (%)       (%)
Case I (1981)         98,000   50,000   148,000    44          38
Case II (1987)       183,000         0   183,000    51         44
Case III (1983)       98,000   85,000   183,000    41          36
Jayakwadi Water Balance
8.        To determine the water supply adequacy, operation studies utilizing
the inflow into Paithan reservoir, evaporation, sedimentation and reservoir
storage capacity, crop water requirements and irrigation system efficiency
were conducted for the presently proposed 95,000 ha project and for the full
183,000 ha development using the WABAL computer program developed by the
Bank using data from 1914-1970. The results of the water balance studies are
summarized in Table 6. These show that for the presently proposed, and the
existing area, totalling 148,000 ha (Case I), the water supply is sufficient
to meet 90% of the irrigation demand in 85% of the 57 years studied. After
1983 when GOM anticipates that the full 183,000 ha Stage I Jayakwadi project
area would be served by irrigation, the annual supply of 90% or more of demand
would occur in eight out of ten years provided canal lining was completed.
(Case II). Significant shortages would occur in about three out of 10 years
after about 1983 (Case III) as long as CAD lagged behind completion of the
fully lined canal network infrastructure works. If this CAD lag was combined
with an only partially lined canal system, significant shortages would occur
in about 6 out of 10. This would invalidate the project and probably preclude
53



ANNEX 3
Page 4
the Stage II development downstream of Majalgaon reservoir which is entirely
dependent on efficient water use upstream with the Stage I area. To summarize:
in the absence of canal lining and CAD, the project water supply would be in-
sufficient to meet the likely project demands after about 1983.
Canal Network Capacity
9.        To check the adequacy of the system canal capacity, studies were
made of the monthly irrigation demand for the 1914-1970 record period. These
showed a maximum required flow rate up to 1983 of 0.6 1/s/ha which is within
the minimum 0.7 1/s/ha canal capacity provided in GOM designs. Beyond 1983,
in the absence of canal lining, the network would have insufficient capacity
to deliver the full theoretical water demand; because this theoretical demand
exceeds the available supply, consideration of greater canal capacity is not
relevant.
Flood
10.       The GOM designed and constructed the Paithan dam spillway based on
its estimated maximum inflow flood of 22,600 m /sec (800,000 cfs). Under
this flood, it estimated that the reservoir would rise to elev. + 1,527.5
ft with all the available 25 gates fully opened. This flosd is rather
marginal compared to the recorded flood (1969) of 20,000 m /secS However,
since the Paithan reservoir surface is relatively large (400 km ), it could
absorb a higher flood provided some space within the design free-board is
utilized. The GOM is carefully examining alternative reservoir operational
procedures which would accommodate the necessary safety roles for flood re-
suming capacity.
Water Quality
1I.       Water quality is suitable for irrigation.  Samples taken from the
river upstream and near the Paithan dam site show that the water is somewhat
alkaline (pH 8.5-8.8), but is acceptable for irrigation. The minor dry season
inflow (5-10% of the annual inflow) is somewhat saline (1,000-1,200 ppm); how-
ever, after it is mixed with the reservoir water, of which 90-95% are from
the sweeter-water inflow during the rainy season, the mixed water (200-400
ppm) is considered to be good. Since being practically free from sodium,
the reservoir water quality is classified as C2S1, which is suitable for
irrigation.
June 1977
54



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Runoff Into Paithan Reservoir After Full Utilization Upstreanr-- Mm3
2/
May   Jun.    Jul.    Aug.    Sep.    Oct.   NIov.  Dec.  Jan,  Feb.  M4ar. Apr. Ann.
1914                                             26       78    17    -     -     13    13
15      42   275     738      380   2,066     899      42    63    63   105   105   210   4,988
16     113   282     986   1,042   2,519   1,232      225    -      -     -     -    169   6,568
17      24   109     157     484   2,930   1,133       36    -      -     97    24    60   5,054
18      54    48      59      221     155      14       -     14    -     -     30    -       595
19      43   106     348      360   2,275      67       77    -    57    -       -     -    3,333
20      10    19      88       83     192      10       -     -     56     3    -      12     473
21      -     64     391      234     409      35        5    -     -     -      -     29   1,167
22      31   136     167      235     356     106      931    -     31    31    -      75   2,089
23      12    12     220      161   1,910      12       -     12    -     -     59    48   2,446
24       7    29     100      392   1,724      42       14    14    -     -      -     42   2,364
25      23    81     225      272     201      14       91    39    -     -      -      9     955
26      13    43     197      805   1,507      13       13    13   123    24    -      -    2,751
27      18   333   1,233      890   2,342     760      813    18    -     18    18    53   6,496
28      -     99     298      375   2,895   1,034       22    44    -     -      -     66   4,833
29       3    80     148      134     495     361        1     4     5    10      5    84   1,330
30      31   162     482      672   3,430     722      245    26    -     -      -     65   5,835
31      -    100     527   1,497   2,155   3,169       364   195    -      _     -     -    8,007
32      34    85     544      778   2,205   1,250       34    68    -     _      42   161   5,201
33     112   338     401   1,576   6,312      600       25   100   100    -      -     -    9,564
34       3   113     368   1,755   1,560       55      554    -      5    -      44     6   4,463
35       -   155     325      480   1,674   1,097        6    -     47    -            -    3,784
36      13    90     135      128     378      25   1,069    -      -     19    25    25   1,907
37       6    95     689      316   3,619   1,347       -     38    -      -     -    114   6,224
38      18   287     843      952   2,773   1,776       68    -     -     -    113   128   6,958           ; z ;
39      -     75     367   1,525      991     113      136    -     -      4    19    60  3,290 
40      -    176     278   1,352   1,767   6,781       360     5     5     4    -      42   4,667          HHU 
41      -     30     412      464   1,534      63       -     -      3    51    -      12   2,569
I.R        42       5   147      596   1,738   1,191        4      -    157    -       4     8      4   3,854
43      87   295      820     284   2,499   2,852       -     -     11    -      -     22   6,870
11 W/adjustment of prior  illing of upstream Project Reservoirs.
2/ tNot necessarily added correctly due to roulnding of monthly break-down.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Runoff Into Paithan Reservoir After Full Utilization Upstream-/ 
Nay   Jun.    Jul.   Aug.    Sep.    Oct.    Nov.  Dec.  Jan.  Feb.  lar0  Apr.  Ann.
1944      31   103   1,070   2,493   1,673        691      19    -      -      -     -      -    6,080
45      -     44      178     250      716       44      32    -       9    -      -     41   1,314
46      15   152      304   1,800   2,399        77   2,493    75    -      15    -    137   7,467
47      14    28      290   1,240   3,775        55     -       69    14    -      -    207   5,692
48      36   232      572      733   1,940      391   1,964    -    197    36    -       54   6,155
49      59   104      280     486   4,494       103      44    -      -      -     -     74   5,644
50       8    25      468     209   3,081       278       8    -      -      -     -    132   4,209
51      14    48      284     264      416   1,543       56    -      -      -      7    63   2,694
52       1   102      301     199      226       44     -        8    -       4    -       8     893
53      21   118      194     905      122      633     -       -     -      -     -     56   2,0o49
54      11   101      387     3114   3,455       11     -       22    -      -     95    52   4,443
55      26   114      230     624   2,425   1,167        13    -      -      -     51    64   4,714
56     117   117      680   2,251   3,380   2,170       962    -      23    -      -    141   9,841
57      23   158      263   1,326   1,338       171     107    -      -      -     30    45   3,461
58      27    55      641   2,898   1,675       196     203    -      -      -     13   122   5,830
59      28    66      329   1,485   2,443       879     142    -       9    -      -      75   5,456
60      25    80      204     198   1,785       283       6    -      -      -      6    19   2,606
61      41    91      653   1,209   1,123   1,1401       41    -       8    -      -      33   4,605
62      43    65      477     564   2,622       163      86    86    11    -       54    -    4,171
63       7   104      308   1,758      855      581      42    -      -      -      7    34   3,696
64       7    64      270     507   2,261       301      43    -      -      -     14    43   3,510
65       1    54      417   1,787      143        7       7    49    14    -       -      28  2,507
66      27    54      456      175   1,096       27     107    27    41    -       -      -    2,010
67      14    56      350      766   1,892      144     -      406    -      -     -      42   3,670
68      16    32      274   1,386   1,619        23      14    -      -      13     5    47   3,429         CD
69     230   623   1,769   3,854       -         98     -       -     -      -     -      98   6,672
70      32   189      237   2,597   1,271       326     -       -     -      -     63    -    4,715
Total            236,183
56-yr Average         4,200
1/  W/adjustment of prior filling of upstream Project Reservoirs.



ANNEX 3
Table 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Crop Water Requirement
Summary of Crop Consumptive Use
Jan.  Feb.  Mar.  Apr.  May  Jun  Jul.  Aug.  Sep.  Oct.  Nov.  Dec.  Ann.
Rice upland                                       22  125   156   155   140    18             616
Sorghum (Kharif                                    6   50   125   138    59                   378
Chillies                                               26    62   117   164   141   58    568
Cotton                                     29   101   66   121   155   168   106   12    758
Pearl Millet                                       6   61   135   129    47                   378
Pulses                                             6   61   137   106    11                   321
Sorghum
(Rabi)       134   59                                                    19    74  126    412
Wheat           152  180    98                                                    82  117    629
Gram            140   53                                                                      321
Oil Seed        140   53                                                    5    48  115    361
Groundnuts            80   135    267   297    87                                             866
Sugar Cane      120  157   236    312   358   255  179   157   152   162   131  107   2336
Bananas         149  177   218    238   259   194  154   157   169   189   164  142   2210
57



ANNEX 3
Table 3
kinn!A
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
WHEAT RAf3I WATER REQUJIREMFNTS
BY MONTH AND) PERIOD (mm')
JAN          FE P          MAIO          APR           MAY           JUN           JUL           AtJG          SEP          OCT           NOV           DEC
I  2  3    'I     9      6~~~~~~~~~f  7  8    9    to    it    12    13    10    I')    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    2'4
EST RAIN.                                                      (Jii  .        O.         111.          j2q.          t16.          147.           00.            0.            Q.
F TO              71t.   77.    ti .   9(,*  I Il'.  1 29.  1/11 .  162.  163.  1'5o. 12.  100.   8'l   76.   711.   73.   73.   76.   83.   83.   76.   7 0.   66.   66.
CRnp FACT        I .')?  I oU, I .41/1 0. 7 1 . 64  0.1I9  t 0. o 0.uf) 0).00   0. Ok 0.00  0.00  0i.00  0.010  0.1pjo0.o0  0.00  U.00  0.00  O0.jOu  .08  0.29  0.59 0.87
CONS USE          7?.   RO.  F7.   96.   73.  .39.    (i             I.    o.    0.    0.    0.    0).   (I IO.                       (I .    ().    0.    0.    6.   21.   39.   58.
L A NfP1P P         '.    U.    lb      o.I *    II    0.  .        o.    0.    o.    0.    0.    0.    (I     t*           O.    0.  I.         0.    0.   20.   35.   20.    0.
GROSS RFR         7?.   Ft .   87.   96.   73.   29.    0.    0.    0 .    o.    0.    0.    0.               1;      .    ii.   01.    0.    0.    0.   26.   56.   59.   58.
EFF RATM            4      U.    0.                                 U..(Ii.  0.    0.                                ifo. o  0. 0f. o. . o  . o  .    0.    0.    3.    0.    0.    0.
NET  RF~~     7?     ;o 7:  0q3.   73.   26.             0.    o      o      o.     0.0.    0.    0.         0.    0O.    o*         U.    0.    0. 23          56     59     58
AT FTFLU,
JOR. PEO         lbl . 1 7 c.  1 9/I. 207.  162.   96.        U.    j      0 .        0.    0.    0 . 4.             0.            O ~  .        0.    0.   51.  1241.  130.  128.
AT TUPNOU0T
FIELD [(FF   6U
TOTALS (MM)
CONS USF =       S,S
EFF RAINI           3.
IOR RFQ   =~ o
'.5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



INDIA                                                                      ANNEX 3
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT                                                          Table4
SUMMARY TABLE
IRRIGATION REQUIREMENTS AT TURNOUT
JAN         FEM MAR                   APR         MAY          JUN          JUL         AUG          SEP          OCT          NOV         DEC    TOT
I     2     I     '1     5     6     7      8     9    to    11    12    13    14    19    16    17    18    19    20    21    22    23    24
PADDY I KH
o-.   .    o.    o.    0*      .           0.    0.    0.    0.    u.  29.   55.   72.  72.  57.  74.- 122.  103,   31.    0,    0.    0.  615.
SORGHUM KH
0.    0.    0.    ).    ).    *.  0).    o.    0.    0.    0.    u.    0.    0.  32.  57.  49.  53.   49.    7,    0.    O,    0.    o.  247.
CHILLI KH
.-0. ..  o4.   4. 4.    0. 0-                               0.    0. 0.    0.  0.    0.        0.    9.  57. 123. 155, 156. 146,  97.  31.  774.
COTTON 1KH
0).   0.    U.    0.    0.    0.    (.    o.    0.  /I6.  78.   44.    O,    0.   30.   51.   53.   78.  132.  153.  136.   90.   26.    0.  918.
PMILL KH
0.    0.    0.    ).    0.    o.            a,    0.    0.    o.    0.    0.    2.  447.  61.  146.  39.   31.    0.    0.   0    0.    0.  227.
SORGHUM RA
t52. 1 43.  99.  33.   ii    i0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0,    0. .    0.    0.    0.    0.   12.  55. 101. 132, 146.  874.
WHEAT RABI
161. 179.  19fi. 207. 162.   SS         tl.   0.    0,    0.    0.    u.    0,    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    o.    0.   51. 124. 130.  128. 1390.
GRAMS RABI
16?. 118.   91.   27.    n.   ti    I.    o.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0,    0.    O,    0.    o,    0.    0.    0,   29.  70, 111. 145.   784,
PUL nIL
0>.   0).   u.   1).   ).    0. 0o             O.    0.    0.    0.    u.    0.    1.   48.   67.   41.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0,    O.    0.   157.
OILSEED
162.  l1 8.   91.   27.    ).   ii.    u.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    O,    0.    (.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0,   29.  70, 111. 145.  784.
SUGAR CANE
t27. Ift). 18.  I91. 239. 285. 326. 367.  106l. 359. 226.  138.   96.   76.   76.  67.   52.   71.  124.  150, 146,  135, 120.  118. 4195.
BANANAS
161. 171.  1801. 208. 236. 2'49. 2S7. 271.  294l. 256.  156.   94.   69,   60.   71.   72.   64.   90.  149.  180.  180, 173. 159. 155, 3959.
GRNUT HOT
0.    0.   57.  121.  133.  1t68. 26'4. 329.  3S7. 28?.   95.    0.    0,    0.    *.   0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0.    0. 1806.
Field Efficiency 45%



ANNEX 3
Table 5
TNDIA                                                                       Page l
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
ANNIUAL
TiUTAL PROJFCT  4ATER RFOJI4REMENTS AT CANAL HEAD
(MIL M3)
JAN         FF8          MAR          APR         MAY          JUN         JUL          AUG          SEP         OCT          NOV          DEC    TOT
t91)s   190. 199. 173. 149.  It9.  63.  Sil.  641.  71.  711.  af.  22.    4.  19.  54.  73.   40.  66.  145. 150. t62. 183, 144. 147. 2407.
1915   1t7. 171. 180. ISt. IlOo.  39.  92.  6'i.  71.  80.  63.  33.  23.  51. 106.  64.    o.    0.   h6.  93. 109. 147. 135. 136. 2084.
I416    187. 188. 181. 167. 139.  Al.  58.  6'l.  6f,.  76.  69.  39.    0.   0.  67. 120.  49.  31.  67.  84. 125. 189. 188. 178. 2405.
1917    206. 204. 17R. 1S3. 12R.  73.  57.  6/I.  66.  79.  62.  31.    3.    1.    9.  21.    1.  22.  84.  93. t14. 154. 177. 185. 2152.
1918    2114. 220. 206. 18. 138.  77.  57.  69.  67.  80.  R6.  S5.  38.  54.  93. 10S.  76. 102. 184. 179. 146. 172, 183. 187. 2964.
IQ19    181. 187. 1841. 171. 139.  81.  S8.  6'.  69.  80.  70.  40.  62. 119. 194. 13.  7S.  82. 163. 167.  67. 197. 191. 177. 3025.
1920    16t. 17S. 191. 1l3. 1/1?.  8$1.  97.  6(.  69.  82.  76.  141.  34.  74. 154I. 182. 156. 163. 203. 190. 181. 203. 193. 172. 3229.
1921    213. 219. 206. 183. 1142.  8').  56.  6S,  73.  82.  65.  33.  17.  4t. 140. 168. 112. 113. 174. t71. 174. 203. 193. 187. 3110.
1t22    1Hh. t40. 192. 172. 129.  68.  S6.  66.  7?.  82.  66.  36.  30.  85. 157. t50.  91.  55. 149. 123.  78.  89, 152. 178. 2611.
1923    21'J. 219. 20'1. 174. 128.  67.  56.  67.  73.  93.  93.  41.    4.    2.  97. 114.    S. 5. 148. 188. t74. 197. 191. 187. 2737.
1924    211. 217. 209. 18J.  'l1.  All.  S7.  93.  33.  46.  62.  43.  35.  41.  46.  13.    0.   0. 100. 134. 161. 203. 193. 186. 2445.
192S    199. 216. 2,9. 183. 1/42.  81.  58.  69.  68.  80.  74.  43.  41.  55.  S6.  79. 101. 132. 170. 124.  85.   91. 121. 153. 2618.
1926    141.         11'8. I8.   83. 1'12.  81.  S8.  66.  72.  87.  82.  41.  20.  20.  39.  70.  74. 113. 187. 188. 175. 198. 191. 163. 2720.
1927    21'). eeo. 2o6. !78. 132.  68.  53.  63.  72.  79.  99.   29.   13.   32.108.11:.,8.51. 10'). 121.  81.  95. i55. 187. 2514.
1928    212. 211. 178. 159. 136.  All.  96.  66.  73.  82.  65.  33.  21.  39.  92.  67.    0.   0. 101. 134. 161. 201, 187. 183. 2533.
1929    2t'1. 211). 186. 162. 139.  76.  'il.  63.  71.  81.  65.  39.  35. 1012. 172. 162.  60.  92. 126. 132. 160. 203. 193. 187. 2942.
193'    21'J. 220. 206. 183. 1/12.  81.  57.  66.  73.  81.  65.  35.  36.  92. 134. 112.  14.  23. 119. 136. 162. 203.  193. 187. 2833.
1931    207. 220. 206. 183.  1'12.  Al.  98.  67.  73.  8s.  60.  29.    4.  13.  85.  77.    0.   0.  43.  79.  t1S. 170. 159. 167. 2316.
1932    213. 218. 201. 176. 137.  76.  SC.  63.  6'4.  74.  65.  34.    5.   7.  37.  89.  95.  96. 105.  94. 118. 174, 183. 187. 2567.
1933    20S. 214. 193. 171. 139.  77.   '),1.  60.  61.  71.  59.  31.    7.   12.  t4.  23.    9.  31.  79.  92. t27. 178. 162. 167. 2238.
1934    214. 220. 206. 183. 142.  81.  S8.  67.  73.  83.  68.  32.    0.   0.   6.  34.  23.  39.  75.  83. 104. 160. 179. 187. 2317.
1935    211. 214. 195. 173. 139.  81).  57.  67.  73,  78.  54.  25.    6.   15.   14.  32.  4S.  75. 122. 118. 153. 202, 193. 186. 2527.
1936    212. 216. 192. 165. 131.  72.  SS.  611.  71.  81.  67.  34.  1t.   21.  98. 147. 136. 154. 200. 142.  73.  74. 141. 183. 2741.
1937    2C)7. 217. 198. 175. 14i1).  7'.  Si.  i1.  71.  84.  70.  36.  10,   7.    C).    0.  26.  69. 115. 114. 152. 194. 166. 167. 2405.
1938    21'. 220. 206. 182. I1'l.  77.  5S.  63.  69.  75.  53.  24.    2.  10.  58.  76.    4.  24. 119. 134. 161. 203. 193. 187. 2551.
1939    211. ?17. 20)5. 183. 141.  74C.  'i2.  61.  70.  79.  61.   32.  25.  45.  96. 101. 170. 193. 172. 134. 156. 198, 191. 188. 3013.
14fl   212. 218. 206. 183. 142.  79.  56.  61).  71.  78.  99.  29.    9.   16.   12.  4S.  99. 123. 126. 108. 142. 196. 189. 186. 2648.
I141    197. 196. 177. 159. 137.  81.  98.  66.  72.  91.  91.  65.  80.  92.  71.  65.  62. 101. 183. 189. 180. 203. 193. 182. 2991.
1942    87. 218. 20'). 177. 141.  81".  97.  66.  73.  80.   59.  27.    3.    t.    0.   7.  58. 120. 189. 190. t81. 168.  98. 106. 2485.
1943    21 0. 2t7. 2105. 179. 13S.  741.  57.  66.   7o.  79.  69.  35.  25.  S2. 104.  71.    0.    U.  18.  56. 122. 203. 193. 186. 2423.
194'4    21'). 218. 199. 173. 139.  7i.  96.  65.  70.  79.  63.  31.    S.  12.  71. 114.  88.  86. 114. 105. 132. 184. 187. 187. 2663.
t945    21A. 214. 2)16. 183. 1/42.  Bli.  S6.  6'1.  69.  80.  68.  36.  20.  25.  98.  86.  88. 117. 174. 169. t74. 203, 193. 187. 2910.
1446   P20. 217. 203. 1I11. 141.  79.  S6.  641.  70.  80.  64.  34.  21.  40. 101. 144. 155. 176. 207. 154.  91.  96. 134. 166. 2879.
1947    202. 20C8. 21)2. 18t. 138.  7S.  S9.  65.  72.  87.  75.  40.  24,  21.   12.    2.    0.  30. 160. 190. 181. 203. 193. 183. 2598.
1948    21'1. 220. 21)6. 181. 139.   78.   S7.   66.   71.   81.   65.   34.   14.   25.   97.  140.  132.  142.  173.  t18.   71.   77. 146. 187. 2734.
1949    213. 220. 2)6. 183. 142.   73.  49.  '6.  614.  73.  56.  28.  10.  29. 113.  96.    0.    O. 112. 146, 166. 203. 193. 187. 2621.
1950    21'). 220. 206. 18t. 139.  78.  S7.  616.  71.  83.  76.  414.  18.  2t.  68.  98.  83. 103. 164. 160. 171. 203. 193. 187. 2900.
6951    21t.  220. 20h. 183.  1/42.   Al.   58.   66.  72.  83.   70.   34.    2.    0.   26.  10S.  138.  139.  117.   99.  t43. 203. 193.  187. 2785.
1952.  21'4. 220. 2 06. 183. 1C)2.  St.  58.  (67.  73.  88.  77.  40.  22.  31. 10)6. 13S. 1011. 1)47. 160. 154. 168. 203, 193. 187. 3016.
1953    21'. 22C. 2O6. 183.  1142.  84).  '6.  69.  73.  82.  65.  33.   16.  24.   67.   61.    0.    6.   86. 109.  149. 203.  193.  187. 2520.
195'S   213. 221J. 206.  183. 142.   81.    8 .  67.   73.   81.   61).  29.    1.    0.   16.   42.    0.   31. 149.  174. 17S. 203. 192. 187. 2589.
195S    21'4. 220. 24)6. 183. 142.  811.  S7.  66.   73.   8o.   99.  28.    6.    3.    o1.    0.    0.   13.  5R.  77.  118.  184.  186.  187. 2241.
19Sh    21'). 220. 206. 183.  142.   77.  53.  'i9.  61.  711.  69.  3S.    0.    0.   1lC.  S4.   26.   S7.  138.  124.  104.  135.  170.  187. 2401.
1457    211. 214.  20'3. 175.  131.   66.   52.   6O.   6,9.  77.   69.   34.    0.    0.    O.    0.   56.  135.  161. 143. 164. 203.  193.  187. 2609.
l4S8    2t11.  220. 24)6. 183.  1142.  78.   5').  63.   71.   87.   81.   39.    6.    0.    O.    0. 1)9. 196.  186.  132.  t1O.  140.  172.  187. 2678.
0



Annex 3  Table 5  Page 2
1959    21t4. 220. 206. 183.   I42.  79.   S.  6/I.  70.  86.  85.  42.  18,  21.   85. 1o0.   45.  36.   71,  87. 137. 203, 193. 187. 2633.
1960    t93. 1Q6. 189. 164. 131.  73.   S6.  6/l,  67.   78.  67.   36.  1'1.  25. 121. 147.  79.  63.   96. IOO. t43. 201. 190. 179. 2669.
1961   21J. 220. 206. 183. 142.  8to.   57.  6'i.  69.   78.  64.  30.   0    n.   9.  4S8.  23.   S.    0.  18. 103. 202. 193. 187. 2193.
1962    196. 220. 206. 183. 1I42.  73.  StI.  Li8.  69.   88.  91.   St.  27,  22.   16.   11.    0.  44. 154. 174. 175. 179. 125. 132. 2487.
1963    21'. 216. 194. 171. 139.  78.  S'S.  611.  69.  77.  S58.  27.    3.   (1    0.   0.  38. 123. 110.   97. t42, 203. 193. 187. 2459.
1964   214. 220. 206. 10. 137.  76.   '7.  67.  73.  91.  86.   40.   S.    0.  17.  48.   10.  S0. 155. 170. 167.  196, 191. 187. 2842.
1965    211. 220. 206. 183. 142.  80).  97.  66.  73.  86.  73.   37.    7.    5.    6.   53. 149. 202. 211. 183. 178. 200, 184. 180. 2993.
1966    202. 210. 203.  180. 136.   7S.  '7.  66,   70.   81,   73.  37.   4.    1.  51. 108.   87. 113. 187. 161. 105, 119, 159. 179, 2665.
1967    182. 220. 206. 182. 140.  79.  57.  63.  63.  73.  64.  33.   5.   5.  Z7,  7S.  78. 103. 157. 1214.  97.  89,  61.  90. 2272.
1068    206. 207. 1Rh. 163. 133.  73.  5I4.  6/1,  72.   88.  78.  38.    6.   13. 114. 117.    0.    1. 138. 168. 145. 175, 184. 185. 2608.
1969    214. 220. 206. 183. 1482.  81.  S'8.  6 /I.  66.   76.  66.   33.    2.    0.    0.    0.    0.  45. 127. 124. t26. 1bS. 180. 187. 2365,
197o    J93. 199. 199. 183. 142.   79.  '6.  62,  6/8.  71.  95.  29.  17.   15.    0.    0.   14.  85. 141, 136. 162. 203.  193. 180. 2482.
AVE     20S. 21?. 199. 176. 138.  76.   '6.  64 .  69,  80.  68.  35.   15.  26.  60,   76.  S41.  74. 133. 132, 140. 176.  175.  177. 2617.
Canal Efficiency        75%                                                                                                                (183,432 ha)
Field Efficiency       445%
Overall                 33.75%
0
Nt



ANNEX 3
Table 6
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Water Supply, Demand and Quality
Percent Occurence of Water Supply Deficit
Alternative Situations
Situation                                 Infrastructure only          CAD       Total
- _______________--- ha -------------------
Preproject (1977)                                    0                 53,000    53,000
Case I (Completion of Bank project,
1981)                                      50,000             98,000   148,000
Case II (Stage I area Infrastructure and
CAD completed)                             0                183,000   183,000
Case III (Stage I area Infrastructure only
completed)                                85,000             98,000   183,000
Percent Occurence of Deficit 1/       __    _
Case I-Area  148.000 ha  Case II-Area 183,000 ha Case III-Area 183,000 ha
Deficit in    Fully Lined  Part. Lined  Fully Lined  Part. Lined  Fully Lined  Part Lined
per cent of   Ave. Proj.   Ave. Proj.  Ave. Proj.   Ave. Proj.  Ave. Proj.   Ave. Proj.
annual demand  Eff. 44%       Eff. 38%    Eff, 51%      Eff. 44%    Eff. 41%        Eff. 36%
0          77            66           73            57           41            20
<5          80            71           78            68           57            34
<10-/        85            73           80            71          -66            39
<25          85            85           85            84           79            71
(50          96            96           96            96           95            93
>50            4             4            4             4            5             7
1/  Based on Paithan reservoir monthlj operation studies usine inflows computed
from the 56-year stream flow record for the period 1914-70.
2/ Deficits less than 10% are regarded in project analysis as insignificant.
62



ANNEX 4
Table 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Estimates
Foreign
Local   Foreign   Total   Local   Foreign   Total   Exchange
--------Rs'000--------   --------U.S.$ 000-
1.  Paithan Left Bank Network
Main Canal Deep Cuts Earthwork and Lining           18,800   12,800   31,600  2,090    1,420    3,510          40
Main Canal Normal Sections Earthwork
and Lining                                        38,500   16,500   55,000  4,280    1,830    6,110          30
Main Canal Structures                               19,100    9,900   29,000  2,120    1,100    3,220          34
Branch Canals                                       22,000    7,400   29,400  2,440        830    3,270        25
Distribution System                                 25,900    6,500   32,400  2,880        720    3 600
Drainage  System                                    10,000    2,500   12,500  1,110        280    1,390
Sub-total                                    134,300   55,600  189,900 14,920    6,180   21,100          29
Contingencies 17%                                   22,800    9,500   32,300  2,530    1,060    3,590         29
Engineering, Supervision & Admin. 20%              44,400         0   44,400  4,930          0    4,930        0
Sub-total                                    201,500   65,100  266,600 22,390    7,230   29,620          24
2. Paithan Right Bank Network
Main Canal Deep Cuts Earthwork and Lining            5,500    3,600    9,100    610        400    1,010        40
Main Canal Normal Sections Earthwork
and Lining                                      103,900   44,700  148,600 11,550    4,960   16,510          30
Main Canal Structures                               35.800   18,500   54,300  3,980    2,050    6,030          34
Distribution System                                 17,200    4,300   21,500 13,460        480    2,390       20
Drainage System                                      6,600    1,700    8,300    730        190       920      20
Sub-total                                    169,000   72,800  241,800 18,780    8,090   26,870          30
Contingencies 17%                                   28,700   12,400   41,100  3,190    1,380    4,570          30
Engineering, Supervision & Admin. 20%              56,600         0   56,600  6,290          0    6,290        0
Sub-total                                    254,300   85,200  339,500 28,250    9,470   37,720          25
3. Main Canal Deep Cuts & Distributaries
Equipment                                        10,400   41,600   52,000  1,160    4,620    5,780          80
4.  Operation & Maintenance
Equipment                                            3,000   12,100   15,100    340    1,340    1,680         80
Facilities                                           5,300        0    5,300    590          0       590       0
Sub-total                                      8,300   12,100   20,400    930    1,340    2,270          59
5.  Purna Modernization
Canal Improvement and Drainage                     28,100    7,000   35,100  3,120         780    3,900        20
Equipment                                           1,200    2,700    3,900    130         300       430       70
Sub-total                                     29,300    9,700   39,000  3,250    1,080    4,330          25
6. Lining of Distributaries & Minors                    55,300   18,400   73,700  6,130    2,060    8,190          25
7.  Road Program
Improvement of Existing Roads &
Construction of new roads                        34,600    7,100   41,700  3,840         790    4,630       17
Contingencies 20%                                    6,900    1,400    8,300    770        160       930       17
Engineering, Supervision & Admin. 20%               10,000        0   10,000  1,110          0    1,110         0
Sub-total                                     51,500    8,500   60,000  5,720         940    6,660       14
8. Road Construction Equipment                           3,400    2,200    5,600    380        240       620       39
9.  Comnand Area Development
Paithan Left Bank and Right Bank (45,000 ha)
Sub-total                                     50,900   14,300   65,200  5,650    1,590    7,240          22
Contingencies 15%                                    7,600    2,200    9,800    840        250    1,090       22
Engineering, Supervision & Admin. 25%               18,700        0   18,700  2,080          0    2,080         0
Sub-total                                     77,220   16,500   93,700  8,570    1,840   10,410          17
10.  CAD Equipment                                        8,400    2,800   11,200    930        310    1,240        25
11.  Extension Services                                  13,500    1,100   14,600  1,510        120    1,630         8
12.  Extension Service Equipment & Vehicles               1,700       600    2,300    190         70      260       25
13. Market Yard Construction                              3,600       900    4,500    400       100       500       20
14.  Monitoring Project Performance
a.  Gauging Stations                                 7,200      800    8,000    800         90       890       10
b.  Equipment                                          800    7,600    8,400       90      840       930       90
c.  Consultant & Personnel                             500      400       900      60       40       100      40
Sub-tot'al                                     8,500    8,800   17,300    950         970    1,920       50
15.  GOI, Project Preparation Group                       1,800         0    1,800    200          0       200       0
Sub-total Project Cost                       728,600  273,600 1002,200 80,960   30,390  111,350          27
Expected Price Increases                           190,200   67,200  257,400 21,130    7,470   28,600          26
Total Project Cost                                 918,900  340,700 1259,600102p90   37,860  139,950           27
63



ANNEX 4
Table 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Paithan Left Bank Canal Network
Cost Estimate
Total
(Rs Million)
A. Equipment
Deep Cuts                                                              23.3
Distribution System & Branch Canals (See Table 12)                    11.1
Sub-total                                                     34.4
B. Civil Works
Main Canal Deep Cuts Earthwork & Lining                                31.6
Main Canal Normal Sections Earthwork & Lining                          55.0
Main Canal Structures                                                  29.0
Branch Canals Earthwork, Lining & Structures                          29.4
Left Bank Irrigation Distribution System (57,100 ha)                   32.4
Left Bank Drainage System (57,100 ha)                                 12.5
Sub-total                                                    189.9
Contingencies 17%                                                     32.3
Engineering and Administration (20%)                                  44.4
Sub-total (Civil Works)                                      266.6
Total cost of Left Bank Canal Network                        301.0
64



ANNEX 4
Table 3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Paithan Right Bank Canal Network
Cost Estimate
Total
(Rs Million)
A. Equipment
Deep Cuts                                                                  9.4
Distribution System (See Table 12)                                         8.2
Sub-total                                                      17.6
B. Civil Works
Main Canal Deep Cuts Earthwork & Lining                                    9.1
Main Canal Normal Section Earthwork & Lining                             148.6
Main Canal Structures                                                     54.3
Right Bank Irrigation Distribution System
(37,900 ha)                                                              21.5
Right Bank Drainage System (37,900 ha)                                     8.3
Sub-total                                                    241.8
Contingencies 17%                                                         41.1
Engineering and Administration 20%                                        56.6
Sub-total (Civil Works)                                       339.5
Total Cost of Right Bank Canal Network                        357.1
65



ANNEX 4
Table 4
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Operation and Maintenance Facilities
Cost Estimate
Total Cost
---Rs'000---
A.  Equipment (See Table 13)                                  15,100
B. Facilities
Office Spaces                                             500
Staff Quarters                                          3,500
Sub-total                                        4,000
Physical Contingencies 15Z                         600
Engineering and Admini.stration 15%                700
Sub-total                                 5,300
Total Cost of Operation and Maintenance                   20,400
66



ANNEX 4
Table 5
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Purna Modernization Works
Cost Estimate
Unit       Total
Quantity       Cost        Cost
----Rs.'OO-----
A.  Equipment (See Table 14)                                                       3,860
B. Civil Works
1. Drainage
Intercepting dral.n (km)                        27          27              730
Other open drains (km)                          82          24            1,970
Improvement of Nulas (km)                       96          28            2,680
Improvement of SubsidarY Nulas                  45          23            1,040
Measurement of Water Table                                                  610
Sub-total                                                        7,030
2. Remodelling of Canals and Structures
Structures (60 new, 700 remodelling
or repair)                                                             5,830
Embankment strengthening (km)                   90          10             900
Lining (m 2)                               290,000          15           4,360
Sub-total                                                       11,090
3.  Lining of 30% of Field Channels (km)           625          11           6,880
Sub-total                                                        6,880
Physical Contingencies 17%                                               4,250
Engineering & Administration 20%                                         5,850
Sub-total                                                       35,100
Total Cost of Purna Modernization Works (30,000 ha)                     38,960
67



ANNEX 4
Table 6
INDIA
MAHARASHI'RA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Lining of Distributaries and Minors
Cost Estimate
Unit      Total
Length      Cost       Cost
Km        -    Rs'OOO----
Lining of Distributaries and Minors                  570         92.1      52,500
Physical Contingencies 17%                                                  8,900
Engineering and Administration 20%                                         12,300
Total Cost of Lining of Distributaries and Minors (<50 ft 3/s)             73,700
68



ANNEX 4
Table 7
INDIA
MARARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Road Program
Cost Estimate
Quantity        Unit Cost       Total Cost     Total
Jayakwadi  Purna                Jayakwadi  Purna
~~~(Rs I000)
A.  Equipment (See Table 15)                                       4,400   1,200  5,600
B. Civil Works
Construction of New Roads (km)      280    65        117      32,800   7,600 40,400
Improvement of Existing Roads
(km)       -     40        32          -     1,300  1,300
Sub-total                                             32,800   8,900 41,700
Physical Contingencies 20%                                     6,500   1,800  8,300
Engineering and Administration 20%                             7,900   2,100 10.000
Sub-total (Civil Works)                               47,200  12,800 60,000
Total Cost of Road Program                            51,600  14,000 65,600
6!9-



ANNEX 4
Table 8
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
CAD Component
Cost Estimate
Unit      Total
Quantity       Cost      Cost
s-- Rs'000----
A.  Equipment (See Table 16)                                              11,200
B.  Construction Work (ha)                        45,000          14.5    65,200
Physical Contingencies 15%                                         9,800
Engineering and Administration 25%                                18,700
Sub-total                                                   93,700
Total Cost of CAD Component (45,000 ha)                              104,900
70



ANNEX 4
Table 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
EXTENSION SERVICES
Cost Estimates
Jayakwadi   Purna    Total
-----(Rs '000)---------
A.   Equipment and Vehicles (See Table 17)           1,800          500    2,300
B.   Extension Services Facilities
Offices and Quarters                            3,070          970    4,040
Demonstration Farms                             1,140          360    1,500
Physical Contingencies                            820          260    1,080
Sub-total                             5,030        1,590    6,620
C.   Operational Costs
Salaries                                        4,380        1,380    5,760
Other Operational Costs                         1,290          410    1,700
Physical Contingencies                            430          130      560
Sub-total                              6,100       1,920    8,020
Total Cost of Extension Services               12,930        4,010   16,940
71



ANNEX 4
Table 10
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Performance Monitoring Program
Cost Estimate
Unit      Total
Quantity       Cost      Cost
----Rs'000----
A.  Equipment (See Table 18)                                              8,350
B. Gauging Stations
Site preparation, well installation, etc.  700 Unit        8.5        5,950
Physical Contingencies 17%                                       1,010
Engineering and Administrationl5%                                1,040
Sub-total                                                8,000
C.  Consultancy Services (8 man-months)                                      360
Personnel                                                               570
Sub-total                                                  930
Total Cost of Monitoring Program                                      17,280
72



INDIA                                  ANNEX 4
Table 11
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment Cost Summary
Expected
Itemized    Spare    Sub-      Price
Cost     Parts    Total   Increases   Total
--------------------- (US$   000)
International Competitive Bidding
Main Canal Deep Cuts and
Distributaries                           1,865     280      2,145
CAD Component                              795     199        994
Operation & Maintenance                    506      76        582
Monitoring Program                         706     106        812
Sub-total                                             4,533        770    5,303
Local Competitive Bidding
Main Canal Deep Cuts and
Distributaries                           3,160       475    3,635
Purna Modernization Works                  373        56      429
Road Program                               539        81      620
CAD Component                              196        49      245
Extension Services                         222        34      256
Operation & Maintenance                    957       144    1,102
Monitoring Program                         101        15      116
Sub-total                                             6,403      1,090    7,493
Total Cost                                           10,940      1,860   12,800
73



ANNEX 4
Table 12
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment:  Main Canal Deep-Cuts and Distributaries
Unit      Total
Quantity      Cost       Cost
----US$, no ----
Truck, 7-1/2 T. conventional                       36          14          504
Truck, dump 7-1/2 T.                               24          15.5        372
Truck, dump 7-1/2 T. heavy duty                    54          18          972
Air compressor                                      28          8.8        246
Jack hammer                                        73           5          365
Truck, water                                       14          20          280
Concrete mixer  10/7 cu. ft.                       17           3           51
Vibrator                                           25             .6        15
Stone crusher                                      10           8           80
Granulators                                          8          5.5         44
Excavator 1 1/8 - 2 1/8 cu. yd. 200 hp               4        165          660
Pump 10 hp                                         22           1.4         31
Pump 5 hp                                          27             .7        19
Generator, 30 Kw                                     8         15          120
Loader, crawler 130 hp 2 cu.yds.                     7         65          455
Tractor, crawler 300 hp                              5        150          750
Welding set, diesel                                  3           7          21
Workshop equipment                                            L.S.          40
Sub-total                                                        5,025
Spare parts 15%                                                             754
Total Cost of Equipment for Main Canal Deep-Cuts
and Distributaries                                                     5,780
74



ANNEX 4
Table 13
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment. Operation and Maintenance
Quantity  Unit Cost   Total Cost
-----    (US$ 000)----
1. Maintenance Equipment
Tractor, crawler 75 hp                                  3        43             129
Crane, wheel 5 T                                        1        66              66
Loader, wheel 80 hp, 1.5 cu yds                         3        42             126
Grader, motorized  125 hp                               1        57              57
Grader, motorized 60-75 hp                              4        32             128
Roller, road 10 T. diesel                               4        20              80
Truck, 7-1/2 T. conventional                           14        14             196
Truck, dump 7-1/2 T.                                   14        15.5           217
Air compressor                                          4         8.8            35
Vibrator                                               14          .6             8
Concrete mixer 10/7 cu ft                               8         3              24
Generator, portable 15 Kw                               6         9              54
Workshop equipment                                               L.S.            30
Sub-total                                                            1,150
2. Project Management
Automobile                                              3         4.5            14
Jeep 4 x 4                                             26         6             156
Motorcycle                                            160          .9           144
Sub-total                                                              314
Spare parts 15%                                                                 220
Tctal Cost of Operation and Maintenance
Equipment                                                      1,684
75



ANNEX 4
Table 14
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equi2ment: Purna Modernization Works
Unit      Total
Item                                      Quantity      Cost       Cost
---- US$'000----
Grader, motorized 125 hp                          1          57         57
Truck, dump 7 1/2 t  heavy duty                   4          18         72
Truck Loader (shovel) 130 hp  2 cu yd             1          65         65
Truck 7 1/2  t Conventional                       4          14         56
Concrete mixer                                    8           3         24
Vibrator                                          8            6         5
Pump and other equipment                                     L.S.       20
Stone Crusher                                     1            8         8
Roller, road 8-10 t. Diesel                       2          20         40
Jeep, Wagon 4x4                                   1           8          8
Jeep, 4x4                                         3           6         18
Subtotal                                                373
Spare parts 15%                                                         56
Total Cost of Purna Project Equipment                                  429.
76



ANNEX 4
Table 15
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment: Road Program
Quantity       Unit Cost    Total Cost         Total
Items             Jayakwadi   Purna                Jayakwadi  Purna
--(US$'O0Q3_
Roller, road 8 - 10T,diesel       8          2        20          160       40      200
Truck, dump 5-7 T                12          3        15.5        186       47      233
Pickup 3/5 T 4x4                  3          1         8           24        8       32
Jeep 4 x 4                        4          2         6           24       12       36
Tanker trailer with spray bar   6            2         2.2         14        4       18
Survey & Laboratory Equipment                          L.S.        15        5       20
Sub-total                                             423      116      539
Spare parts 15%                                                    64       17       81
Total Cost of Road Equipment                          487      133       620
77



ANNEX 4
Table 16
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment: CAD Component
Unit      Total
ITEMS                             Quantity      Cost      Cost
--- US$'000---
1. Land Leveling Equipment
Tractor, crawler w/blade 65 htp                    10          37         370
Tractor, Agricultural 80 hp                        25           17        425
Leveling blade for agric. tractor                  75           .6         45
Tyne cultivator  "       "                         15           .4          6
Truck 5-7 t  Stake                                  2           14         28
Subtotal                                                874
2.  Vehicles for Supervision & Management
Automobile                                          1           4.5           5
Jeep, 4x4                                          16           6           96
Pickup 3/4 T                                        2           8           16
Subtotal                                        117
Spare parts 25%                                                         248
Total cost CAD Equipment                                               1,239
78



ANNEX 4
Table 17
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment: Extension Services
Quantity         Unit Cost    Total  Cost         Total
Items                  Jayakwadi   Purna                  jayakwadi  Purna
--------US$ 000)
Automobile                    1         -       4.5             5         -       5
Jeep, Wagon 4WD               6         2       6              36        12      48
Motor cycle                 120        40        .9           108        36     144
Equipment                    -          -        L.S.          25                25
Sub-total                                               174       48      222
Spare parts 15%                                                25         8      33
Total cost of Vehicles
& Equipment for
Extension Services                                            199        56     255
79



ANNEX 4
Table 18
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Equipment: Monitoring Program
Unit      Total
Item                                   Quantity      Cost       Cost
Digital recorder, complete                        700          .9        630
Digital recorder, spares                          40           .7         36
Translator w/time & Data Console                                          10
Stream flow meters and equipment                              L.S.        30
Jeep, 4x4                                         10            6         60
Pickup 3/4 t 4x4                                   2            8         16
Office equipment                                              L.S.        25
Subtotal                                      807
Spare parts 15%                                                          121
Total cost of Monitoring Equipment                                       928
s0



ANNEX 5
Table 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Schedule of Expenditures
Total
77-78   78-79   79-80   80-81   81-82   Cost
--------------US$ Million-------------------
1. Paithan Left Bank Canal Network  6.7        5.8      5.8      3.6     1.8      23.7
2. Paithan Right Bank Canal
Network                            4.5      8.5      9.2      7.3     1.9      31.4
3. Purna Modernization                 -       0.7      1.1      1.2     0.5       3.5
4. Road Construction                   0.6     1.6      1.4      1.4     0.6       5.6
5. Lining of Distributaries
and Minors                         1.3      1.6      1.9     1.6      0.7       7.1
6. CAD                                1.8      2.0      2.0      2.0     0.9       8.7
7. Market Yards                       0.1      0.1      0.2      0.1      -        0.5
8. Equipment and Vehicles             3.0      5.0      2.0      0.9      -       10.9
9. Extension Services                 0.1      0.3      0.4      0.5     0.3       1.6
10. Monitoring Program                  0.1     0.2      0.2      0.2     0.2       0.9
11. Preparation of Projects             0.1      -        -       0.1      -        0.2
12. Operation and Maintenance           0.1     0.1      0.1      0.1     0.1       0.5
13. Engineering and Administra-
tion                               2.2      3.1      4.0     4.0      3.4      16.7
Total                      20.6    29.0    28.3    23.0    10.4    111.3
Expected Price Increases               2.3     6.5      8.3      8.5     3.1      28.7
Grand Total                22.9    35.5    36.6    31.5    13.5    140.0
81



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INI)IA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of the Credit
Proposed Alloca-    % of Expendi-
tion of the          tures to be
Credit             financed
--(US$ Million
1.  Civil Works                                    Equivalent)
a. Lining of Distributaries and
Minors (450 ft3/s)                        5.6                75
b. Paithan Network, Purna Moderni-
zation, Road Program & Monitoring
Program, CAD.                            50.0                60
2. Equipment & Vehicles
Paithan Network, Purna Moderni-
zation, Road Program, O&M &
Monitoring,CAD                           11.4             100% of foreign
expenditure for
directly imported
goods, 100% of ex-
factory cost for
locally manufact-
ured goods, 70% of
cost for imported
goods procured
locally.
3.  Consultancy Services                           .05           100% of foreign
expenditures.
4.  Unallocated                                   2.95
Total                       70.0
82



ANNEX 5
Table 3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
Bank Fiscal                                              Disbursements
Year & Semester                                    US$ Million Equivalent
Cumulative
1978
1st
2nd                                                2             2
1979
1st                                                5             7
2nd                                                5            12
1980
1st                                                8            20
2nd                                                8            28
1981
1st                                                8            36
2nd                                                9            45
1982
1st                                                9            54
2nd                                                8            62
1983
1st                                                8
83



ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Organization & Management, Project Financing
Background
1.        The success of command area development is largely dependent on an
effective organizational structure. Therefore, GOM has placed high priority
on creating a structure suitable for all major irrigation development through-
out the State. The CAD is implemented through existing agencies which are
supervised and co-ordinated at the project level by Command Area Develop-
ment Authorities (CADA) which are headed by an Administrator and directed
by a policy guidance Regional Board. Legislation was created in 1974 and
CADA became effective in 1975.
Project Management and Co-ordination
2.        In 1974, GOM instituted a comprehensive organizational structure
for all five State CAD areas including the Jayakwadi/Purna project. The
organization extends from State level down to the village councils and com-
mittees. At Cabinet level, a sub-committee of ministers chaired by the Chief
Minister directs all CAD policy. At State government administrative level,
the organization is directed by a CAD Commissioner who reports through the
Secretary, Agricultural Department, to the Minister of Food and Agriculture.
The State is divided into various regions each comprising six or seven admin-
istrative Districts. The Jayakwadi/Purna project is supervised by the Marath-
wada regional board which functions through a Project Executive Committee.
The composition and relationship of GOM's departments and agencies concerned
with CAD is shown on Figure 17037.
Functions and Responsibilities of the Marathwada Regional Board
3.        The Board has full power related to all CAD activities in its
region, subject to the GOM's general policy directions and financial provi-
sions of the budget. The Board:
(a) approves the annual CAD works program;
(b) sets the annual agricultural production program;
(c) periodically reviews and regularly monitors program imple-
mentation; and
(d) makes rules under the enabling legislation for the conduct
of CADA.                                                        84



ANNEX 6
Page 2
The Command Area Development Authority
4.        The CADA is the main management unit at the project level.  Its
functions are:
(a) maintenance and efficient operation and modernization where
necessary, of the irrigatisn system in the command area up
to the outlets with 1.5 ft Is;
(b) development and maintenance of the main and subsidiary drain-
age system in the command area;
(c) conducting Soil Surveys in the command area, with a view
to determining and modifying from time to time the most
suitable cropping patterns;
(d) ensuring efficient maintenance of the field channels and
the field drains within the command area by the concerned
farmers and by the authority at their cost, if necessary;
(e) land leveling and land shaping on its own, and or through
other agencies, at the cost of the beneficiary farmers;
(f) prescribing and enforcing an appropriate system of distri-
bution and regulation of water supply throughout the command
area;
(g) development of groundwater resources and ensuring its use
along with surface irrigation;
(h) selection, introduction and enforcing of suitable cropping
patterns;
(i) localization and delocalization of lands for various crops;
(j) ensuring supplies of all inputs and services including credit;
(k) development of marketing, processing and storage facilities
and an adequate communications system;
(1) development of subsidiary activities in the fields of animal
husbandry, dairy, poultry, farm-forestry, fishery, horti-
culture, etc.;
(m) soil conservation and afforestation, where necessary;
(n) consolidation of land holdings and re-drawing of field
boundaries on an outlet command basis, where necessary;
85



ANNEX 6
Page 3
(o) town planning and development of growth centers within the
command area;
(p) coordinating the activitiLes of the institutional agencies
in the command area such as the land development banks,
cooperative credit institutions, branches of the nationalized
banks, etc.
(q)  coordinating the research activities, including those under-
taken by the agriculture university in the command area;
(r)  coordination with the revenue and other departmental authori-
ties functioning within the command area;
(s) ordering or undertaking studies, enquiries or adoptive re-
search for effective application of scientific principles
of soil and water management and to evolve and to implement
packages of practices for different crops in the command
areas;
(t) development of farmer support services and organization of
programs or campaigns to educate farmers in the command
areas for efficient utilization of irrigation potential
or maximizing agricultural production; and
(u) implementation generally of all GOI and GOM policies in
respect to the intensive development of the command area.
5.        The CADA Administrator is the key manager with the following duties
and rank:
(a) he is a full time officer subject to the control of the
Board and the Chairman of the Executive Committee;
(b) he is responsible for implementing the policies and programs
formulated by the Board or the Executive Committee;
(c) he is responsible for implementing the directions received
from time to time from the Government in respect to the
functions of CADA listed in para 4 above;
(d) he is the Vice-Chairman of the Executive Committee;
(e) all other officers of CADA work under his direction; and
(f) the Administrator has over all administrative and financial
powers over District collectors as well as regional officers of
irrigation and power, agriculture and cooperation departments.
86



ANNEX 6
Page 4
6.        The Administrator would be assisted by two additional Administra-
tors -- one for irrigation and one for agriculture. The Jayakwadi/Purna CADA
has three operating divisions. There is one for each of Jayakwadi, Paithan
LBC and RBC areas and one for Purna. The project areas are further divided
for operational purposes into subdivisional units each covering about 10,000
ha. The organizational structure of the CADA is shown in Figure 17038.
7.        The main CADA link with the project farmers is through the opera-
ting subdivisions, the agricultural extension services (Annex 7) and the
Village Irrigation Committee with the following functions:
(a) gathering information about the availability of water for
each season, viz. kharif, rabi and hot weather from the
respective departments;
(b) obtaining in advance applications from the cultivators
for supply of water in each season;
(c) sending the applications so collected to the concerned
Irrigation Officer and having them sanctioned;
(d) collecting information regarding repairs, improvements,
etc., if any, required to the canals, distributaries,
minors, sub-minors, outlets, etc. and reporting the same
to the concerned department for suitable action;
(e) having the field channels constructed and repaired, where-
ever necessary, by the cultivators;
(f) reporting the difficulties, if any, in regard to field
channels to the officers of the concerned Department;
(g) ensuring that each cultivator gets timely water supply and
according to his turn;
(h) settling promptly, difficulties, if any, regarding distri-
bution of water;
(i) collecting information regarding requirements of inputs, such
as seeds, fertilizers, insecticides, etc. needed by the culti-
vators and arranging for their supply through the appropriate
agencies;
(j) ensuring that water is utilized properly and adequately in the
command and damage to the land on account of excess water use
is avoided;
87



ANNEX 6
Page 5
(k) planning a program for construction of wells, wherever
necessary, in the commands of irrigation projects; and
(1) inducing the cultivators to adopt night irrigation to avoid
loss of water and to use water properly and adequately
through the warabandi system.
Role of GOM Departments and Agencies
8.        Under CADA's overall supervision and coordination, the principally
concerned individual departments and agencies would assume the following res-
ponsibilities:
(a)  The Irrigation Department headed by the Additional Chief
Engineer Aurangabad and organized in nine engineering divisions
and additional regionally dispersed management circles would:
undertake surveys, planning, design and would supervise con-
struction of all irrigation and drainage networks down to the
25 ha chak outlet level; operation and maintenance (O&M) of
the Jayakwadi and Purna reservoirs; second staff to the CADA
for O&M of the canal network; plan future water development,
and provide CADA with appropriate guidance and technical
assistance as required. ID would also be responsible for
the construction of project roads.
(b) The Agricultural Department headed by the Superintending
Agricultural Officer, Aurangabad, would: assist the CADA to
supervise, direct and coordinate the agricultural supporting
services (research, extension, plant protection) and farm
inputs supply; second AD Soil Conservation Staff to assist
CADA/MLDC to plan and implement on farm development (CAD)
works.
(c) The Maharashtra Land Development Corporation would act as
CADA's planning and design and implementation agency for
on-farm (CAD) works.
(d) The Public Works Department headed by the Superintending
Engineer, Roads, Aurangabad, would act as consultant to the
ID in constructing the project roads and assist CADA to main-
tain those roads not under the control of Local Councils.
(e) The Revenue Department through its Divisional Commissioners and
District Collectors would be responsible for all land revenue
and project cost recovery charges. Under its Settlement Com-
missioner, all land titles would be updated.
(f)  The Agricultural Refinance Development Corporation a sub-
sidiary of the Reserve Bank of India would refinance 75% of
the cost of CAD work on-farm through the banking system as
explained below.
88



ANNEX 6
Page 6
Financing of Project Works
9.        All project infrastructural works would be financed by annual allo-
cation from the GOM development budget. All project administrative and ope-
rating costs would be met annually from the GOM budget which would also in-
clude funds for O&M and for agricultural research and extension.
10.       The GOI would contribute 50% of the cost of survey and design of
CAD. The CAD works would be undertaken by the Maharashtra Land Development
Corporation (MLDC). The MLDC would receive GOM advances to commence con-
struction work and CAD itself would be financed by farmers' loans obtained
from Commercial Banks (CBs) as well as the State Land Development Bank (SLDB)
which would be refinanced 75% by ARDC following completion of the works as
described below.
11.       Because the on-farm development (CAD) must be carried out system-
atically over whole chaks, the program would be compulsory. Legal powers to
carry out such CAD works and to recover costs are available in the following
legislation:
Bombay Land Improvement Act, 1942 (as amended in 1973) GOM
Resolution IPM 1074-I (5) Setting up CADA, April 1974. Es-
tablishment of MLDC, July 1973
12.       The GOM, through its Agricultural Department and MLDC, has agreed
upon technical, economic and financial standards and implementation procedures
with ARDC. These standards are acceptable to the Bank and in 1976, GOM com-
menced CAD on 18,000 ha in the Paithan division of Jayakwadi (not included in
the Bank assisted Project).
13.       To carry out CAD works over 45,000 ha under the project in four
years, requires legal instruments, skillful planning and genuine cooperation
from the cultivators who would help in chak selection for CAD. Current ex-
perience has been that farmers are anxious to have all communal CAD works
(water courses and drains) constructed by GOM/MLDC. The few farmers opting
to carry out their land shaping have to complete this in parallel with MLDC
construction. Teams organized under the Settlement Commissioner, Revenue
Department, would complete land title mutation prior to the loan application
collection compaign.
14.       The cost of CAD would be largely financed by the SLDB and the CBs;
they would in turn be refinanced 75% by ARDC. The 45,000 ha CAD area would
be divided for the purposes of banking operations between the SLDB and the
CB.
15.       The GOM would finance farmers not eligible for bank loans under a
Special Loan Account (SLA) and would recover these loans by collection as ar-
rears of land revenue. A Special Loan Account to provide loans to ineligible
farmers has been agreed to among GOI, GOM and ARDC. The terms and conditions
89



ANNEX 6
Page 7
for special loans are defined in AD)C's Guidelines for Special Loans to
Finance On-Farm Development Works to the command area projects dated
September 15, 1976 which are acceptable to IDA. It is presently estimated
that up to 15% of the farmers would be ineligible for a bank loan because of
indebtedness or lack of clear land title. The GOM and SLDB are currently
undertaking an intensive program to collect overdues and reduce indebtedness.
Because GOM was expected to complete redistribution of surplus land (made
available by application of the Land Ceiling Act) by December 1976 a major
cause of farmer ineligibility would be overcome prior to this project.
16.       The SLDB has operated in the project area for a number of years and
has branches in all main centers. The CBs have more recently entered the
field of long-term agricultural credit. The GOM in consultation with ARDC
has organized the various CB operations in the project area on a District
basis as follows:
Aurangabad District: Lead Bank: Central Bank of India (CBI)
jointly with Bank of Maharashtra (BOM) -- Other Participating
Banks -- State Bank of Hyderabad (SBH) State Bank of India (SBI),
Union Bank of India (UBI);
Parhbani District: Lead Bank: State Bank of Hyderabad -- Other
Participating Banks -- United Western Bank, Sangli Bank (SB); Dena
Bank (DB) SBH, SBI, UBI.
Nanded District: Lead Bank: SBH. Other Participating Banks
DB, SBI, SB.
The CB would set up additional branches as necessary to service the CAD works
in the areas assigned to them.
17.       Loans for CAD works would be for a 11 year period including two
years  grace at an interest rate of 10.5%.  Farmers ineligible for bank loans
would be financed by GOM at the sanme terms but with a 1%-4% higher interest
rate under the Special Loans Account.
June   1977
90



ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Supporting Services
I. Agricultural Research and Education
1.        The five Districts comprising the Marathwada region of Maharashtra
in which the project is situated have a sound agricultural research base
particularly regarding sorghum, pulses and cotton. Research was first initiated
in 1928 at the Parbhani Experimental Farm and sub-stations which resulted in a
large number of improved varieties of sorghum, cotton, wheat, pulses and oil
seeds.  Prior to 1968, research was the responsibility of the Agricultural
Department until the upgrading in that year of agricultural colleges to uni-
versities. These universities have been charged with the responsibilities of:
conducting agricultural research; providing education in agriculture; and
undertaking and guiding extension education programs. Marathwada Agricultural
University, Parbhani (PAU), situated between the Jayakwadi and Purna projects,
was established in 1972 and is well located to serie the agro-climatic zones
of both projects. The State agricultural universities are annually admitting
about 1,400 students in eight agricultural colleges for undergraduate studies
and about 400 students for post-graduate studies. At the PAU Faculty of
Agriculture, the annual admission capacity is 210 undergraduate and 54 post-
graduate students. Some 1,400 Bachelor of Science and 154 Master of Science
graduates have so far graduated from PAU, yet due to restricted job oppor-
tunities, there are a large number of unemployed agricultural graduates. The
PAU Faculty of Lower Agricultural Education undertakes the training of exten-
sion staff and operates two Gram Sevak Training Centers--one at Parbhani and
the other at Jalna. Each has an annual intake of 150 to 200 Gram Sevaks.
The training program includes courses of one year or six months and various
shorter courses. Each of the five agricultural schools administered by PAU
since 1974 provides a two-year post matriculate diploma in Agriculture with
a total intake of 250 students annually.
2.        The PAU has a network of twelve well established agricultural research
stations spread over the region. Among these are:
(a) Sorghum Research Station, Parbhani. An old established station
(1928) which has been a pioneer in sorghum research. A large
number of varieties have been evolved and released by this
center for large scale cultivation in kharif and rabi. A
recent hybrid release in CSH-5 which is high yielding, has
a good fodder: grain ratio and has an acceptable grain
quality.
91



ANNEX 7
Page 2
(b)  Pearl Millet Research Station, Aurangabad.  The All-India
Coordinated Improvement Project for millet is in operation
at this station. New hybrids such as PHB-4 and 5 and PHB
10 and 14 are being tested prior to general release and are
showing signs of downy-mildew resistance.
(c) Cotton Research Station, Nanded. Cotton improvement research
started in 1929 at Parbhani and moved to Nanded in 1941. A
comprehensive program of breeding, agronomy and plant protec-
tion is being carried out. Present recommended varieties are
H4; MCU5; and L147 as well as Veralaxmi.
(d) Agricultural Research Station, Badnapur. Another old estab-
lished station. The All-India Pulse Improvement Project main
center is located at this station. Improved varieties of
pigeon peas (arhar) have been evolved from this station.
Wheat varietal trials are also conducted.
(e) Oil Seeds Research Station, Latur. Trials on groundnuts,
sunflower, linseed, sesamum, castor and soybeans are in
progress.
(f) Sugarcane Research Station, Basmathnagar. Varietal, fertilizer
and irrigation trials are in progress.
3.        In general, both commands in the project are well served by research
and agricultural education. In crop research, the main deficiencies are in
wheat and rice where both require more attention to be paid to the specific
soil and climatic characteristics of the project area under irrigated condi-
tions.
II. Agricultural Extension
4.        Agricultural extension in Maharashtra is normally provided through
two channels. The Department of Agriculture for cash crops and the Zilla
Parishads for other crops. In CAD areas, these functions are supervised
by the CAD Authority. The joint GOI and GOM policy is to involve the exist-
ing local government structure fully in CAD activities with the assistance
and direction of the CAD Authority. To this end, local government authorities
are represented at both the policy making CADA Regional Board (chaired by
the Chief Minister) and at the CAD Project Executive Committee.
92



ANNEX 7
Page 3
5.        At the farm level, coordination is achieved through the Village
Irrigation Committees. Since organization at the village level is of utmost
importance, farmer participation and cooperation is especially desirable in
the land development operation, the water-distribution system below the out-
let from the minor, and in seasonal planning of agricultural activities at
the village level.
6.        Duties of the Village Irrigation Committees are primarily those of
village organization of the requirements and supply of inputs, credit, main-
tenance of the water supply below each outlet as well as organization of
the rotational irrigation distribution system (warabundi) system.
7.        The composition of the Committee is:
Chairman:                   Gram panchayat Sar panch (elected)
Secretary:                  Gram Sevak (Village level worker)
Group Secretary, Cooperative Credit
Pat kari or Canal Inspector
Chairman of the Primary Society
Five progressive farmers
Three small or marginal farmers
Contact farmers (one for each outlet)
The committee meetings are held regularly (normally every "rotation" or 12
days); most villagers attend, formal minutes are taken and the Gram Sevak, as
Secretary, represents the CAD Authority.
8.        Two levels of agricultural extension exist namely regular and inten-
sive. Regular extension is provided through: the DDA and his staff at Project
Headquarters; through AOs at Sub-Divisional levels; through the Village Officers
(Agricultural Assistants) at the Section level, and in each village through
eight or nine progressive farmers and contact farmers, who participate in two
day training courses also attended by large numbers of farmers. Training is
directed to the problems of the operators of large, medium and small size
farms.
9.        Intensive extension is provided through Pilot Project Block Programs
under the overall control of the Director of Agriculture; the total area in-
volved at one time constitutes about one-sixth of the irrigated area. The
programs concentrate on single crops in accordance with agreed Government
priorities and targets and are for the duration of the crop or for one year.
In 1976, the crops were, in the case of Jayakwadi (kharif)--hybrid sorghum
(18 blocks of 400 ha each); paddy (14 blocks of 200 ha each; cotton (small
blocks totaling 100 ha) and three blocks of 100-200 ha for small and marginal
farmers, and in rabi 1975/76 wheat (five blocks of 400 ha each). The essence
of the scheme is that all cultivators within the compact Pilot Project Block
shall participate and follow a packet of practices drawn up by the Agricul-
tural Department. Farmers carrying out all the farming operations as in-
structed are guaranteed minimum yields. All inputs such as seeds, fertilizers,
93



ANNEX 7
Page 4
and pesticides are supplied by the Agro-Industries Development Corporation
and all farmers have access to credit through the Cooperative Societies at
prescribed scales for each crop. Extension staff is supplied by the Zilla
Parishad and for each block there is also a team supervised by the CAD agri-
cultural staff consisting of a Sectional Officer for water application, an
Agricultural Officer (AO), two village officers and five to six trained
progressive farmers.
10.       In the Purna Command, six agricultural extension irrigation units
have been sanctioned and are in place. These consist of one unit per 10,000
ha headed by an AO (graduate) who iLs assisted by an Agriculture Supervisor
(AS) (graduate) and ten Agricultural Assistants (Diplomates). At the time
of Appraisal, one irrigation unit team had been lent to Jayakwadi pending
authorization of more staff.
Proposed Strengthening and Organization of Extension Services
11.       GOM proposals for strengthening the extension services in the project
area are based on the continuation and build up of the basic irrigation exten-
sion units which will work in close coordination with the Zilla Parishad and
the CADA Engineering Staff on water management matters. Apart from shortage
of staff, lack of housing, essential mobility and subject matter specialists
(SMSs), the main deficiency of the present system is the lack of clear lines
of authority, particularly with respect to staff assigned to CADA by the local
authorities, e.g. (AOs, Village Officers and Gram Sevaks). These officers
often have other duties to perform apart from purely extension work; this also
applies to some Agricultural Department staff from the Cash Crop Development
Program who are also working with CADA. These proposals are acceptable to
the Association.
12.       The proposal is to provide a fully trained project agricultural ex-
tension organization entirely staffed by members of the Agricultural Department
who would act on behalf of the Administrator of CADA in agricultural matters
and at the same time be under the technical supervision of their own depart-
ment. It would be headed by a Joint Director of Agriculture (who would also
be the CADA Additional Administrator) at the project headquarters. He would
be assisted by Senior SMSs and other staff. The two commands would be split
into three divisions (Purna, Jayakwadi RBC and Jayakwadi LBC) and each would
be headed by a DDA and assisted by sufficient SMSs according to needs. It is
initially proposed that the SMSs in a divison would consist of an Agronomist,
a Plant Protection Officer and a Water Use Officer. Each division would be
split into sub-divisions (or irrigation units) responsible for about 10,000 ha
each and headed by an AO (graduate). The cadre in contact with the farmers
would be ASs (graduates). Suitable qualified AOs and ASs would be transferred
from the Zilla Parishad and remaining requirements recruited from either the
agricultural universities or seconded to the project by the State Agricultural
Department. Staff remaining with the Zilla Parishads would be sufficient for
non-agricultural extension duties.
94



ANNEX 7
Page 5
Staff
13.       The number of ASs would depend on size of farms and experience of
the farmers. The following figures have been used for planning purposes.
Number
Division         No. of Farms  Farmed Area  Area/Farm   AS/FArms   of ASs
('000)      ('000 ha)      (ha)       (Ratio)
Jayakwadi RBC           6             42        6.55       1:250         26
Jayakwadi LBC          16            106        6.55       1:250         65
Purna                 136             61        3.87       1:320         50
14.       In Purna, six extension irrigation units are already in place and
additional staff required are the DDA and SMSs. In Jakaywadi, extension
irrigation units would be established for the areas to be irrigated before
July 1977. In each division, it is proposed to start with a DDA and a full
complement of SMSs and to add sub-divisions (or irrigation units) just prior
to the initial delivery of irrigation water to the areas. An Assistant Re-
gistrar, Cooperatives would also be attached to each division; similarly a
Senior Mechanic would be assigned to assist farmers with machinery and plant
protection equipment.
Method of Operation
15.       Each outlet (chak) commands about 25 ha.  The number of farmers
within the chak will vary, however. In Jayakwadi, the average farm size is
6.55 ha and hence the average number of cultivators per chak is about four.
Within each chak, a leading and respected farmer would be selected in con-
sultation with village leaders as a contact farmer and about eight contact
farmers representing eight adjacent chaks would consitute a group which would
be visited by the AS once a fortnight. One group per day would be suitable
for one day's visit and he would thus visit eight groups during eight days
each fortnight. In the mornings, he would visit farmers' fields demonstrating
recommendations and observing problems. In the afternoons, he would hold
group discussions. At each group visit, the farmers from the chaks concerned
would be encouraged to participate. The AS would spend one of the two remain-
ing days of each week devoted to the in-service training. One of these train-
ing days would be conducted by the area SMSs and the other by his AO. The
other two remaining days would be spent in supervising field trials, and
completing office work and other special activities.
16.       The AO would also spend eight days per fortnight in the field with
his ASs systematically covering the whole of his area. He would maintain con-
tact with the SMSs and would request their presence on field trips as required.
The SMSs would spend equal amounts of their time in training sessions, field
visits and in maintaining close contact with research institutions.
95



ANNEX 7
Page 6
17.       The divisional DDAs would also spend several days a week in the
field visiting their AOs and covering their division systematically. Similarly,
the JDA and his staff would undertake a considerable amount of field work com-
mensurate with their administrative functions.
Vehicles and Equipment
18.       Mobility of staff is one of the present deficiencies and it is
proposed to provide suitable transportation. The AOs and ASs would be provided
with motorcycles which they would purchase through Government loans and would
also receive mileage allowances. Senior staff at divisional and project levels
would have the use of Government owned four-wheel drive vehicles. Provision
has also been made for the purchase of visual aids and sundry equipment for
demonstration and training purposes.
Staff Housing and Offices
19.       It is proposed that staff quarters be provided for all staff in
order that they may reside close to their working areas. However, renting of
suitable accommodation may be feasible in some locations. Otherwise, quarters
would be constructed in accordance with Government standards. Suitable office
space would be required at the project, divisional and sub-divisional levels
and provision has been made for construction.
Training
20.       It is highly desirable that the extension staff be familiar with
extension activities in other Bank sponsored CAD projects such as are operated
in Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh and funds are included to en-
able some of the staff to visit such projects as well as to make occasional
study trips abroad.
Demonstration Farms
21.       Two demonstration farms are proposed.  These will be situated in
the Jayakwadi command area and will concentrate on: crop demonstrations,
cropping patterns, methods of land preparation, demonstration of farm imple-
ments, irrigation practices, and crop protection measures. Provision has been
made for the construction of buildings, quarters and purchase of equipment.
Project Support
22.       A summary of capital and operating costs is shown in Table 1.
96



ANNEX 7
Page 7
III. Input Supply Services
Fertilizers and Pesticides
23.       With the advent of irrigation and increasing use of modern varieties,
farmers are becoming more fertilizer conscious. Average usage per ha in
Maharashtra State in 1973/74 was N 7.9 kgs; P 0 4.1 kgs and K 20 2.3 kgs against
the All-India average of N 10.9; P 0 3.9 and i28 2.1. Distribution of fertil-
lizer in 1974/75 in Aurangabad Divisfon was 85,000 tons and the official target
for 1975/76 was 111,000 tons mainly in the form of mixed blends and complex
fertilizers. Incremental needs of the project, at full development, will
be approximately 11,000 tons. Marketing and distribution is adequately organ-
ized. In Aurangabad Division, there are a total 209 dealers with private
dealers comprising the majority (109) followed by Cooperatives (68), and
Agricultural Service Centers (32). Farmers obtain fertilizers either by cash
purchase or through short-term crop production loans through the Cooperative
Agricultural Credit Societies. Scale of finance per ha (for all necessary
inputs including fertilizer and pesticides) are fixed annually. Fertilizers
are subject to the Fertilizer Control Order (1957) whereby dealers and manufac-
turers are subject to inspection for quality and sales at controlled prices, by
Agriculture Department staff. Samples are analyzed at the Government labora-
tories in Pune.
24.       The use of pesticides are gradually becoming more widespread espe-
cially for crops such as cotton, chillies, hybrid sorghum and sugarcane. Plant
protection campaigns are undertaken by the Zilla Parishads (ZPs) for such
pests as midgefly and shootfly of sorghum, and the gallfly of paddy. Costs
of pesticides are subsidized and spraying equipment is made available for
hire at low rates (Rs 2.50 per day for power sprayers and Rs 0.20-0.30 per
day for hand operated sprayers). The Maharashtra Agro-Industries Development
Corporation purchases pesticides, which are stored in State Warehousing Corp-
oration godowns and made available against permits issued by the ZPs for
purchase by private dealers and through the Agro-Service Centers. The
Insecticides Act of 1968 (enacted by Maharashtra State in 1973), regulates
the input, manufacture, sale, transport, distribution, use and quality control
of insecticides. A fully equipped insecticide testing laboratory is being
established and is expected to be in operation in 1977. Seed distributed
by the Department of Agriculture is mostly treated with insecticides.
Seeds
25.       At present many farmers retain their own seed or buy or exchange
seeds with their neighbors. However, with the increasing use of hybrids this
traditional practice is declining. For improved varieties, mainly wheat and
rice, breeder seed produced by the research institutions is multiplied by
taluka multiplication farms and private seed companies and the resultant
foundation seed is distributed to selected seed growers through the ZPs
97



ANNEX 7
Page 8
for the production of certified seed. In the case of the hybrid seed produc-
tion program, parent seed is obtained from the National Seed Corporation
(NSC) as well as the agricultural universities. It is then grown by progres-
sive farmers (selected by the ZPs), and seed companies which possess irrigation
facilities. Hybrid seed production officers of the Department of Agriculture
(CAD) are employed for supervision of this work.
26.       The Maharashtra State Seed Certification Agency, an autonomous body,
was registered under the Societies Registration Act in early 1976 and is tak-
ing over the functions performed by the Seed Certification Wing of the AD
which, in turn, took over from the National Seeds Corporation in 1969/70).
Seed certification operates under the Seeds Act of 1966, and its main function
is to insure the genetical and physical purity of seed produced. The agency
maintains lists of sources of breeder and foundation seeds approved by the
Central Seed Certification Board in the case of varieties grown in more than
one State and by the State Seed Certification Board in the case of varieties
of local importance.  The agency recognizes varieties (and kinds where improved
varieties are not available) eligible for seed certification and provides for
the inspection of seed fields, seed processing plants and seed lots in accord-
ance with the procedures outined by the Central Seed Certification Board.
Prior to seed certification, seed is tested in seed testing laboratories for
purity and germination. Two laboratories have been recognized under the Seed
Act, 1966 for the analysis of seed samples. A third laboratory, at Aurangabad,
not yet fully equipped, is expected to be ir. full operation in 1977/78. The
Aurangabad Division (in which the project is situated) produced about 2,500
tons of certified seed (66% sorghum) from an area of about 4,100 ha in 1975-76.
The division is at present largely self-sufficient in seed and supplies about
25% of its production to others outside the division. Total sales of certified
seed in Maharashtra State was 12,500 tons in 1974/75 which is among the highest
in India (only Bihar and West Bengal were higher).
27.       For non-hybrid seeds, the Maharashtra State Cooperative Marketing
Federation procures seed and distributes to the ZPs from where growers obtain
seed. Hybrid seed of sorghum, and pearl millet as well as high yielding
varieties of wheat and paddy are procured by the Agricultural Department and
are sold to the ZPs (which are allotted Government funds) in accordance with
the agreed planting program for the season.
28.       Seed Processing is mostly done by the private sector and some by
Cooperatives and Government processing plants. There are 22 processing plants
in the Aurangabad Division, the largest being at the Jalna market center (near
the project area). All processing plants are inspected by the State Seed
Certification Agency. Seed packaging is usually on the basis of the recom-
mended sowing rate per acre.  Sorghum seed production is purchased by Govern-
ment for re-sale at controlled prices. Cotton, wheat and other crops are
sold on the open market.
98



ANNEX 7
Page 9
29.       Maharashtra is one of the four States participating in the Bank-
supported first stage of the National Seed Program. 1/ The National Seeds
Corporation (NSC established in 1963) as the country's major seed producer
and certification agency will divest itself of these functions to become
a service agency and the main coordinator of seed industry development.
Its main responsibilities would become: interstate marketing; operation
of a reserve stock scheme; foundation seed production; collaboration with
the Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR) on coordination of
breeder seed production and design of and procurement for processing
plants. The NSC would also have equity participation in the State Seed
Corporation (SSC). The program mainly aims at seed production in the major
cereal crops and cotton. The SSCs to be set up under the program will be
responsible for the production, processing and marketing of certified seeds.
Seed will be produced in compact areas around each processing plant by
growers with a shareholding in the SSC. Breeder seed production will be
the prime responsibilities of the Agricultural Universities and ICAR
Institutes, and the major responsibility for foundation seed production will
also be the agricultural universities.
30.       The SSC would be responsible for seed processing and would take over
existing NSC facilities and construct new facilities. In Parbhani, facilities
for processing plants will have a nominal annual capacity of 2,500 tons for
cotton and 5,000 tons for cereals.
31.       Pricing and Distribution.  The SSC would set prices which would be
a premium above the farm gate prices and would lead to a reduction in present
retail prices. Dealership systems will be established aiming eventually at
about one per 25 villages. Cooperatives would provide the bulk of the seed
dealers (as well as being major distributors of fertilizers and pesticides).
32.       The expansion of the private sector, which plays an important role in
the production of hybrid cereals, hybrid cotton and vegetables, would be
encouraged by the Program in order to maintain a reasonable public/private
sector balance.
33.       Anticipated total demand for certified seed of foodgrains in
Maharashtra State in 1980/81 is 29,000 tons. Incremental project demand is
estimated at 2,600 tons and no difficulty is foreseen in meeting this demand.
1/   Report No. 106a-IN "Appraisal of National Seed Project" May 1976.
99



ANNEX 7
Page 10
IV. AgrLcultural Credit
34.       Agricultural credit in Maharashtra is provided by cooperative
banks, land development banks, commercial banks and private sources including
primarily individuals and commission agents. While the cooperative and land
development banks are both part of the cooperative credit structure, they
operate independently. The cooperative banks provide short (up to one year)
and medium (one to five years) credit and the land development banks provide
long term (up to 15 years) cred:it. The cooperative banks are organized on
the three tier basis with the Maharashtra State Cooperative Bank at the State
level, the central cooperative banks at the District Level and the Primary
Agricultural Credit Societies at the Village Level. The land development
banks were originally organized on a two tier basis with the State Coopera-
tive Land Development Bank in Bombay and the District cooperative banks at
the District level. However, in 1974 the District banks were consolidated
with the State bank and since that time the District banks have functioned
as branches. Since the commercial banks were nationalized they have entered
the agricultural credit field, and in areas where the primary credit socie-
ties have been operating unsatisfactorily, the commercial banks have been
encouraged to take over their areas of operation.
35.       There are 207 Agricultural Credit Societies, three central coopera-
tive banks with 157 branches and also 14 commercial banks with 87 branches
operating in or near the project area.  To become a member of the credit
society, an individual must purchase seven shares; this qualifies him to
secure production loans amounting to ten times the value of his shares.
The commercial banks have no such requirement.
36.       Under the Cooperative Credit system, a technical committee at the
District level establishs norms for the cost of production of various crops
and the Primary Agricultural Credit Societies use these norms as a basis for
collecting loan applications from members of the society. The local society
collects and consolidates applications for loans and examines them to be sure
they are consistent with the norms--that the farmer is not indebted to other
credit organizations and that he is not delinquent in the repayment of pre-
vious loans. Applications that meet these tests are then sent on to the
central bank for approval and provision of funds which can be in either cash
or kind. The central bank, in turn, seeks funds from the State bank which
ultimately secures refinancing through the Reserve Bank of India.
37.       The norms for the Parbhani District in 1976, which are generally
representative of those in other Districts, amounted to:
Sugarcane              Rs 1,000/ha
Long Staple Cotton    Rs   600/ha
Wheat                  Rs   400/ha
Sorghum                Rs   235/ha
100



ANNEX 7
Page 11
38.       The interest rates involved in 1975 at the various stages in the
process were:
Reserve Bank of India to State Cooperative Bank            7%
State Cooperative Bank to Central Cooperative Bank         8 3/4%
Central Cooperative Bank to Primary Credit Society    10%
Primary Credit Society to members                         13%
39.       Although there is a sufficient number of credit societies operating
in the project area to meet the needs of all cultivators, because of delin-
quencies which have been running around 40% many farmers are not eligible for
credit from such sources. However, in those cases where the delinquencies can
be traced to droughts, there are provisions for transferring the short-term
credit to medium-term and rescheduling the repayment over a longer number of
years. This automatically restores the eligibility of the farmer for produc-
tion credit.
40.       The cooperative credit system is rather involved and requires consid-
erable time on the part of the farmer and generally several weeks are needed to
process applications for loans. The commercial banks are organized in such a
manner that they can short-cut many of the procedures followed by the coopera-
tives and they deal directly with the applicant. As might be expected, there
is a growing indication that in the field of production credit the commercial
banks are providing strong competition to the cooperatives. But in spite of
the number of sources available for production credit, the cooperative system
continues to provide over 50% of the total credit used.
June 1977
101



AMNEX 7
Table 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION COSTS
Capital and Operation Costs
(Rs)
Year                      1977/78         1978/79         1979/80         1980/81          Total
A.    Capital
Office Space               430,000          32,000          48,000          16,000           526,000
Staff Quarters           2,621,360         325,500         334,600         233,100        3,514,560
Vehicles                 1,521,450         195,615         195,615         121,095        2,033,775
Ext. Equipment               56,250          56,250         56,250           56,250          225,000
Dem. Farms               1,495,000            -               -                -          1,495,000
Contingency 20% 1/         911,072           71,500         76,520          49,820        1,108,912
Sub-Total                       7,035,132         680,865         710,985         476,265        8,903,247
B.    Operational Costs
(a) Salaries                 1,193,000       1,359.900       1,530,800       1,654.800         5,738,500
Contingencies               65,000          65,000          65,000           67,000          262,000
Sub-Total                1,258,000       1,424,900       1,595,800       1,721,800         6,000,500
(b) Running Costs              395,000         416,000         437,000         450,000         1,698,000
Contingencies 15%            59,250          62,400          65,550         114,800          302,000
Sub-Total                         454,250         478,400         502,550         564,800        2,000,000
TOTAL EXTENSION                 8,747,382       2,584,165       2,809,335       2,762,865  Rs  16,903,247
Project Cost per ha      Rs  80.88   Jayakwadi LBC 106,000:ha
"   "   "     US$   8.99        "      RBC  42,000 "
Purna           61,000 "
209,000 ha
Operational Cost per ha(1980) Rs 10.94
US$  1.22
1/  Excludes equipment and vehicles



ANNEX 8
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultural Production, Marketing and Prices
The Project Areas
1.        The two sub-project areas are the Jayakwadi and the Purna Commands.
In the former, the net area proposed to be irrigated on completion of the
ultimate development is 277,300 ha. This is comprised of: the LBC 141,750
ha (of which an estimated 49,000 ha will be irrigated prior to July 1977); the
RBC 41,682 ha (of which an estimated 4,000 ha will be irrigated prior to July
1977) and the Majalgaon RBC consisting of 93,885 ha. Within the Jayakwadi
Command, the Bank assisted project includes both Jayakwadi LBC and RBC and
consists of a total of 95,000 ha which would be provided with irrigation in-
frastructure down to the 1.5 cusec chak outlet (commanding about 25 ha).
Within this would be included 45,000 ha of CAD on-farm development comprising
bunding, land shaping and grading, drainage and field channels. The Purna
Command consists of a net area of 60,000 ha.
Topography and Soils
2.        Topography.  Both commands consist of gently rolling topography,
with slopes in the general range of 0-3%. The slope classification for
Jayakwadi based on a detailed survey of 48,000 ha is as follows:
Slope %           % of Area
0 - 0.6              31
0.6 - 1.0              21
1.0 - 2.0              34
2.0 - 3.0              11
above 3.0               3
Slopes in excess of 3% occur adjacent to nulas and river channels. On-farm
development in the areas already irrigated in Jayakwadi has been carried out
to include provision of field channels, drains and land shaping within each
individual farm. In Purna, very little on-farm development has been done be-
yond simple bunding as it was assumed that this would be done by the farmers
themselves within a ten-year development period.
103



ANNEX 8
Page 2
3.        Soils.  Pre-irrigation soil surveys conducted by the Directorate
of Irrigation Research and Development of the ID have been carried out over
the whole area of Jayakwadi. These were conducted on a semi-detailed basis
using maps on a 1:31,000 scale. The classification is largely on the basis
of soil depth. In the RBC area, shallow soils (0-40 cms depth to murram)
occupy 19%; medium depth soils (40-250 cms) occupy 11% and deep soils (250
cms) occupy 70% of the area. In the LBC, the corresponding proportions are
21%, 24% and 55%. The underlying rock of the area is the Deccan Trap which
is uniform in composition and of a dark grey color. It is basic in reaction
and, on weathering, gives rise to murram, a decomposed rock which is usually
permeable and calcareous and also characterized by the presence of lime caliche.
Areas closer to the river plain are covered with the alluvium which is usually
more permeable.
4.        The shallow soils found in the higher lying and sloping lands are
sandy loams to loams and are subject to erosion. These are brown to brownish
black in color and are underlain with murram derived from the parent volcanic
rock. Medium depth clay loam to clay soils are found in the gently undulating
and flatter area. These are black to deep black in color, fairly rich in lime
reserves, and have a high water holding capacity. The deep clay soils are
found along the banks of nulas and streams. These are brownish dark to dark
in color, very hard and cloddy when dry and sticky to rather impervious on
wetting. These soils are more suitable to crops such as wheat, gram and
sorghum and are not suitable for such crops as perennials and groundnuts.
In general, the soils of the area are dark brown and black in color, mostly
quite fine in texture (75% are silty clays or finer), calcareous, moderately
high in organic matter and are self-mulching i.e. they crack and shrink exces-
sively forming small, hard angular aggregates, part of which drop into the deep
cracks.
Climate
5.        Climatic data are shown in Annex 1.  The rainfall is light and
typical of the central Deccan. The average annual rainfall for the Jayakwadi
service areas is about 760 mm. The Jayakwadi project area, as classified by
the Indian Metereological Service, is partially within the "scarcity-zone"
and partially within the "assured-rainfall" zone. Rainfall is concentrated
in the four month period, June to September, and is lower and more erratic
in the higher reaches of the command. This had led to a high proportion of
rabi crops being grown on residual moisture in the higher reaches of the
command area. Temperatures are lowest in the November to January period and
highest in April and May. Wind velocities are highest in the May-October
period.
104



ANNEX 8
Page 3
Present Cropping Patterns
6.        Present cropping patterns and yields have been derived from revenue
records, CAD staff, Parbhani University and from information collected in the
field. In the Jayakwadi Command, cultivation is rainfed with the exception of
areas brought under irrigation for the first time in 1975/76 (37,000 ha at time
of appraisal and estimated to reach 53,000 ha by July 1977). Small areas irri-
gated by wells growing such crops as sugarcane, bananas, chillies, vegetables,
rabi sorghum and some hot weather groundnuts total about 2% of the area. A
typical cropping pattern is shown in Table 1. This varies from year to year,
depending upon the rainfall. The principal foodgrain grown is sorghum (jowar)
which is well adapted to the area. Due to the erratic kharif rains, parti-
cularly in the western part of the command, a high proportion of the sorghum
is grown as a rabi crop utilizing residual soil moisture and is sown in late
September and early October. Pearl Millet (bajra) is grown principally in
the lower rainfall areas on the shallow soils. Rice cultivation is negligible
and is confined to the low-lying area. Wheat is grown as a rabi crop. Pulses
account for some 15% of the total cropped hectarage. Kharif pulses consist of
pigeon peas (which are normally intercropped with sorghum or pearl millet) and
green and black gram which are also either intercropped or sown as a catch crop.
Gram (cicer arietinum) is the dominant rabi pulse. Oil seeds, principally saf-
flower, are grown as intercrops with rabi sorghum. Linseed, sunflowers, and
groundnuts are also grown to a small extent. Cotton is an important rainfed
cash crop.
7.        Crop yields (Tables land 2) are low and vary from year to year and
present food grain production is estimated at about 26,000 tons. Use of in-
puts are low except for cash crops such as sugarcane and bananas. Land prep-
aration is done with a blade harrow and plowing, to control perennials, is
only done every two to three years using an iron plow. Mechanization is al-
most non-existent (it was reported that there were only fifteen farm tractors
in the entire Jayakwadi command area). Little increase in mechanization is
expected in the immediate future.
8.        In the Purna Command, where utilization of irrigation facilities
were limited prior to 1975/76, the main irrigated crops in rabi 1975 and kharif
1976 were: rice 33%, wheat 27%, kharif sorghum 14%, kharif pulses 5%, cotton
4%, rabi gram 1%, hot weather groundnuts 11%, chillies/turmerics 2% and sugar-
cane/bananas 7%. With the Government's drive for foodgrain production, the
official target for wheat in rabi 1976 was 34,000 ha which, if achieved,
would raise the irrigated cropping intensity to about 125%, including hot
weather groundnuts (assuming sufficient water is available).
105



ANNEX 8
Page 4
Future Cropping Patterns and Yields
9.        In the absence of the project, a slow increase in the projected
cropping intensity from 95% to 102% is expected coupled with small yield
increases due to improved varieties, increased inputs, improved cultivation
techniques and some increase in dug wells by 1985 (Tables 1 and 2).
10.       Under the project, 95,000 ha would be provided with irrigation.
Some 45,000 ha of this irrigated area would be subject to the full package
CAD on-farm development works which include provision of field channels up to
each farm, farm drains, and land shaping and grading to specified norms down
to a 0.6% cross slope and 0.3% longitudinal slope.
11.       Sorghum, wheat and rice are GOM priority crops for the project
areas and are subject to official target areas for each season. Various
forms of assistance are given to farmers who participate in official schemes
e.g. in the Pilot Project Blocks guaranteed minimum yields are underwritten.
In the case of wheat for Parbhani and Aurangabad Districts, the guaranteed
yield was 2.0 and 2.2 tons ha, respectively, in rabi 1975/76. Table 1 shows
the future cropping pattern both with and without CAD. Tables 2 and 3 show
estimated yields at full development.
12.       With CAD under the project, the cropping intensity is estimated to
increase from 125% on the irrigated infrastructure area only to 130% mainly
due to a small increase in the rice area; the main benefits due to CAD would
be in yield increases (Table 3) and in more efficient water usage which would
raise field application efficiency from about 45% to 68%. Farmers would in-
crease their yields and production because of improved irrigation and general
farming practices including increased use of inputs. Figure 1 illustrates the
design cropping pattern and calendar.
13.       It is expected that the traditional and well adapted sorghum will
remain the principle foodgrain grown. Hybrid varieties (CSH I and 5) are
expected to provide the bulk of the sowings in the kharif and in the rabi
a high proportion will be local improved varieties which are preferred for
home consumption and for fodder. On demonstration plots in 1974/75 yields
of CSH hybrid varieties averaged 4.4 tons per ha.  Shoot-fly and sorghum
midge may cause problems if kharif sowings are too late. Striga may also
become a problem without a break in the rotation.  However this problem is
reduced by planting non cereal, foLlow-on crops (oil seeds; pulses) and by
rabi sorghum following fallow. Yields under the project, at full development,
are estimated at 2.40 tons and 3.0 tons per ha respectively without and with
on-farm land development.
14.       Wheat has become and is expected to continue to be an important
crop but the present varieties principally grown (Kalyan-Sona and Salonika)
limit average yields to an estimated 2.3 tons per ha in the project area
(1975/76 yields achieved on Pilot Project Blocks throughout Maharashtra State
averaged 3.1 tons per ha and in blocks in the project areas 2.6 tons/ha).
106



ANNEX 8
Page 5
15.       Rice is grown as a row-drilled non-flooded upland crop since pud-
dling and transplanting are not feasible on most of the soils. Improved and
traditional tall varieties are grown (mainly Tuljapur I) and next to sorghum
are a popular foodgrain for home consumption. The modern dwarf varieties, in
general, have not been successful because of lack of aeration in the root zone
under flooded conditions, and in non-flooded conditions, because of the high
soil pH, resulting in iron chlorosis and a reduction in the number of tillers.
Average yields of the varieties now available, which are not highly responsive
to fertilizers, are not expected to exceed 2.0 tons per ha. Varietal trials,
at Parbhani Agricultural University (in the project area) in 1975/76, gave
yields of 2.81 tons per ha for Tuljapur 1.
16.       Kharif pulses will continue to be grown and will require only supple-
mental irrigation. Kharif groundnuts, similarly, will continue to be grown to
a small extent. Oil seeds and rabi grams are important dietary components of
the cropping pattern. Pearl millet is expected to decline with irrigation and
be largely replaced with sorghum.
17.       Cotton is an important cash crop though expensive in labor and pesti-
cides, and gives reasonable returns providing pests can be controlled. With
well established long-staple varieties (defined in Maharashtra as above 25 mms
staple length) such as H4, Veralakshmi and MCU5, it is important for planting
to start in May for insect control purposes and to avoid retardation of boll
development due to the onset of lower temperatures towards the end of October.
This requires that storage water be available for pre-irrigation and planting
in May before the onset of the kharif rains in June. Results of trials con-
ducted at the Cotton Research Station, Nanded (in the Purna command) gave
average seed cotton yields, for the varieties commonly grown in the project
areas, of 2.7 tons per ha in the 1972/73 and 1973/74 seasons. Under the
project, at full developmment and taking into consideration the problems
of pest control, high husbandry standards, and high input supply and labor
requirements: yields are estimated to average 2.0 tons per ha for the full
package area and 1.6 tons per ha for the irrigated area without on-farm de-
velopment.
18.       Chillies are becoming a popular cash crop but yields are not expected
to be high until farmers become more familiar with the crop.
19.       Because of its high profitability, there will be an increasing in-
terest in sugarcane but the hectarage of the crop is limited by its continuous
water requirements and milling capacity. Bananas are similarly profitable but
also equally water demanding. This crop has good markets in Hyderabad and
Bombay and a growing export market in the Arabian Gulf States. At present,
sugarcane and bananas are grown adjacent to dugwells and there would be a small
increase in the numbers of such wells in the future without the project. How-
ever, it is to be anticipated that some canal irrigated sugarcane area will
occur especially in the vicinity of a sugar mill being constructed in the upper
reaches of the Jayakwadi command, but at full development, the sugarcane area
will be constrained, because of its high water demand during the hot season and
the need to close the canal system for maintenance.
107



ANNEX 8
Page 6
20.       Hot weather groundnuts are a relatively disease-free and high yielding
crop under irrigation but as with sugarcane/bananas, the crop requires irrigation
throughout the hot weather season. At full development, it is doubtful whether
the storage water can be made available and the main canals operated for the
entire project area during the hot season. (Hot weather groundnuts are not
included in the tables of crop production financial or economic analysis but
are included in the crop water demand computations). The elimination of this
crop would result in larger hectarages of wheat and sorghum.
21.       The incremental crop production at full production is shown in Table
5. Foodgrain production is expected to increase by about 110,000 tons as a
result of the project.
Marketing
22.       Except for rice, Maharashtra is deficit in all foodgrains to be
produced by the project. (In 1975/76, for example, Maharashtra imported 13%
(1.2 M tons) of its cereal demand.)
23.       Farmers sell marketable surpluses primarily at local regulated
markets. Produce is transported to these markets almost entirely by bullock
carts and by truck and rail to terminal markets in Bombay, Poona, Nagpur and
Golapur. The regulated markets operate under the Maharashtra Agricultural
Produce Marketing (Regulation) Act of 1963. The administration of markets is
through a committee comprising representatives of farmers, traders and local
government bodies. All operations in the market are supervised by this com-
mittee and its employees. Markets operate on a daily basis (five to six days
a week) and all produce is sold at open auction. There are, at present, nine
main and sub-markets operating in the Jayakwadi project command area and a
further six are planned for operation by 1981. Purna command is, at present,
serviced by four main markets. As these market centers do not provide coverage
at sufficient intensity, it is proposed to provide five new sub-market centers.
The Government's compulsory procurement of foodgrains (levy) operates through
an assessed levy on net land revenue. Levy is imposed on the total holding of
those with agricultural land, irrespective of whether the land is under cul-
tivation or not and irrespective of the crops grown. The levy is payable in
terms of specified foodgrains (rice, sorghum, pearl millet and wheat) according
to the crops grown in the area. In Maharahstra, 5.3% of foodgrain production
was procured under the levy in 1975/76 compared with the All-India figure on
10.8%. Non-leviable foodgrains are also purchased by Government at the same
price as the levy price. The Maharashtra State Cooperative Marketing Federa-
tion Limited, Bombay (MCMF) acts as the chief agent of Government for the
purchase of leviable foodgrains by way of levy and non levy purchases. Pur-
chasing sub-agents are normally the village level primary cooperative societies
and cooperative rice mills.
24.       The MCMF, on behalf of the Government, also purchases all cotton
produced under the monopoly cotton procurement scheme. After processing by
private and cooperative firms, cotton seed is sold by the MCMF mostly at open
auction. Cotton bales are sold, principally by tender, mostly to the National
Textile Corporation Mills.
108



ANNEX 8
Page 7
25.       The present marketing system operates effectively and with the pro-
vision of the proposed new market centers coupled with the new roads proposed
under the project, farmers will be adequately served by reasonably accessible
marketing facilities.
Storage
26.       Storage facilities are provided by four main agencies:  The
Maharashtra State Warehousing Corporation (MSWC), Government Revenue Depart-
ment, Cooperatives and private trade. Neither the Food Corporation of India
nor the Central Warehousing Corporation operate storage facilities in the
region. Main storage is located at the market centers. Warehousing capacity
is estimated to be 62,000 M tons for Jayakwadi and 39,000 M tons for Purna.
In addition, on-farm storage and village level storage is estimated to be 10%
of marketable surpluses. Present storage capacity is considered to be adequate
in both project areas. Additional storage would be required in the Jayakwadi
project and an estimate of requirements will be formulated by CADA to take
into account the forecasted increased production.
27.       The MSWC is a State government enterprise, incorporated under the
Warehousing Corporation Act of 1962 which provides for establishment of the
Central Warehousing (CWC) and State Warehousing Corporations. The primary
objective of the corporation is to provide a comprehensive professional ware-
housing service to the agricultural industry. Storage facilities are avail-
able to any customer, whether public or private sector, short or long term.
Facilities inspected were of a high standard in all respects including
quality of construction, maintenance and operation. Commodities stored in-
clude Government procured foodgrains, privately owned foodgrains, cotton,
seeds, fertilizers (private and public sector) and and pesticides. Losses
through rodents and insects have been largely eliminated through regular
programs of disinfestation. An important item of agricultural credit for
farmers is the warehouse receipt which is a negotiable document accepted up
to its face value by the banks. In accordance with the policy of the National
Warehousing Plan, MSWC provides the second tier storage, i.e. storage at sub-
division or District levels with Cooperative Societies providing the third
tier at the village/taluka level.
28.       Cooperatives, at present, provide only a small amount of storage
at the village level. Farmers, therefore, generally store their own market-
able surpluses for short periods between regular trips to the local market.
The total capacity of cooperative storage in the Jayakwadi areas amounts to
about 7% of the total capacity in the project area (compared with MSCW 31%;
Government 40% and private sector 22%). Future storage plans include allocat-
ing to the cooperatives the responsibility to provide for the third tier
storage at market sub-centers outside the major District locations. The
Cooperative Societies have a number of functions including: (i) purchasing
agent for the Revenue Department for procured foodgrains; (ii) exclusive
purchasing agent for cotton and, (iii) selling agents for seeds, fertilizers
and pesticides supplied by public and private sector manufacturers.
109



ANNEX 8
Page 8
29.       Government storage facilities are used by the Revenue Department
for the storage of procured foodgrains. These facilities are either leased
or State owned and in Jayakwadi, they account for 40% of the present storage
capacity. Imported foodgrains, primarily wheat and sorghum from the US,
are also stored in these facilities.
30.       Private merchants dominate the activities of the market centers.
At each center, 90 to 200 private traders operate as against only a few
cooperative societies. Many farmers use private agents as commission agents
for sale of their produce at the open auctions conducted at the regulated
markets. On an average, each private trader has storage capacity for about
10 tons of foodgrains. It is expected that private trade activity and storage
will be expanded considerably.
31.       Project Support.  Provision has been made to provide basic infra-
structure requirements at each new market center at an estimated cost of
US$500,000.
Processing
32.       Sugarcane, cotton, rice and oil seeds are the main agricultural
crops requiring processing in the project area. Sugarcane--commercial pro-
cessing is undertaken solely by the public sector, being the responsibility
of the cooperative organizations. There are three mills currently in opera-
tion with a capacity of 1,000 tons per day, and a fourth is under construction
and would give a 1977 capacity of 600,000 M tons annually. This is sufficient
for future estimated project production assuming mills operate at full capacity
over a crushing season of 150 days. Rice--there are no commercial rice mills
in the command areas and the current small rice crop is processed at the vill-
age level. With future increased rice production, there will be a need for
commercial rice mills which can be met by the private sector or cooperatives.
Cotton--ginning and processing is undertaken in small sized facilities scattered
throughout the project areas. The private sector operates the majority of
these facilities and the cooperative organization the remainder. Current
ginning and pressing capacities will be inadequate for the future needs of the
project and it is expected that this will be met in the main by the Cooperative
organization. Finance for Cooperative processing units is provided by the
National Cotton Development Corporation for up to 35% of the capital costs and
65% is raised by share capital from members and the Government on a matching
basis.  Oil Seeds--crushing is a fragmented industry with small privately owned
mills operating at all market centers. A significantly larger crushing capacity
will be required for the anticipated larger production of groundnuts and cotton
seed.
110



ANNEX 8
Page 9
Farm Gate Prices
33.       Prices used in the economic and financial analyses are presented
below:
Crops or Items              Economic Analysis              Financial Analysis
(US$/ton)   (Rs/ton)           (US$/ton)  (Rs/ton)
Crops
Paddy                    190         1,710               170      1,530
Wheat                     185        1,665               150      1,350
Sorghum
Kharif              110           990              115       1,035
Rabi                135         1,215              140       1,260
Pearl Millet              135        1,215               125      1,125
Gram                     175         1,575               165      1,485
Pulses                    175        1,575               145      1,305
Cotton (kapas)           470 /a      4,230               370      3,330
Chillies               1,100         9,900            1,100       9,900
Sunflowers               310         2,790              240       2,160
Sugarcane                  12          108                13        117
Fertilizer
N                        405         3,645               625      5,625
P                        365         3,285               595      5,355
K                         128        1,152               175      1,575
Labor (Rs/man-day)                             2.0                          2.5
/a   Composed of US$395 for lint and US$75 for seed.
Farm Gate Prices for Economic Analysis
34.       The State of Maharashtra is normally short of foodgrains and finds
it necessary to import supplies from other States of India (Table 6) and
India, in turn, has periodically, particularly in years of poor crops, had
to import foodgrains from the world markets. In spite of the past two or
three good crops, it is very likely that India will continue to find it
necessary to import such foodgrains. The prices used in the economic analysis
reflect this continued import position. Also, even though India is building
up its fertilizer production capability, for some time in the future it is
anticipated that the country will find it necessary to import a significant
portion of its total requirement. Therefore, the economic price of fertilizer
has been based upon the assumption that India will also continue to be an
importer of fertilizer. The derivation of the prices for the internationally
traded commodities is presented in Table 7. The prices for non-internationally
traded commodities were based upon the prices at the local markets, adjusted
for transport and marketing costs.
111



ANNEX 8
Page 10
35.       The world-market price for sorghum is based primarily upon its use
as a foodgrain for livestock. However, in India and particularly Maharashtra,
sorghum constitutes an important part of the human diet. There is evidence
that a large percentage of the population prefers the local varieties of
sorghum that are produced during the rabi season to other foodgrains such as
rice or wheat. Because of the superior quality of the local varieties, a
premium was assigned to it compared to the HYV which is normally produced
during the kharif and which results in substantially higher yields. Most
farmers produce sufficient rabi sorghum for family use.
Farm Gate Prices for Financial Analysis
36.       India systematically collects and publishes crop prices at the various
markets. These are consolidated at the State level and again at the National
level. The Mission was able to collect some current prices representing the
three levels. The most striking thing about the local market prices was the
great variation from market to market and from season to season. This is
partly explained by transport, storage costs, the seasonal nature of supplies
and variation in quality. But lack of market information as well as cost and
availability of transport must also have been contributing factors. The mis-
sion selected average prices for the season when most of a particular crop
is marketed (Table 8).
37.       The selection of the appropriate prices for use in the financial
analysis was somewhat complicated by recent trends in the prices of various
commodities including agricultural crops in India. The wholesale price index
for all commodities and foodgrains reached its peak in September of 1974. The
indexes then declined until March of 1976. At that point the all commodities
index began to rise. However, the index for foodgrains did not start to in-
crease until May of 1976. Unfortunately, information was not available for
July and subsequent months. Therefore, it was impossible to determine whether
the increase in the foodgrain index starting in May was simply the usual ad-
justment that occurs in India at that season or whether it was a change in
the basic direction of the index (Table 8). However, for purposes of the fi-
nancial analysis, the mission used prices for the past year which are signifi-
cantly below those that prevailed in 1974 but which are substantially above
those prior to 1973. The derivation of the financial prices is shown in
Table 9.
Rate of Exchange
38.       The official exchange rate in India in terms of US dollars varies
from time to time, but has currently been running about Rs 8.9 to US$1. For
the sake of convenience, the rate was rounded to Rs 9 to US$1 for use in this
report. Since the rate of return analysis was made in terms of US$, to deter-
mine the sensitivity of the rate of return to the exchange rate, two analyses
were made in which the rate of exchange was shadow priced at Rs 11 to US$1.
The major adjustment required in these analyses was to express the local cost
involved in the construction and operation of the project in terms of dollars
converted at the shadow rate.
June 1977                                                                  112



ANINEX S
Table 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Jayakwadi Cropping Pattern
1/                ~~~~~3/       4,
KHARIF                  P1/                                    2
Paddy                  0            2            8            12
Sorghum               10          10           18             20
P. Millet               8           8           4              2
Pulses                12          12           10             10
Cotton                12          12           20             20
Chillies               -           -             2             2
Kharif C.I.            42          44           62            66
RABI
Sorghum               35          35            19            17-
Wheat                   7           8           23            26
Gram                    4           5            5             5
Oil Seeds              5            6            3             3
Rabi C.I.              51          54           50            51
Hot Weather
Groundnuts                                    3              3
PERENNIAL
Sugarcane             1            2             5              5
TOTAL
CR. INTENSITY        95          102          125            130
1/          Present situation.
2/          Future       "      without project.
3/                              with irrigation infrastructure only.
4/                                                                plus  CAD.
113



ANNEX 8
Table 2
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Irrigation Infrastructure (50,000 ha)
Present                            Future Without Project             Future With Project
Crops and Season      Area       Yield          Production    Area      Yield       Production      Area    Yield        Production
(ha)    (tons/ha)          (tons)       (ha)    ( tonsha)       (tons)        (ha)  (tons/ha)      (tons)
Kharif
Paddy                    0        -                -           1,060    0.40           424          4,000   1.60         6,400
Sorghum              5,300       0.60           3,180          5,300    0.69         3,657          9,000   2.40        21,600
Cotton               6,360       0.30           1,908          6,360    0.45         2,862         10,000   1.60        16,000
Pearl Millet         4,240       0.30           1,272          4,240    0.34         1,442           2,000   1.80        3,600
Pulses               6,360       0.35           2,226          6,360    0.40          2,544          5,000   0.45        2,250
Chillies                 0        -                -               0      -             -            1,000   0.48          480
Sugarcane             (530)       -                -          (1,060)    -              -           (2,500)   -             _
Rabi
Wheat                3,710       0.36           1,336          4,240    0.46          1,950         11,500   1.40       16,100
Sorghum             18,550       0.43           7,977         18,550    0.49          9,089         9,500   1.50        14,250
Gram                 2,120       0.30             636          2,650    0.34            901          2,500   0.60        1,500
Oilseeds             2,650       0.35             928          3,180    0.46          1,463          3,000   0.50        1,500
Sugarcane              530      50             26,500          1,060   57            60,420          2,500  80         200,000
Total Irrigable Area  53,000                                     53,000                                50,000
Total Cropped Area    50,350                                     54,060                                62,500
Cropping Intensity (%)    95                                        102                                   125
86
L/Sugarcane included in both Kharif and Rabi for cropping intensity.
-/Assumed that 6% will be required for roads, canals, drains and water courses
leaving 50,000 ha of irrigated land on completion of project.



ANESX 8
Table 3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Present and Projected Cropping Patterns, Yields and Production
Full Package Area (45,000 ha)
Crops and Season                Present                     Future Without Project              Future With Project
Area       YiVeld    Production     Area      Yield      Production      Area     Yield   Production
(ha)      (tons/ha)    (tons)        (ha)    (tons/ha)    (tons)         (ha)   (tons/ha)    (tons)
Kharif
Paddy                     0        -                        972       0.40          389        5,400     2.00    10,800
Sorghum              4,860        0.60     2,916          4,860       0.69        3,353        9,000     3.00    27,000
Cotton               5,832        0.30     1,750          5,832       0.45        2,624        9,000     2.00    18,000
Pearl Millet          3,888       0.30     1,166          3,888       0.34        1,321          900     2.25      2,025
Pulses                5,832       0.35     2,041          5,832       0.40        2,333        4,500     0.50      2,250
Chillies                  0        -           -              0        -             -           900     0.60        540
Sugarcanel/            (486)       -          -            (972)       -             -        (2,250)      -         -
Rabi
Wheat                 3,402       0.36     1,225          3,888       0.46         1,788      11,700      2.30    26?910
Sorghum             17,010        0,43     7,314         17,010       0.49        8,335        7,650     2.50    19,125
Gram                  1,944       0.35        680         2,430       0.34           826       2,250     0.80      1,800
Oilseeds              2,430       0.35        850         2,916       0.46         1,341       2,700      0.60     1,620
Sugarcane               486      50       24,300            972      57          55,404        2,250    80       180,000
Total Irrigable Area  48,600-'                             48,600-/                             45,000
Total Cropped Area    46,170                               49,572                               58,500
Cropping Intensity (%)    95                                  102                                  130
co
1/                                                                                                               87
-  Sugarcane included in both Kharif and Rabi for cropping intensity.
U,
2/ Assumed that approximately 7% will be required for roads, canals, drains, water courses and bunds
leaving 45,000 ha of irrigated land on completion of project.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Agricultura:L Production (total project)
Future      Future                   1/
Without     With          Incremental-
Crops and Season               Present      Project      Project       Production
(toils)     (tons)       (tons)           (tons)
Kharif
Paddy                            0          813        17,200          16,387
Sorghum                      6,096        7,010        48,600          41,590
Cotton                       3,658        5,486        34,000          28,514
Pearl Millet                 2,438        2,763         5,625           2,862
Pulses                       4,267        4,877         4,500            -377
Chillies                         0            0         1,020           1,020
Rabi
Wheat                        2,561.       3,738        43,010          39,272
Sorghum                    15,291       17,424        33,375           15,951
Gram                         1,316        1,727         3,300           1,573
Oilseeds                     1,778        2,804         3,120             316
Sugarcane                   50,800     115,824       380,000         264,176
-/Future with project less future without.



ANNEI 8
Tabl* 5
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production
Irrigation               Full
Crops                      Infrastructure            Package           Total
Area                   Area            Project
(tons)                 (tons)             (tons)
Kharif
Paddy                       5,976                  10,411            16,387
Sorghum                    17,943                  23,647            41,590
Cotton                     13,138                  15,376            28,514
Pearl Millet                2,158                     704             2,862
Pulses                       -294                     -83              -377
Chillies                      480                     540             1,020
Rabi
Wheat                      14,150                  25,122            39,272
Sorghum                      5,161                 10,790            15,951
Gram                           599                    974              1,573
Oilseeds                        37                    279               316
Sugarcane                 139,580                 124,596           264,176
_17



ANNEX 8
Table 6
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Population Projections and Foodgrain Requirements
for State of Maharashtra
Actual or
Foodgrain           Estimated
Year          Population      Requirements-        Production         Deficit
(million)      (million tons)    (million tons)        (million tons)
1973-74              54.0             10.5               7.0                3.5
1974-75              55.5             10.8               7.8                3.0
1975-76              56.6             11.0               9.1                1.9
1976-77              57.9             11.3               9.5                1.8
1977-78              59.1             11.5              10.0                1.5
1978-79              60.4             11.8              10.5                1.3
Source: Provided mission by Director of Agriculture, Poona.
I/
Requirement based upon 400 grams of cereals (14 oz.) and 85 grams of
pulses (3 oz.) per day per person.
118



ANNEX 8
Table 7
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Derivation of Economic Prices
Paddy                Sorghum       Sugarcane           Cotton
Steps                             (Rice)   Wheat   (Kharif)(Rabi) (Refined Sugar) (Lint) (Seed)
-------------------US$/ton--------------------------------
Projected 1985 price-/            359        172       102    102        327          1,423   100
Adjustment for quality
difference (Z)                (80)       (95)     (95)   120         (90)           (90) (100)
287       163        97    125         294          1,281   100
Estimated handling and                                                                          20
shipping charges to Bombay       20         35       25      25         25             30
c.i.f. price Bombay               307        198      122    150         319          1,311   120
Estimated transport handling
and marketing between pro-
ject area and Bombay              5          5         5      5          5             10    12
fob/cif price, project area       302        193      117    145         314          1,301   108
Estimated handling, milling
and transportation from                                                                   2/   3/
farm gate to market               8          8        8       8        195             2 0
Farm gate price                   294        185      109    137         119          1,281   108
Farm gate price after
milling
Turn out (%)                  (65)                                   (10)           (31)  (69)
Price                         191        185      109    137          12            397    74
Round                             190        185       110    135         12            395    75
4/       t ~4/            4/
Nitrogen-/   Phosphate-/        Potash-/
Projected 1985 price                                   370           330              103
Addition of freight and handling                      35            35               25
Total price                                            405           365              128
1/ Based on Jan. 1, 1976 values.
2/  Cotton seed meal and linters pays for ginning and crushing.  One ton of cotton
will produce 310 kg of lint, 120 kg of oil, 320 kg of meal, 50 kg of linters and
200 kg of hulls.
Included under lint.
Plant nutrient basis.
119



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Derivation of Financial Prices
Sorghum        Pearl                                           -Sun
Steps                     Paddy   Wheat   (Kharif)(Rabi)   Millet   Gram   Pulses   Cotton   Chillies   Flowers   Sugarcane
---------------------------(US $/ton)-----------------------------------------------
1976 Farm fsate Price      144      155      120    150       133      178    155         403     1,100        200         12
Adjustment to 1985 (x)   (120)    (96)       (95)   (95)      (93)      (93)   (93)       (92)      (100)     (120)       (106)
1985 Estimated Farm
Gate Price              173     149       114    142       124      165    144         371     1,100        240         13
Round                      170      150      115    140       125       165    145        370     1,100        240          13
Fertilizerl/              Nitrogen          Phosphate        Potash
1976 Farm Gate Price       500               450              170
Adjustment to 1985 (x)    125                132              102
1985 Estimated Farm
Bate Price              625               594              173
Round                      625               595              175
- Nutrient basis.
2.  In mixed fertilizer such as Suphalla (15:15:15) which
cost 1470 Rs/ton (US $163) in October, 1976.                                                                                X x
o0'                                                                                                                                X co



ANNEX 8
Table 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Selected Price Indices
Consumer Price Index
Year              Wholesale Prices for India                  India              Aurangabad
For                   For
All                 Food-              Industrial              Working
Commodities            grains                workers                Class
1961                1001/                100I/                 1004/                 1007/
1961           ioo'10-l              0=10
1966                143                  172                   136                   151
1971                185                   211                  188                   189
1972                200                  240                   202                   211
1973                2382,                283                   245                   275
1974                304-                  380-'                297                   308
January           271                  313                   259                   n.a.
February          275                  320                   262                   n.a.
March             283                  331                   267                   n.a.
April             289                   350                  277                   n.a.
May               298                   371                  288                   n.a.
June              308                  376                   295                   n.a.
July              315                  392                   305                   n.a.
August            324*                 412*                  315                   n.a.
September         328                  437                   327*                  n.a.
October           324                  436                   328                   n.a.
November          319                  417                   324                   n.a.
December          317                  409                   319                   n.a.
1975                 309                   381                  315                   340
January           316                  410                   319                   340
February          314                  407                   319                   337
March             308                   397                  315                   336
April             309                   392                  317                   341
May               313                   395                  320                   348
June              312                  396                   322                   349
July              309                  386                   318                   351*
August            312                   382                  315                   341
September         309                  376                   312                   344
October           308                   358                  310                   336
November          303                   343                  309                   335
December          294                   326                  300                   327
1976                 n.a                   n.a3/                n.a                   n.a8/
January           290-                 322-                  298-                  306-
February          284**                313                   290**                 297**
March             283                   300                  286                   288
April             291                   299                  289                   300
May               293                   29*                  290                   296
June              297                  299                   292                   293
July              n.a.                 n.a.                  297                   303
August            n.a.                 n.a.                  298                   305
September         n.a.                 n.a.                  298                   n.a.
Note: Each footnote applies to all years to next footnote number.
*   Peak price.
** Lowest price after peak.
1/  Source:  Directorate of Economics and Statistics; 25th Bulletin of Food Statistics;
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation; 1975; page 184.
2/  Source:  Report No. 1073-IN; Economic situation and prospects of India; March, 1976;
IBRD; Table 6.11.
3/  Source:  Reserve Bank of India Bulletin; June 1976; Page S 447.
4/  Ibid.:   Report No. 1975-IN:  Table No. 6:14.
5/  Ibid.:   Reserve Bank of India, Page S 444.
6/  Source:  Economic Monitoring Service, Commerce Research Bureau; Monthly Review of the
Indian Economy; October 1976; page 7, Interpolated from graph.
7/  Source:  Directorate of Economics and Statistics; Maharashtra.  An Economic Review
1975-1976; Page 70.
8/  Provided to Mission by Directorate of Economic and Statistics, Bombay.
121



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION
PROJECT                                ANNEX 8
DESIGN CROPPING PATTERN (CROPPED AREA 183,432 HA)    Figure 1
Average Rainfall (mms)
17    142   165   149   188       I 1 24  1 10       7      6     7      10
100               -      -                                -      -                100
SUGARCANE BANANAS 5%
_C                  - C30ILLIES 2%  1 1_
COTTON 20%
-oS  -W> I - --8s
iC  ______  _______                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~70
o                                                                     ' GROUNDNUT 3%
SORGHUM 20%                                                     o
z 
<                 I-                           -m
60-6ZOILSEEDS3%                                                         60
Lu                                           0       GRAM 5%                             C 
a:  L-   -m
<  50                                                                                50 =n
o                           RICE 12%                                                     >
I                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~m
1- 40                                  7`/                                            40r
I-                                                                                   40 
-,                     PULSES 10%                                                        >
Lu 
J_                                                       WHEAT 26%I                      m
30                                        _1_ PE ARL MIL iE i t t 30
20                                                                                20
10~~  -7          a1
io                                                                                10
SORGHUM 17%
MAY   JUN   JUL   AUG   SEPT   OCT   NOV   DEC   JAN    FEB   MAR   APR
Months
World Bank-17087
122



ANNEX 9
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Inputs, Farm Budgets and Payment Capacity
General
1.        Present agricultural practices and the expected overall changes in
cropping patterns, yields and production are described in Annex 8. The main
purpose of this Annex is to determine the capacity of the project benefici-
aries to pay project costs.
Procedure
2.        Farm production inputs for the most common crops produced in the
area representing both the present and future situations--both with and with-
out the project--were developed, including separate information for both the
full-package and irrigation infrastructure areas. Utilizing this information
along with crop yields and financial prices developed in Annex 8, crop enter-
prise budgets were prepared (Tables 1 and 2). This information was used
directly in the preparation of the farm budgets.
Crop Input Requirements
3.        The crop input requirements for both the present and future situa-
tions were based upon surveys conducted by Parbhani University, recommendations
of the Agricultural Department, interviews with farmers and upon observations
made in the field. It was concluded from the above, that farmers are reluc-
tant to apply fertilizer at the levels recommended by the university and the
extension service; they generally apply substantially less. It was also
concluded that because of the abundance of farm labor in the project area
and the related low wages, farmers are inclined to use more labor in this
area than in other CAD projects in India. Perhaps one factor contributing
to the high use of labor is the distance from the villages to the fields.
In many cases, this may be as much as four or five miles, and thus would
require at least three or four hours a day for the laborers to walk to and
from the fields.
Farm Budgets
4.        Farm budgets representing the present and future situations--both
with and without the project--for the full-package and irrigation infrastruc-
ture areas were prepared for three sizes of farms, 2 ha; 5 ha and 8 ha (Tables
3, 4 and 5). The farm sizes budgeted and the proportion of the area and
households represented by each are presented in the following tabulation:
123



ANNEX 9
Page 2
Farm Budget         Proportion       Representing
Size               of Area        Farm Sizes
(ha)                 (%)            (ha)
2                  10            0.0 to 3.4
5                  28            3.5 to 7.9
8                  62            8.0 and above
5.        The relation of the farm sizes budgeted to the present distribu-
tion in size of farms can be observed from the following frequency distribu-
tion of sizes which is based upon 5 sub-districts in Aurangabad and Parbhani
Districts.
Size of Farm         Holdings         Area
(ha)               (no)          (ha)
0   -   0.5           3,225             873
0.5 -   1.0           5,034           3,800
1.0 -   2.0          13,190          19,690
2.0 -   3.0          13,285          32,746
3.0 -   4.0          12,157          42,169
4.0 -   5.0          10,476          46,937
5.0 -  10.0          31,053         221,839
10.0 -  20.0          19,452         263,667
20.0 -  30.0           3,090          72,807
30.0 -  40.0             560          18,883
40.0 -  50.0             110           4,788
50 plus                   52           3,509
Total  111,684         731,708
Average size (6.55)
In view of the limitations on size of irrigated farms, it is anticipated
that after irrigation development there will be a reduction in the number of
large farms and a corresponding increase in those under 8 ha in size.
6.        It was assumed in the preparation of the farm budgets that the
total production from the farms (except the fodder) would be sold. There-
fore, in determining the payment capacity, provision had to be made in the
family living allowance for the purchase of foodgrains as well as other
living expenses.
7.        The basic cropping patterns developed in Annex 8 as well as the
overall cropping intensity were employed in the farm budgets. However,
cropping intensities were varied by size of farm on the basis of farm
management data provided by the University of Parbhani. The actual crop-
ping intensities used were:
124



ANNEX 9
Page 3
Future
With
Size            Present           Without            W            w
(ha)              (%)               (%)             (%)          (X)
2                115              123             152          158
5                 99              105             129          134
8                 91               97             119          124
Weighted Average   95               102             125          130
1
W    Irrigation infrastructure only area (50,000 ha)
W    CAD area (45,000 ha)
8.        In the preparation of the budgets it was also assumed that the
average farm household would have a work potential of 50 man-days per month.
It was further assumed that any labor requirement in excess of this amount
would be hired at a rate of Rs 2 1/2 per man-day.
9.        Interest on production credit was allowed at the rate of 7% of the
cost of fertilizer, labor, plant protection and seed on the assumption that
on the average such credit would be required for only half the year. Land
revenue taxes, which are based on the dryland value in Maharashtra and are
nominal (Rs 4 to 6/ha) were included in the miscellaneous charge. Deprecia-
tion charges were allowed to cover both the cost of machinery and equipment
as well as bullocks 1/ for draft purposes. The depreciation of the bullock
team was based upon a purchase cost of Rs 2,500, a seven-year productive
work life and 130 working days per year.
Non-Farm Income
10.       Non-farm income was recognized to the extent there would be unutil-
ized labor during the peak seasons when employment opportunities would be
1/   The cost of bullock teams could either be treated at a daily rate and
all forage sold as is often done, or it could be treated as an annual
cost related to the purchase price of a team and the fodder would be
fed rather than sold for cash income. In this case, the latter
approach was used. However, a check was made to determine whether it
was reasonable to assume that all fodder and forage produced in the
project area would be required to feed the bullocks or whether some
residual value would remain which could logically be included as an
additional farm income. It was found that in addition to the fodder
from sorghum, it would be necessary to use the forage from other
crops and crop aftermath to feed the draft animals. Therefore, it
was concluded that this approach did not underestimate the farm income.
125



ANNEX 9
Page 4
available on nearby larger farms. Some off-farm earnings were credited in
all situations on the two ha farm and on the present and future without
situation for the five ha farm. In all other cases, the farm families
would be fully employed on their own farms during the peak labor seasons
when off-farm employment opportunities would be available.
Special Charges and Assessments
11.       Special charges and assessments such as taxes for the Employment
Guarantee Scheme, The Education Cess, the Sugarcane Crushing Tax and the
Foodgrain Procurement Levy were not deducted as expenses in the preparation
of farm budgets. Rather, it was planned that all such taxes and levies would
be reflected in the cost recovery analysis.
Irrigation Costs
12.       Since the objective of the farm budget analysis was to determine the
residual or farm income that would be available for the repayment of water
charges, the cost of irrigation service was not deducted as an expense in
the farm budgets.
Effect of Irrigation on Family Income
13.       The effect of the project on net farm family income is shown in
Table 6.
126



ANNEX 9
Page 5
Project Rent
14.       Utilizing the basic information presented in the farm budgets,
the project rent (incremental income after allowing for risk and uncertainty,
family labor at 2 1/2 Rs/man-days and a management fee) varied directly with
the size of farm for each of the two separate areas analyzed. When reduced
to a per ha basis, it varied inversely with sizes (Table 7). This resulted
from the variation in the cropping intensity by size of farm.
Payment Capacity
15.       General Policy:  The Government of India has a long tradition of
charging for irrigation service. This policy was reconfirmed by the Irriga-
tion Commission of 1972 which concluded that "... the level of rates should
be such that, taken as a whole, the irrigation schemes do not impose any
burden on the general revenue." In keeping with the above policy of cost
recovery, in addition to the general land tax which is based upon dry-land
values, farmers in Maharashtra are required to pay irrigation water charges
as well as several special assessments. Water rates for 1975/76 were as
follows:
Rs/ha
Sugarcane                      750
Kharif seasonals                 50
Rabi seasonals                   75
It has been announced that these rates will be continued through the current
crop year.
16.       The special assessments include an education cess on commercial
crops (all of which are irrigated when grown in the project area) an employ-
ment guarantee cess on irrigated holdings and a crushing tax on sugarcane.
Since these charges are related to either irrigated crops or to irrigated
land, they constitute a form of repayment on the part of the water users and
the payments made thereunder contribute to overall cost recovery. In addition
to these charges, there is also a compulsory foodgrain procurement levy which
is related to land revenue and the proportion of the farm holding that is
irrigated. The procurement is at prices set by Government which are signi-
ficantly below the prevailing market prices. Thus, through this program,
the farmers indirectly contribute to Government revenue.
17.       Annual Financial Requirement:  The costs to be taken into account
in the cost recovery analysis include:
127



ANNEX 9
Page 6
Capital cost:  (a)  US$81,310,000   new works associated directly
with the irrigation infra-
structure benefitting the
95,000 ha (excludes price
contingencies)
(b)  US$26,077,000  sunk costs (34% of US$76,697,000
associated with the 95,000 ha)
(c)  US$11,650,000  new works associated with the
45,000 ha benefitting from
on-farm development and to be
financed by bank loans
Annual operation
and maintenance
cost:                 US$8.35/ha      for the 95,000 ha in the project
area.
18.       Amortization of parts (a) and (b) of the capital cost over 30 years at
10% interest and part (c) over ten years following a two-year grace period at
11% interest results in the following requirements:
Annual Amount
---- US$ ----
Total       per ha
(a)                      8,625,000       91
(b)                      2,766,000       29
(c)                      1,978,181       44
Thus, the total annual financial requirement for each area is:
Irrigation -
Full-Package Area      Infrastructure Area
(45,000 ha)             (50,000 ha)
 __-_--------- US$/ha ------------------
(a)              91                        91
(b)              29                        29
(c)              44                         _
O&M                8                        8
Total       172                       128
128



ANNEX 9
Page 7
Payments by Irrigators
19.       Cost recovery under existing charges and levies as described above
is summarized in Table 8. It will be observed that the recovery includes an
amount of Rs 396/ha/year to repay the bank loan for on-farm development. The
Managing Director of the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation
has suggested that this loan could be repaid in various ways, but he specific-
ally noted the possibility of a one-year grace period during which: interest
would accrue, the repayment of interest for both the first and second year
would occur in Year Two, and the amortization of the loan would evolve in the
following ten years at the prevailing interest rates. At the time of apprai-
sal, the interest rate was 10 1/2%, but since the rates are increasing, this
analysis is based upon the use of a rate of 11% for the amortization of the
cost of on-farm land development. It is, thus, anticipated that the annual
payments would amount to Rs 664 per ha for the lands benefitting from on-farm
land development and Rs 268 per ha for those benefitting only from irrigation
infrastructure. Payments at these levels would amount to 47% of 'project rent'
and 22% of annual benefits at full development and 32% and 13% respectively
for those lands benefitting only from irrigation infrastructure. Payments
at these levels would result in a recovery of 37% of the total cost for the
full-development area and 23% for the irrigation-infrastructure area (see
para 17).
20.       It is anticipated that the Government of Maharashtra will proceed
with the on-farm land development for the balance of the project area at an
early date. When that occurs, the payments for the irrigation-infrastructure
area would be increased to a level equal to that from the full-package develop-
ment area. For this reason and also because of the difficulty of varying water
charges or cesses within the same State, it is not proposed that the payments
from the irrigation-infrastructure area be increased beyond the level that
would result from the application of existing water charges and cesses.
21.       Residual Available for Family Living:  After cost recovery in the
manner outlined above, sufficient income would remain on all farms budgeted
to provide the minimum essentials for farm family living (Rs 3,600/yr),
Table 9. Interpolation on a straight line basis indicated that any farmer
operating more than 1.4 ha in the full-package area and 1.8 ha in the irri-
gation-infrastructure area would have sufficient income to provide the
basic necessities for family living.
June 1977
129



ANNEX 9
IND EA
MAIARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Enterprise Bodgets - Flanmcial
Gras                                                 Cotton                            Chilltes                  Pearl Millet                             Suagrcaem
Rabi                 M_earlf                                                           Rharif                        Zharif                               Perermia
item                                       p                       Wi       W -  W-2          p                      W l         W2           WI        W2        p          W        WI      P2          p          W          w1       w2
Yield (ton./ha)                                  030         0 34        0 60         0 80          0.30        0.45       1.60        2.00        0.48      0.60      030        0 34    1.80    2.25         50        57           80       80
I.cm.e (Re/ha)                                445         505          891        1,188          999       1,499      5,328        6,660       4,752    5,940        337        382   2.025   2,531         5,850    6,669        9,360   9,360
Labor Reqcdree-emt  (rd/ha)                    41           44          53           60          150         160         220         250         232       250        66          73     101      113         300       320          400      400
(Re/ha)                              (102)        (110)       (132)        (150)        (375)        (400)      (550)       (625)       (580)    (625)    (165)        (182)   (252)   (282)         (750)    (800)    (1,000) (1,000)
Ferttilitr
N   (Kg/ha)                                  0           0           20           20            0          20          60          80          50        60         0          0       50       60         100       120         200      200
(R./h.)                                 -            -        (113)        (113)            -       (113)       (338)       (450)       (201)    (338)          -          -    (281)   (338)        (562)    (675)    (1,125) (1,125)
p   (Kg/h.)                                  0           0           40           40            0          10          30          40          20        30         0          0       20       30          20        30           50       50
(Re/ha)                                 -            -        (213)        (213)            -         (53)      (160)       (213)       (106)    (160)          -          -    (107)   (161)        (107)    (161)         (267)   (267)
/                                            0            0           0            0            0           10         30          40          20        30         0          0       20       20          20        30           50       50
(R./h.)                                  -           -           -            -             -         (16)       (4')        ('i3)        (32)      (47)        -          -      (32)    (32)         (32)      (47)        (79)    (79)
FpT(to../ha)                                 0           0            0            0            0            5         10          13          10        15         0          0        0        0          iO       i1            21       25
(Re/h.)                                  -           -           -            -             -        (150)      (300)       (390)        (300)    (450)         -          -        -        -        (300)    (450)        (750)   (750)
Agroch-ei.ale (Re/ha)                            0         (10)        (20)          (25)       (100)        (200)      (800)    (1.000)         (5001    (600)         0          0      (40)    (50)         (80)    (150)        (200)   (200)
Seed (Kg/ha)                                   40           45          45           50             8           8         25          25            0.5       0 5       2.5        2.5      2.5      2.5        25*       25*         25*      25*
(R./h.)                                  (80)        (90)        (90)         (100)         (37)        (37)      (250)        (250)        (60)       60       (10)       (10)    (10)       10      (1,250)  (1,250)    (1,250) (1,250)
Interest on Prodecti.e
Credit (Re/ha)                          (13)        (15)         (40)         (42)         (36)        (68)      (171)        (209)       (130)    (160)       (12)       (13)    (51)    (61)         (369)    (353)         (467)   (467)
Depreciation
Bullock Teem (day./ha)                       10           12          14           16            16          20         28          30           28        30        24         26       28       30          45        50          70       70
(Rs/ha)                       (40)        (40)        (40)          (40)         (40)        (40)       (56)         (60)        (56)      (60)      (48)       (52)    (56)    (60)          (85)      (90)       (130)   (130)
Maechi-ery & Zquiprent
(Rs/h.)                      (20)        (20)        (20)          (20)         (20)        (20)       (25)         (25)        (25)      (25)      (20)       (20)    (20)    (20)          (45)      (50)         (60)    (60)
Mi e.elleeo.s (Re/ha)                         (15)        (15)        (15)          (15)         (15)        (20)       (20)         (20)        (20)      (20)      (20)       (20)    (20)    (20)          (20)      (25)         (30)    (30)
Total Erpenses (R./ha)                        270          300         683          718           623       1,117      2,717       3,305        2,090    2,545        275        297      869   1,034        3,600    4,051        5,358   5,358
Net I.coee (Re/ha)                             175         205         208          470           376         382      2,611       3,355        2,662    3,395         62         85   1,156   1,497         2,250    2,618        4,002   4,002
*   1,000 sets (cuttinp,)
P - present, W - Future withoet proJect, W1 . Future *0th irrlgetton lifraettoct- re (50,000 ha), and w2 _ Fture with full-peokege developsent (459,000 he)
PJ r..  ,         Ftr    t.rpj.t   l-Ft,   ihirgt



194016 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~       ~      ~       ~       ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      11
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Crop Entaoriae Budget. - Financial
Sor-h,a                                                               P-ddy                                 Wheat                               P.1l.e./Oil Seed.
Ite,aa                                                    Kharif                                           Rabi                                      Eharif                                 Rabi                                       Kharif
P                  ~~            ~            ~            ~~1  2  -1                W2                      1          2         P                 W             2         P                      1          2
p           w-           wl            w              p                 w                  w "               w          w      2         p        w        wl          w           p         a          vl          w
Yield (ton./ha)                                    0.60         0 69         2.40          3 00          0.43         0.49        1.50         2.50        0.40       1 60       2 00       0 36    0.46       1 40        2.30        0.35       0.40    0.45         0.50
I.c-,e (Ra/ha)                                621          714        2,484         3,105           542          617       1,890       3,150           612     2,448      3,060         486      621   1,890        3,105         457        522       587        653
Labor Reqaire-eet. (nd/ha)                        75           79          118           129            66           73        101          119           80        145        156         61        67       91         108         41          46        51         54
(R./ha)                              (187)        (197)        (295)        (323)         (165)         (183)     (252)          (298)       (200)      (362)      (390)      (152)    (167)   (225)         (270)       (102)      (115)   (128)        (135)
Pertili.er.
N (Kg/ba)                                      20          20           60             80            20          20          60           80            0         50        60           0         5       50          60          0           2        4           6
(R-/ha)                                   (113)        (113)       (338)          (450)         (113)        (113)      (338)        (450)            -      (281)     (338)           _      (27)   (281)        (338)          -        (11)    (22)         (34)
P (Kg/ha)                                     10           10           30            40             10          10          30           40            0         20        30           0        0        20         30           0           5       10          15
(Rs/ha)                                    (53)         (53)       (161)          (214)          (53)         (53)      (161)        (214)            -      (107)      (161)          -        -     (107)       (161)          -        (27)    (53)         (80)
R (Kg/ha)                                       0           0           30            40              0            0         30           40            0         20        30           0         0       20          30          0           0        0           0
(R./ha)                                      -            -          (48)          (64)            -            -         (48)        (64)            -       (32)       (48)          -        -      (32)        (48)          -           -        -           -
FYM (tons/ha)                                  0            0            0              0             0            0          0            0            0          0          0          0         0        9          10          0           0        0           0
(Ra/ha)                                      -            -            -             -             -            -           -            -            -         -          -           -        -     (270)       (300)          -           -        -           -
Agrocheaical. (R0/ha)                              0          (25)        (120)         (150)            0          (25)       (120)        (150)         (50)     (240)      (300)          0        0       (40)       (50)          0         (10)     (15)        (25)
Seed (Kg/ha)                                      10           10            8             8            10           10           9            9           50        50         50          80       80      110         120          10          10       10          10
(R./ha)                                   (160)        (160)       (130)          (130)          (40)         (40)        (36)         (36)       (100)      (100)      (100)      (240)   (270)    (330)         (360)        (20)        (20)     (20)        (20)
iatereat on Production
Credit (Rl/ha)                            (36)         (38)         (76)          (93)          (26)         (29)        (67)         (70)         (26)      (78)       (93)        (27)     (321    (90)        (107)         (9)        (13)     (17)        (21)
Depreciation
Bullock Tean (days/ha)                     15           17           23            25            15           17          22           24           17        23         25          15       17        25         30          10          10       12          14
(Ra/ha)                    (40)         (40)         (50)          (50)          (40)         (40)        (50)         (50)         (40)      (50)       (50)        (40)     (40)     (50)        (60)        (40)        (40)    (40)         (40)
Machinery 64 Eq.ip-.et
(Rl/ha)                    (20)         (20)         (25)          (25)          (20)         (20)        (25)         (25)         (20)      (25)       (25)        (20)     (20)      (25)       (25)        (20)        (20)     (20)        (20)
Miacellaoeouo (Rl/ha)                            (15)         (15)         (20)          (20)           (15)        (15)        (20)         (20)         (15)       (20)       (20)       (15)      (15)     (20)        (20)        (15)       (15)    (15)         (15)
Total Elpeaaea  (Rl/ha)                          624          661        1,263         1,519           472          518      1,117        1,377           451     1,295      1,525         494      571   1,470        1,739         206         271      330         390
Net In-coe (Rl/ha)                               - 3           53        1,221         1,586            70           99         773        1,773          161     1,153      1,535         - 8        50      420      1,366          251        251       257        263
p - Pre.ent,         F Future without project,  W  = Future with irrigation  infrastructare  (50,000 ha) a*d W  = Future tith full-package develop ..t (45,000 ha)



ANNEX 9
Table 3
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRICATION PROJECT
Faral Budget for 2 ha Farm
Items                                           Present                         Future with                             uture Wth Proect (W                     Future With Project (W2) 2
Area   Yield   Production  Value       Area   Yield   Production  Value       Area   Yield   Production  Value        Area   Yield   Production  Value
(ha) (tons/ha)    (tons)    (Rs)       (ha) (tons/ha)   (tons)    (Rs)        (ha)  (tons/ha)   (tons)   (Rs)         (ha) (tons/ha)    (tons)   (ha)
Income
Paddy                               0.00     -         -           -       0.05    0.40      0.02         31      0.19    1.60        0.30       459      0.29    2.00       0.58        887
Sorghum (K)                        0.24    0.60       0.14       145       0.24    0.69      0.17        176      0.44    2.40        1.06     1,097      0.49    3.00       1.47      1,521
Cotton                              0.29    0.30      0.09       300       0.29    0.45      0.13        433      0.49    1.60        0.78     2,597      0.49    2.00       0.98      3,263
Pearl Millet                        0.20    0.30      0.06        68       0.20    0.34      0.09        101      0.10    1.80        0.18       202      0.05    2.25       0.11        124
Pulses                              0.29    0.35      0.10       131       0.29    0.40      0.12        157      0.25    0.45        0.11       144      0.25    0.50       0.13        170
Chillies                            0.00     -         -           -       0.00     -         -           -       0.05    0.48        0.02       198      0.05    0.60       0.03        297
Wheat                               0.17    0.36      0.06         81      0.19    0.46      0.09        122      0.56    1.40        0.78      1,053     0.63    2.30       1.45      1,958
Sorghum (R)                        0.85    0.43       0.37       466       0.85    0.49      0.42        529      0.46    1.50        0.69       869      0.41    2.50       1.03      1,298
Gram                                0.10    0.30      0.03        45       0.12    0.34      0.04         59      0.12    0.60        0.07        104     0.12    0.80       0.10        149
Oilseeds                            0.12    0.35      0.04         86      0.15    0.46      0.07        151      0.14    0.50        0.07        151     0.14    0.60       0.08        173
Sugarcane                           0.02   50.00      1.00       117       0.04   57.00      2.28        267      0.12   80.00        9.60     1,123      0.12   80.00       9.60      1,123
Total                            2.30                        1,439       2.46                        2,026      3.04                         7,997      3.16                        10,963
Net Cultivated Area                 2.00                                   2.00                                   2.00                                    2.00
Cropping Intensity (7.)             1.15                                   123                                     157                                    158
Production Costs
Seed                                     -             -         167         -      -                    211         -       -          -         574       -        -         -         631
Fertilizer                           -       -         -          201        -      -                    352         -       -          -       1,766       -        _          _      2,323
Plant Protection                             -         -           31        -      -         _          146         -       -          -         629       -                            814
Depreciation
Bullocks                          -        -         -           96        -      -         _          102        -        -          -         151       -        _         _         163
Machinery and
Equipment                       -        -         -          46         -      -         _           52        -        -          -          74       -        -          -         76
Hired Labor                         -        -         -            0        -      -         -0                     -       -          -          70        -       -          -         130
Miscellaneous                        -       -         -           35        -       -        -           40         -                             58        -       -          _          61
Interest on Production Credit        -       -         -           60        -       -                    84         -        -         _         292        -       -          -         349
Total                                                          636                                     987                                    3,614                                  4,547
Net Income Before Irrigation
Cost                                                               803                                  1,039                                    4,383                                  6,416
Increment over present                                                                                                                          3,580                                  5,613
Incremlent over futureP
without                                                                                                                                       3 344                                   5,377
Non-Farm Income                                                   282                                    250                                      118                                      93
Total Family Income                                             1,085                                  1,289                                    4,501                                   6,509
D?uble sugarcane hectarage to equal total.
H -/ W - Future with irrigation infrastructure.
2 3 w2 - Future with full-package development.



ANNEX 9
Table 4
INDIA
MIARAASHTRA IRRIGATIONj PROJECT
Farm Budget for 5 ha Farm
Items                                       Present                          Future Without Project                  Future With Project (                     Future With Project (W 2)2-
Area   Yield   Production  Value        Area   Yield   Production  Value        Area   Yield   Production  Value         Area   Yield   Production    Val-ue
(ha-) (to~n`s/ha)  (Tt_ons)  (ERs)-     (h-a)  (_tons/ha) ~(tns)7   Esz)_       (h-a) (tons-/ha)   (ton)      (E)        -(h-a)  (tons/ha) ~(tons)        (Rs)
Income
Paddy                            0.00      -         -           -        0 11    0.40      0 04         61       0 42    1 60        0 67      1,025      0 62    2 00       1 24        1,897
Sorghum (K)                      0 52   0 60       0.31        321        0 51    0 64      0.33        342       0 93    2 40        223       2,308      103    300         3 09        3,198
Cotton                           0.62   0 30       0.19        633        0 60    0 45      0.27        899       1.03    1.60        1 65      5,495      1 03    2 00       2.06        6,860
Pearl Millet                     0.42   0.30       0.13        146        0.41    0.34      0 14        158       0 21    1 80        038         428      010    225         0 23           259
Pulses                           0 62   0 35       0 22        287        0 62    0 40      0 25        326       0 52    0.45        025         326      052    050         0 26          339
Chillies                         0.00      -         -           -        0 00     -         -           -        0 10    0 48        005         495      011    060         0 07           693
Wheat                            0.37   0 36       0.13        176        0 41    0 46      0.19        257       1 19    1 40        1 67      2,255      1 34    2 30        3 08        4,158
Sorghum (R1)                     1.83   0.43       0 79        995        1.80    0.49      0 88      1,109       0 98    1 50        1 47      1,852      0 88    2.50       2 20        2,772
Gram                             0.21   0.30       0.06         89        0.26    0 34      0.09        134       0.26    0.60        0 16        238      0 26    0 80       0 21           312
Oilseeds                         0.26   0.35       0.09        194        0 31    0.46      0.14        302       0.31    0.50        0 16        346      0 31    0 60       0 19           410
Sugarcane                        0 05  50.00       2 50        293        0 11   57.00      6.27        922       0.25   80.00       20 00      2,340      0 25   80 00      20 00         2,340
Total                         4.95                       3,134         3 25                        4,510       6 45                         17,108      6 70                          23,238
Net Cultivated Area              5.00                                     5.00                                    5 00                                     5 00
Cropping Intensity  ()          99                                      105                                     129                                      134
Producti.on Costs
Seed                              -        -         -         367         -        -        -          506        -        -          -        1,235       -        -          -1,356
Fertilizer                        -        -         -         439         -        -        -          776         -       -          -        3,429       -        -          -          4,610
Plant Protection                  -        -         -          66         -        -         -         206         -       -          -        1,329       -        -          -          1,719
Depreciation
Bullocks                       -        -         -         201         -        -        -          215        -        -          -          327       -        -          -            328
Hachinery and
Equipment                    -        -         -          85         -       -         -           93        -        -          -          146       -        -          -            154
Hired Labor                       -        -         -          48         -        -         -           85        -       -           -          635       -       -          -             823
Miscellaneous                      -       -         -          75         -        -         -           84        -        -          -          123       -        -          -            128
Interest on Production Credit   -          -         -         132         -        -         -          187        -        -          -         618        -       -          -            744
Total                                                    1.413                                     2,152                                     7,842                                      9,862
Net Income Before Irrigation
Cost                                                         1,721                                     2,358                                     9,266                                    11,376
Ync-rement over present                                                                                                                          7531,5
Increment over future                                                                                                                            7551,5
without                                                                                                                                        6,908                                    11,018
Non-Farm Income                                                    120                                       43                                         0                                          0
Total Family Income                                             1,841                                     2,401                                     9,266                                     13,376
- Double sugarcane hectarage to equal total
2`l= Future with irrigation infrastructure.
H  2 = Future with full-package development



ANNEX 9
Table 5
INDIA
MAH{ARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Budget for 8 ha Farm
Items                                      Present                                Future WLthout Project                     Future Witb Project 01 I)2-                 Future With Project flJ2
Area   Yield    Production   Value            Area   Yield   Production   Value          Area   Yield   Production   Value           Area   Yield   Production   Value
(ha)  (tons/ha)  (Tto.ns)       (R)           (a)  (tons/ha)   (tons)    (RB)           (ha)   (tons/ha)   (to-ns)    (R)          (ha)   (tons/ha)  (tons)           (Rs)
Income
paddy                           0.00    -             -            -           0.15    0.40       0 06          92        0 61    1 60       0 98         1,499      0.91    2,00         1.82       2,785
Sorghum (K)                     0.80    0.60         0.48         497          0 76    0 69       0 52         538        1 37    2 40       3 29         3,405      1.53    3 00         4.59       4,751
Cotton                          0.92    0.30         0.28         932          0 91    0.45       0.41      1,365         1.52     1.60      2.43         8,091      1.53    2 00         3 06      10,190
Pearl Millet                    0.62    0.30         0.19         214          0.61    0.35       0.21         236        0.31    1.80       0.56           630      0.15    2 25         0 34          383
PUlBeB                          0.92    0.35         0.32         418          0.91    0.45       0.41         535        0.76    0.45       0.34           444      0.76    0.50         0 38          496
Chillies                        0.00    -            -             -           0.00    -          -            -          0.15    0.48       0 07           693      0.15    0.60         0 09          891
Wheat                           0.53    0.36         0.19          256         0.61    0.46       0.28         378        1.75    1.40        2.45        3,308       1.98    2 30        4 55        6,143
Sorghum (R)                     2.68    0.43         1.15       1,449          2.67    0.49       1.31      1,651         1.45     1 50      2.18         2,747       1 30    2.50        3.25       4,095
Gram                            0.30    0.35         0 11          163         0.38    0.34       0.13         193        0.39    0.60        0 23          341      0 38    0.80         0.30          446
Oilseeds                        0.37    0 35         0 13          281         0.46    0.46       0.21         454        0 43     0.50       0 22          475       0.45    0 60        0 27          583
Sugarcane                       0.07   50 00         3.50         410          0.15   57.00       8.55      1,000         0.39   80.00    31 20           3,650       0.39   80 00       31 20        3,650
1/
Total7                       7.28    -            -          4,620          7.76    -          -         6,442         9 52    -           -          25,283       9.92     -          -         34,413
Net Cultivated Area             8.00                                           8 00                                       8 00                                        8 00
Cropping Intensity C)              91                                            97                                       119                                         124
Production Costs
Seed                            -        -           -             538         -        -         -            698        -         -         -            1,808      -        -          -           1,993
FertLilizer                     -         -          -             578         -        -         -          1,146        -         -         -           5,545       -        -           -          7,349
Plant Protection                -         -          -              98         -        -         -            308                                         2,073                                      2,767
Depreciation
Bullocks                     -        -           -            297          -        -         -            319        -         -         -              492      -        -           -            538
Machinery and
Equipment                   -        -           -            145          -        -         -            156        -        -          -             220       -        -          -             243
Hired Labor                     -         -          -              90         -        -          -           160         -        -         -            1,495      -        -           -          2,045
Miscellaneous                    -        -          -             139         -        -          -           148         -        -         -              189      -         -          -             201
Interest on production credit -           -          -             195         -        -          -           275         -                  -921                    -        --1,107
Total                                                        2,080                                        3,210                                       12,743                                      16,243
Net Income Before IrrigatLon
Cost                                                             2,540                                       3,232                                        12,540                                     18,170
Increment over Present                                                                                                                                 10,000                                     15,630
Increment over future
without930
9,308                         ~~~~~~~~4,938
Non-Farm Income                                                      0                                           0                                             8                                           0
Total Family Income                                              2,540                                       3,232                                        12,540                                     18,170
it 0~uble sugarcane hectarage to equal total.
2/.V=Future with irrigation 2nfrastructure.
H2 = Future with full-package development.



ANNEX  .
INDIA                           Table 6
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Par% Income
Gross                       Net
1/            Value of      Production    Farm
Farm Size-              Production      Cost         Income
.  Rs
---------------- Rs -------------------
2 ha Farm
P                      1,439            636           803
W1                     2,026            987         1,039
w2                     7,997          3,614         4,383
W                     10,963          4,547         6,416
Inc ease:M%)
W2 over W              295            -             322
W  over W              441            -             518
5 ha Farm
P                     3,134           1,413         1,721
W                     4,510           2,152         2,358
Wi                   17,108           7,842         9,266
W2                   23,238           9,862        13,376
Inc ease:
W_' over W            279             -             293
w  over W             415             -             467
8 ha Farm
P                     4,620           2,080         2,540
W                     6,442           3,210         3,232
W1                   25,283          12,743        12,540
W2                   34,413          16,243        18,170
Inc ease:
W2 over W             292             -             288
W  over W             434             -             462
_1/1
P = p5esent; W = Future without project; W  = Future with irrigation infrastructure
and W  = Future with full-package development.
135



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Project Rent From Farm Budgets
Farm Models
2 ha Farm                         5 ha Farm                           8 ha Farm
Items                          W        W          W              W         WI         W             W         W          W
(i) Expected Gross
Production Value (Rs)    2,026    7,997         10,963        4,510    17,108    23,238           6,442    25,283    34,413
(ii) Certainty Equivalent
of (i) (Rs)                1,823    7,197        9,867        4,059    15,397    20,932           5,798    22,755    30,972
(iii) Crop Inputs (Rs)             987    3,614        4,547        2,152      7,842      9,862        3,210    12,743    16,243
(iv) Family Labor (Rs)            495       950       1,112          980      1,380      1,415        1,070       1,495      1,495
(v) Net Returns (Rs)             341    2,633        4,208          927      6,175      9,655        1,518      8,517    13,234
(vi) Management Fee (Rs)           34       263         421           93        618        965           152        852      1,323
(vii) Net Farm Returns             307    2,370        3,787          934      5,557      8,690        1,366       7,665    11,911
(viii) Project Rent (Rs)              -    2,063        3,480             -     4,623      7,756             -      6,299    10,545
(ix) Project Rent/ha (Rs)           -    1,032        1,740                     924      1,551                      787      1,318
(x) 40% of Project Rent (Rs/ha)            413         696   1              2  370        620                      315        527
(xi) Weighted Average (Rs/ha) 1/                            (W  = 340 and W  = 570)
1/  SWeighted average of 40% of project rent for each farm size.
H                                                                                                                                tlj  z
ax                                                                                              s q)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1



ANNEX 9
Table 8
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost Recovery
Irrigation
Full Package           Infrastructure
Area                     Area
Items                                ---------     Rs/ha/yr---------------
Annual Financial Requirement
Irrigation Infrastructure 1/           1,080                     1,080
On-Farm Development                      396 5/                      -
O&M                                       75                        75
Total                          1,551                    1,155
Cost Recovery Under Existing
Charges
Water Charges                            150                       150
Employment Cess                           25                        25
Education Cess                            27                        27
Sugarcane Crushing Tax                    66                        66
Subtotal                         268                      268
On-Farm Development                      396 5/                     _
Total                            664 2/                   268 2/
Project Rent (full development) 3/       1,425                       850
Annual Benefits (full development)       2,860                     1,810
Incremental Net Farm Income 4/           2,143          x          1,376
Cost Recovery Under Existing
Charges as % of:
Project Rent                              47                        32
Annual Benefit                            22                        13
Incremental Net Farm Income               31                        19
Proportion of Total Cost Recovered
Under Existing Charges (x)                  37                        23
109
1/  Includes share of sunk costs.
2/ Assuming present price differentials farmers would also contribute about
40 Rs/ha through the foodgrain procurement program.
3/ Weighted average.
4/  Over future without development.
5/ For 10 years only, thereafter same as for irrigation infrastructure area.
137



ANNEX 9
Table 9
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Income Available for Family Living
Farm Size                                         Items
(ha)                                            (Rs)
w  1/w2  /
Incremental Net Farm Income over Present
2                            3,580                           5,613
5                            7,545                          11,655
8                           10,000                          15,636
Cost Recovery Under Existing Program 2/
2                              536                           1,328
5                            1,340                           3,320
8                            2,144                           5,310
Amount Available for Family Living 3/
2                            3,847                           5,088
5                            7,926                          10,056
8                           10,396                          12,858
Amount Available for Family Living 3/ per person 4/
2                              581                             848
5                            1,321                           1,676
8                            1,732                           2,143
1/   1
- W = Future with Irrigation Infrastructure.
2
W  = Future with Full Package Development.
2/  Including repayment of on-farm development costs on W .
3/  Net Farm Income under the future with proejct condition after paying
water charges.
4/ Poverty level June 1976. Rs 504 per person. Based on an average size
family of 6 persons.



ANNEX 10
Page 1
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Economic Analysis
Prices
1.        Prices for internationally traded farm production inputs and crops
grown are based on Bank projections for 1985, with adjustments for transport
costs and variations in quality. Prices of locally traded inputs and crops
for 1985 have been estimated from local market prices, projected to 1985
assuming constant price levels. The prices used are in Annex 8.
Project Benefits
2.        The project benefits were based upon the incremental net value of
farm production after sub#tracting the incremental costs including farm labor,
fertilizer, pesticides and seeds (Tables 1, 2, 3 and 4). It was assumed in
the analysis that the benefits would reach the full level of development in
Year Ten of the project. The build-up to that level reflects both (1) the rate
of construction, and (2) the rate at which the physical productivity of the
project lands increase. The anticipated increase in physical productivity for
both the irrigation infrastructure and full-package areas is shown in Figure 1.
It is anticipated that the benefits from the lands receiving full-package
development will accrue more rapidly than those from lands provided only
irrigation infrastructure. Reflecting both the rate of construction and the
rate of benefit accrual under each development block, the accrual of project
benefits is estimated as follows:
Year             1   2    3    4    5    6    7    8    9    10
% of full benefit      1   7   17   33   51   66   81   91   98   100
Farm Labor
3.        The present population of the project is about 175,000 of which
about 55% is represented by farm families, 34% by landless laborers and the
remainder by artisans and shopkeepers in the villages. Assuming 2 1/2 workers
per farm family (14,500) and an average working year of 200 days, the farm
families would provide a labor potential of about 7.2 M man-days. It is
estimated that the future annual labor requirement without the project would
amount to 8.4 M man-days; as a result of the peaking of the requirement in
harvest months, under the future without project condition it would be
necessary to hire about 29% of the total requirement. However, with the
project, it is expected that the requirement would increase to 16 M man-days



ANNEX 10
Page 2
per year--an increase of 90% over that expected in the future without the
project. Under the future with project condition, it is also anticipated
that 56% of the labor requirement would be hired. It is judged that the
present labor supply provided by the farm families and landless laborers in
the project area would be sufficient to meet the expected needs. During
the peak harvest months, it might be necessary for such laborers to work
six or seven days a week, but this is not unusual during the harvest season
in an agricultural community. Also, the natural increase in population will
undoubtedly add to the labor supply more rapidly than employment opportuni-
ties can be developed through increasing the intensity of land use and agri-
cultural production.
4.        Estimates of the per hectlare labor requirements for the various
crops grown in the project are presented in Table 5. Total labor require-
ments by month are shown in Tables 6 and 7. There is considerable fluctua-
tion in labor demand throughout the year. Three peak seasons occur each
year--during the harvest of kharif and rabi crops and also during the plant-
ing of the kharif crops. The opportunity cost of labor was estimated on a
monthly basis using available information on labor supply and demand.
5.        Labor has been shadow priced at marginal rates of between Rs 0.7
and 3.5 per day. The shadow pricing is based on the following assumptions
and observations:
(a) at very low levels of employment, it is doubtful whether the
opportunity cost of labor in terms of foregone product is
much above zero: however, there seems to be an effective
minimum wage of about Rs 1/day. Much of the labor utilized
at the lowest levels of employment may in fact be family
labor, where the payment is only the extra food necessary
for work rather than leisure;
(b) at the present peak level of employment, the marginal cost
of labor is assumed to be Rs 3.5/day, which is the highest
market wage rate encountered, and this is assumed to reflect
the opportunity cost of labor at full employment; and
(c) at the future maximum levels of labor requirements, the wage
rate is assumed to be Rs 3.5/day which should be adequate
to attract necessary labor from the immediate area.
6.        Theoretically, it is assumed that the relationship between the
quantity and opportunity cost of labor employed can be approximated by an
S-shaped curve (Figure 2), joining the points listed above. The initial
increase in slope is slow, reflecting the lack of alternative employment,
with the rate of increase growing as labor becomes more fully utilized,
and finally leveling off when the full requirement has been provided.
140



ANNEX 1 0
Page 3
7.        While the shape of the curve can be viewed with some confidence
at the upper levels, the intercept at the minimum employment level is open
to debate. Fortunately, since the lowest levels of employment occur in both
the future with and without project situations, the incremental cost of labor
is not sensitive to the assumption made about the minimum economic wage.
8.        For the purposes of analysis, the S-curve is formed by three
straight-line segments. The economic cost of labor is found by calculating
the area beneath the curve up to the employment rate.
9.        Computed in this way, the average incremental cost of labor is
Rs 2/man-day--57% of the current peak rate and 80% of the normal financial
rate (Table 8). 1/
Project Costs - Jayakwadi
10.       The capital costs of US$103 M was used in the basic economic analy-
sis. This was based upon the total project cost as developed in Annex 4 less
the cost of the works for the Purna Project, the cost of investigations of
future developments, and the cost of monitoring the project and price esca-
lation. The original cost also excluded the sunk costs in existing facilities
in one set of analyses and included sunk cost in the other. The annual O&M
costs estimated at Rs 75/ha were included for all lands in service.
Period of Analysis and Residual Value
11.       The economic analyses were based upon direct benefits, a 30-year
period of analysis, opportunity cost of incremental farm labor valued at
Rs 2 per day, and full agricultural production achieved in seven years for
each block of land developed and ten years for the total project. There would
be some residual value associated with the canals, drains and storage system
after the 30 year period, but to be conservative, these values have not been
taken into account.
1/   Some 86% of the rural workers in Maharashtra depend upon agriculture
for employment. Since agriculture is a seasonal activity and also
since many of the farms are small, there are significant amounts of
unemployment and underemployment among the agricultural workers. In
recognition of this in May of 1972, the State Government announced
an Employment Guarantee Scheme, the objective of which was to pro-
vide employment rather than relief to able-bodied rural unemployed
workers. Recent experience under this program is summarized in the
following tabulation:
Year                Man-days      Payments      Cost per Man-day
(million)  (Rs million)            (Rs)
1974                   48           137                 2.85
April to Dec. 1975    70            178                 2.54
Based upon 200 working days per year, the 70 M man days worked
in nine months of 1975 is equivalent to 350,000 man years.
141



ANNEX 10
Page 4
Economic Rate of Return
12.       The basic economic rate of return for the project as a whole
is 17%, while that for the full-package area is 19% and for the irrigation
infrastructure area is 14%. The dif.ference in the rate of return for the
two areas clearly indicates the economic superiority of the on-farm develop-
ment program that would be carried out in the full-package area. When on-
farm development is carried out on the irrigation infrastructure area, the
rate of return for that area will also be increased to the 19%. The cost and
benefit streams for each of the project areas as well as for the total project
are presented in Table 9.
Sensitivity Analysis
13.       Several of the basic inputs into the economic analysis have been
varied to determine their impact on the project economics:
Rate of Return
(a) farm labor valued at average market
price (Rs 2.5/man-day)                               17
(b)  benefits reduced by 25%                              13
(c) delay of one year in realization of
benefits                                             14
(d)  capital cost increased by 25%                        14
(e)  combination of (c) and (d)                           12
(f)  combination of (b) and (d)                           10
(g)  combination of (b), (c) and (d)                       9
(h) shadow pricing of exchange rate at Rs 11
to US$1.00                                           19
(i)  inclusion of sunk costs                              10
(j) shadow pricing of cost of construction
labor at Rs 1.50 man-days                            20
(k)  combination (h), (i) and (j)                         12
(1)  combination (h) and (j)                              23
142



ANNEX 10
Page 5
(m) including sunk costs and shadow pricing
exchange rate and construction labor for
the 45,000 ha full-package area                     14
(n) shadow pricing exchange rate and
construction labor for the 45,000 ha
area but excluding sunk costs                       25
(o)  inclusion of sunk costs - CAD area                  12
(p) inclusion of sunk costs - Irrigation infra-
structure area          8
(q) basic rate of return including benefits
from lining                                         18
(r) basic rate of return including benefits
from lining with sunk costs                         11
(s) basic rate of return including benefits
from lining with sunk costs and with
construction labor shadow priced                    12
(t) basic rate of return including benefits
from lining without sunk costs and with
construction labor shadow prices                    21
(u)  Purna project improvements                          13
The inclusion of that part of the sunk costs properly allocable to this de-
velopment (95,000 ha) reduced the overall rate of return to 10%. However,
the shadow pricing of the exchange rate at Rs 11 to US$1 rather than Rs 9 to
US$1 and the cost of labor required of project construction and operation at
60% of the going wage rate (Rs 1.5 man-day rather than Rs 2.5) along with the
inclusion of sunk costs raised the rate of return to 12%. In judging the
significance of this analysis, it should be noted that one of the major ob-
jectives in the development of irrigation projects in Maharashtra is the
provision of employment.
14.       The rate of return for the overall project is more sensitive to
a 25% reduction in the benefits or a 25% increase in the capital cost than
to a one year lag in the realization of benefits. This suggests the need
to assure that the necessary inputs are made available on a timely basis
so that the expected increases in agricultural production can be achieved.
It also suggests the desirability of a rigid control of construction costs.
If there were a lag of one year in the realization of benefits and if the
capital cost were to be increased by 25%, the project would continue to be



ANNEX 10
Page 6
justified but if benefits were reduced by 25% and the construction costs were
increased by a like amount, the project would become marginal.  If all three
of these eventualities were to occur together, the rate of return would fall
below a level that could be reasonably justified, but such a circumstance is
considered highly unlikely.
June 1977
J9U4



ANNEX 1-U
1able 21
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Value of Incremental Production (Economic)
(Full Package Area-45,000 ha)
Crops                        Production                                    Value of
1/       1/                     Price           Incremental
F-W/O--    F-W-      Increase                        Production
---------('000 tons)--------        (Rs/ton)         (Rs '000)
Kharif
Paddy              0.39      10.80      10.41          1,710              17,801
Sorghum            3.35     27.00       23.65            990              23,414
Cotton             2.62     18.00       15.38          4,230              65,057
Pearl Millet       1.32      2.03        0.71          1,215                 863
Pulses             2.33      2.25       -0.08          1,575               - 126
Chillies           0.00      0.54        0.54          9,900              5,346.
Rabi
Wheat              1.79      26.91      25.12           1,665             41,825
Sorghum            8.34     19.13       10.79           1,215             13,110
Gram               0.83      1.80        0.97          1,575               1,528
Oilseeds           1.34       1.62       0.28          2,790                 781
Perennial
Sugarcane         55.40    180.00      124.60            108              13,457
Total           -         -           -               -              183,056
Incremental farm economic cost -                   -                        54,396
Net balance    -                      -                 128,660
1/ F-W/O = Future without project
F-W   = Future with project
145



ANNEX 10
Table=
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Value of Incremental Production (Economic)
(Total Project - 95,000 ha)
Value
Crops                      Production              Price             Incremental
F-W/O I-  F-W -    Increase                        Production
- - - ('000 tons) - - -        (Rs/ton)           (Rs '000)
Kharif
Paddy           0.81     17.20      16.39        1,710             28,027
Sorghum         7.01     48.60      41.59          990             41,174
Cotton          5.49     34.00      28.51        4,230            120,597
Pearl Millet   2.76       5.62       2.86        1,215              3,475
Pulses          4.88      4.50      -0.38        1,575             -  599
Chillies        0.00      1.02       1.02        9,900             10,098
Rabi
Wheat           3.74     43.01      39.27        1,665             65,385
Sorghum       17.42      33.37      15.95        1,215             19,379
Gram            1.73       3.30       1.57        1,575              2,473
Oilseeds        2.80      3.12       0.32        2,790                 893
Perennial
Sugarcane    115.82    380.00    264.18            108             28,531
Total          -       -           -            -               319,433
Incremental farm economic cost         -            -               100,191
Net balance    -        -           -            -               219,242
1/  F - W/0 =  Future without project
F - W   =  Future with project
146



ANNEX 10
TablieTt
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production Co0ts (Economic)
(Full Package Area - 45,000 ha)
Items                 Unit            Future        Increment  Price    Incremental Crop
WO- /    IW1-/                        Production Costs
---------(tons)------------(Rs/kg)-----(Rs'000)------
Seeds
Paddy               -            48.6     270.0      221.4      2.0           442.8
Sorghum (K)         -            48.6      81.0       32.4    16.0            518.4
Cotton              -            46.7     225.0      178.3    10.0          1,783.0
Pearl Millet        -             9.7        2.2      -7.5      4.0           -30.0
Pulses              -            58.3      45.0      -13.3    10.0           -133.0
Chillies            -             0.0        0.5       0.5   120.0             60.0
Wheat               -           311.0   1,404.0   1,093.0       3.0         3,279.0
Sorghum (R)         -           170.1       68.9    -101.2      4.0          -404.8
Gram                -           109.4     112.5        3.1      2.0             6.2
Oilseeds            -            29.2       27.0      -2.2      2.0            -4.4
Sugarcane      million           24.3      56.2       31.9      0.05-/      1,595.0
sets                                                               7,112.2
Fertilizer                                                      (Rs/ton)
N                   -           678.5   3,742.2   3,063.7  3,645           11,167.2
P                   -           388.9   1,065.5   1,676.6  3,285            5,507.6
K                   -           330.5   1,696.5   1,366.0  1,152            1,573.6
FYM             '000 tons        38.9      247.5     208.6      30          6,258.0
24,506.4
Plant Protection '000 Rs        2,330.4  14,973.8  12,643.4       -              -    12,643.4
Depreciation
Bullocks        '000 Rs       2,039.3   3,223.0   1,183.7       -           1,183.7
Machinery
and Equipment   "           1,030.3   1,433.3       403.0                    403.0
Labor             '000                                          (Rs/day)                1,586.7
man days        4,000      8,144     4,144        1.99        8,246.6
8,246.6
Miscellaneous    '000 Rs          524.8      825.8     301.0      -             301.0
301.0
Total                                                                              54,396.1
- WO = Future without project
W = Future with project
-/ 0.05 Rs/set or cutting
1]47






ANNEX 10
Table 4
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Incremental Crop Production Costs (Economic)
(Total Project - 95,000 ha)
Items                Unit        Future            Increment      Price      Incremental Crop
W/O-/ -W1/                                 Production Costs
-----------------(tons)------------------(Rs/Kg)---------(Rs '000)----
Seeds
Paddy              -       101.6       470.0        368.4        2.0            736.8
Sorghum (K)        -       101.6       153.0         51.4       16.0            822.4
Cotton             -        97.6       475.0        377.4       10.0          3,774.0
Pearl Millet       -        20.3         7.2        -13.1        4.0            -52.4
Pulses             -       121.9        95.0        -26.9       10.0           -269.0
Chillies           -         0.0         1.0          1.0      120.0            120.0
Wheat              -       650.0    2,669.0       2,019.0        3.0          6,057.0
Sorghum (R)        -       355.6       154.4       -201.2        4.0           -804.8
Gram               -       228.7       225.0         -3.7        2.0             -7.4
Oilseeds           -        61.0        57.0         -4.0        2.0 2/          -8.0
Sugarcane       million    50.8        118.8         68.0        0.05-        3,400.0
sets
13,768.6
Fertilizer                                                         (Rs/ton)
N                  -     1,418.2    6,959.2       5,541.0        3,645       20,197.0
P                  -       812.9    3,595.5       2,782.6        3,285        9,140.8
K                  -       690.9    3,046.5       2,355.6        1,152        2,713.7
FYM             '000 tons   86.6       523.5        436.9           30       13,107.0
45,158.5
Plant
Protection        '000 Rs  4,871.8   27,863.8    22,992              -         22,992
22,992.0
Depreciation
Bullocks        '000 Rs  4,636.2    6,346.0       1,709.8          -          1,709.8
Machinery
and Equipment    "      2,122.1    2,909.3         787.2          -            787.2
(Rs/day)                2,497.0
Labor             '000     8,363.0   15,966.0       7,603.0        1.99        15,166.0
man days                                                                 15,166.0
Miscellaneous    '000 Rs  1,097.2    1,705.8          608.6          -            608.6
Total            -        -           _      -            -                     - 100,190.7
1/ WO = Future without project
W  = Future with project
2/ 0.05 Rs/set or cutting



ANNEX 10
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
WMtlily Labor Requirements
Crops                  Jan    Feb   Mar    Apr   Mav    June   July   Aug  Sept   Oct   Nov   Dec                Total
_---------------------------(Mandays per ha)--------------------------------------
kharif
p                     -       -                    6       18      7       5      5    22    12        -        75
W                     -       -      -      -      6       18      8       6      5    23    13       -         79
W2                    -       -              -    10       18    12        9      9    36    24        -       118
W                     -       - _       _         10       18    13       10    10    40    28         -       129
Rabi                                                                         - .           2      6      6        6
P                     5       19    10      -      -       -       -       -      8    12       6     6         66
W                     6       21    12       -     -       -       -       -      8    12       7      7        73
W1_                  10       30    15       -     -       -       -       -    10    16    10    10           101
w2                   11       38    20       -     -       -       -       -    10    16    12    12           119
Paddy
Kharif
W                     -       -      -      -      4       14      10    10    10    21         6      5        80
wl_                                          -     4       16      18    19    19    42    14    13            145
w2                    _       _      _       -     4       16      20    20    19    47    15    14            155
Wheat
Rabi
P                     1        8    14       8             -       -       -      -    16       9      5        61
w'                    2        9    15       8     -       -       -       -      -    16    11        6        67
''2                  3       12    23    10       -       -       _       _      _    20    14        9        91
w                     4       14    26    14       -       -       -       -      -    20    17    13          108
Pulses/Oil Seeds
Kharif
p                     -       -      -       3    14         6       1    14      3      -      -    -          41
w                     -       -      -       3    15         6       2    16      4      -      -    -          46
'.2                   -       -      -       3    18         6       2    17      5      -      -    -          51
W                     -       -      -       3    18         7       2    18      6      -      -    -          54
Rabi
P                     -        6    1        14    3       -       -       -      -    -       3      14        41
W                     -        6    2        16    4       -       -       -      -    -       3      15        46
W2_                   -        6    2        17    5       -       -       -      -    -       3      18        51
W2                    -        7    2        18    6       -       -       -      -    -       3      18        54
Oram
Rabi
P                     1       12    2        -      -      -       -       -      3    13    8         2        41
W                     1       14    2        -     -       -       -       -      3    13    9         2        44
W2_                   1       16    2        -      -      -       -       -      3    18   10         3        53
W                     2       20    2        -     -       -       -       -      3    18   11         4        60
Cotton
Kharif
P                     -       -      -        3   24        22     14      14   14    28   25          6       150
W                     -       -      -        3   24        23     15      15   15    31   28          6       160
14                    -       -      -        5   30       36      21      21   21    43   35          8       220
W                     -       -      -        5   30       40      25      25   25    50   40         10       250
Chillies
Kharif
..I
W2              ~~~-    -      -        9  13         36      12      16  23      50  46        27       232
1W                    -       -      -        9   13        36      12     16   23    55   41         33       238
Pearl Millet
Kharif
P                     -       -      -       -      8       12       6       6    5    19   10       -          66
W1                    -       -      -       -      8       12       7       7    6    21   12       -          73
-2                    -       -      -       -    10        16      10      10   10    30   15       -         101
W                     -       -      -       -    12        16      12      12   11    30   20       -         113
Sugarcane
P                    33       42   30         9   22        31      11       8   18    16   40        40       300
W                    35       43   31        10   23        33      12       9   20    18   43        43       320
wl1_                 50       50   36        12   26        38      14      10   24    20   60        60       400
50       50   36       12   26        38      14      10   24    20   60        60       400
,LP= Present;                                                                                           =  uur   ih2ul
/W = Future without; W1 = Future with irrigation infrastructure (50,000 ha); w2 = Future with full-
package development (45,000 ha).
150



ANNEX 10
Table 6
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Requirements by Months
for Full - Package Area (45,000 ha)
Cropping Patterns                   Crop      Jan.      Feb.    Mar.       Apr.      May      June       July      _M.       Sept.      Oct.      Nov.      Dec.       Total
(ha)                             -    -     -    -    -     ('000 Man days)-----------------------------------------------------
Future With Project
aharif
Paddy                            5,400       -                                _     21         86       108      108        103       259        81         76         842
Sorghum                          9,000       -         -        -         -         90       162        117       90         90       360       252          -       1,161
Cotton                           9,000       -         -        -         45       270        360       225      225        225       450       360         90       2,250
Pearl Millet                        900      -         -        -         -         11         14        11       11         10         27        18         -         102
Pulses                           4,500       -         -        -         -         14         81        31        9         81        27         -          -         243
Chillies                            900      -         -        -          8        12         32        11       14         21        49         37        30         214
Rabi
Wheat                            11,700      47       164      304       164         -          _        _        _            -       234       199       152       1,264
Sorghum                          7,650       84       291      153        -         --                   -        -76                 122         92        92          1
Gram                              2,250       4        45        4        -          -          _        _        _            7        41        25         9         135
Oilseeds                          2,270      16         4       41        14         -          -        -        -            -        -          7        41         123
Sugarcane                         2,250    112        112       81        27         59        86        31       23          54        45       135       135         900
Total                         -       263       616      583        258       477       821       534       480        667    1,614    1,206         625       B,144
Future Without Project
Kharif
Paddy                               972      -         -        -          -          4        14        10       10          10        20         5          5          78
Sorghum                          4,860       -         -        -         -          29        88        39       29          24       112        63        -          384
Cotton                            5,832      -         -        -         18        140       134        87       88          87       181       163        35          933
Pearl Millet                      3,888      -         -        -          -         31        4.7       27        27         23        82        47        _           284
pulses                            5,832      -         -         -         -         18        87        35       12          93        23        -         _           268
Chillies                                 -        -         -         -         -         -                    -                   -         -         -                 -
Rabi
Wheat                             3,888       8        35        58        31        -         -          -        -          -         62        43         23         260 .-3.
Sorghum                         17,010    102         357      204         -         -         -         -         -         136       204       119       119        1,241 c j
Gram                              2,430       2        34         5        -         -         -          -        -           7        32        22          5         107  WS
oilseeds                          2,916      17          6       46        12        -         -          -        -          -         -          9         44         134   o
Sugarcane                           972      34        42       30         10        22        32        12         9         19        17        42        42          311 '
Total                        -       163       474       343        71       244       402        210      175        399        733       513       273       4,000
sn    Incremental Labor                   -       100       L42      240       187        233       419       324      305         268       881       693       352        4,144.



ANNEX 10
Table 7
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Farm Labor Requirements by Months
for Irrigation Infrastructure Area (50,000 ha)
Cronping Patterns                 Crop     Jan.      Feb.     Mar.      Apr.     May      June     July      A.       Sept.    Oct.      Nov.      Dec.     Total
(ha)     ---------------------------------- -  -------------('000 Man days)------------_____-_-__-______ -__ -______ -__
Future With Project
Kharif
Paddy                        4,000       -         -        -         -        16        64       72       76        76      168        56       52        580
Sorghum                      9,000       -         -        -        -         90       162      108       81        81      324      216        -      1,062
Cotton                      10,000       -         -        -        50       300       360      210      210       210      430      350        80     2,200
Pearl Millet                 2,000       -         -        -         -        20        32       20       20         20      60       30        -         202
Pulses                       5,000       -         -        -         -        15        90       30       10         85      25       -         -         255
Chillies                     1,000       -         -        -          9       13        36       12       16        23       50       46        27        232
Rabi
Wheat                        11,500       34     138        264     115        _                                             230       161      104      1,046
Sorghu-m                     9,500       95      285       142        -        -         -        -        -         95      132       95        95        959
Gram                         2,500        3        40        5        -        -         -         -       -           7      45        25        8        133
Oilseeds                     3,000        -        -        -         -         9        54        18       6         51      15        -        -         153
Sugarcane                    2,500      125      125        90       30         65       95        35      25        60       50      150       150     1,000
Total                     -         257     588        501      204       528       893      505      444       708   1,549    1,129         516    7,822
Future Without Project
Kharif
Paddy                         1,060      -         -        -         -          4        15       11      11         11       22        6         5        85
Sorghum                      5,300       -         -        -         -        32        95        42      32         27     122        69        -        419
Cotton                       6,360       -         -        -         19      153       147        95      95         95     197       178        38     1,017
Pearl Millet                 4,240       -         -        -         -         34       51        30      30         25       89       51        -        310
Pulses                        6,360      -         -        -         -         19       95        38      13        102       25       -         _        292
Chillies                        -        -         -        -         -         -        -         -       -          -        -        -         -        -
Rabi
Wheat                         4,240        8       38        64       34        -         -        -        -         -        68        47       25        284
Sorghum                     18,550      111       389      223        -                                              148      223      130       130     1,354       -
Gram                          2,650       3        37         5       -         -        -         -        -          8       35       24         5        117
Oilseeds                      3,180      19         6        51       13        -        _-                                    -         9        48        146
Sugarcane                     1,060      37        45        33       11        24       35        13        9        21       19       46        46        339       H0
Total                      -        178       515      376        77       266      438       229--   I90       437       800      560       297     4,363
Incremental labor               -        79        73       125      127       262       455      276      254       271      749       569      219      3,459



ANNEX 10
INDIA                                         Table 8
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Labor
-----------------------------------------------------Months----------------------------------------------------
Jan.    Feb.      Mar.    Apr.       Ma       June       July       Aug.      Sept.    Oct.       Nov.    Dec.    Total
--------------------------------Seasonal Farm Labor Analysis (Total Project)------------------------------------
Farm Family Labor
('000 mandays) 1/                          600     600       600      600       600       600         600      600       600       600       600      600      7,200
Labor Requirements
Future without project
('000 mandays)                             341     989       719      148       510       840         439      365       836    1,533    1,073        570      .8,363
Future with project
('000 mandays)                             520   1,204    1,084       462    1,005    1,714         1,039      924    1,375    3,163    2,335   1,141         15,966
Labor Shortages
Future without project
('000 mandays)                              -       389      119       -        -         240         -          -        236       933      473      -         2,390
(%          29)
Future uith project
('000 mandays)                              -       604      484       -        405    1,114          439       324       775    2,563    1,735       541       8,984
(7         56)
----------------------------------Economic Cost of Farm Labor (Total Project)-----------------------------------
Labor Requirements
('000 samdays)
Future with project                        520   1,204    1,084        462    1,005    1,714        1,039       924    1,375    3,163    2,335   1,141    15,966
Puture without profect                      341     989       719      148       510       840         439       365       836    1,533    1,073       570      8,363
Increment with project                     179      215       365      314      495       874         600       559       539    1,630    1,262       571      7,603
Average Alternative Opportunity
Cost (Rs/manday )                            1.40    1.80       1.80      0.70    1.80       1.95        1.80      1.40     1.80      2.85      2.02    1 80        1 99
Incremental Opportunity 
cost  (Rs  000)                           251      387       657      220       891    1,704       1,080       783       970    4,646    2,549   1,028    15,166
14,500 farms, two and one-half working members per farm family and 200 working days per year.



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION PROJECT
Cost and Benefit Streams
Irrigation-Infrastructure Area
Entire Project             Full-Package Area (45,000 ha)    (50,000 ha)
Costs          Benefits             Costs          Benefits              Costs          Benefits
Year      Capital   O&M   Total                Capital   O&M   Total                Capital   O&M   Total
------------------------------------------(US$ million)--------------------------------------------
19.12     0.07  19.19       0.34       6.56    0.02   6.54      0.14      1256      0.05   12.61    0.20
2          32.67     0.27  32.94       1.62     12.61     0.08 12.69       0.72      20.06     0.19    20.25    0.90
3         3 1.52     0.52  32,04       4.22     17.72    0.23 17.95        2.00      13.,80    0.29   14.09    2.21
4          19.49     0.72   20.21    7.97       1.635     0.31  16.66      4.15       3.14     0.41      3.55    3.82
5            -       0.79   0.79    12j,40        -       0.38   0.38       6.86       -       0.41      44L1 5i54
6            -       0.79   0.79    16.19         -       0.38   0.38      9.15        -       0.41     0-.4    7.04
7            -       0.79   0.79    19.70         -       0.38   0.38    11.15         -       0.41      0.41   8.55
8            -       0.79   0.79    22.28          -      0.38   0.38    12.72          -      0.41      0.41   9.56
9            -       0.79   0.79    23.84          -      0.38   0.38    13.87          -      0.41      0.41   9.97
10            -      0.79   0.79    24.36          -      0.38   0.38    14.30          -      0.41      0.41  10.06
11-30         -      0.79   0.79    24.36          -      0.38   0.38    14.30          -      0.41      0.41  10.06
m o)
Rate of Return (%                       17                                   19                                   114



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION
PROJECT
RATE OF BUILD-UP IN BENEFITS1'
100
90 
80-
Full On-farm  Development Area
70-
Irrigation Infrastructure Area
60-
5,
30.
20
10
127
0
1        2                  ~~~~3                4                  5                   67
H                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Years                                                             H
i/Reflects only physical productivity for each block of land.
WNorld Bank-17203



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION
PROJECT
LABOR COST
4
3
0
-J  2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
0
o ,M
0.5           1.0           1.5            2.0            2,5           3.0            3.5          J 
Labor Requirement (M man-days/month)e 
0o 
World Bank-17204



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION
PROJECT
Implementation Schedule'1
I______________B______________-------------nk Fiscal Year                        -              ------------
u   1977           1978                      1979                       1980                      1981
ltar                 Total   N
l T   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th    1t    2nd   3rd   4th   1St   2nd   3rd   4th   1st   2nd   3rd   4th
Board Presentation
Project Effective
Paithan Left Bank Main Canal        62  Km 1P5g
9, 000                   18,000                    18, 000                   12,100
Paithan LB Distributary Canals   57,100  Ha  1*1*3                                        I __ 
2,700                     6,000                     8,100                     8,200
Paithan RigtBanistrMuain Canals     11290   Ka  sElm,   _      r,0                      200        _     _       1,0                         ,0
Paithan LB Land Development      25,000  Ha                                                                                                  7
8,000                    12.000                    12,000                     5,900
Paithan RB Distributary Canals   37.900  Ha  11111                                  mo                          m 1~          -         mo
2,300                     4,000                     6,900                     6,800
Paithan RB Land Development      20,000  Ha                      6                         9                         1                         2
Road Construction                   385K                         60                        90                       110                       12
Market Yardt                        100                          2025I3                                                                        25
80                       160                       170                        60          3
Lining of Distributaries & Minors   570  Km                      80                        30                        30      _1
Extension Services              208.000  Ha                     1
20                       30                         30                        20
Monitoring Program                  100   %                      20                                                  30                         20 
Preparation of Future Project       100  %                        -             _     r    3                                                            -
Purna Modernization Drainage     30,000  Ha                   3,000      _               6,000                    10,500                     10,500
1/ During the monsoon period which extends approximately three months corresponding to the 1st Quarter of each year (FY) there
will be some seasonal interruption of civil works construction. Planning, design and procurement activities will however continue
Ha        throughout the year.
World Bank-17034



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION
PROJECT
CAI) OF(potizatiogi at State aetid i1eLainal Lov.,a
I'G,,vu*(I ian
6I.fltr                   M~~~~~~~nSste( a                      MIM,,h, Id               Mill                                   sib, .'                        C.b,61-  S.bc  imr.,.ss mo CAD
ami pow..  wo.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~ltsnu;CA)   unr..o.
I .                    I                                                                          *              I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~SECY)
I                   :        F                                       t~~~~~~~~sacwvSu,                                                        So..c ,vCADA Ulod
~~~~  I  ~~~~~~~~~~   I                                                              a ~~~~~~~~~~~~A.11m.ily
A.0 ,cr,II,,r.,I                                                           5                                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~.-tonmiUUOO,5 US AwFcuiI.MO
MIiMss.,. ,,Sijd,rd of. gb. me..
ii.solu~~~~~~.                        I                         I              Ci~~~~~~~i*s.ws~~~~~s.                        -                                      Mwu.i.s.sS of Lcui.laI.oo A.osomnc.~unwisof   widaivaAsnalnc
t..ajesae    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~                             sal                  fill Ocia,, ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AAsialiog ....ustol fS.t.,Vj
l.n                                                I I'd                                                                                                              -gin..... .1  L                   CAD         Co,,or,i.sco.. I.rc.
BAIIUCI                                           CI                L     wI..                                 Ln.as          J                               AosSa.J                AiO                                    ce.a.inasgA.cl5,OIS
~~~~~~                                                    4I~~~~~~~~~~~e  iguiml                                                                                        Ad,1ZilI. ..   Chad  EnsaeStM
I.-.                                                                                                      I                                                     (.01 t1555s.SOrSlOI Sc.,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~hl&.Ill,dtewsetil.
I*                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CAGA Aamininsi,..Io
*     CAD)A (E.ecw    Co. rnSste.               Ojs.i..s  Col"tIus.a.
I  I                                                                                                                f           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~    ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Joy..I.a.ad/p'..I4w Psojeci  M*.,a!pnu fIhul.s.I. mLI)C
I              I                                              1                                                                  [~~~~~.ajaosanIacnla..JAdd  Un  Marnw,s i. Iesdent we Asu4a
I                                                                                                               I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C,ICAAAmmsm
I ....d  Ieai.j~~~ies.ol  ~         ~             eSaS.radsuaaj             I        A.sSsS,..j.,b..SI ~~~~Addailiona.1 Chief Et.gi..aev A
I..... a  I sa.,,Iv,Aatiaa..giy                                                                      WwC                                                        SAmn 169w1. Con 4i,F).s.
4IA.ep,te. SLeU ail. A%sesA
H                                                                                                                                                                                  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~WassId W5ask -117031



INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION
PROJECT
CAD Organization at Project Level
Additional                                                                  CADA Administrator S|orinrendinC
Chief         -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  - _              -  -    Jesekwudil/Prne                                                  Agi__intrer     n                 R.prewnt.tim
Engineer                                                                    Project                                                         Off ice,                          Jay.ktadi                     Comissi.n.,
Irrigation                                                                                     _                                             A.rangabad                       Project
A.rengabed                                                                            I                    CAmect l
1         __         HCI Specialist Staf 
Is  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t
ri Adiiona       |                            ic Adt.ral  || Agiutr
r  Superintending   Engineer                                                                                              d                                      r n .t r
Proposed          Jeyekwedi         Jayakg-di          Nede             Aare,gabad
119771            Left              Right              Circle           Crcle                                                                                          _  _                                     CADAIMLDC                                  ;is
Additiorsl        heck              Bunk               Ipra                                                                                                                            IIDst,.Prishe7d
Circle            Circle            Circle                                                                                                                                Coop               State              Lend Development Cpllector le
Marketing  Sup ly           Planning and                                            eetv
Threi              Sic  io otruction                                                                Thr * e   O p e  r  t i  9  0 I V 1 5 ision O r 5                                                                                                               cUitouncill   |
Additionel               Divisions                            -       --          -  -           3           Enginers                3 Deputy Director Agriatre tu__
Divisions                                                           ~~~~~~           ~~~~~~~Purna  Joyakmdi   Purrs           Jayakmadi
Left  | |Right |L   .Jvkwdft|;                                                1           t                    UW  andl 
Bank ~     ~        L: Banknrp5 1                              |Brnh5|                     ei
|  |  t-TX  1W      1  1                                                     1 ~~~~~~~~~~Constructionl |I
Sud,in ()Sobdiv                                                                                                                                 I
<~~~ 4 Operetiey .ng
S.bdhilsiot.l ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Vilg
|      l       l               | ~~~~~~Subdivision.
10                                                                                                                                                      Vny                                                                                                 Villaye  
-  -   -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -  -   lff~~~Irigation
Committee
910 Villaees in 244,000 he project arem
World Bunk-i17038






-R12394
INDIA
MAHARASHTRA IRRIGATION AND COMMAND AREA DEVELOPMENT COMPOSITE PROJECT                                                                                                __c____35__
Project Area                         IP.ecrAeAs..
P,opoeed 2-oR.d, 
C.. :n     -    3t o.[f I BRDCt  P,   e:  It.0
aulun9bb8   A U R A N G A B A D   .. na              |           - ---- 'so>ed L =Phsae Lln3 Est R
D I S T R  I C T                                    N           A   P       E,oeedTeIePhe- Stutons
V                      ambd~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                                                                     ~ ~~~~~~~ Sob Mo4keOs\
=. S   |                           /                                  3E  Propose~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N,d Dom ond Lo.W (N., P.,, of P,-ec)         *---                /
o:W-  E-,,s  T-- Loo
jLAr CAM jl> t } ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~P A R B H A N I   F -3A .d
T         A N                                                      D I $ T R IC __ T
s;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 25 231                                                                                                 PFsJ
eiN~~~~~~~~~                                                                                       ~~~ --- ,----- ---.
AHMEDNAGAR ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~NADE
Dwn I  'E <vm hS Th R I CTnDITRI CT
t- MB =   G     L   1s 1 .devr>nilor a LUes z fr1e  
adi=-:.13L,Sipe~~~~~ I:!| >bS.h T.. Rd.CT,,.'



