CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 736 IN
Development Credit Agreement
(Maharashtra Irrigation Project)
between
INDIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated October 11, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 736 IN
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 1977, between INDIA, acting by
its President (hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association.)
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B) By an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the State of Maharashtra, the State of Maharashtra
has agreed to undertake certain obligations in respect of the
carrying out of the Project; and
(C) By an agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation,
the Agricultural Refinance and Development Corporation has agreed
to undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of
the Project.
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter alia
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in the
Agreements of even date herewith referred to in Recitals (B) and
(C) above; and
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agree-
ments of the Association being hereinafter called the General
Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Maharashtra" means the State of Maharashtra, a State of
India, or any successor thereof;
(b) "Maharashtra Project Agreement" means the agreement
between the Association and Maharashtra of even date herewith, as
the same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes
all schedules to the Maharashtra Project Agreement and all
agreements supplemental to the Maharashtra Project Agreement;
(c) "ARDC" means the Agricultural Refinance and Development
Corporation, a statutory corporation established and organized
under the laws of the Borrower;


﻿-3-
(d) "ARDC Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and ARDC of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time and such term includes all agreements
supplemental to the ARDC Agreement.
(e) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to
be entered into between the Borrower and ARDC pursuant to Section
3.01 (c) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time;
(f) "Financing Banks" means Maharashtra State Cooperative
Land Development Bank and Commercial Banks in Maharashtra
participating in lending to farmers in the Project Area; and
(g)  "ProjecL Area" means the combined culturable command
areas of the Jayakwadi and Purna Irrigation Schemes in Maharashtra.


﻿ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from
the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule
1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from time to
time by agreement between the Borrower and the Association, for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to
be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured
in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in
Section 2.02 of the Maharashtra Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1983
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn
and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually
on June 1 and December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1987, and ending December 1,
2026, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 1996, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Northern Ireland is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.(a) Without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement, the Borrower shall cause Maharashtra and ARDC to
perform in accordance with the provisions of the Maharashtra
Project Agreement and the ARDC Agreement all the obligations
therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action,
including the provision of funds, facilities, services and other
resources, necessary or appropriate to enable Maharashtra and ARDC
to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be
taken any action which would prevent or interfere with such
performance.
(b) The Borrower shall make available out of the proceeds
of the Credit, funds equivalent to $64,500,000 to Maharashtra in
accordance with the Borrower's standard arrangements for
developmental assistance to the States of India.
(c) The Borrower shall relend funds equivalent to $5,500,000
out of the proceeds of the Credit to ARDC under a subsidiary
loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and ARDC
under terms and conditions (including inter alia those set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement) which shall have been approved by
the Association.


﻿7-
(d)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Loan Agreement in such manner as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Remedies of the Association
Section 4.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) Maharashtra shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the Maharashtra Project Agreement;
(b) ARDC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
under the ARDC Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(c) ARDC shall have become unable to pay any of its debts as
they mature or any action or proceeding shall have been taken by
ARDC or by others whereby any of the property of ARDC shall or may
be distributed among its creditors;
(d) The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of ARDC or for the suspension of its operations; and
(e) An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall
make it improbable that (i) Maharashtra will be able to perform
its obligations under the Maharashtra Project Agreement, or (ii)
ARDC will be able to perform its obligations under the ARDC
Agreement or under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.


﻿-9-
Section 4.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof:
(a) any events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of Section
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall c,nt- nt        poriod
of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been ix.!n Oy L.te
Association to the Borrower and Maharashtra or ARDC, as the case
may be; and
(b) any events specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Se,:tion
4.01 of this Agreement shall occur.


﻿- 10 -
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
(a) the execution of the Maharashtra Project Agreement on
behalf of Maharashtra has been duly authorized or ratified by
all necessary governmental action; and
(b) the execution of the ARDC Agreement on behalf of ARDC,
has been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate
and governmental action.
Section 5.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association:
(a) that the Maharashtra Project Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by Maharashtra, and is legally binding
upon Maharashtra in accordance with its terms; and
(b) that the ARDC Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by ARDC and, is legally binding upon ARDC in accordance
with its terms.


﻿- 11 -
Section 5.03. The date January 11, 1978, is hereby specified
for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.04. The provisions of paragraph (b) of Section 4.02
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which
the Development Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date 20
years after the date of this Agreement, whichever shall be the
earlier.


﻿- 12 -
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. Any Secretary, Additional Secretary, Joint
Secretary, Director or Deputy Secretary of the Department of
Economic Affairs in the Ministry of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government of India
Ministry of Finance
Department of Economic Affairs
New Delhi, India
Cable address:
ECOFAIRS
New Delhi
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.


﻿- 13 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
INDIA
By /s/ N. A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿- 14-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amount of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated         % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent)   to be Financed
(1) Civil works
(a) lining of                5,600,000        75%
distributaries
and minors
(b) Others                  50,000,000        60%
(2) Equipment and                11,400,000
vehicles
(a) Directly                                  100% of foreign
imported                                 expenditures
(b) Manufactured                              100% of local
locally                                  expenditures
(ex-factory)
(c) Locally                                   70%
procured
(3) Consultants'                     50,000        100%
services
(4) Unallocated                   2,950,000
TOTAL        70,000,000


﻿- 15 -
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for goods
or services supplied from the territory of any country other than
the Borrower;
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in
compliance with the policy of the Bank that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes
levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or
services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or
supply thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes
levied on or in respect of any item to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases, the Association
may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required
to be consistent with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for:
(a) expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and


﻿- 16 -
(b) expenditures in respect of Part E of the Project
until (i) evidence satisfactory to the Association has been
furnished to the Association that the execution and delivcry of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf of the Borrower and ARDC
have been duly authorized or ratified by all nece&nary
governmental and corporate action, (ii) the Association has bee
furnished with an opinion or opinions satisfactory to the
Association of counsel acceptable to the Association showing that
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified
by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and
ARDC, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and ARDC,
respectively, in accordance with its terms, and (iii) Maharashtra
has issued governmental orders to make applicable Special Loans to
farmers in thq Project Area in accordance with the Guidelines
referred to under Part II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursemen: percentages set forth in the table in paragraph
1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated that the amount
of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be insufficient
to finance the agreed percentage of all expenditures in that
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower: (i)
reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the


﻿- 17 -
estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are
not needed to meet other expenditures, and (ii) if such reallocation
cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement
percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that
further withdrawals under such Category may continue until all
expenditures thereunder shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way
restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the
Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such
expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 18 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is the continuation of irrigation development in
the Jayakwadi and Purna Irrigation Schemes areas over a period of
four years and consists of the following:
Part A:   The completion of the Jayakwadi Left Bank Canal (LBC)
between km 100-208 and the Jayakwadi Right Bank Canal
(RBC) between km 20-132.
Part B:   The construction of a lined distributary canal system
for an irrigation and drainage canal network to serve
about 57,000 ha of the Jayakwadi LBC command and about
38,000 ha of the Jayakwadi RBC.
Part C:   The rehabilitation, upgrading and construction of 385 km
of district and village link roads.
Part D:   The rehabilitation of irrigation distribution works and
provision of drainage serving about 30,000 ha of the
Purna Irrigation Scheme.
Part E:   On-farm development in the Jayakwadi Irrigation Scheme
comprising land shaping and field channels, covering
about 25,000 ha of the Jayakwadi LBC and about 20,000 ha
of the Jayakwadi RBC areas.
Part F:   The construction of 11 market centers.


﻿- 19 -
Part G:   Provision of monitoring facilities in the Jayakwadi
Irrigation Scheme to help determine the efficiency of
the irrigation system and to evaluate operation and
seepage losses; and a system to evaluate economic and
social project benefits in the Jayakwadi Irrigation
Scheme.
Part H:   The acquisition and utilization of vehicles and equipment
and construction of buildings for Project management and
O&M.
Part I:   The acquisition and utilization of vehicles and
equipment and construction of buildings for a
strengthened extension service.
Part J:   The preparation of future irrigation projects in the
Project Area.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 3
Principal Lending Terms and Conditions
I.   Ordinary Land Development Loans
1.   Borrower to ARDC
(a) For ARDC refinancing up to 9 years:
(i) annual interest rate of not less than 6.75%,
less 0.25% for prompt payment; and
(ii) repayment at the end of 9 years.
(b) For ARDC refinancing for more than 9 and up to 15
years:
(i) annual interest rate of not less than 7.25%,
less 0.25% for prompt payment; and
(ii) repayment at the end of 15 years.
(c) Borrower to carry exchange risk.
2.   ARDC to Financing Banks
(a) Annual interest rate of 7.5% minimum.
(b) Installment repayments to coincide approximately
with collections from ultimate borrowers.
(c) Refinancing by purchase of debentures or by loans
not exceeding 90% of individual loans.
3.   Financing Banks to Ultimate Borrowers
(a) Annual Interest rate of 10.5% minimum.


﻿- 21 -
(b) A once and for all evaluation fee of 0.5% of
the cost of project investments may be charged.
(c) Repayment periods to be based on the ultimate
borrower's repayment capacity, but not to exceed
11 years.
(d) Grace periods not exceeding 2 years from the
date of disbursement of the loans, may be
granted at the discretion of ARDC provided that
the repayment period of such loans is not exceeded.
II. Special Loans
Terms and interest rates for lendings by the Borrower,
Maharashtra and ARDC to the Special Loans Account (SLA); for
lending from the SLA to the Financing Banks; for lending from
the Financing Banks to the Command Area Development Authority
(CADA); and for lending from CADA to farmers for on-farm
development shall be in accordance with the Guidelines for
the Special Loans to Finance On-Farm Development Works in the
Command Area Projects issued by ARDC on September 15, 1976.
Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, these
Guidelines shall not be amended for this Project.


﻿- 22 -
III. General
(a) Security would be as determined by the Financing
Banks and ARDC.
(b) Technical standards acceptable to ARDC would be
observed.
(c) Where the land development works are executed by
centralized agencies and no cash is paid to the
individual farmer to carry out the work, no cash
contribution will be necessary. In any other cases
the contribution described in the respective loan
agreement with ARDC will apply.
(d) In respect of lendings by the Financing
Banks, the borrower will have to purchase at
least one share to become a member.


