CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 736 IN
Maharashtra Project Agreement
(Maharashtra Irrigation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
Dated October 11, 1977


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 736 IN
MAHARASHTRA PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated October 11, 1977, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA, acting by its Governor (hereinafter called
Maharashtra).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between INDIA, acting by its President (hereinafter called
the Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to
make available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies
equivalent to seventy million dollars ($70,000,000), on the terms
and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement, but
only on condition that Maharashtra agree to undertake such
obligations toward the Association as hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS Maharashtra, in consideration of the Association's
entering into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower,
has agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:


﻿-2-
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in the
Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-3-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. Maharashtra shall carry out the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial and engineering practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the purchase of goods or for civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) Maharashtra undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit made available to it
by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use of
installation, and for such insurance any indemnity shall be
payable in a currency freely usable by Maharashtra to replace or
repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Association may otherwise agree,
Maharashtra shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower
to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.04. (a) Maharashtra shall furnish to the Associa-
tion, promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b) Maharashtra: (i) shall maintain records adequate to
record the progress of the Project (including the cost thereof)
and to identify the goods and services financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit made available to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall enable the
Association's representatives to visit the facilities and con-
struction sites included in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and docu-
ments; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit so made
available to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.


﻿-5-
Section 2.05. (a) Maharashtra shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to
the progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations
under this Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes
of the Credit.
(b) Maharashtra shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with, the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by Maharashtra of its obligations under
this Agreement.


﻿-6-
ARTICLE III
Particular Covenants
Section 3.01. Maharashtra shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project to maintain records adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained appropriate accounting
practices their operations and financial condition.
Section 3.02. Maharashtra shall cause its departments and
other agencies and authorities responsible for carrying out any
part of the Project to: (i) have their accounts and financial
statements related to the Project for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than nine months after the end of each such year,
(A) certified copies of the financial statements for such year as
so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of
such scope and in such detail as the Association shall have
reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such
other information concerning the accounts and financial statements
and the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.


﻿- 7 -
Section 3.03. Maharashtra shall promptly take necessary
measures to minimize the risk of malaria and other water-related
diseases in the Project Area.
Section 3.04. Maharashtra shall operate and maintain Parts A,
B and D of the Project in accordance with sound engineering
practices.
Section 3.05. Maharashtra undertakes that, prior to
completion of the Project, it shall introduce a water allocation
plan in the Project Area on the basis of first priority for kharif
and rabi foodgrains and cotton, second for limited areas of
perennials and third, when residual reservoir water exceeds an
annually determined minimum level by March in each year, for
selected hot weather crops, always taking into account priority of
irrigation over power generation requirements.
Section 3.06. Maharashtra undertakes to review and, if
necessary, increase its water and water-related charges in the
Project Area from time to time with the objective of collecting
full operational and maintenance cost and, to the extent possible,
cost of infrastructure investment, having regard, inter alia,
for the incentives and repayment capacity of farmers in the
Project Area.


﻿-8-
ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Maharashtra thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance
with its terms; or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Maharashtra of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the Development Credit Agreement.


﻿-9-
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address here-
inafter specified or at such other address as such party shall
have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or
making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For Maharashtra:
Chief Secretary to the Government
of Maharashtra
Mantrayala
Bombay, India
Cable address:
RESTIS
Bombay


﻿- 10 -
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any documents required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Maharashtra may be taken or executed by the
Chief Secretary to the Government of Maharashtra or such other
person or persons as Maharashtra shall designate in writing.
Section 5.03. Maharashtra shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen
signature of the person or persons who will, on behalf of
Maharashtra, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by MaharashLra pursuant
to any of the provisions of this Agreement.
Section 5.04. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.


﻿- 11 -
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and
year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Ernest Stern
Regional Vice President
South Asia
STATE OF MAHARASHTRA
By /s/ N.A. Palkhivala
Authorized Representative


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part B hereof, contracts for the
purchase of goods or for civil works shall be procured in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part A of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 1.3 of Part A of the
Guidelines.
B.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for civil works (except those under Part A of the
Project) may be let on the basis of competitive bidding advertised
locally under procedures satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Contracts for vehicles and equipment estimated to cost the
equivalent of $100,000 or less, and contracts for field vehicles
and trucks may be let on the basis of competitive bidding
advertised locally under procedures satisfactory to the
Association.


﻿- 13 -
C.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference
for Domestic Manufactures
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids of
the supply of goods except those to be procured in accordance
with local procedures: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported
goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied
goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the cost to Maharashtra of
inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the delivery
of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be
included.
2.   Goods manufactured in India may be granted a margin of
preference in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:
(a) All bidding documents for the procurement of goods
shall clearly indicate any preference which will be granted,
the information required to establish the eligibility of a
bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.


﻿- 14 -
(b) After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified
in one of the following three groups:
(1) Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in
India if the bidder shall have established to the
satisfaction of the Borrower and the Association
that the manufacturing cost of such goods includes
a value added in India equal to at least 20% of
the ex-factory bid price of such goods;
(2) Group B: all other bids offering goods
manufactured in India.
(3) Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c) All evaluated bids in each group shall be first
compared among themselves, excluding any customs duties and
other import taxes on goods to be imported and any sales or
similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to determine
the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated
bids shall then be compared with each other, and if, as a
result of this comparison a bid from group A or group B is
the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.


﻿- 15 -
(d) If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c)
above, the lowest bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids
shall be further compared with the lowest evaluated bid from
group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the imported
goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this
further comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt
importer would have to pay for the importation of the goods
offered in such group C bid; or (ii) 15% of the c.i.f. bid
price of such goods if said customs duties and taxes exceed
15% of such price. If the group A bid in such further compari-
son is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not,
the bid from Group C which as a result of the comparison
under paragraph (c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be
selected.
D.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Civil Works;
Preference for Domestic Contractors
With respect to any contract for civil works included
under Category (1) of the table set forth in Schedule 1 to the
Development Credit Agreement and to be procured in accordance
with the procedures described in Part A.1 of this Schedule,
Maharashtra may grant a margin of preference of 7-1/2% to domestic
contractors, in accordance with, and subject to, the following
provisions:


﻿- 16 -
(a) Contractors shall be required to prequalify as provided
in Part A of this Schedule and applicants for qualification
applying also for such preference shall be asked to provide, as
part of the data for qualification, such information, including
details of ownership, as shall be required to determine whether,
according to the classification accepted by the Association, a
particular firm or group of firms qualified for a domestic
preference. The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the
preference and the method that will be followed in the evaluation
and comparison of bids to give effect to such preference.
(b) After bids have been received and reviewed by
Maharashtra, responsive bids will be classified into the following
groups:
(i) bids offered by domestic contractors
eligible for preference; and
(ii) bids offered by other contractors.
For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids an amount
equal to 7-1/2% of the bid amount shall be added to bids received
under group (ii) above.
E.   Review of Procurement Decisions by thze Association
Maharashtra shall, before qualification is invited, inform
the Association in detail of the procedure to be followed, and
shall introduce such modifications in said procedure as the


﻿- 17 -
Association shall reasonably request. The list of prequalified
bidders, together with a statement of their qualifications and,
where applicable, of their eligibility for domestic preference
under Part D.1 above and of the reasons for the exclusion of any
applicant for prequalification and for such eligibility shall be
furnished by Maharashtra to the Association for its comments
before the applicants are notified of Maharashtra's decision, and
Maharashtra shall make such additions to, deletions from, or
modifications in, the said list as the Association shall reasonably
request.
2.   With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the
equivalent of $200,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, Maharashtra shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.


﻿- 18 -
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, Maharashtra
shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform the
Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to award
the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient
time for its review, a detailed report on the evaluation and
comparison of the bids received, and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the intended award would be inconsistent with the
Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
Maharashtra and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from those
on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to the
submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
3.   With respect to each contract to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly after its
execution and prior to the submission to the Association of the first
application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in


﻿- 19 -
respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of the respective bids, recommendations
for award and such other information as the Association shall
reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that
the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and Maharashtra
and state the reasons for such determination.


