Document of
The World Bank
FOR  OF AL USE ONLY
Reprt No. P-5973-ALB
MEMORANDUK AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECmTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
IN AN AMOUNT EQUIVALENT TO SDR 2.9 NILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
FOR A
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORK
APRIL 21, 1993
I-'     I                         ;o: :i; ',--_ - 
2ti~~~~~~-                -r          
ffi   _  * , . !-,: ^ /I  j  I ;
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipiens only in the perfonmance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be discosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY AND EQUIVALENT UNITS
Currency Unit = Lek
(Average Commercial Rates)
Aug          Dec           Feb
19921               1992                1993
US$1.00=                  15.0         120.0         100.0        105.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CEM      -    Country Economic Memorandum
CSO      -    Central Statistics Office
EC       -    European Comrnunity
EFSAC  -    Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
ERA      -    Enterprise Restructuring Agency
ESAF    -    Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
ESU      -    Enterprise Support Unit
GDP    -    Gross Domestic Product
IDA      -    International Development Association
IMF      -    International Monetary Fund
MoFE   -    Ministry of Finance and Economy
NAP    -    National Privatization Agency
PFP      -    Policy Framework Paper
PHARE  -    Poland/Hungary Assistance for Economic Reconstruction
PIU      -    Project Implementation Unit
SDR      -    Special Drawing Rights
SNA      -    Standard National Accounting
UNDP   -    United Nations Development Programme
ALBANIA-FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31



FOR OFCIAL USE
REPUBLIC OF ALBANIIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFIORM
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMACY   ..................................... i
INTRODUCIION   .................................................  I
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND GOVERNMENT STRATEGY  .. ......,                                   1
A. Background and Recent Economic Developments .............................  1
B. The Government's Strategy .................................... 2
C. Medium-Term PrWecs . ................................... 3
PART   -THE PROJECT   ....................................  3
A. Background ...................................   3
B. Project Objectives ....................................  4
C. Project Description  ....................................  4
D. Projected Design and the Governent?b Absorptive Capacity  ..................... 5
E. Pojectlemention  ............................................   6
F. AgreedActions ............................................. 7
G. Project Supervision  ............................................    7
H. Benefits  ......................................................  7
I. Ris    ............................................  7
J. Environmental Assessment ...........................................   8
PART m  - RECOMMEENDATION   .              .....................................  8
is rept was prepared by Mr. Wd Ding (conos ECZCQ) and Ms Rochelle Mmo (Operaons Asitant,
E=CO), with contributions from M  Domiqw Dwor-Frecaut (Country Economist, ECZCO), Mr. Nis Fovedt
(Senior Fnnal Analyst, EC2CO). Mr. Luca Rbrbone (Senior Eonomist, EC2CO) was the peer reviewr. The
Task Mbanager of the project at appraisal was Mr. Wei Dig and was subsequenty Ms. Rochele Hilton (EC2CO).
The Divisn Chief Is Mr. Michel Noel (EC2CO) and the Department Drector is Mr. Kemal Dervi (ECZDR). Ms.
Clemence Khoany (Sr. Staff Assistant, EC2CO) and Ms. Barbara   derd (Staff Asstsant, EC2CO) assdsted In
the preparadon and production of the report.
This document has a res.ricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



SCHEULES
ScbeluleA  EstimatedCostsandFinancingPlan  ...............................  9
Schedule I Procurement Arrangements and Disbursemets ........................ 10
ScheduleC  TimetableofKey ProjectPocessingSteps  ........................... 11
ScheduleD  StsofBakGroupOperatons in Albaia  .. ........................ 12
TECENCAL ANNEX                    ....................................... 13
ATTACEMIENTI ....................................... 25
AMTACP   IENT 2        .......................................0                                           29
ATrACEEMFNT M  ........................................                                       .... 30
MiAP DWRDD24120



REPUBLIC OF ALBANIA
TECHIICAL AlSrS ANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOM!C 1EFRM
Credit and Project Summary
Republic of Albania
lleneficiaries:             Council of Ministers, Ministries of Finance and Economy,
Industry, Bank of Albania, other government agencies and state-
owned commercial banks and participating public enurprises.
Credit:                     SDR 2.9 million equivalent (US$4 million equivalent)
rerms:                      Standard IDA terms
Flnancng Plan:              Local         Forein          T1
-(SDDR millions)-
Governp'ent        0.4            -              0.4
IDA               _-             29               29
otal               033
Economic Rate of Return:    not applicable
ftff Apprsal lteort:        not applicable
Mv                          IBRD 24120



MEMORANDUM AND RBCOMMATION OF THEP
OF THE INTERNATIONAL ]DEELOPMNT ASSOCIATION
TO T0    EXEClTYVE DIRECTORS
ON A PROPOSED CREDIT IN AN AMOUNT OF SDR 2.9 MILUON EQUIVALENT
TO THE REPUBUC OF ALBANIA
FOR A TECNICAL ASSIANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMhC REFORM
INTRODUCTION
1.    I submit for your approval the following memorandum and recommendation on a proposed credit
to the Republic of Albania for SDR 2.9 million equivalent to help fiance a Technical Assistance Project
for Economic Reform. The credit would be on standard IDA terms with a 40 year maurity. A
significant amount of technical assistance also is expected to be provided by the European Community
(EC-PHARE), and bilateral sources from Japan, Germany, Italy, and the United States.
PART I - COUNTRY POLICIES AND GOVERNMNT STRATEGY
A.    Bagnd and Recent Economic Developments
2.    After forty years of almost complete isolation, the fkst fully democratic elections took place in
Albania in March 1992, with a very high participation rate of 90 percent. The new Govermnent, has
adopted a program of macroeconomic stabilization and structural reform, but is facing a challenge without
precedent even when compared to the trying experiences of the other post communist societies. Support
for reform remains strong despite the exceptional hardships imposed by the complete economic dislocation
that followed the collapse of the old centralized system.
3.    Income per capita in 1992 is likely te be below $250 (Atlas methodology), a 50 percent
cumulative decline from the already low level prevailing in the mid-1980s. With a population of 3.3
million, Albania is a predominanly agricultural society. Agriculture provides one half of value added,
and two thirds of the population live in the countryside. After the decline of 1991-92, Industry now
accounts for about 25 percent of GDP and currently employs about 7 percent of the work-force. Albania
has rich mineral and energy resources, including possible oil and substantial hydro-electric power
potential.
4.    In 1992, GDP contracted by almost 10 percent, after a fall of about 30 percent in 1991 and of
10 percent in 1990. However, the decline in production has been uneven across sectors. In agriculture,
output has indeed pardally recovered in 1992 from its precipitous fall of 1990-91, although it still
represents only 85 percent of its 1989 level. Agricultural cooperatives have been privatized and turned
into 380,000 small farms. State farms, occupying about 20 percent of arable land, are not yet privatized,
although the process has started with the leasing of land and liquidations of assets. The supply of inputs
and marketing of output are severely limited, as most state enterprises previously engaged in input and
output distribution are barely functional. Furthermore, rural infrastructure-including roads and irrigation
networks-is in urgent need of repair.



-2-
5.    In industy and mining, the final abolition of the cent  plan in July 1991 coupled with a general
breakdown of the supply and diitribution system resulted In a dramatic decline of production which
continued throughout 1992. The severity of the fall in output is largely attributable to the extreme
centralization of production and distribution under the previous regime. About 45 percent of the
industrial work-force is currently unemployed.
B.    The Government's Strategy
6.    21w StabilWion Program. Faced with unprecedented internal and externat disequilibrium, the
Goveinment launched a far-reaching stabilization program in August 1992, which is supported by an IMP
Stand-by Arrangement. The main objectives of the prograin are short-term stabilization and the launching
of structural reform. This is to be accomplished through measures to: (a) reduce the Government deficit
to about 20 percent of GD'?, mainly through sharp curtailments in expenditures; (b) float the currency
and liberalize all current account transactions; and (c) liberalize all prices, save for a few basic consumer
items, the prices of which have been sharply increased. So far the program has been fairly successful.
With monetary expansion and the fiscal deficit within targeted levels, the exchange rate has stabilized,
and inflation, after an initial burst following price liberalization, has been limited to between 3 and 5
percent per month which is an impressive achievement. However, insufficient actions in the enterprise
sector, with the emergence of inter-enterprise arrears, present a new and major threat to the adjustment
process.
7.    A Strategy for GroWh. The medium-term objective of the Government's program is to futher
stabilize the economy through the reduction of the fiscal deficit to sustainable levels nd to provide an
overall environment conducive to a resumption of sustainable growth. Meeting the first challenge will
require the development of a reliable tax base to capture the segments of the economy that can be
expected to grow, and an overhaul of tax administration. At the same time the structure of public
expenditure has to shift from emergency social safety net expendiures to investment in infrastructure and
human capital. Significant structural reforms are also planned to provide a solid base for a sustained
stabilization effort. They pertain mainly to privatization and restructuring of public enterprises, including
those in the agricultural sector, development of a modem financial sector, and promotion of private sector
development. Specifically, the Government's reform agenda covers the following areas:
(a)   implementation of a macroeconomic stabilization and adjustment program to
achieve price stability, economic growth and poverty reduction.  The
Government is in the process of discussing with the IMF an ESAF program,
which will build upon the accomplishments already realized under the present
Stand-by Arrangement and significantly reduce the fiscal deficit and inflation
rate. To this end, the Government is also working closely with the Bank and the
IMF to develop a Policy Framework Paper (PFP) which will focus on medium-
term economic reform. Key measures of macroeconomic stabilization will center
on necessary fiscal adjustment, on an incomes policy to ensure attainment of the
targeted reduction of fiscal deficit and the containment of wage pressure on
prices, and on social sector reform including better targeting of social services.
(1)   implementation of an enterprise sector reform program which comprises: (i) fast
privatization of most medium to large state enterprises; (ii) restructring a
number of key state enterprises to contain further generation of large losses and
to facilitate the development of their commercial operating capacity and eventual



privatization; and (iii) developing a legal and histitutional framework conducive
to private sector development.
(c)    development of a new financial sector which will operate on a commercial basis
and will meet the financing and banking needs of a reforming economy-i.e., the
needs of an emerging private sector and the requirei.entz of the state enterprise
sector in the transformation process. The financial sector reform will comprise
measures aiming to: (i) develop an appropriate legal and regulatory framework;
(ii) create an independent and effective central bank, with efficient monetary and
credit policy instruments; (iii) develop a proper commercial banking structure
through banking system reorganization and financl restructuting; and (iv)
cultivate a new banking profession and new banking practices.
(d)    continued agricultura reforms to ensure a sustainable recovery and growth in the
sector. Major reforms include: (i) futher agricultural price reforms to provide
incentives to private farmers; (ii) rehabilitation of rural infrastructure to improve
marketing capability; (iii), building up of the land market; and (iv) restructuring
and privatization of remaining state farms, which account for about 20 percent
of remaining public arable land.
C.    Medium-Term Prospects
8.    There are good chances that the reform program supported by concerted international assistance,
provided it is delivered on time, can help stabilize the economy and lay the foundations for sustained
growth in the latter half of the decade. Despite the current low income level, and the urgent need to
tackle extreme poverty in both rural and urban areas, Albania has good potential for escaping the poverty
trap and rapidly reaching higher levels of productivity and income. The arable land is rich and fertile.
With ample rainfall, it is possible to have rapid yield gains if private incentives are adequately provided.
Albania has been a net exporter of energy in the past, owing to its ample hydro-electric supplies and some
oil and gas reserves. The development of new hydro-electric resources or oil reserves could become a
major source of foreign exchange. The country is also rich in mineral resources, with high quality
chromium reserves and copper. The climate is excellent, with an inviting coastline ideal for the
development of tourism. Finally, wages are at present a fraction of the already low wages in neighboring
countries, allowing competitive labor-intensive producdon of simple industrial products. The labor force
lacks modern industrial skldls, but illiteracy is almost non-existent and women have universal access to
basic education. The health status of the population, at least until very receny, compares favorably with
that of low and even middle-income developing countries.
PART  I - TEE PROJECT
A.    Background
9.    As described in Part I, the Government's stabilization and structural reform program is faced with
formidable challenges. One of the most daunting dffliculties is represented by the lack of institutional
skills in the management of the economy at the central administration level and in crucial areas such as
the enterprise and financial sectors. Building up the human capital and the institutions necessary for a
smooth-running market economy will no doubt take several years. On the other hand, the requirements



-4-
of the reform process are now at their highest: going beyond declarations of intent and into
implementation of policies Is crucial.
B.    Project Objeetives
10.   The main purpose of the proposed project is to improve the Government's ability to formulate
and implement reforms in three critically important areas, namely macroeconomic management, enterprise
restructurii'g and privatization, and financiul sector reform. As a by-product, it is also expected to
contribute directly to the preparation and execution of the proposed EPSAC.
C.   Project Decription
11.   The proposed project would finance high-priority activities of technical assistance in a few key
ecor.omic reform areas. Specifically, it would finance resident experts and short-term consultants,
studies, training and limited amounts of equipment in three areas: (a) macroeconomic management; (b)
privadzation and public enterprise reform; and (c) banking sector reform and development. A summary
of each of these components is given below and a more detailed description is provided in the attached
Technical Annex. The total cost of tlte project is estimated at SDR 3.3 million ($4.6 million equivalent),
of which SDR 2.9 million ($4 million equivalent) is in foreign exchange. IDA is expected to finance 100
percent of foreign exchange costs. Retroactive financing of up to $400,000 would be provided to cover
expenditures, primarily for the early appointment of advisors, incurred after April 1, 1993. A breakdown
of the foreigr exchange costs for each component is as follows:
1. Macroeconomic Management ($1.3 mnillion)
2. Privatlzation and Public Enterprise Reform ($1.4 million)
3. Banking Sector Reform and Development ($1.3 million)
12.   Macroeeconoi Management. Ihe move towards a market economy initiated in 1991 has
radically changed the nature of macroeconomic management and the functions of the Ministry of Finance
and Economy (.4oFE). Under central planning, macroeconomic management consisted of the
implementation of the plan prepared by the State Planning Commission, with the MoFE relegated to only
a minor role. Ia a market economy, the MoPE takes up a central role through analysis and development
of economic policies, and planning and implementation of the public expenditure program. The present
staff, however, is not well prepared to carry out these functions afer 45 years of isolation under a
communist system. Technical assistauce (CA) is urgently required to develop and strengthen institutional
capability, through provision of direct expert support and trainig. The proposed project would fince
TA in the following areas which are not adequately covered by other existing projects in the country: (a)
the provision of economic statistics, in particular techiques and organization for surveying private sector
activities and nationi accounts; (b) macroeconomic analysis, in particular analytical techniques and
govermental capacity for assessing the Impact of macroeconomic and sectoral policies on budgetary
development; (c) establishment of a teasury system; and (d) the preparation of a public investment
project pipeline.
13.   Pdvataon  nd P1i Enterpdse Refons. Ihe Government's enterprise reform program
includes rapid privatization of most state enterprises (SEs); restructuring of a limited number of
enterprises in serious difficulty; and legal reforms to provide an ewnronment conducive to the long-term
developmen of a private sector. Ihe proposed project will support efforts in each of these areas. The
privatization component will provide consulting and advisoty support to the National Privatization Agency
(NAP) md will focus on privatization policies and procedures. It will include privatization policy



-5-
specialists and experienced practitioners, legal and administrative consultants. Some experts on speciffc
industries may also be required from time to time. The restructuring component will provide advisory
services to: (a) the Enterprise Restrucuing Agency (ERA), to be established within the Prime Minister's
Office to undertake restructuring including importantly liquidation and down-sizing of about 30 major
enterprises; and (b) the Enterprise Support Unit within the Ministry of Finance and Economy to provide
management advice and assistance, on a demand-driven basis, to the enterprise sector at large.
Establishment of the ERA and appointment of its director are conditions of effectiveness of the proposed
Credit. Finally, the proposed project will, in coordination with other sources of TA, support the
improvement and implementation of a new legal framework, particularly with regard to bankruptcy,
accounting, and ensuring consistency of various laws and the governance of enterprises remaining in state
hands.
14. Banking Sector Refomn and Development. The Government recognizes that the country's
financial system is severely underdeveloped and ill-prepared to serve the emerging market economy, and
intends to accelerate the reform of the financl sector. Major efforts are required to develop: (a) an
appropriate legal and regulatory famework; (b) an independent and effective central bank, with efficient
monetary and credit policy instruments; (c) a proper commercial banking structure operating under a new
incentive environment; and (d) a new banking profession and new banking practices. IDA has been
actively involved in the design and implemention of policy reform measures in the banking sector, in
particular in issues concerning debt restructuring, banking syst-.m reorganization, and resolution of the
problem of inter-enterprise arreas. The project will finance three areas of technical assistance for
banking sector reform and development: (a) management services to banks, including appointment of
foreign specialists to key managerial positions; (b) establishment and operation of a bank courier service;
and (c) establishment and operation of a bankers' training center.
15.   Tmlntng. In each of the above components, on-the-job training of relevant staff is included as
an integral and impirtant part of the terms of reference for the various consultants. This would also
include seminars, workshops and short courses in specific aspects of their tasks and would have the
objective of providing adequate training to employees of the various agencies so that the need for
expatriates can be substandally reduced in the medium-term. In addition to this on-the-job training, the
above components also include a total provision of about $600,000 for study tours and short training
courses abroad.
D.    Project Design and the Govermment's Absorptive Capacity
16.   Since Albania joined the Bank Group in October 1991, the Bank has developed a close and
effective dialogue with the Albanian authorities. There is agreement on the objectives of economic
reform as well as on its main elements. The short-term and also a medium-term objective of IMA
assistance is to support the process of economic reform by: (a) helping in the design and implementation
of macroeconomic and sector policies needed to stabilize the economy and stimulate production; (b)
providing, where needed, quick-disbursing credit linked with policy reforms critical to sectors of the
economy, such as the enterprise, financial sectors and agriculture sectors; and (c) assisting in areas related
to poverty reduction, such as the design and implementation of a social safety net to protect the most
vulnerable groups during the period of transition, and rural and urban employment creation.
17.   The proposed project is an integral part of IDA's overall assistance strategy to Albania. Its
design takes into account the urgent requirements for technical assistance under the Government's reform
strategy and the timing of the Government's implementation plan, as well as the scope and nature of
technical assistance already provided by other donors. The project is specificaly designed to meet two



-6 -
requirement: (a) to the extn possible, TA programs will involve areas where IDA has been unil now
most active, so as to maximize the likelihood of successful and effective implementation; and (b) given
the changing nature of Albania's economic situation, the project will maintain a sufficient degree of
flexibility in design to permit quick assistance for urgent needs that may arise from time to time. Indeed,
most of the project components derive from the policy dialogue between the Government and IDA staff
on enterprise reform, banking sector development, and macroeconomic stabilization, and terms of
reference for most of the major tascs have already been prepared and agreed. Together with other
technical assistance programs, the proposed project is expected to provide the technical assistance required
to support the Government in implementing its reform program in 1993-95. To meet flexibility
requirements, there is limited funding for "miscellaneous Items" under each category of the project.
18.   While overall responsibility for coordinating external assistance rests with the Aid Coordination
Department of the MoFE, the project is expected to enhance, in two principal ways, the Govenment's
capacity to absorb more speedily and in larger quantity the assistance now being offered from different
sources. First, during project preparation, IDA staff helped identify a concise list of requirements for
urgent technical assistance which is being used for discussions with other donors for directing their
respective assistance programs. Thus, the project has helped, and will continue to help the Government
in establishing priorities and the organization and implementation of various TA programs. Second, some
project components will offer direct and urgently needed organizational and managerial support to
government agencies, rather than the usual analytical and advisory support (e.g., management of banks,
organization of treasury and macroeconomic analysis for MoPE departments, managerial support to ERA
and ESU). Each TA component is based on jiscussions between the Government and IDA concerning
the policy agenda for the coming period, the required TA inputs and the timetable for processing tae
proposed EFSAC. In addition to the foreign experts provided under the project, the Government plans
to recruit local staff, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA, required to carry out the
project.
E.   ]Project Implementation
19. The project would be implemented over about 2½h years, in accordance with the implementation
schedule attached (Tecnical Annex, Attachment 1). In view of the thin layers of management available,
coordination and administration of the project would be carried out by the Project Implementation Unit
already established in the Ministry of Finance and Economy for the first IDA-financed project in Albania
(Critical Imports Project). This unit has already gained considerable experience and may be the only
source of expertise on implementing IDA-financed projects in the country at present. While the PIU
would be responsible for financial control and for routine implementation activities, including providing
assistance to the various beneficiary agencies in procurement, disbursement and reporting activities, these
agencies would be primarily responsible for the ilementtion of those activities within their own
jurisdiction and would report regularly to the PIU and through the PIU, to the Vice Minister of the
MoPE. The head of each beneficiary agency would be in charge of that agency's respective project
components. It is expected that the PIU will initially be able to absorb the extra workload associated with
the proposed project although recruitment of at least two additional staff would be required to help
manage it. Recruitment of this staff will be a condition of credit effectiveness.
20.   The Bank of Albania would be the prmary beneficiary of the bank courier service, although the
service is also expected to be used by the commercial banks. The commercial banks would be charged
a fee for using the service. To establish the courier system, the Government will relend the funds to the
Bank of Albania for 10 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the prevailing interest rate for Lek



- 7 -
credits. The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk. These arrangements were confirmed
during negotiations.
F.    Agreed Actions
21.   The Government, through the Ministry of Finance and Economy, has confimed the scope of
work to be financed from the proposed credit. During negotiations, agreement was reached on the
following: (a) the PIU's responsibility for project coordination and administration (para. 19); (b)
implementation schedules for the project components (para. 19); (c) relending arrangements for the bank
courier service (para. 20); and (d) the carrying out of a mid-term review by March 31, 1994 (para. 22).
The following will be conditions of credit effectiveness: (a) the appointment to the PIU of two additional
staff, with qualifications satisfactory to IDA. (para. 19); and (b) establishment of the ERA and
appointment of its director (para. 13).
G.    Project Supervision
22.   Supervision of this project will be facilitated because IDA is simultaneously assisting the
Government to prepare an operation for enterprise and financial sector reform (EFSAC) and most of its
components are integral elements of, or preconditions for, the EFSAC. Continuing supervision, including
close supervision of the work of the consultants, will be provided through planned missions in connection
with the preparation of the EFSAC, the on-going work on PFP, the preparation of ESAF in the context
of the joint effort between the IMP and IDA, and the planned CEM work in FY94. Moreover, a mission
is planned during the first quarter of 1994 to review, jointly with the Government, the outputs of the
various consultants and to make any necessary adjustments during the mid-course of implementation.
Effort involved in the supervision of the project is estimated to be at least 55 staffweeks, of which 25
weeks would be in FY94, 20 staffweeks in FY95 and 10 staffweeks in FY96. Most of this supervision
effort would be split equally among a macroeconomist, a privatization/enterprise restructuring speciist
and a financial specialist and would include support from the resident mission as well as from the legal
department.
H.    Benefits
23.   The project will enhance the Government's ability to effectively implement the reform program
through the provision of expert advice, strengthened institutions, traing and provision of equipment.
It will offer donors such as the EC a mechanism to channel their assistance In coordination with the Bank,
without overloading the capabilities of Goverrment.
I.    Risks
24.   In addition to the overall risk of lending to a country facing formidable reform challenges and
debt servicing difficulties, the project faces the following speciffic risks: (a) although the present
Government has implemented a number of courageous reforms, its ability to sustain the reform program
is still to be tested. The project aims at facilitating the design and implementation of reform measures,
and the development of institutions, thereby reducing the risk of government failure; (b) as Albania is
still unfmiliar with IDA operations, and countart arrangements and mstiutions are weak, project
implementation could proceed more slowly tm desired. Some experience gained from the ongoing
Critical Imports Project and good implementation arrangements will contribute to minimizing the risk;
and (c) eena  agencies could duplicate each other's efforts, or omit critical elements because of
inadequate coordination. In general, such a risk will be dealt with through close interaction, consuttation



and coordination with government officials and donors, and is expected to be alleviated by the presence
of the Bank's Resident Mission in Albania. The project is also structured to help strengthen MoFE's role
in coordinating all other TA.
J.    Environmental Assessment
25. In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01
Annex A), the proposed project has been placed in Category TC* and does not require an environment
assessment.
PART m - RECOMMENDATION
26.   I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with Articles of Agreement of the
Association and recommend that the Executive Direcrs approve it.
Lewis T. Preston
President
by
Sven Sandstrom
Acting
Attahments
Washington, D.C.
April 21, 1993



.9-
Schedle 
ALBANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REtORM
Estimated Costs and lFnandng Plan
Local       Foreign           Total
(LTSS mjilion)
Estimated Project Cost
Macroeconomic Management                        0.1           1.1          1.2
Privatization and Public
Enterprise Reform                          0.2           1.3          1.5
Banking Sector Reform
and Development                            0Q           11            12
Base Cost                                      0.5          3.5          4.0
Contingencies                                  DA
Total Project Costs                            Q            £2
Financing Plan
Government                                       0.6          -            0.6
IDA                                              :
Total Financing                                2            £2



-10-
ALBANIA
TECHNCAL ASSMANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Procuement Arngements and Disbursements
Procurement Arrangements v
Project Elements                                 ICB        Others 2/          Total
=US$ millio
Equipment and Teaching MaterIas                   0.7 (0.6)      0.6 (0.6)       1.3 (1.2)
Technical Assistance                                             2.5 (2.1)      2.5 (2.1)
(Advisors, Consultants and studies)
Training and Study Tours                                         0.8 (0.7)      0.8 (0.7)
TOTAL                                       0.7 (0.6)      3.9 (3.4)      4.6 (4.0)
I/ FWg=e in praiathosis are the anmunfs financed by IDA. Th.. include, tota contingencies of 15%.
2/ Inolmude  snetmu shopn ($500,000); lad opping ($100,; advio, consua, sud, and tainAng
($2.8 miuion).
Disbursenents
Categories                 Amount of Category      % of expenditure to be financd
(USS milion)
Equipmen                         1.0                100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
local expenditures (ex-factory cost) and
8S% of local expenditures for other items
procured locally)
Advisory Services                2.0               100%
Trining and Study Tours          0.6                100%
Unallocated                      J 
Total                  4.0
Estimated ]IDA Disbursements
IDA FY                                           FY94          FY95           FY96
(US~S milion
Annual                                            1.5            2.0            0.5
Cumulative                                        1.5            3.5            4.0



- 11-
Schedule c
ALBANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Timetable of Key Project Procing Steps
(a)    Tume taken to prepare:                   4 months
(b)    Project prepared by:                      Government with IDA assistance
(c)    First IDA mission:                        November 1992
(d)    Appraisal mission departure:              March 1, 1993
(e)    Negotiations:                             Much 30, 1993
(>)    Scheduled Board Date:                     May 11, 1993
(g)    Planned date of effectiveness:           June 1993
(h)    Expected date of project completion:      December 1995
(i     Relevant PCRs and PPARs:                  None



- 12 -
Schedule D
ALBANIA
TEClHICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ALBANIA
A. STATEMENT OF IDA CREDITS I/
(As of March 31, 1993)
-US$ Million
Credit Fiscal                                                          (Less Cancellations)
No.   Year         Borrower            Project                          Credit  Undisbursed
2404  1992    Republic of Albania  Critical Imports Project            41.1          35.9
2461  19932/  Republic of Albania Poverty Alleviation Project           2.            25
Total                                  43.6
Of Which: Repaid
Total now held by the Bank
Total Amount Sold                       0.0
Of Which: Repaid                        0.0
Total Undisbursed                                   M.A
B. STATEMENT OF IFC: INVETMENT-
(As of March 31, 1993)
IFC investment activities in Albania are under preparation.
I/ Mie staus of dse proects is descsibed in a separate report on all Bank/IDA finced projects in
excution, which is updated tWice yealy and cirated to the Execufive Directors an April 30 and
October 31.
2/  Approved by the Executive Directs on Febmaay 23, 1993, and signd on March 2, 1993,but not
yet effctivo.



-13 -                             Techndcal Annex
Pag l of 2
ALBANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Technical Annex
I.    PROJECT DESCRIMPTON
1.    The purpose of the project is to support the implementation of key components of the
Government's reform program with regard to macroeconomic management, as well as in the enterprise
and financial sectors, during the 1993-95 period. The project would help finmce resident advisors, short-
term consultants, studies, training and limited amounts of equipment to support the Government to design
and implement its reform program. Emphasis will be on timely execution of well identified programs
and on training of local staff to carry these programs forward after technical assistance is ended.
Technical assistance activities from other donors have been integrated in the design of each project
component. Furthermore, terms of referencet/ for most of the principal technical assistance activities
to be financed under the proposed Credit have been prepared and agreed with IDA. Coordination of the
various components and liaison with donors engaged in technical assistance activities would be ensured
by the Bank's Resident Mission in Tirana. In view of the small size of the project, and of the thin layers
of management available, administation of the project would be carried out by the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) already established in the Ministry of Finance and Economy (MoFE) for the
ongoing IDA-fianced Critical Imports Project. The total cost of the project is estimated at $4.6 million,
of which $4.0 million is in foreign exchange. A breakdown of the foreign exchange costs for each
component is as follows:
(a) Macroeconomic Management ($1.3 million)
(b) Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform ($1.4 million)
(c) Banldng Sector Reform ($1.3 million)
Maroeconomic Mangement
2.    The Minstry of Finance and Economy (MoFE) is inadequately staffed to carry out the reforms
required by the adjustment program. Under central planning, the MoFE had no influence on
macroeconomic management: its role consisted in translating the fuiding requirements of the Plan into
a budget, in advising spending agencies of their approved budget, and in allocating expenditure
authorizations. With the abolition of central planning, the role of the MoFE and the environment in
which it operates have fundamentally changed: the adjustment program relies on a decrease in the
budgetary deficit as wel as in changes in the structure of expenditures and revenues; at the same time
fiscal revenues and expenditures have become more uncertain. The staff of the ministry has not received
adequate training to cope with this new situation. Technical assistance is required to carry out the
functions most vital to the implementation of the adjustment program namely the provision of basic
economic information, the macroeconomic analysis necessary for the preparation and the implemention
of the budget, and the establishment of a Treasury. This technical assistance is of two types: first
expatriate experts have to be provided to help the current staff of the ministry; second ministry employees
have to be trained and progressively brought to a level where they can replace the expatriate experts.
1I Copies of the tenns of reference ar in the Project File.



- 14 -                            Technio An
Page 2 of 12
Provision of Basic Economic Irformadon
3.    At present, the level of economic activity is grossly underestimated by official statistics as a result
of the breakdown of traditional reporting systems and the emergence of an informal private sector. Under
central planning the compilation of statistics was based on mandatory reporting from state enterprises and
other public entities that covered all productive activities. The abolition of the plan has been accompanied
by the dislocation of this reporting system. Furthermore a strong private sector has emerged with the
privatization of 75 percent of agricultural land, the growth of private trading activities and small-scale
services, none of which is reported in official statistics. There is a clear need for establishing a new
statistical system based on alternative data collection methods.
4.    The Government, recognizing this need, has recently separated the Statistical Department from
the Ministry of Finance and Economy, establishing an independent Central Statisdcal Office (CSO).
However the CSO is presently understaffed and lacks the most basic office equipment. To help
strengthen the CSO, and to complement assistance being provided by other foreign institutions, such as
OECD, INSEE and Eurostat, the project would provide about 9 months of short-term consultants to help
modernize national statistics. This would include the adaptation of a light national accounting system
derived from the existing UN SNA system methodology used in several countries of West Africa at
similar income levels, and development and application of existing light survey methodology appropriate
to the current situation of Albania for assessing private sector activities. It would also include assistance
in the organization of data collection and the development and implementation of a training program for
CSO employees involved in the preparation of statistics. Provision is also made for a limited number of
short study trips abroad for CSO staff.
Macroeconomic Analysis
5.    Since the beginning of the adjustment program in 1993, the authorities have been handicapped in
their preparation of the budget by lack of reliable fiscal data. The Budget Directorate staffing is reduced
to the bare bone, with a young civil servant effectively in charge of putting the budget together. No unit
in the MoPE is able to collect, analyze, and update fiscal data to be used in the preparation and
implementation of the budget. Furthermore, while decentralization of economic decision-making has
increased the variability of macroeconomic aggregates, there is virtualy no macroeconomic forecasting
capability within the MoFE. The Economic Development Directorate is nominally responsible for this
type of analysis but is very thinly staffed and has so far received almost no technical assistance. The
Government plans to strengthen the Economic Development and the Budget Directorates through carefully
selected new appointments.
6.    The project would finance about 12 months of technical assistance to support the development of
the Economic Development Directorate and provide temporary support to the Budget Directorate. This
assistance would include preparation and updating of semi-annual macroeconomic forecasts; setting up
a task force comprising the relevant officers of the MoFE to collect all relevant fiscal data and preparing,
in liaison with the Budget Directorate, budget scenarios based on various macroeconomic and policy
assumptions. It also includes 2 person-months of consultants to develop a training program and train the
Economic Development Directorate staff, mainly through workshops and seminars to be delivered locally.
In addition, provision is also made in the project for a limited number of study trips abroad.



- 15 -                            Technical Annex
Page 3 of 12
Establishment of a Treasuwy System
7.   Implementation and monitoring of the fiscal consolidation program are made difficult by the lack
of a proper system of financial information and expenditure control. The Bank of Albania regularly
produces data on cash expenditures and receipts but the information is too aggregated to be used for cash
control. Furthermore no data on commitments by spending agencies are currently available, thereby
limiting the usefulness, for expenditure control, of the data recorded in cash terms. Expenditure control
is limited to the depositing of funds by MoFE for the spending agencies at 6-month intervals during the
fiscal year. Control is in effect carried out by the banks refusing payments if no funds are available.
A Treasury is needed to centralize all government revenues and payments, and to compile government
accounts.
8.   In response to this urgent need for effective control of government expenditures and accounts, the
Ministry of Finance and Economy, with technical assistance provided by the US and the IMP, established
a Treasury Directorate in the Fall of 1992. This Directorate has started to implement a pilot project,
which so far consists of having all budgetary institutions present to it their bills. With initial success in
exerting some control over spending and accounts, the Ministry is very encouraged and plans to proceed
ftrther by extending the pilot project by having all government payments and receipts centralized by the
Treasury, producing a monthly abstract of cash transactions, and undertaking a monthly reconciliation
of government cash balances. The project would finance for 6 months an information systems/accounting
expert to support this extension of the pilot project. The duties of this expert would include: adapting
reporting systems for local Treasury offices based on the models used by official agencies at the central
government level; designing status reports on government cash balances to be submitted by the banks;
laying down key procedures for the reconciliation of government cash balances; establishing a compilation
system for accounts at different levels of government; and preparing a draft manual of government
accounts which can be used as basic inputs by the Government for developing its own manual of accouns
in a legal form. This component would also finance a limited number of study tours and small office
equipment such as micro computers and fax machines for local Treasury offices.
Investment Programs
9.    With the demise of the central planning system and the collapse of the Albanian economy, capital
investment totally disappeared over the last two years. The Government's stabilization program has
succeeded in reducing monthly inflion and stabilizing the currency, but lack of investment is preventing
a badly needed economic recovery. There is a severe under-investment across all sectors, particularly
in energy, telecommunication, transport, and other infrastructure sectors, whose condition has been a
major deemina  for attracting private investment in Albania. At the same time, no mechanism exists
for basic planning and management of the investment program in these sectors, despite considerable
interest from foreign donors to help Albania restart some basic investment projects. The project provides
for 9 months of consultants to produce a preliminary public investment project pipeline prior to the net
major donors' meeting (scheduled for October 1993), and to carry out training seminars for the staff of
the MoFE and line minities in order to establish procedures for the regular updating of the investment
project pipeline. The consultant's draft report on the investment pipeline will be reviewed and discussed
with IDA before it Is finalized.



- 16 -                            Twhnical Annox
Page 4 of 12
Privatization and Public Enterprise Reform
10.   The Government's enterprise reform program includes rapid privatization of most state enterprises
(SEs); restructring of a limited number of enterprises in serious difficulty; and legal reforms to provide
an environment conducive for the long-term development of a private sector. The proposed project will
support efforts in each of these areas.
Advisory Services for Prlvadzation
11.   This component would support the Governmen's efforts to formulate and implement a program
for the rapid privatization of most of the state enterprise sector. Privatizations started only In about mid
1991, when the then Government initiated a program for the privatization of small retail outlets, service
estabishments and handicraft unis, with up to 8-10 employees. These units were sold to the employees
on attractive terms, or sold at auction if the employees were not interested. This program has worked
well, and as of December 1992, nearly all of the small units had been privatized. However, only a few
privatizations have taken place for larger units, thus most of the medium- and large-scale enterprise sector
is still under state ownership or under the control of local authorities.
12.   The SE sector as a whole is in deep crisis, as a result of years of under-investment and mis-
investment, the current economic depression in Albania, and the profound changes in enterprise relations
and management behavior that have been taking place since the systemic transition started. The current
enterprise crisis is reflected, inter alia, in the dramatic decline of over 50 percent of industrial production
over the past two years, and the explosive growth in inter-enterprise arrears since the beginning of 1992.
Ihe Government is convinced that rapid privaization is viW  for the overall success of Albania's
economic reform program, and has adopted a strategy that in principle calls for a multi-track, concerted
program to quickly transfer ownership to private hands, including in particular to managers and
employees in the state enterprises. At the same time, the Government will also encourage privatizations
to foreign strategic investors, and intends to prepare speedily the legal and regulatory framework
necessary for foreign investors to invest in sectors such as mining, petroleum, telecommmuications and
power.
13. The Government has appointed the National Privatization Agency (NAP), established in August
1991, as the principal authority for the privaizaton effort. However, this agency is weak (with only
about ten, mostly inexperienced, professionals) and requires considerable support in order to: (a) organize
islf and establish firmly its role and authority in the privatization process; (b) develop the implemeing
policies required to carry out the Government's privatization strategy; and (c) undertake actual
privadzation transactions.
14.  IDA is woridng closely with the Government on developing a privatization program which would
be supported through the planned Enterprise and Finncial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC). Ihe
EFSAC will support the Government in its efforts to privatize the majority of the county's 1,500 state
enterprises in the next 3-5 years. The privatization component of the proposed project wfll provide about
20 months of consulting and advisory support to the privadzation process, principally on privadzatlon
policies and procedures, and on the organization of privadzation process. Some experts on specific
industries may also be required from time to time. Primarily, this support will be provided to the NAP.
The exact conposition of this assistance will be determined to some ext  during project implementation,
due to the need for the Government to first detemine, with the assistance provided by the project, the



- 17 -                            Technical Annex
Page 5of 12
specific policies and priorities under its privatization strategy. The privatization assistance provided under
the project will be coordinated with that provided by other sources, mainly EC-PHARE, and is expected
to finance short- and medium- term assigpments of consultants (individuals or small teams from
experienced consulting firms) to address specific policy issues of importance to the Government's policy
formulation, and subsequently to prepare documents and procedures required to implement the agreed
policy. Proposed privatization policies and procedures would be discussed with IDA before they are
finalized.
15.   Although the principal objective of this component is to extend direct assistance to the Government
in the privatization process, a modest amount of training will also be provided to the staff of NAP and
other officials involved in the privatization efforts, due to the total lack of experience in this area within
the country. Ibis would include training courses and seminars arranged within Albania and similar
training arrangements abroad, particularly in other Cetral and East European countries whose experience
may be of relevance to the Albanian authorities. It is also proposed to finance a modest amount of
equipment and materials fo: the NAP, including some desk-top computers, a photocopy machine,
privatization literature and teaching materials.
Advisory Services for Enterprise Restructuring
16.  ILt-enterprise arrears rose by 50 percent in October 1992 alone, to over Lek 13 billion. Because
of their perverse impact on a payments system and financial discipline in the economy, these large and
still-growing inte-enterprise arrears are a cause for serious concern. If left unchecked, the situation
might cause many, otherwise viable or potentially viable, enterprises to stop functioning, reduce
govermnent budget revenues, and compel the fiurher expansion of monetary and credit aggregates, thus
undermiing the stabilization program.
17.   The arears are a manifestation of many serious underlying problems in the enterprise sector.
While the Government has been introducing a series of systemic reforms over the past year, these have
been insufficient to create ihe necessary cbange in enterprise stucture and behavior. Direct restruchting
by the Government, together with additional measures for strengthening the legal and institution
fiamework for public and private enterprises, is therefore required to tackle the current crisis in the
enterprise sector.
18.  In the area of direct enterprise restruurlg, the Govermnent has decided to establish an
Enterprise Restrucuring Agency (ERA) as an emergency insution, responding to a crisis situation which
threatens economic stability. The ERA and its work programs will be supported by the proposed
EESAC. ERA would be a transitional institon and its eventa aim is to dissolve itself widtin a
relatively short period, once the enterprises under its ttelage either have been privadzed, are on their
way to privadzation, or are sufficiently viable to be entusted to the control mechanisms envisaged by
the State Enterprise Law.
19.   The ERA wil be established as an agency of the Office of the Prime Minister, with a supervisory
council comprising representatives of major ministries and other important government entities. It wil
have a complement of 10-15 staff, mostly seconded from other key minisies. A separate unit In charge
of accounting and fnancial monitoring will be established wIthin 2 months of the establishment of the
ERA. It is expected that e decree to establish the ERA will be issued before the end of May 1993.



- 18 -                            Technical Annet
Page 6 of 12
Establishment of the ERA and appointment of its director will be conditions of effectiveness for the
proposed project.
20. The ERA will be entrusted with oversight responsibility of about 30 major enterprises, all of
which have had serious financial and managerial problems. In order to address quickly the problems of
these enterprises, the ERA has been allocated a significant amount of budgetary resources (Leks 4 billion
In 1993, or 4 percent of estimated 1993 GDP). It will have the right to appoint and remove enterprise
managers and management boards, to review business plans for enterprises, and to decide on the
modalities of their execution, and/or to propose extraordinary relief measures in the case of mass layoffs,
including action plans for winding down and liquidating enterprises in a number of cases. The SE
managers will be required to work in consultation with ERA personnel on the formulation of their
business and restructring plans for an 18-month period which will demonstrate the prospects of an
enterprise for self-sustaining commercial operations within a limited period. Contract plans would be
adopted in many cases to enforce a hard-budget constraint. State enterprises not falling under the ERA
program would no longer have access to state budgetary subsidies and would be subject only to
commercial lending criteria.
21.   To help the ERA to fulfill its function, the project would support about 10 person-months of
assistance from qualified enterprise consultants to assist the SEs prepare and implement their business
plans. These consultants will primarily have expertse in enterprise restructuring, financial analysis and
budgeting, but some accounting and industry specialists may also be required. ERA will also require a
modest amount of administrative support to help administer the ERA scheme including the allocation of
budgetary resources for financing enterprise deficits and redundancy payments.
22.   With regard to restruavng support, while the ERA scheme described above will be used
restructure 30 major SEs, most of the 1,500 SEs in Albania need assistance in improving their operations,
and for many this need will continue even after their privatization. Despite the urgent need in enterprises
for mnagerial and tehnical assistance, enterprises in Albania have little knowledge of or choice for
obtaining such assistance from domestic sources, nor can foreig donors find mechanisms to channel their
direct assistance to enterprises. In order to provide support to the eeprise sector at large, the
Government established an Enterprise Support Unit (ESU) within the Ministry of Finance and Economy
in mid-1992. This Unit has been charged with assisting the enterprise sector in various ways, the most
important of which are:
(a)    Providing management consuting assistance to interested enterprises to help managers
improve tiieir operations and develop realistic business strategies and business plans. The
normal approach will be for management consultants to visit the participating enterprises
on a regular basis to help, in an iterative manner, the managers themselves develop a
better understanding of their problems and prospects, to improve their management
practices, and to develop realistic business plans. It is also expected that assistance will
be provided to a number of enterprises to prepare investment proposals suitable for
commercial bank lending, including from a possible future line of credit from IDA. The
work of these consultants will be supported by technical specialists on shorter, specific
assignments when required, and also by some teams to carry out sectoral analyses of a
few appropriate sectors, such as footwear, textiles and garments.



- 19 -                              migaka
Pa%g 7 of 12
(b)    Managing various forms of bilateral and multilateral grants and credits for imported
production inputs to the enterprise sector, including such grants provided by the EC-
PHARE.
(c)    Establishing and operating a general financial monitoring system for the state enterprise
sector.
23.   The ESU's services are provided to interested enterprises only, are therefore entirely demand-
driven. However, given the present high level of interest expressed by enterprises and the limited scope
for such assistance, only selected enterprises would ultimately be given needed support. Care will be
taken in providing assistance to only those enterprises which can be restructured and have reasonable
prospect for financial and economic viability in the short- to medium-term. To help the ESU function
effectively, the project would support about 14 person-months of assistance, including the assistance of:
(a) an administrative consultant to help prepare, manage and implement the various enterprise support
measures/programs; (b) management consultants to work directly with the enterprises, including frequent
visits of at least a few weeks each; (c) technical and sector speciists on short assignments; and (d) a
consultant to support the implementation of the SE financial monitoring system. Finally, the ESU might
require some modest training facilities, and a minor amount of equipment (desk-top computers and
photocopy machines). Some financing for this assistance is expected from bilateral and multilateral
sources. Should this inflow of TA from other donors materialize, the amount of resources freed under
the project will be redirected to other priority areas.
Legal Framework Development
24.   The Government has been making significant progress in reforming the legal and Instiuional
framework for the enterprise sector.  Nevertheless, further improvement is required before the
framework can be reasonably completed and fully functional. Assistance received to date from a mber
of bilateral and multilateral sources, most prominently from the EC-PHARE, is expected to continue.
However, additional support will be required from time to time, in particular to: (a) implement the
Government's new Accounting Law; (b) carry out a legal review around the mid-1993 to help streamline
and coordinate the various laws that have been prepared with assistance from several sources; and (c)
strengthen the bankruptcy mechanism, which is presently very rudimentary. To this end, about 4 months
of short-term assistance will be provided, largely through the Ministry of Fine and Economy, in lega
and accounting services, as well as training specialists to help introduce the new accounting principles
and to prepare appropriate teaching and self-study materials.
25.   With regard to ownership and goernance, although the Government intends to privatize rapidly
large parts of the SE sector, it is nevertheless likely that a substantial portion of the enterprise sector will
remain under full or partial state ownership for some time. This is especially the case because of the
weak position of many SEs, the rudimentary state of the private sector, and the country's poor
infrastructure which discourages many potential foreign investors.



- 20                              TechniqllAnne
Pagp 8 of 12
26.  In mid-1992, Albania adopted its State Enterprise Law, which clarified that the state is the owner
of the enterprises, and authorized the line ministries2/ to appoint the administrative boards of the SEs.
The project would provide about 2 months of short-term assistance to help improve the legal framework
in a number of ways, such as providing the state with the right to obtain lividends from profitable SEs,
permitting non-executive directors (in addition to or in place of the present full-time executive directors)
with line responsibilities for various activities, and eliminadng barriers for the state to close non-viable
enterprises.
Banking Sector Reforms
27.   Financial sector reforms in Albania started in 1991 when three banks-the Commercial Bank of
Albania, the Bank for Agriculture and Development, and the Savings Bank-were chartered and two new
laws-the Law on the Bank of Albania and the Law on Banking System-were drafted. The Parliament
elected in March 1992 adopted these laws, and the State Bank of Albania was subsequently separated into
a central bank (Bank of Albania) and a commercial bank (National Bank of Albania). Additional major
policy reforms are being prepared and implemented with assistance from IDA and other multilateral and
bilateral agencies. On January 1, 1993, the Government took over the whole stock of credits (to state
enterprises and state farms) existing as of June 30, 1992, thus relieving the banldng sector of bad loans
inherited from the past and facilitating the process of privatization and restructuring of the state enterprise
sector. Additional measures are also being taken to reduce the flow aspect of bank credits, including
srengthening bank supervision, prohibiting automatic bank assumption of inter-enterprise payment
arrears, and introducing a stronger application of financil and economic criteria in bank lendig
decisions. A major reorganization of the existing banldng system has also been in progress since the end
of 1992. On January 1, 1993, the National Bank of Albania was merged with the Commercial Bank of
Albania. With regard to the future structure of the commercial banks, the Government is currendy
reviewing its options, and is worling with the World Bank, in the context of preparation of the proposed
EFSAC, to elaborate a financial sector strategy.
28. The Government recognizes that the country's financial system remains underdeveloped and ill-
prepared to serve the emerging market economy, and intends to accelerate the reform of the financW
sector. Major efforts are required to develop: (a) an appropriate legal and regulatory framework; (b) an
independent and effective central bank, with efficient monetary and credit policy instruments; (c) a proper
commercial banking structure operating under a new incentive environment; (d) a new banking profession
and new banldng practices. Large-scale training of banking professionals and modemization of banking
technology is indispensable to the development of the new financial sector in Albania. Ihfusion of some
technical assistance for bank management, especially at the initW  stage of the financial sector reforms,
will be critically Important for the success of the country's financial sector reform. The proposed project
will fiace three areas of technical assistance for the banking sector reform and development: (a)
management services to banks; (b) establishment and operation of a courier service; and (c) the operation
of a bankers' training center.
2/ Primarily the Ministry of Industry, Energy and Mining, the Ministrv of Agriculture and the
Ministry of Construction.



- 21 -Techn;081AnnM
Page 9 of 12
Management Services to Banks
29. Ills component will support the employment, for an initial period of up to one year, of a limited
number of foreigpbanldng management specialists to assume managerial positions, including the positions
of general manager/deputy general manager, to help manage the newly reorganized banks. Their initial
assignment can cover, in addition to the general management positdons, three critically important areas-
credit management, accounting, and treasury operations. The cost of employing foreign bank
management expertise would initially be shared between financing from the proposed project (about 18
months) and Albanian banls, and later, among other donors, the proposed EFSAC and the banks
themselves. These experts will assume day-to-day management tasks in each bank; help develop
operational guidelines and procedures; and help identify training needs of Albanian banking staff. This
component will also finance for 6 months a foreign supervision specialist to manage/advise the
Supervision Department of the Bank of Albania in developing and strengthening critically important
supervision capacity.
Establishment and Operation of a Courier Service
30.  lhe project would support the establishment and operation of a bank courier service for the
baning sector. The service will be established and initially operated umder the central bank's
management, which will be the major beneficiary. Ihe commercial banks are also expected to use the
service which will provide for reliable daily transportation of all banks' pouches between the banks
headquarters in Tirana and the eight Regional Centers to be established in Shkoder, Durres, Elbasan,
Fier, Berat, Vlore, Gjirokaster, and Korce. The project will finance a courier system specialist
consultant, for about 3 months, to help design and organize the service, including establishing pricing
policies, and to provide initial training, and the procurement of about 10 special vehicles and office
equipment for bank courier operations. The Government would relend to the Bank of Albania the funds
required to establish ftis service. The funds would be relent at the prevailing market interest rate for Lek
credits and would have a term of 10 years, including 5 years grace. The Bank of Albania would be
responsible for repaying the Lek equivalent of the foreign exchange cost (using the exchange mate at the
tme of borrowing). The Government would bear the foreiga exchange risk. These relending
arrangements were confimed during negotiations. Operaung costs for the system would be shared among
al banks through a charge-back pricing structure.
Dewelopment and Operaion of a Bankers' Traidng Center
31.  Lack of a more perman  institutional setup has prevented offers of help from foreign institutions
(such as Banca di Roma) from materiaizing, as well as the implementation of a large-se training
program for Albania's banking sector staff. This component wDl support the development and operation
of a Bankers' Training Center, which is being developed as a joint venture between the central bank,
domestic and foreign commercial banks, and the University of r.lraa. The Center has recendy been
established and is located in the University. When fully operadonal, it will consist of two classrooms,
one computer laboratory, and necessary dormitory arrangemenis. It will be guided by a steering group
composed of repreentatives from the central and commercial banks, foreign commercial banks, the
World Bank, the EBRD and the University. A full-time managing director has been appointed to manage
the center and develop the banking education program The center will be used primarily for training
existing bank staff in modem baing techniques, including computer-based accounting, credit processes,
and risk management. The proposed Credit would provide 2 months of short-term assistamce and the



- 22 -                            T.fhial
Page lOof 12
computer equipment needed to establish the laboratory. It would also provide overseas training for future
trainers. The EBRD is already providing training for about 20 bankig staff in temporary facilities
provided by the University. Future training will be provided by the EBRD, EC-PHARE and Banca di
Roma, as well as by trainers to trained under the project.
Training
32. On-the-job training will be an integral part of all long-term consultants' assignments. In addition,
the terms of reference for the principal advisors require that they design and carry out (either themselves
or by appointing short-erm consultants) trWaining programs. To supplement this waining, the project also
includes, in each component, an allocation for a total of about 55 study tours abroad. Of this, about 20
study tours are allocated to the different departmens of the Ministry of Finance and Economy, 5 to the
Bank of Albania and 2 for trainers for the Bankers' Training Center. The remainder would be divided
among the commercial banks and other beneficiary agencies. It is envisaged, particularly for the
privatization and enterprise restructuring components, that most of the study tours would be to other
reforming economies in Central and Eastern Europe and the CIS.
Fl. PROJECT ADMINISTRATION AND IM1PLEMTATION
Project Implementation
33.    The project would be implemented over about 21h years, in accordance with the attached
inplementation schedule (Attachment 1). The Borrower, through Mistry of Finance and Economy
(MoFE), woud channel fimds to the beneftciary agencies for the respecffve components. The Ministry,
in consultation with IDA, would also handle any fiture changes in the distution of funds. The Vice
Wmister of Economy of MoPE has been designated to manage and coordinate all activities, to resolve
any implemenion problems and to supervise the channeling of the fimds.
34.  In view of the thin layers of management available, ami on and coordination of the project
would be carried out by the Project Implementation Unit (PU) already established in the Ministry of
Finance and Economy for the ongoing Critical Imports Projec. As a condidon of credit effectiveness,
two additional staff members will be recruited for the FlU to help implement the project. The PIU would
be responsible for financia control and for routine implementaton activities, and would also provide
assisace to the various beneficiary agencies in procurement, disburement and reportng activities. The
heads of the agencies which are beneficiaries of IDA asistan   would be responsible for the
implementation of activities within the jurisdiction of their agencies and would report regualy to the PIU
and through the PIU, to the Vice Minister of the MoFE. Terms of reference for the principal consultat
assignments have been, or are being, prepared and agreed with IDA and provide for IDA to review and
discuss with the Government all major outputs prior to finalizadon.
Project Cost, hiandug, Disbursement, and Report  and Auditin
35.  Project Cost. The total project cost (shown In Schedule A) is esdmated at about $4.6 million
equivalet All local costs have been converted to US$ at an exchange rate of $1 = Lek 100. AU costs
have been subjected to contingencies of 15 percent to cover price contigencies, in line with the Bank's
present price projections. The esmates for studies, consultig assignmen  and training are based on



- 23 -Techoa &
Papg 1 1 of 12
typical current costs for such assignments. There would be a substantial involvement of internationally
recruited consultants in all project components. A more detaled breakdown of project costs is given in
Attahment 2.
36.  Flnwlng. A summary of the project financing plan, which was confirmed during negotiations,
is also shown in Schedule A. The foreign exchange cost requirements are estimated at $4.0 million. The
local currency requirements ($0.6 million) would be met by the Borrower from Its own resources and
from available grant funding. The IDA credit would finance 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost
of the project. If additional financing (particularly grant financing) becomes avaflable for specific
activities or components, such resources could substitute for IDA fnancing. In this event, the proposed
IDA credit would either be reduced by a corresponding amount or be used to increase support where
needed for other project-related activities.
37.  DIsbursments. Disbursements would be administered by the PIU. The proceeds of the IDA
credit would finance 100 percent of eligible direct foreign exchange expendiures for equipment; and 100
percent of expenditures for consultant services; and training. Withdrawal applications would be fully
documented, except for expenditures against contracts valued at less than $50,000 equivalent which would
be made on the basis of certified statements of expenditure detailing the individual transactions. The
documentation to support these expenditures would be retained by the PIU for at least one year after
receipt by IDA of the audit report for the year in which the last disbursement was made. This
documentation would be made available for review by the auditors and IDA upon request.
38. The estimated disbursement schedule for the proposed credit is in Schedule B. The project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 1995, and the Closing Date would be June 30, 1996.
Retroactive finacing of up to $0.4 million would be provided to cover expenditures, primarily for the
early appointment of advisors, incurred after Aprfl 1, 1993.
39.  Special Account. To facilitate project implementaion the Borrower would establish a special
account in US dollars at a bank acceptable to IDA to cover IDA's share of eligible expenditures. The
authorized allocation of this account would be $0.5 million equivalent At the request of the Borrower
and, based on project needs, IDA would make an inial deposit or deposits into the special account, up
to the amount of the authorized allocation. Applications for replenishment of the special account would
be submitted quarterly, or when one third of the amount deposited has been withdrawn, whichever occurs
earlier. Documentation requirements for replenishment applications would follow the same procedure
as descrbed in para 37. In addition; quarterly bank statements of the special account which have been
reconciled by the Borrower should accompany all replenishment requests.
40.  -Reporting and Auditng. During negotiations, assurances were obtained ta the special account,
all project accounts, and statements of expenditure will be audited at the end of each fiscal year by
independent auditors acceptable to IDA. Such audits will be carried out in accordance with intenational
standards undertaken by auditors qualified for this task. Audit reports for the preceding fiscal year will
be made available to IDA no later than by the end of June of each year.
41.   To enable the PIU to monitor-progress of project implementation, agreement was reached during
negotiations that the PIU would furnish IDA with a series of reports on a regular basis. These reports
will include: (a) quarterly progress reports on implementation in a format and degree of detail agreed
with DA during negotiations; (b) audited fnancial statements within six months after the close of each



- 24 -                            Tech     x
Page 12 of 12
fiscal year; and (c) records, financial statements, other progress reports or other types of information that
IDA may request from time to time. Based on Information provided by the various beneficiary agencies,
the PIU will prepare its contribution to the Project Completion Report, within six months of the Closing
Date, covering all related activities during project implementation.
Procurement
42.   Procurement would be the responsibility of the PIU in consultation with the beneficiary agencies.
The procurement arrangements would be as follows:
a.     C    ltant' services: Consultants for technical assistance, training and studies, detailed
in Attachment II and to be financed from the proceeds of the credit, would be recruited
from among consulting firms or individual consultants in accordance with the World
Bank's Guidelines for Use of Consultants. The terms of reference, list of firms or
institutions, and letters of invitation would be reviewed with and approved by IMA before
inviting proposals. Contracts for all consultants' services valued at $50,000 and above
and for aUl contracts with individuals regardless of value, would be subject to IDA's prior
review and approval. Contracts with firms valued at less than $50,000 would be subject
to selective post-award reviews by IDA.
b.     Egulpm  nl: Special vehicles for the bank courier service and computer and other office
equipment will be grouped into two packages (Atchment II) totalling $600,000 to be
procured tirough international competitive bidding ([CB). Albanian manufacturers
competing for bids under ICB would be allowed a preferential margin of 15 percent or
the existing customs duty applicable to non-exempt importers, whichever is lower, over
the CIF prices of competing importers, provided they can demonstrate that the value
added to the product in Albania exceeds 20 percent of ex-factory bid price. Ihe
remaining equipment and documentation, grouped in up to five packages estimated to cost
less than $200,000 each, totalling $500,000 would be procured through international
shopping, requiring price quotations from a mininmum of three vendors from three
different counties. Small value items, such as training materis and office equipment
supplies would be packaged into contracs estimated to cost less than $50,000, up to an
aggregate cost of $100,000 may be procured locally on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three local suppliers. Procurement documentation for
contracts with an estimated cost of $200,000 and above, would be subject to prior IDA
review. Contracts below $200,000 would be subject to selective post-award review by
IDA.



- 25                                   Tecbnical Anne
Attachmenit I
Pageo 1 of 4
ALBANIA
TECNIMCAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Project Implementation Schedule
ACT[VTYEECE TEIMING
GENERAL
1. Appointment of staff to PIU                                          May 1993
2. Mid-term review of project implementation                            February-March 1994
3. Review of TA impact                                                  Oct./Nov. 1995
MACROECONOMIC MANAGENMEN
1. Preparation of TORs for Consulting Services for:                     February 1993
Economic Statistics; Macroeconomic Analysis;
Treaury Systemn; Public Investment Project Pipeline
2. Appointment of consulting setvices for Public Investment Project
Pipeline                                                     May 1993
3. Provision of small office equipment                                  August 1993
4. Draft of Public Investimet Project Pipeline                          September 1993
5. Appointment of consulting soeries for                                April-August 1993
Macroeconomic Analysis; Treaury System;
statistics
6. Preparation of detailed training programs to be supported            July 1993
7. First macroeconomic forecast                                         July 1993
8. Initiaton of work program  on macroeconomic analysis,
Treasury system and statistics                               September 1993
9. First semi-annual progress reports fr-om consultants                 December 1993
10. Establishment of treasury system for expenditure control            January 1994
1 1. Operaton of new survey methodology                                 June 1994



Technical Annex
Attachment I
- 26 -                                    Page 2 of 4
ALBANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Project Implementation Schedule
ACTIVrrY                                                  EXPECTED TMIING
PUBLIC ENTERPRlSE REFORM
1. Privatization
Preparation of TORs for advisory services                  February 1993
Privatization policy seminar                               March 1993
Invitation to consultants                                  June 1993
Agreed privatization strategy                              June 1993
Formulation of detailed privatization policies             July-October 1993
Selection of consultants and initiation of work            August 1993
Follow-up privatization polkV seminar and                  November 1993
nfinlization of privatization policies
Review of consultants' services and extension/             Nov-Dec. 1993
re-bidding of senices as required
Implementation of privatization policies                   Nov. 1993-Dec. 1995
Review of privatization policies and
adjustment of policies as required                         Sept. 1994
2. Enterprise Support
TORs for enterprise management consulting services         April 1993
Invitation to consultants                                  July 1993
Selection of consultants and initiation of work            August 1993
Management consulting services for about 150 SEs           Aug. 1993-Dec. 1995
Review of results                                          Feb-March 1994
Invitation to consultants for continued enteprise          March 1994
management services



Technical Annex
Atachment I
- 27 -                                     Page 3 of 4
ALBANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Project Implementation Schedule
ACTIVITY                                                     EXPECTED TIING
Selection of consultants for second phase                    April 1994
Initiation of work                                           May 1994
Review of results of second phase                            November 1994
3. Enterprise Restructuring
TORs for restructuring consultant                            Febnuary 1993
Selection of 30 SEs                                          May 1993
Selection of restructuring consultants                       May 1993
Establishment of ERA and appointment of its
Director                                              May 1993
Restructuring analysis for the 30 SEs selected               June-Oct 1993
Approval of business plans for the 30 SEs                    Sept-Nov. 1993
Review of performance of consultants and invitation to bid   Nov-Dec. 1993
for second phase if required
Supervision of business plan implementation                  Sept. 1993-Dec. 1994
Review of results and decision on ERA future                 Sept-Dec. 1994
4. Lepal Framework
- TORs for consultants                                         June 1993
Selection of consultants                                     September 1993
Review of legal matters                                      Oct-Dec. 1993
Evaluation of results and agreement with                     Jan-Feb. 1994
Government on implementation
Implementation of results                                    Mar-Dec. 1994



1_cbnisnlAnnex
- 28-                                     Attachment I
Page 4 of 4
ALBANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISANCE PROJECT F'OR ECONOMIC REF'ORM
Project Imnplementation Schedule
ACTIVTYEXECE TIMING
BANKING REFORMS
1. Preparaton of TOR for a courier system consultant                    Febriary 1993
2. Preparation of TOR for bank mianagement servic-es                    April 1993
3. Preparation of draft charter for Bankers' Training Center            April 1993
4. Preparation of technical specifications for courier system equipment  June 1993
S. Preparation of bidding documents for courier system equipment        July 1993
6. Recruitment of bank management specialists                           August 1993
7. Provision of computers to Bankers' Training Center                   August 1993
8. Operation of Bankers' Training Center                                September 1993
9. Provision of banking advisory service-s                              Sept. 1993-Dec. 1995
10. Provision of courier system equipment                               December 1993
11. Imlmnainof courier service                                          March 1994



Te¢hnical Annex
-29 -                                               Attachment 11
ALBANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Breakdown of Estimated Foreign Exchange Costs and Procurement Arrangements
(US$ 000's)
COMONENT                                COST         PROCUREMENT    SELECTION             START   COMPLETION
CONSULTANTS/STUDIES/TRINING
MACROECONOMIC MANAGEMENT
a) Provision of Economic Statistics     155           Firm/individual      05/93           09/93        07/95
b) Macroeconomic Analysis               210           FumPnmdividual       05193           08/93        07/95
c) Establishment of a Treasury System   100           Individual           08/93           10/93        09/94
d) Public Ivestment Program             155          Ibd./frm              04/93           0S/93        09193
e) Additional Consuling as Required      S0           Furmdi.              06/93           09/93        12/95
i) Trinng                               2.9           Training abroad      05193          06/93.        12/95
SUB-TOTAL                         960
PRIVATIZATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM
a) Privatization                        345           Firm                 08/93           09/93        12/94
b) Etrprise Restucturing/               415           Firm                 05/93           06/93        12/95
Ednerpr  Support
c) Logal Framework Developmat           100           Fum                  09/93           10/93        10/94
d) Training                             200           Trminig abroad       08/93           09/93        12/95
e) Addidonal consultants                 90           Furm.dL              08/93           09/93        12/95
SUB-TOTAL                        1150
BANKING SECTOR REFORM
a) Bank Management Serfices             410           Firm                 07/93           09193        12/95
b) Courier System consultant             S0           Ind./firm            04J93           06193        03/94
c) Banks Tranig Cer                      35           Ind./firm            05/93           06/93        10/93
d) Trining                              160           Taninsg abroad       08/93           09/93        12195
c) Additional consultats                              Fumrmldi             06193           0793         12/95
SUB-TOTAL                         690
EQUIPMENT
Spcial Vehicles for courer servie       400           ICB                  09/93           12/93        05/94
Computers for Govt agencies &           200           ICB                  07/93           09/93        10/94
Bankers' traing   center
Office equipmt (S packages)             S00           IS                   06193           07193        12/95
Training mateials, office equipment sWpples  10       LS                   06193           07/93        12/95
SUBTOTAL
GRAND TOTAL



Technical Annex
Attachmnt 11
ALBANIA
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT F OR ECONOMIC REFORM
KEY PROJECT ACTIVITIES
Main Govemment              Projet Component Actiies           Responsible Agencies      Expected Result                       Timing
Objecdives                                                      OBneficiary Agencics
MACROECONOMIC MANAGEM-ENT
L PROVISION OF BASIC ECONOMIC INFORMATION
Buildg capacity for         Prvision of expert assistanee,
statistic surn  and data    training, and e4uipment for:
collection
(i) development of a survey        Central Statistical      Development and operation of new      April 1993-June 1994
m odology                          Office (CSO)             survey methodology
(ii) organization of data collection  CSO                   Operation of new system of data        12 months
collection                                                        °
(ii) development of a training     CSO                      Development of a training program     July 1993
progrm for CSO staff
IL MACROECONOMIC ANALYSIS
Buading capaciq for         Provision of expert assistance and
mcroeconomic and            training
budgdary analysis
(i) Preparation and updating of    Economic                twice-yearly macroeconomic             Starting July 1993
twice-yeady macroeconomic          Devebpment               projections
forecast                           Directorate (EDD)
(ii) Prparation of budgetary       EDD and Budgeary         Budgetary scenarios                   Staiting July 1993
scenarios under diffemrat          Directoate
macroeconomic assumptions
(ih) development of a training     EDD and BD               Training program in place             July 1993
progam for EDD and BD staff



Technal Annex
Atachment m
Main Government             POPject Component Activities       Responsible Agenciesl    Expected Result                      Timing
Objecfives                                                     Beneficiary Agencies
m. ESTABLISHMENT OP A TREASURY SYSTEM
Establishing a treasury     Provision of expert support and
system for expenditure      equipment:
contol
(O) establishment of a reporing   Treasury Directorate     Report system in operation            Beginning January 1994
system for local trasury offices  (TD)
(ii) design of reporting format by  TD                     New reporting fonnat and procodures   Beginning March 1994
banks                                                      by banks
(iii) establLdument of procedures  TD                      New procedures                        Beginning January 1994
for government account
reconciliation
(iv) establishment of a compilation    TD                  Operation of a new compilation        Beginning March 1994
system for accounts at different                           system
levels of government
(v) establishment of a manual of  TID                      Development and operation of a        Beginning January 1995
government accounts                                        manual of govemment accounts
IV. PUBLIC INVESTMENT PROJECT PIPELINE (PIPM
Developing a new pipeline  Provision of expert assistance to  Ministry of Fnance       drat PIP prepared for next donors'    September 1993
of public investment       produce a preliminary PIP          and Economy (MoPE)       meeting
projects



Technical Annm=
Atahmen 
Main Govrnnment             PsDject Component Activities       Respoble Agencies/       E    ted Result                      tuning
Objectives                                                     Beneficia  Agenies
PRIVATZATION AND PUBLIC ENTERPRISE REFORM1
1. SUPPORT FOR PRIVATIZATION
Extending pivatiaton        Povision of profesional services
programs to medium and      and gtaining
wg state entepris
Oi daevlopmet of strategy and     National Privtatntion    Privatiation straegy and              June 1993
guideines                         Ageny (NAP)              coherent pvattion poLicies            October 1993
(ii) orgaion of NAP and           NAP                      An effective prwattion orpanition     Deember 1993
prvat on procedures                                        and a complete set of implemndtig
procedures
(ii) individual privatization     NAP                      Prvatizaion of most individual        June 1993-December 1995    ,
transactions                                               enterprises
11. SUPPORT Fog ENTEPIsE RESIRUCTURING
Tcklng the crisis           Prviion of expert ssistance and
siation in state e ris        ing:
sector through
restuting, including        (i direct  tuctuing of about 30   Entaqprise               ElB ting financial losses in key      September 1993-March
liquidating pasu or all of   wotant problem aeteprises        Restructuring Agency     enUtprises and windingdown a          1994
an entprises and                                              (ERA)                    number of problem eterpris  as
downsizing labor formes                                                                required
(u) resucti    support of         Enftepise Support        Effectiv mangerial and tochnical     June 1993-December 1995
entrprises at lag trough          Unit (ESU)               support to meet demanddriven needs
provsion of mangia and                                     of the entepris sedor. aricpating
technical support whencr                                    ntrprises oble to opem  within the
needed                                                     evolving madrkt economy framexowk



iIjt!iit          £8 If{I:
1.1t        ii}   Ir'
at             g 
[       §       0 p  a



Technical Annex
Attachment Il
Main Govnment              Ptojet Component Adcies            Responsible Agencies/   Expected Result                       muning
Objectives                                                    Beneficiary Agencies
IL ESTABLISHMENT AND OPER&IION OP A COURIER SYSTEM
Facilia   and speeding     Provision of expert assistance and  BA and banks           Establishment and operation of a      March 1994
up flow of infomation      equipmen to se Up a courier       involved                 courier system to reduce tie lag in
and montary instruments    system operating on a daiy basis                           payment settlement and clearanee and
among bank branches        between heauars and eight                                  flow of information among bank
owntrywide; acceleratng    large regional centers                                     branches
paymet clerance
II. DEVBLOPMENT AND OPERATIOh OF A BANKERS' TRAINING CENTER
Improvig professional      Provision of expert assitance and  BA, University of       Development and opeation of the      September 1993
knowledge of banking       equipmt to help establish the      ra, banks               Center, and equipment of a computer
staff, partdcuary in       Center, develop currcum, and       involved, and other     lab for training; improved
cedit, accounting, an      provide tainng                    international donors     professional knowledge of bank staff
computer operations
TRAINING
L ON-THE-JOB TRAINING
Improving capacity of      On-tho-Job training of             MoFE, CSO, EDD,         Key staff trained                    By lune 1995
staff of beneficiary       counterparts and other agency      BD, NAP, Bank of
agenies to funtion in      staff by resident and long-trn    Albana and
market economy             advisors                          commecial banks
ito
IL I&CAL AFWMINARS AND SHORT COURSES
Strengthening and          Trainig ins    cl techniques      CSO                     30 staff of CSO trained               September 1993-Dcoember
plafessiond defelopment    for maket economies                                                                             1993
of staff of bene6iciay
agecies                    Provision of taining for staff of  MoPE                    5 MoFE staff trained, ability to     May-September 1993
MoFE for updating PIP                                     update PIP



Technical Anne=
Atachment m
Main Govenment             Ptoject Component Activities     RPponsible Agencies/     Expctd Result                       Trming
Obje@tives                                                   Ber#fwiu Agencies
Training in macroeconomic        EDD and BD               3 staff of EDD and 4 staff of BD    JuneDecember 1993
analysis, forecasting and budget                          trained
preparation
Trining on privatiation policy   NAP                      20 staff of NAP trained             May 1993-Deenber 1994
and strategy fonnmuaion/
imp tementationamsactions
Training of operaton for the bank  Bank of Albania and    30 operators trained and operational  Sept. 1993-Feb. 1994
courier service                  commercial banks
Training in banking practices:   Commercial banks         60 staff of oommercial banks training  Sept. 1993-Dec. 1994
lending, accounting and treasury                          in modan banking practices and
functions                                                procedures
Training in banking supervision,  Bank of Albania         8 staff of Bank of Albania's        July 1993-Dec. 1994         Ut
including on-ite examination                             Supervision Department trained;
tcchniques, cedit evaluation and                          strengthened supervision of banking
classification                                            system
m. STUDY TOURS ABROAD
Improved knowledge of      About 55 study tous and training  MoFE, CSO, EDD,         Completion of study tours, application    June 1993-Docember 1995
poticies/procedures of     abroad                            Bank of Albania,        of new practices
maret economies and of                                       NAP, E1RA, ESU,
mplementation of reforms                                     commerical banks,
in Central and East                                          Bankers' Training
European reforming                                           Center
economies



A N                      ~~~~~ ~ ~~1°9f                           20f                                     21°
To Priesina
'SHKODER                           Sn
ADRIATIC                                               A       PK   ~~ro
SEA                     To
42°
42'
ADMINISTRATIVE DISTRICTS                                                                 B
o  SELECTED TOWNS ANDCMES                                  a u
0   N noNAL CAprAL)
-    MAJN ROADS
-    RAILROADS
AIRPORT
,tPORTS                               Du
-    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
-     INTERNAlONAL BOUNDARIES
-  RIVERS                                    R                                                           TO d  ,-_
ELEVAI8ONS IN mETERS:                                     BAS
1200
2zI00                                ~
PO~
_ _    | ~~~~~^s^,>¢¢;e               ' ' ~~~~~~~~Sanind.X\))               ObJnn
S ~~~~~~IONIAN SEA ^-    Xt 
PE~ ~ ~~~~2 
7M6~ ~ ~ . ..                                                        sa!   2    eJ2°                                      o



