Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY               Report No.:          18741
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENTT CREDIT
(Credit 2649-AL)
and
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
(Credit 2492-AL)
December 28, 1998
Private and Financial Sector Development Department
Europe and Central Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of the of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed
without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of October 25, 1998)
Currency Unit   =      Lek
1 Lek    =    US$0.0071
US$1    =    Lek 140
AVERAGE EXCHANGE RATES
1994           1995             1996               1997          September 1998
94.7           92.8            104.5               148.9              140.0
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BoA   -  Bank of Albania
CAS   -  Country Assistance Strategy
CEO   -  Chief Executive Officer
CoM       Council of Ministers
EFSAC   -  Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit
ERA   -  Enterprise Restructuring Agency
ESAF   -  Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility
EU   -  European Union
GDP   -  Gross Domestic Product
IBRD   -  Intemational Bank for Reconstruction and Development
IDA   -  International Development Association
IMF   -  International Monetary Fund
MoF   -  Ministry of Finance
NAP   -  National Privatization Agency
NCB   -  National Commercial Bank
PFP   -  Policy Framework Paper
PIP   -  Public Investment Program
PIU   -  Project Implementation Unit
RCB   -  Rural Commercial Bank
SB   -  Savings Bank
SDR   -  Special Drawing Rights
SOE   -  State-owned Enterprise
SME   -  Small and Medium Enterprises
USAID   -  United States Agency for International Development
ALBANIA'S FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
Vice President: Johannes Linn, ECAVP
Country Director: Amtraud Hartrnann, ECCO2
Team Leader: Tunc Uyanik, ECSPF
Sector Leader: Hennie Van Greuning, ECSPF



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2649-AL)
TECHNqICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
(Credit 2492-AL)
Contents
P reface   ... .............................................  ................................................................ ............................................... i
Evaluation Summary ..............................................................                                                                     ii
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment ..............................................................1
Part II. Statistical Tables ...............................................................                                                         17
TABLE 1: SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS ................................................................... 1 8
TABLE 2: RELATED BANK LOANS/CREDITS ..................................................................                                      20
TABLE  3:  PROJECT TIMETABLE ..................................................................                                             20
TABLE 4: LOAN/CREDIT DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL ....................................... 2 1
TABLE 5: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ..................................................................                         22
TABLE 6: KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT OPERATION ..................................................................                            25
TABLE 8A: PROJECT COSTS ..................................................................                                                  26
TABLE 9: ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ..................................................................                                     26
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..................................................................                                      27
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..................................................................                                      27
TABLE 10: STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS ..................................................................                                      28
TABLE I 1: COMPLIANCE WITH OPERATIONAL MANUAL STATEMENTS .............................................................  29
TABLE 13: BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS ..................................................................                                       30
Appendixes:
A. Mission's aide-memoire
B. Borrower contribution to the ICR
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the'
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed withouti
World Bank authorization.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT
(Credit 2649-AL)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
(Credit 2492-AL)
Preface
This is a combined Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Enterprise and Financial
Sector Adjustment. Credit (EFSAC) in Albania, for which Credit 2694-AL in the amount of SDR 10.6
million equivalent as approved on August 2, 1994, and for the Technical Assistance Project for Economic
Reform, (TA Project) for which Credit 2492-AL in the amount of SDR 2.9 million equivalent was
approved on May 13, 1993. Credit 2649 was made effective on January 5, 1995, and Credit 2492 on
October 7, 1993.
Credit 2694 was closed on June 30, 1998, compared with the original closing date of December
31, 1996. The first tranche, released upon effectiveness, was fully disbursed by April 1996; the
subsequent tranche was released on June 18, 1998, and the credit was fully disbursed by July 2, 1998.
Credit 2492 will close on December 31, 1998, by which time the Credit is expected to be fully disbursed.
During implementation of the Technical Assistance Project, cofinancing in the total amount of about
US$5.2 million equivalent was provided by EU-Phare, Denmark, Greece, Italy, Spain, Switzerland and
USAID, to support the winding down of the pyramid schemes.
The ICR was prepared by Rochelle Hilton, Yvonne Jones and Greta Minxhozi (ECSPF) of the
Europe and Central Asia Region and reviewed by Julius Varallyay, Acting Country Director. The
borrower provided comments that are included as appendix B to the ICR. Comments received from
various implementing agencies have also been taken into account in the preparation of the ICR.
Preparation of this ICR was begun during the Bank's final supervision/completion mission, from
October 26 to November 3, 1998. It is based on material in the project file. The borrower contributed to
preparation of the ICR by preparing its own evaluation and commenting on the draft ICR.



- ii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2649-AL)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM (CREDIT 2492-AL)
Evaluation Summary
Introduction
i.  In mid-1993, the Bank's country assistance strategy for Albania was stated as follows. "Neither the
Albania's own development strategy, nor the Bank's assistance strategy should attempt to be the blueprint
for the future. The challenge for Albania and the Bank over the next years will be to create an integrated
framework for change that will be compatible with short term macro stabilization; will combine 'rules
with discretion', and will be flexible enough to accommodate the major structural shifts that are likely to
continue to take place in the economy .... What is needed is a flexible strategy that responds quickly to
new information while maintaining an overall framework that promotes: (i) stability; and (ii) new
entrepreneurship and private initiative." The design, objectives and implementation of the Enterprise and
Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC) and the Technical Assistance Project helped address these
objectives. These two operations represented a strategic Bank contribution to the transition policy
dialogue with Albania.
Project Objectives
ii.   The EFSAC aimed to support the reform program, adopted by the Govemment in 1992 and
designed to deal with the most pressing and necessary structural measures. It aimed at preparing the way
to further assistance that would complete the privatization of the banks and modernize financial services
in Albania. The principal objective of the EFSAC was to provide support to Albania's efforts to
effectively implement reform programs for the enterprise and financial sectors. The TA Project was
designed to support the restructuring of state-owned banks and the overall development of a market-
based financial system; continued privatization or liquidation of industrial enterprises; and strengthening
of the legal framework for the enterprise and financial sectors (paras 8-9).
iii. The EFSAC conditionality was ambitious, but comprised priority actions essential to begin the
transition to a market economy, move forward with the reform program and form the basis for recovering
sustainable growth. The TA Project was a necessary complement to the EFSAC because of the
Government's weak institutional capacity, lack of experienced staff and the paucity of knowledge about
privatization, banking sector reform and their consequences. The objectives of the two operations were
complementary and an important first step to support the Government's program. However, the lack of
priority given to strengthening public administration, which was reflected in frequent changes of key
policy-makers and decision-makers, left advancing reform programs too vulnerable to the impact of the
large-scale civil disturbances in 1997 (paras 11-13).
iv. Although it took longer than originally anticipated to fulfill all of the EFSAC conditions and to
carry out the TA Project, by the time of second tranche release in June 1998, all conditions had been
substantially met. Overall implementation of both operations has been moderately successful and they
have achieved their development objectives. In retrospect, the conditionality of the EFSAC was
appropriate and it correctly recognized that much more support would be needed in the future to help



- iii -
further advance the transition process. Building on achievements under the EFSAC, in 1997, the
Government and the Bank agreed to a new strategy for restructuring and privatizing the banking sector.
This strategy is being implemented vigorously, and the Government and Bank are collaborating closely,
in consultation with other donors, to move as quickly as possible to the next phase (para 37-38).
Implementation Experience and Results
v.  Macroeconomic Management: Improving macroeconomic management was an objective of the TA
Project. The project focused on reducing macroeconomic imbalances, developing capacity to prepare
Public Investment Programs, and reducing subsidies to State-owned Enterprises. The Government
prepared the first Public Investment Program (PIP) in 1994 which focused not only on specific
investmnent projects for 1994, but also provided the economic context in which the investments were to be
made and reviewed arrangements within the Government for implementation, coordination, and
management. A three year rolling investment program was prepared in each of the subsequent years
through 1996. Through approval of an International Monetary Fund (IMF) Enhanced Structural
Adjustment Fund (ESAF), a macroeconomic framework supportive of the objectives of the EFSAC has
been restored after the period of macroeconomic imbalances from early 1996 through late 1997. After a
one year hiatus caused by the 1997 crisis, the Govermment reviewed the status of public investments and
in early 1998 completed a new PIP, covering 1998-2001. The new PIP, presented at the October 1998
Donors' Conference, takes into account Albania's post-crisis priorities, elaborates an appropriate resource
framework, and considers measures for improved coordination and management. The Government has
also taken a number of measures to reduce subsidies to State-owned Enterprises (paras 15-20).
vi. Enterprise Sector Reform and Privatization: The Government was committed early on to
privatization, with substantial assistance from the TA Project and (as in other areas) support from other
donors. The Government's prime objective was speedy privatization to reduce fiscal costs, improve
resource allocation and encourage the development of a private sector. To this end, the Enterprise
Restructuring Agenacy (ERA) was created to dispose of 32 problematic enterprises. A large number of
small and medium enterprises were privatized first through Decree 248, followed by the Mass
Privatization Program, most of which took place in 1995 and 1996. The in-built flexibility of the TA
Project allowed the Bank to quickly mobilize critical support to help in the design and implementation of
this program. In late 1996, the emphasis began to shift to preparing the larger, strategic enterprises for
their eventual privatization, but these activities were interrupted in early 1997 as a result of the political
crisis (paras 21-26).
vii. The Govemment appointed following the June 1997 elections undertook to reformulate the
privatization strategy. The new strategy approved in March 1998 included plans for the privatization of
public utilities' resource-based enterprises on a sectoral basis, involving, among other modalities, sales to
strategic investors. Technical assistance in support of this ambitious program is being provided with
bilateral assistance from Italy in the framework of a program agreed between the Government and the
Bank. The Government is also committed to completing the privatization of the remainder of the small
and medium enterprises (para 27).
viii. Banking Sector Reform: Reform of the banking sector moved more slowly than that of the
enterprise sector, due to a combination of factors. In 1993, Albania had only a rudimentary banking
system with little knowledge of commercial banking, few bankers and very poor infrastructure. Until
then, the banks had been used more as fiscal agents of the Government than as independent financial
intermediaries. Early implementation of the privatization strategy was hampered by lack of reliable
information on bank portfolios and operations, and by the absence of full service private banks. The



-1v -
situation was exacerbated by a lack of interested and qualified buyers for banks or branches. The
Ministry of Finance was also unable to effectively exercise its role as owner of the banks (paras. 28-36).
ix. The EFSAC included measures to strengthen banking supervision, regulation and infrastructure.
Assistance from many donors was provided to support all of these areas, including from the TA Project.
However, progress was mixed. With support from the IMF, banking supervision, licensing and prudential
regulation have been substantially strengthened, although more needs to be done. Progress on improving
infrastructure was mixed, in part due to inconsistencies in approach from different donors, and was
complicated by a lack of expertise on the part of the Government, as well as by a lack of experienced
bankers. Over the course of project implementation, at least three different strategies were prepared by
the Government for privatization of the banking sector. However, Ministers of Finance changed
frequently. These decision-makers were able to influence government policy and consequently revisited
strategies prepared by their predecessors. This in turn resulted in delays in reaching an agreement with
the Bank and, until late 1997, delayed implementation of an agreed strategy (paras. 36, 63).
x.  Delays in reforming the banking sector and a lack of functioning commercial banks may have to
some extent facilitated the growth of the pyramid schemes. Following the 1997 crisis, the new
Government has moved rapidly to exercise its ownership and oversight responsibilities and to implement
an agreed strategy for the development of a private banking sector, taking strong steps to deal with the
problematic state-owned banks. Policy advice and technical assistance to the financial sector from the
World Bank continues through the Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project and other policy
based operations are expected (paras. 3 8-40, 64).
xi. Legal Reform: Substantial work has been done on legal reform and Albania has in place the bulk of
the necessary commercial legislation, including a Law on Bankruptcy Procedures. Work continues to be
needed to ensure consistency among the many pieces of new legislation. Additionally, the judiciary is ill-
equipped and inexperienced and there is limited capacity to apply the provisions of the new laws needed
to promote private sector development. A major challenge is now to strengthen enforcement capacity of
the legal system through significant training programs in all areas. This process is being strongly
supported by major donors, but it will necessarily be a long-term process that is outside the framework of
the EFSAC (paras 41-45).
xii. Project Management and Administration: As the TA project was a complex operation with many
different components, coordination among the various beneficiary agencies was essential. Discussions
with the participating institutions indicated that the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was cooperative
and provided needed assistance for procurement and payments on a timely basis. Although initially well-
staffed, the structure and status of the PIU were substantially changed in 1997, which negatively affected the
efficiency and effectiveness of the Unit (para. 65).
Future Operation and Key Lessons Learned
xiii. Future Operation: The Govemment has demonstrated that it is committed to continuing its reform
program. This commitment is stated in its report: "The Road to Stabilization and Development," which
was presented at the recent Donors Conference (October, 1998). Since the restart of activities in late
1997, IDA has been pursuing an extensive program to help Albania continue along this path. The
Rehabilitation Credit supplemented by the Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project (both
approved in December 1997), provided balance of payments and institutional support, respectively, for a
program for designing and implementing reforms in key areas such as banking, public sector
management, the civil service and the judiciary. A Structural Adjustment Credit, under preparation, will



- v -
support policies to move forward programs in these areas. The planned Banking Privatization Project
will specifically address issues relating to the privatization of the largest bank (Savings Bank) and the
further promotion of private banking and capital market development. Major efforts are also underway to
support public administration reform and to strengthen the judiciary and judicial administration (para 69).
xiv. Lessons Learned: Following are the key conclusions drawn from an assessment of the design and
implementation of these operations (paras 70-75).
*  It is essential to effective program implementation that there be sustained Government commitment
and IDA and Government staff continuity. While commitment was demonstrated, it alone is not
sufficient to build up the experience and expertise to implement and modify complex adjustment and
investment operations.  High level policy-making staff need to be trained and retained by
Government. Likewise, it is essential that IDA maintain staff continuity from project preparation
through implernentation so that actions taken at one stage of implementation are fully understood and
consistent with project design and earlier actions, particularly project modifications.
*  Although the objectives of both operations were clear and remain relevant today, the timetable for
reaching the desired goals was overly-optimistic. More realism should be built into the timetables.
*  Ultimate operational objectives should be defined by clear interim steps so that the Government can
readily assess whether it is on track for meeting its objectives or not. Better and more detailed
analytical monitoring indicators could have helped in this respect. Furthermore, when dealing with
countries with such limited experience, it is important that advice on project objectives, offered by the
Bank and by o ther donors, be specific rather than general.
*  Intense supervision is required for technical support, particularly for a low income country with little
IDA and other donor experience.
*  Although the Government was committed to implementing the programs agreed under the EFSAC,
the constant support and guidance of IDA was requested and needed to maintain the momentum in
implementing agreed programs and to adhere to difficult decisions. Strong support from the Resident
Mission was an essential ingredient of this visible presence.
*  Albania's difficulty in creating a modern banking system is not dissimilar to that of other formerly
socialist economies. Many countries which embarked on the transformation of their banking systems
much earlier than had Albania, continued to confront similar, basic problems many years later. One
of the main problems is that under state ownership the banks and bank managers do not have the
right incentives to become strong, effective lending institutions. Technical assistance, while useful, is
not sufficient to change bank operations rapidly.
*  The built-in flexibility of the TA Project was a crucial factor in the successful outcome of this
operation. The TA Project was, however, not a general fund and care should be taken to ensure that
this is not the case. It was reasonably targeted towards certain activities and sectors with identifiable
components. The flexibility facilitated a quick response to address changing priorities as the country
situation evolved. IDA's willingness to be creative in dealing with changed circumstances has
allowed the activities to evolve through the process of amendment without any changes to the
objectives and a minor change to the TA Project description.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
ALBANIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (CREDIT 2649-AL)
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM (CREDIT 2492-AL)
Part I. Project Implementation Assessment
A.    Backgrouiid
1.    The demise of communism over 1990-92 was accompanied by economic and political chaos in
Albania, with an almost complete collapse of industrial output (a decline of over 70 percent in 1991-92).
This resulted in a fiscal crisis of unprecedented dimensions, since with the collapse of the state enterprise
sector, the bulk of the tax base disappeared and fiscal revenues decreased from 44 percent of GDP in
1989 to about 16 percent in 1992. At the same time, in mid 1992, government expenditures rose to
almost 60 percent of GDP and the fiscal deficit rose to 52 percent of GDP. Monthly inflation was in the
10-15 percent range as the banking system continued to make credits to state enterprises.
2.    Despite this extremely difficult environment, the Government which came to power in mid-1992
embarked on a very courageous stabilization program, supported by an IMF Stand-by Arrangement,
followed by an Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility (ESAF) in July 1993, and balance of payments
and emergency support organized under the auspices of the EU/G24, as well as support from the World
Bank'.
3.    The center of this program was fiscal consolidation. Public expenditures were reduced by 22
percent of GDP in 1993, mainly as a result of cuts in subsidies to state enterprises. On the revenue side,
taxes increased by 6 percent of GDP, through the introduction of excise taxes and a broadening of the tax
base. As a result, the ratio of the deficit to GDP fell from 44 percent in the first half of 1992 to 16 percent
in 1993. Credit to state enterprises also severely contracted.
4.     On the siructural side, the Government eliminated most price controls, unified the foreign
exchange market, liberalized current account transactions and eliminated or reduced export and import
licensing requirerments. At the same time, efforts began to develop a two-tier banking system. To
support this effoit, laws on central and commercial banking operations were adopted and technical
assistance programs initiated for the institutional development of the central and commercial banks.
Complementing these reformns, small-scale privatization was proceeding and the distribution of most
agricultural land had been completed by end- 1993.
5.    When the Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform (TA Project) became effective, the
stabilization program was already showing good results. Progress continued, although the fiscal situation
remained fragile. By the time the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC) was
approved, indications were that macroeconomic stability had been established. After a fall in GDP of
about 30 percent in 1991 and 10 percent in 1992 (to the low level of less than $250 per capita), GDP
In addition to these two operations, a Critical Imports Credit and an Agriculture Sector Adjustment Credit, as well as a
number of sector investment credits, were approved in FY92 and FY93, respectively.



-2 -
growth was about 10 percent in 1993. Annual inflation had fallen to about 30 percent in 1993 and
continued its decline in 1994 to a rate of less than 2 percent a month.
6.     These initial results, however, represented only the first steps in what was recognized to be a
much longer journey. Albania lacked the institutions, expertise and infrastructure required for a well-
functioning market economy. The Government had to virtually build a new economy. The needs for
reform in all sectors of the economy were enormous, but their implementation was constrained by a
limited administrative capacity, particularly by the lack of institutional skills in the management of the
economy at the central administration level and in crucial areas such as the enterprise and financial
sectors.
7.     To address these challenges, the Government focused its policy priorities on: (i) reform of public
finances to consolidate the results of the stabilization; (ii) rebuilding of infrastructure necessary to support
private sector development; (iii) privatization and restructuring of State-owned Enterprises (SOEs) and
support for small-scale private initiatives; (iv) divestiture of state-owned banks and development of a
viable financial sector; and (v) development of Albania's natural endowments in agriculture, mineral and
water resources.
B. Objectives
8.    In line with these priorities, as articulated in the 1993 Country Assistance Strategy, the Bank's
assistance focused on providing support for the establishment of a functioning market economy, fiscal
consolidation, recovery of sustainable economic growth and measures to alleviate poverty. Central to this
strategy, and based on extensive prior economic and sector work2, the EFSAC was designed to deal with
the most pressing and essential structural reform issues in the inter-dependent enterprise and financial
sectors. It aimed at opening the way for further follow up assistance that would help complete the
privatization of the banks and modernize financial services in Albania. The TA Project was designed to
provide institutional support to help implement this first stage of reform. Its main purpose was to help the
Government improve its ability to formulate and implement reforms in macroeconomic management;
enterprise restructuring and privatization; and the financial sector. These two operations represented a
strategic Bank contribution to the transition policy dialogue with Albania.
9.     The principal measures supported under the EFSAC included the following:
(i)    In the area of Macroeconomic Reform: implementation of the agreed 1995-97 Public Investment
Program (PIP).
(ii)   In the area of Enterprise Sector Reform: (a) Privatization or liquidation of 12 of the 32 pre-
identified problem enterprises which were placed in the Enterprise Restructuring Agency (ERA); (b)
approval of the 1995 budgetary resources for ERA enterprises, making explicit operating subsidies, on a
declining basis (c) privatization of 12 large SOEs; and (d) privatization of 200 small/medium enterprises.
(iii)  In the area of Banking Sector Reform. (a) preparation of a strategy, agreed with the Bank, for the
privatization of the three state-owned commercial banks; (b) limitation on lending ceilings to Savings
Bank, based on its satisfactory performance; (c) settlement of National Commercial Bank's obligations to
the BoA; (d) submission to the Bank of external audits for the 1994 accounts of the state-owned banks;
(v) satisfactory progress in strengthening BoA's supervisory capacity; (e) introduction of a new chart of
accounts for all banks; and (f) a review of bank licensing requirements.
2   Country Economic Memoranda were prepared in 1992 and 1994.



- 3 -
(iv)   In the arecr of Legal Reform: adoption of new legislation on bankruptcy proceedings for all
enterprises and on loan recovery.
C. Evaluation of Objectives
10.    The EFSAC and TA Project were complex operations, but the needs were so great that it was
important to address a number of priority areas simultaneously. In view of the institutional weakness of
public administration and the complexity of the problems in the enterprise and financial sectors, which
were linked to an insufficient understanding of the needs of a market economy, the EFSAC was expected
only to prepare the ground for reform in these sectors. A strength of the EFSAC was that macroeconomic
stability had been achieved before it became effective. It was designed to begin to address all the major
issues in the enterprise and financial sectors because of the close linkage of the problems affecting these
two sectors.
I1.   The EFSAC conditionality was ambitious. It comprised priority actions essential to begin the
transition to a market economy, move forward with the reform program and form the basis for recovering
sustainable growth. While the conditionality was clear, there could have been less emphasis on obtaining
quantitative targets and more on improving the efficiency of the enterprise sector. However, its structure
was consistent wilh IDA practice at that time and, in retrospect, was appropriate. The operation also
correctly recognized that much more support would be needed in the future to help further advance the
transition process. Building on achievements under the EFSAC, in 1997, the Government and the Bank
agreed to a new strategy for restructuring and privatizing the banking sector. This strategy is being
implemented vigorously, and the Govemment and Bank are collaborating closely, in consultation with
other donors, to move as quickly as possible to the next phase.
12.   The EFSAC design, supported by the accompanying TA Project, incorporated appropriate
sequencing of reforms in the enterprise and financial sectors.  Recent Bank analysis of sectoral
adjustmnent operations (OED, Structural and Sectoral Adjustment, World Bank Experience, 1980-92), has
demonstrated that the real sector should be liberalized first. The process had started strongly in Albania.
However, the Government, IDA and other donors were over-ambitious in their expectation that the rapid
pace of privatization attained with agricultural and small-scale enterprises could be replicated in divesting
from large scale arnd strategic enterprises.
13.   The TA Project was a necessary complement to the EFSAC because of the Government's weak
institutional capacity, lack of experienced staff and the paucity of knowledge about privatization, banking
sector reform and their consequences. The objectives of the two operations were complementary and an
important first step to support the Government's program. Successive governments have demonstrated
their willingness to pursue the original reform objectives, while being flexible in the redesign of the
methods used to achieve those objectives. (A major example of this flexibility was the adoption of a
Mass Privatization Program (MPP) which is described in paras 24-25). However, the lack of priority
given to strengthening public administration, which was reflected in frequent changes of key policy-
makers and decision-makers, left advancing reform programs too vulnerable to the impact of the 1997
civil disturbances (para 49).
14.   The EFSAC and the TA Project were designed and implemented in close coordination with the
(IMF). Structural objectives under the IMF's 1993 ESAF and later, its Emergency Post-Conflict
Assistance Program, were linked to the EFSAC objectives. The IMF and the Bank funded technical
assistance to support the institutional strengthening needed to achieve policy objectives. They also
assisted the Government in identifying other sources of technical assistance funding to support



- 4 -
privatization and financial sector reform objectives. This coordination was particularly critical in the
post-crisis period.
D.    Achievement of Objectives
15.   Although it took longer than originally anticipated to fulfill all of the EFSAC conditions and to
carry out the TA Project, there were few changes in the Government's program objectives and, overall,
both operations have achieved their objectives. Most of the macroeconomic and privatization objectives
of the EFSAC had been substantially met by mid-1996. However, given the lack of progress in
developing the commercial banking sector, and the evident lack of political resolve and will to act, at that
time, the probability of meeting the second tranche release conditions was not high. After the 1997 crisis,
the new Government, realizing that more rapid and deeper reform had to take place, moved quickly and
vigorously to implement the needed reforms, including steps to wind down the pyramid schemes, and to
strengthen the banking system. As a result, by June 1998, all EFSAC conditions had been substantially
met, and the second tranche was released.
Macroeconomic Framework
16.   Following the effectiveness of the EFSAC, the Government of Albania made early and
substantial progress in implementing its ambitious stabilization and structural reform program. There
were major cuts in the budget deficit and a corresponding decline in inflation. To strengthen its fiscal
balance, since 1994, the Government has taken a number of measures to reduce subsidies and to improve
cost recovery in the infrastructure sectors. Prices of goods produced by SOEs are now market-determined
and public utility charges have been adjusted gradually to reduce the remaining budget subsidies. The total
budgetary expenditures for conservation and liquidation of SOEs fell from Lek 660 million in 1995 (0.3
percent of GDP) to Lek 395 million in 1997 (0.1 percent of GDP). Of this latter amount, Lek 93 million was
provided for what remained of the original ERA enterprises.
17.   The Government also made substantive progress in preparing and implementing a PIP. The first
comprehensive PIP, prepared in 1994, focused not only on specific investment projects for 1994-96, but also
provided the economic context in which the investments were to be made. Importantly, given the weakness
of Government institutions, it reviewed arrangements within the Government for implementation,
coordination and management. A three-year rolling investment program was prepared in each of the
subsequent years through 1996. The Government made some advances in institutional arrangements in the
Ministry of Finance (MoF) in the areas of treasury and budget functions, and in the Council of Ministers
(CoM) in general during 1994-96.
18.   Albania's impressive transition performance came to a halt in early 1997, following the collapse
of the pyramid schemes (para 49) and there was a severe contraction of economic activity. The
Government lost control of large parts of the country and most state functions were severely hampered.
The coalition Government, appointed in mid-1997, "rapidly took steps to take control of the
disintegrating economy, avert a total collapse of the monetary system and start creating conditions for the
resumption of economic development."3 Supported by a six-month IMF program (November 1997 to
April 1998) under the Fund's Post-Conflict Emergency Assistance Policy, the Government implemented
major measures to restore macroeconomic stability. These measures, together with the restoration, albeit
fragile, of political stability and security to the country, led to some important improvements in economic
performance in 1997. These recent achievements are being supported by a follow-up 3-year ESAF
program, approved in May 1998.
3 See Government's Report: "Albania - On the Road to Stabilization and Development", October 1998.



-5 -
19.   The actions taken included measures to strengthen customs and tax administration, the most
important of which was raising the VAT rate from 12.5 to 20 percent. Together with spending cuts, they
helped limit the domnestically financed fiscal deficit to less than 11 percent of GDP in 1997 and laid the
groundwork for furilher fiscal consolidation in 1998. For the first eight months of 1998, the fiscal deficit
was around 3 percent of annual GDP. For 1998, GDP is estimated to have grown by about 10 percent,
after declining by about 7 percent in 1997. The Lek appreciated immediately after the elections, and has
been relatively stable since. Economic activities have begun to recover, noticeably reflected in the
revival in construction, private industry and service activities. Throughout the crisis, the authorities
managed to adhere to the floating exchange rate policy with minimal intervention in the foreign exchange
market.
20.   The Government also reviewed the status of public investments and in early 1998 completed a new
PIP, covering 1998-2001. This new PIP, which was presented at the October 1998 Donors' Conference,
takes into account Albania's post-crisis priorities, elaborates an appropriate resource framework and
considers measures for improved coordination and management. The Bank intends to continue to play a role
in helping articulate an adequate PIP for the mediumn-term through an overall public expenditure review.
Privatization
21.   Privatization during the early years of the transition period was extremely rapid. Before the
EFSAC program began, the privatization process had been given the "green light" with passage in 1991
of the Law on Sanctioning and Protection of Private Property, Free Initiative and Privatization." In mid-
1991, farmers spontaneously dismantled agricultural cooperatives and distributed land and livestock
among themselves and 93 percent of agricultural land had been distributed by the end of 1993. In early
1992, as a result of Decree 248, there was a similar rapid privatization of many small-scale trade and
service enterprises., with most being distributed free of charge or for a nominal fee after being taken over
by people working there. As in agriculture, there was an impressive supply response to privatization, and
retail services, in particular, began to grow rapidly.
22.   The ERA was created in 1993 to take charge of 32 particularly problematic large SOEs and
prepare them for divestiture. The ERA was to provide financial and managerial technical assistance prior
to privatization or liquidation of these enterprises. By 1997, 16 of these enterprises had been totally
privatized, 2 had been liquidated and 4 more had effectively ceased operations but were awaiting
completion of legal liquidation procedures. Seven other enterprises had been split up and most parts
privatized. Most of what now remains of them is non-operating with only a skeleton staff for security
purposes. The three remaining enterprises continue to operate, but at less than 20 percent of their
1993/94 employment level. Further cutbacks would be impossible without major social implications.
23.   Following the initial spate ofprivatizations, the privatization of other SOEs slowed in mid-1993.
Disputes about the treatment of restitution claims, the difficulty of disposing of large enterprises, social
concerns about the effects of privatizing loss-making enterprises with substantial numbers of workers,
and general concerns about transparency, all led to the development of more formal approaches to
privatization. Preparations for a revised privatization strategy started in early 1995 and by mid-1995 had
been refined into lwo approaches: sale of small and medium enterprises by Decree 203 privatization (sale
by auction to a single buyer or to a consortium of buyers); and sale of larger enterprises through the MPP.
24.   The adoplion of the MPP in May 1995, opened the way for the transfer of ownership rights from
the state to the pri.vate sector, aiming at ensuring speed, social justice and transparency. Under the MPP,
which and was designed and implemented with Bank assistance, shares in enterprises were distributed to



- 6 -
many buyers. Bids, either for the above auction process or under the MPP, could be made in cash, in
"privatization Leks" (special vouchers distributed to former political prisoners) or in privatization
vouchers, which were distributed to all citizens not eligible for land distribution or restitution.
25.    The MPP involved many institutions. Overall responsibility for the design, implementation and
funding of both the small-scale and mass privatization program rested initially with the MoF, and was
subsequently transferred to the Ministry of Privatization, following its creation in mid-1996. The
National Privatization Agency (NAP), as the sales agent of the Government, organized public auctions of
assets and small enterprises, and developed a nationwide network of bid collection points to enable
citizens from all-over the country to participate in the MPP. TheBoA, was responsible for designing the
voucher and privatization account schemes. The Savings Bank managed the distribution of privatization
Lek accounts and vouchers among the eligible population.
26.   From August 1995 to March 1997 (when the MPP came to a halt), about 90 medium and large
SOEs were totally privatized. As part of the MPP, most large and some medium enterprises, including
the ERA enterprises, were split into smaller parts to facilitate their sale. By 1997, about 30,200 small and
medium enterprises or assets had been privatized.
27.    The Government appointed after the June 1997 elections undertook to complete the privatization
process and to address the problems of the past. A comprehensive privatization strategy was approved by
Parliament in March 1998, followed by a number of specific regulations governing the auction process
for the 470 remaining small and medium enterprises. These regulations were designed to ensure
transparency of the privatization process and to allow joint venture partners of SOEs an opportunity to
buy the enterprises in which they already have a stake. The new strategy also covers the privatization of
the strategic sectors. With the assistance of the Bank and financing from the Govemment of Italy, the
Government has selected a financial advisor for the sale to strategic investors of the main enterprises in
these sectors and the first enterprises are expected to be sold during 1999.
Banking Sector Reform
28.   In 1992, Albania created a two tier banking system by dividing the old State Bank of Albania into
a central bank (the BoA) and three state-owned banks. From mid-1992, the state-owned commercial
banks--the Savings Bank-(SB), the National Commercial Bank (NCB), and the Rural Commercial Bank
(RCB)--were officially permitted to function as universal banks.
29.   To strengthen the balance sheets of the new commercial banks, the Government assumed
responsibility for most old loans outstanding in mid-1992, to the state enterprises, farms and
cooperatives. Most of these loans were considered non-perforning or unlikely to be repaid. However,
these old claims gave rise to a complex web of interbank liabilities. They hampered the development of
commercial relations among the banks as some banks refused to service their liabilities to the other state-
owned banks until the government had issued recapitalization bonds and begun to service the old debts.
This problem was resolved in 1995 with the implementation of the Government decision to issue five-
year interest-free State bonds amounting to Lek 1.7 million.
30.   Rapid growth of non-performing loans also characterized the state-owned banks. Reflecting the
transition to a market economy, credit to the emerging private sector increasedmanyfold from 30 percent
of new credit outstanding at end-1992 to almost 75 percent at end-1994. Unfortunately, a large share of
the lending was not repaid on time. By end-1994, the private sector accounted for 90 percent of total,
post-1992, non-performing loans. By 1996, that percentage remained high at 83 percent of total loans to
the private sector.



-7-
31.   There are a number of reasons for the unsatisfactory loan collection performance by the state-
owned banks, which continue to dominate the commercial banking system:
* Following the creation of the second-tier banks, loan volume quickly expanded. Lending was
executed by loan officers with no training in credit analysis and no access to financial statements
(which were ur3nown under the old regime). Loan officers had little incentive to pursue collection
since salaries were unrelated to performance and there was little further contact with borrowers, once
loans were disbursed.
* Problems arose with loan collateral. Some loans were made without collateral and some collateral
was overvalued.. Houses were accepted as collateral, but it became socially and politically impossible
for banks to enforce those claims. Legal provisions for enforcing collateral were weak and the courts
lacked the capacity to enforce them. Judges were ill trained in the concepts of market mechanisms
and private property rights.
* Due to a sharply upward sloping yield curve, there was inappropriate extension of a large volume of
short term credits, even where long termn loans were more appropriate.
v Borrowers maintained persistent expectations of loan forgiveness based on old socialist practices.
32.   These issues underscored the need for improved management, accounting and legal frameworks
for commercial banks, as well as for improved supervision by the BoA. To address these issues, the
Government and the BoA undertook a number of measures to reform the state-owned banks and prevent
further deterioration. These included attempts by the Govemment, as the owner, to improve corporate
governance as well as to impose prudent banking practices. The Government appointed new
management in the commercial banks; tightened ceilings on new lending; and attempted to improve
collections. More vigorous enforcement of claims through the court system was to be pursued.
However, there was a practical limit to the effectiveness of this strategy due to excessive court case loads,
a lack of knowledge about appropriate procedures, the absence of a modern bankruptcy law (until 1995)
and effective liquidation procedures.
33.   The first private bank began operations in 1993 in Albania, with one small branch.  The
development of private banking has been very much effected by the pace of the development of financial
sector, legal, and physical infrastructure, as well as macroeconomic, political and social considerations.
By mid-1998, there were seven private banks, which are either wholly foreign or foreign joint-ventures.
34.   Albania has followed the experience of other transition economies which has been that foreign
banks typically concentrate on servicing foreign investors and undertaking fee-based foreign transactions
in which they have a comparative advantage. While they have a demonstration effect and provide
training, foreign banks generally avoid undertaking domestic banking business. This was the case of the
Italo-Albanian Bank in 1995 when 90 percent of its business was trade-related, eaming fee income from
cash transfers abroad and letters of credit. The situation has improved since then and, as of November
1997, private banks accounted for 6 percent of total deposits in the Albanian banking system and 16
percent of total domestic credit.
35.   The Government realized that building a strong banking system would require the development
of strong private domestic banks. In an effort to encourage the establishment of private domestic banks,
in 1994 the BoA adopted and published clear regulations and application procedures, based on a
minimum capital requirement of $1 million (now set at $5 million). Application procedures were further
streamlined in early 1995.



36.   Over the course of EFSAC and TA Project implementation, the development of the commercial
banking.system was slow. It was hampered by a lack of understanding by the Government and bank
managers of the fact that bank modernization program was necessary, and by continued political
interference in state banks. It was also affected by old interbank claims, the lack of recognized standards
for accounting and auditing, poor reporting by bank branches to their headquarters, a slow and inadequate
payments system, the lack of legal protection for collateral and enforcement of claims, and critically, a
lack of experience with modem banking techniques, including accounting, risk assessment and portfolio
management. Notwithstanding several years of structural adjustment, the formal banking sector was still
dominated by insolvent state-owned banks accounting for about 90 percent of total assets and deposits in
the banking sector.
37.   After the 1997 civil unrest, and following the June 1997 elections, the new Government moved
aggressively to reform the banking system, with the objective of establishing an environment conducive
to the operation of a well-functioning private banking system. The Government's strategy, which is
being supported by the Bank and the IMF, includes: privatization or liquidation of the state-owned banks
and creation of an environment conducive to the development of privately owned and prudentially sound
banks. It also includes the further strengthening of the legislative framework and banking infrastructure.
38.   Substantial progress has already been made in implementing these reforms, and in addressing
major structural problems. A new Bank of Albania Law, aimed at strengthening BoA's independence,
was adopted early this year and a new Banking System Act was approved in summer 1998. The Rural
Commercial Bank (one of the three State-owned banks) was liquidated at the end of 1997. A foreign
Chief Executive Officer (CEO) has been appointed to assist in divestiture of the National Commercial
Bank (NCB) and its privatization is now underway. With the assistance of a foreign bank; the Savings
Bank (the largest State-owned bank) has been put under tight governance, with the objective of
privatization by end-1 999. A debt recovery mechanism has been established for the resolution of the bad
assets of the State-owned banks. In addition, to assist the banks manage their credit risk more effectively,
a Credit Information Bureau is being established in the BoA.
39.   Good progress, albeit slower than would have been desirable, has been made in establishing a
chart of accounts. The Bank of Albania has developed a new Chart of Accounts, adopted by its Board in
early 1998, which is consistent with Intemational Accounting Standards. It is being implemented by the
Savings Bank, NCB and the private banks. The Savings Bank and NCB produced their 1997 accounts
according to the new Chart. Work is underway to modify the format of the mandatory supervision
reports of the banks, based on the new Chart and standing BoA regulations.
40.   The Banking System Act was revised to ensure adequate bank capitalization and proper rules for
entry and exit. The minimum regulatory capital for banks has been raised from Lek 200 million in 1996
to Lek 350 million in 1997 to Lek 700 million (about US$5 million) in April 1998. Licensing
requirements have been tightened to include additional information on business plans and the
qualifications of directors. In light of these revisions, all licensed commercial banks in Albania, state-
owned and private, are undergoing recertification.
Legal Framework
41.   In October 1995, Albania adopted Law No 8017 on Bankruptcy Procedures. This law was
drafted in consultation with intemational experts and conforms to international standards. The law
determines the disposition of cases based on insolvency of physical and legal persons, including non-
exempt SOEs. Under this law, subject to exceptions for certain personal property and income, all of the



-9-
debtor's assets are included in the bankruptcy estate, whether located in or out of Albania. A significant
feature of the law is its provision for reorganization, designed to ensure the continuity of a debtor's
business activity. The Law provides that only BoA is authorized to initiate bankruptcy proceedings for
banks.
42.   For loan recovery, legislation has been developed in several different areas. The substantive
legal basis for collateral is now guaranteed by the 1994 Civil Code. The code contains provisions
concerning the mortgaging of immovable property and the pledging of movable property as collateral.
Mortgages on immovable property must be notarized and filed with an immovable property register. This
register was established under a separate law, Law on Immovable Property Register. An additional
important piece of legislation is the Law on the Bank Asset Resolution Trust. This Law established an
agency responsible for the collection of the bad loan portfolio of the state-owned banks.
43.    With the above legislation, Albania has in place the bulk of the necessary commercial legislation.
In addition, a preliminary draft of a law on movable property as collateral (the Secured Transactions
Law) is under discussion. The draft law provides strong security for credits given by banks and sellers of
goods. It creates ;a property interest which can be used for financing equipment, inventory, accounts
receivable, and other movable property. It provides effective alternatives for enforcement, in the event of
default by the debtor. Actions are also at an advanced stage to create a register for movable property.
The adoption of the Secured Transactions Law and the establishment of the movable property register
will further stimulate the development of a functioning market economy and will complement the
bankruptcy legislation.
44.   Despite the progress described above, work is needed to ensure consistency among the new
legislation. Moreover, the judiciary is ill-equipped and inexperienced, resulting in little capacity to apply
the provisions of t:he laws. In fact, no bankruptcy or commercial reorganization cases have taken place.
Poor implementation of the commercial laws continues to be a serious impediment to the development of
a functioning private sector. In summary, lack of enforcement of laws and regulations is a very serious
problem and impediment for the development of a robust financial sector in Albania.
45.    A major challenge for the Government will now be to strengthen enforcement capacity through
significant training programs for bankruptcy judges, official receivers, lawyers, accountants, managers of
creditor institutions and managers of debtor companies. This process is strongly supported by Albania's
major donors, but it will necessarily be a long-term process that was not envisaged within the framework
or the timeframe of the EFSAC and the TA Project.
46.   Support firom the TA Project has contributed to the achievements in each of the above areas
included in the EFSAC. For example, (i) Project-financed experts assisted in the preparation of the first
PIPs. More recently, the EU-PHARE has been providing technical assistance for both preparing the PIP
document and the follow-up monitoring of investments. Steps are being taken to fully integrate the PIP with
the Budget. (ii) U'S Treasury took the lead in supporting the establishment of a Treasury system in the
Ministry of Finance. This was supplemented with resources for information technology equipment from the
TA Project. Although the Treasury system is now operating, some regional Treasury offices are still
maintaining their information manually and could have benefited more from training on the operation of the
specially developed computer software. (iii) Assistance provided to establish a macroeconomic forecasting
and analysis capacity yielded substantial benefits. By 1996 a Macroeconomic Forecasting Unit was able to
produce regular monthly or quarterly reports evaluating macroeconomic developments and to provide
general policy recommendations. Staff were also trained in the use of econometrics and forecasting models
so that they could effectively use up-to-date techniques in their work. This Unit, following several
government reorganizations, was relocated to the Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Trade. (iv) The



- 10-
ERA received technical assistance through the TA Project for carrying out sector studies that identified
the main strengths and weaknesses of these companies and recommended their privatization/liquidation.
ERA staff also benefited from the expertise of foreign consultants and study tours in countries that were
privatizing SOEs. With its program substantially completed, the ERA was disbanded in October 1996
and integrated into the Ministry of Privatization. (v) Support was mobilized very quickly to provide
critical assistance in the design and implementation of the MPP. (vi) The first audits of state-owned
commercial banks, although inconclusive, were an important effort to establish the true financial
condition of the banks and served as a basis for the subsequent audits.
47.   Some components, originally included in the TA Project, were either financed by other donors or
did not materialize (see para 65). These changes, however, did not negatively affect the achievement of the
project's development objectives as they allowed the needed flexibility to support other critically important
areas, such as the MPP and the resolution of the pyramid schemes.
E.    Major Factors Affecting the Project
48.   Two major factors affected both the EFSAC and the TA Project: frequent changes in ministers of
finance and other key counterparts, together with an inadequate central administration, affected
implementation of both operations. Between 1993 and 1998 there were five different Ministers of
Finance and four Governors of the Bank of Albania. While commitment to the overall objectives of the
EFSAC and the TA Project did not change, each new government was inexperienced and needed time
before it was able to understand and to advance the program. This led to delays in implementation, the
most important of which was, a two-year lag in implementation of banking reform. This risk was
recognized at appraisal. But even so, the Bank was over-optimistic about the time it would take to
achieve the agreed targets.
49.   The growth of the pyramid schemes and their subsequent collapse dashed the hopes of Albanians
of "getting rich quick". The pyramid schemes started in 1993-94. In the absence of a viable formal
financial sector and a lack of bank intermediation, several trading companies began borrowing directly
from the public, at very attractive interest rates. Although initially not pure pyramid schemes because the
cash financed their trading activities, they soon realized that money raising was extremely profitable in
and of itself and rapidly expanded their activities. Following their initial success, trading companies were
soon joined by pure pyramid schemes and the competition for funding increased, pushing interest rates
higher and higher. It became evident in early 1996 that the schemes were rapidly growing out of control.
By the second half of 1996, some schemes were offering monthly interest rates of 40-50 percent,
resulting in a dramatic increase in deposits. Because the borrowing companies raised money as personal
loans and did not engage in relending depositors funds, these businesses did not fall under the definition
of banking activities. Thus, they managed to remain beyond the purview of the banking law and avoid
supervision of the BoA. The first scheme collapsed in October 1996 and all pyramid schemes suspended
payments to creditors at the beginning of 1997.
50.   It is estimated that about 60 percent of all Albanian families lost some of their life savings in
these schemes and were left impoverished by their collapse. The crisis that erupted in early 1997 eroded
many of the achievements made during the early years of transition. The massive social unrest was so
profound that the economy was severely disrupted. Irreparable damage was done to private and public
property and the Government fell.  The magnitude of the pyramid scheme phenomenon was
unprecedented and difficult to foresee.
51.   The Government appointed in June 1997 moved rapidly to arrest the deteriorating situation,
including taking measures to wind down the pyramid scheme operations. At the Government's request



and in response to requests from the main international donors, including the EU, USA, Greece and Italy,
IDA took the lead in mobilizing trust funds to finance the needed actions. The TA Project was amended
to permit financing, in the shortest time possible, of the first phase of the work of external administrators
to audit the' largest pyramid schemes. Follow up actions are covered through the Trust Funds and will be
reported on separately when this program has been completed. (That review will cover the disposition of
assets, followed by the distribution of the proceeds to depositors in the schemes.)
52.   There are signs that the impact of this support was positive, but it is too early to reach any
definitive conclusions since the assistance is continuing. Although very costly, the support and assistance
of international donors minimized the risk of a public backlash, which could have occurred because of the
final size of the losses of investors. Although no price can be put on the avoidance of further civil unrest,
it cannot be concluded that this was the only way to handle this very sensitive situation.
F.    Project Sustainability
53.   Although ambitious, the programs supported by these operations were only the first step in
Albania's far-reaching reform. While the operations took longer than expected to complete, their impact
can be seen in the contribution they have made to the development of both the private and banking
sectors. Through policy and technical support, the operations have assisted in the privatization of a
considerable number of SOEs, improvements in the legal framework of both the enterprise and the
banking sectors, development of an accounting framework and strengthening of the supervisory capacity
and authority of the Bank of Albania. Together, the EFSAC and TA Project have prepared the ground for
the continuation of substantial reforms. These reforms encompass the privatization of commercial banks
and of strategic companies.
54.   Following the 1996-97 hiatus, the Government is moving to the next phase of its reform. With
continued support from Bank and other international donors, it is strengthening its economic management
and taking measures to regain the progress lost by the 1997 civil unrest. In addition, priority is now being
given to reform of the public administration and strengthening of the judiciary. Strengthening these
institutions will help combat corruption and enhance the ability of the Government to run the country.
The Government recognizes that improvements in these areas are essential if the reforms which are now
well underway are to be sustained.
G.    Bank Performance
55.   Since early 1992, the Bank has been a key partner of the Government in its efforts to transform
the country into a market economy, even before preparation of the EFSAC began. From the earliest days,
the Government welcomed and relied on the Bank's extensive policy advice and technical assistance.
These eventually led to the formulation of the EFSAC program and the TA Project. This close
collaboration has been maintained throughout the implementation of the operations. During preparation
and the early years of supervision, efforts were made to have at least one team member in the country
every month. In early 1996, it became apparent that the pyramid schemes were rapidly growing out of
control and were beginning to cause a severe deterioration in the economic and social conditions in the
country. The Bank reduced its presence at that time and decided that any consideration to release the
EFSAC second tranche should be postponed until the issue was resolved. Release of this tranche (in June
1998) was subsequently processed speedily, as soon as the macroeconomic conditions were judged to be
satisfactory and evidence was provided of adequate progress in banking sector reform. The high number
of staff weeks recorded against the EFSAC preparation activities and this subsequent support indicate the
intensity of effort that was essential to give the Government the guidance and assistance it needed to
continue implementing its reform program.



- 12 -
56.   Preparation and implementation of the TA Project cannot be separately examined. Until late
1992, it was envisaged that the EFSAC would be a hybrid credit with a policy and technical assistance
component. The decision to separate the operations permitted the technical assistance to move ahead
quickly and provide needed resources to help initiate the reform program. Separate teams prepared the
macroeconomic, enterprise and banking components.
57.   Supervision of this project was adequate, with about two missions per year and regular follow up
from the Resident Mission. This does not include the work carried out as part of the regular
macroeconomic and banking sector dialogue or for the MPP, which was recorded separately. Nor does it
reflect the separate missions to monitor issues relating to the pyramid schemes. For the MPP alone, nine
missions took place between January 1995 and September 1996. Bank staff demonstrated flexibility
during implementation, allowing a shift in activities to respond to evolving priorities, such as revising
specific activities to make available resources for launching and implementing the MPP as quickly as
possible. Subsequently, the TA Project was amended and Credit funds reallocated, to help resolve the
pyramid schemes.
58.   Throughout the project cycle, collaboration with the IMF and other donors was extensive and
excellent. The Bank and IMF jointly prepared Policy Framework Papers. Several joint or overlapping
missions took place with the IMF, to evaluate macroeconomic questions and to review BoA activities,
such as bank supervision and prudential regulations. This collaboration served to ensure consistency of
conditionality in both IMF and Bank operations. Close collaboration was also maintained with other
donors, such as EU-Phare and USAID/Treasury, Germany, Italy, and the United Kingdom. Some priority
technical assistance needs (such as support for the Ministry of Finance-Treasury, establishment of a chart
of accounts for banks and support for banking supervision) were eventually financed through available
grants, instead of the TA Project. Of special comment is the strong donor collaboration that came into
play in regard to the restart of operations in late 1997 and the program that was mobilized to help in the
winding down of the pyramid schemes. The Bank and the IMF were at the forefront of this effort. The
Bank was instrumental in helping to mobilize over $5 million in donor funds (supplemented with some
funding available from the TA Project) which were placed in trust funds, administered by the Bank under
the umbrella of the TA Project.
H.    Borrower Performance
59.   The performance of the Borrower and other implementing entities was satisfactory. The
Government institutions have been cooperative and receptive to the Bank's advice and guidance and were
in compliance with the legal covenants. The Government was committed to the implementation of the
reforms supported under the EFSAC and TA programs but, during the process, could not avoid mistakes
and delays of both a political and economic nature. Implementation of both projects was a learning
process for the Bank, as well as for the institutions involved. Training, study tours and foreign experts
financed from the TA Project helped to increase the professional level of Borrower's staff. However, the
various levels of technical staff were affected by frequent changes of Government, which created
difficulties for a smooth continuation of the project. These changes also negatively affected the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) in the Ministry of Finance, which suffered from a deterioration in its status,
staff changes and staff shortages during project implementation. Despite these problems, the PIU
handled successfully and with professionalism difficult procurement issues, and played a crucial role in
project implementation.
60.   The Government recognized the need for pressure from the international donor community,
particularly from the World Bank, to enable it to take difficult and potentially unpopular decisions,



- 13 -
embodied in the EF SAC. The strong commitment of a small team of top officials was critical for the
design and initial implementation of the program. Changes in Government affected the pace of
implementation, bul: the commitment and constructive dialogue continued. Institutional capacity is still
weak, but has improved substantially.
1.    Assessment: of Outcome
61.    Albania's initial results in implementing its overall economic reform program were impressive.
Between 1993 and 1996, Albania was a star performer for the Region, with annual GDP growth
averaging 8-10 percent. However, progress in implementing the structural reforms was mixed. The
creation of the necessary enabling environment for long-term sustainable growth of a market economy
lagged. This, in addition to the lack of adequate checks and balances, weak institutions and inadequate
capacity for and poor enforcement of laws led, amongst other things, to the growth of the pyramid
schemes and ensuing crisis. This crisis not only dwarfed the achievements to date but also reversed much
of the progress that: had been made. However the Government appointed after the June 1997 elections
recognized the need to move quickly to restore order and create the conditions necessary for the
resumption of growth. This resolve is especially evident in the forceful manner in which the Government
has moved ahead with implementation of its strategy to reform the banking sector.
62.   The privatization process in Albania, and the MPP in particular, has positively impacted the
economy through advancing the primary policy objective of rapid distribution of the property to those
who had contributed to its establishment. However this process had also distortions and imperfections in
achieving its goals. A highly political process, it has always been at the center of political debates and the
center of attention of Government(s) and the population. The main weaknesses and reasons for the delays
in implementation of the privatization process are as follows:
-  Property restitition had a negative impact on privatization. Some companies were privatized without
a final decision on the site ownership rights. Without a clear register of the new private shareholders,
the company remained somewhere between state-owned and private. The government is working to
resolve the reTnaining restitution issues. A new package of laws and regulations is expected to be
approved soon by the CoM.
*  Funds from the TA project were available for a public education program but the publicity campaign
and information on the MPP remained at a low level and did not fully convey to the citizens the
potential benefits. As result, only about 9 percent of the total distributed value of privatization
vouchers was used.
*  The MPP brought about private companies with a great number of shareholders. The wide dispersion
of ownership resulted in the absence of a group of shareholders owning enough shares to effectively
manage the privatized enterprises. This problem was exacerbated because the rights and duties of
shareholders, as well as of the management, were not yet well understood.
*  Lack of post-privatization support.  The financial system offered little support for the newly
privatized companies and many of them became bankrupt.
63.   With regard to the banking sector, Albania has made good progress towards establishing an
appropriate legal and regulatory framework for the functioning of a market-based banking sector,
although much more remains to be done.  Its prudential regulations are generally in line with
internationally accepted standards, but problems with the enforcement of these regulations remain.
Efforts are underway to address these problems and a strong banking sector with effective banking



- 14-
supervision is a priority area for the BoA. Progress in the strengthening and divestiture of the state-
owned commercial banks was much more difficult to achieve. Between 1994 and 1996, several
privatization strategies were agreed with the Bank with different Ministers of Finance, but, for several
years, it proved impossible for the Government to implement difficult and sometimes controversial
decisions and the losses of the banks continued to mount. Poor accounting practices made it virtually
impossible to accurately assess the true extent of the potential losses.
64.   The events triggered by the collapse of the pyramid schemes may have represented a watershed
for reform of the banking sector. Since mid-1997, the BoA has taken concrete steps to exercise its
control of the state-owned banks and to minimize the losses stemming from their bad financial situation
and poor management. The Government has also acted vigorously and decisively to implement an agreed
privatization strategy. Although it is too early to assess the results of this strategy, and continued
intensive support from the Bank and other donors will continue to be needed, initial indications are that
progress is being made. RCB was closed at the end of 1997, the Savings Bank is under a strict
governance contract and the privatization process for NCB is underway. The successful privatization of
this bank, with the participation of a strategic investor, will be a critical signal that the program is on the
right track. Improvements in banking infrastructure have also been disappointingly slow. Increased
emphasis is now being devoted to this area.
65.   Implementation/Project Management: Some areas originally identified for support from the TA
Project were subsequently funded by other donors. For example, advisers to help establish the Treasury
system were provided by the US (Treasury and USAID). Support to establish a chart of accounts for the
banks was provided by the EU. Support to help establish national accounts never materialized. After much
delay, a suitable adviser was ready to take up a resident assignment in Albania but was unable to do so as a
result of the 1997 disturbances. The Institute of Statistics, with direct support from European statistical
offices such as INSEE, has made some progress in preparing for the establishment of national accounts, but
further support is needed. As financing is no longer available from the TA Project, the Institute of Statistics
is exploring other sources to provide assistance in this area. In agreement with the Bank of Albania, an early
decision was also made not to fmance equipment for the Bankers Training Center because of the absence of
agreement on the strategic direction and role of this entity. These changes enabled resources from the TA
Project to be used for other priority areas. This flexibility was a critical factor when the Government
requested support to help launch the MPP. The speedy earmarking of funds for this purpose, although
eventually not all funds were required, enabled the Bank to quickly mobilize a team to provide the needed
advice and support. Similarly, when resources were needed for experts to help wind down the pyramid
schemes, it was possible to quickly amend this operation to finance the initial support. World Bank support
for this activity was crucial for attracting and coordinating funding from other intemational donors and
resulted in special donor trust funds of over $5 million being made available.
66.   The TA Project provided essential support for the implementation of the reform program. The
quality of the services provided has, in general, been high. The Govemment and recipient agencies have
welcomed the combination of technical and policy advice, from both consultants and Bank staff.  In
addition, overseas training and study tours were beneficial, by providing officials exposure to modern
techniques in the areas of debt management, macroeconomic management, banking practices, legal
issues, and in procurement and disbursement practices. However, closer monitoring and follow up of this
training would have made it easier to judge the real benefits.
67.   The broad scope of the EFSAC and TA Project was both their main strength and weakness.
These operations required extensive coordination on the part of the Government which had limited
capacity as well as little experience either in the implementation of the ambitious reform program or in
working with comparatively expensive foreign advisers. In hindsight, the Bank over-estimated the



- 15 -
absorptive capacity of the Borrower and its newly established institutions in preparing the timetable for
implementation of these operations. This limited capacity contributed to the delay in the achievement of
the objectives of both operations.
68.   In summary, the outcome of the EFSAC was satisfactory, although implementation of the
program took longer than anticipated and much more remains to be done. The overall outcome of the TA
Project was also moderately satisfactory, but implementation of the various components was uneven and
execution has been somewhat slower than anticipated. As described above, Albania is beginning to make
good progress in implementing the primary reform objectives supported by the EFSAC, and in the
difficult process of reforming the banking sector.
J.    Future Operation
69.   The Government has demonstrated that it is committed to continuing its refonn program. This
commitment is stated in its report: "The Road to Stabilization and Development," which was presented at
the recent Donors Conference. Since the restart of activities in late 1997, IDA has been pursuing an
extensive program to help Albania continue along this path. The Rehabilitation Credit supplemented by
the Recovery Program Technical Assistance Project (both approved in December 1997), provided
balance of payments and institutional support, respectively, for continuing and accelerating reforms in
key areas such as banking, public sector management, the civil service and the judiciary. A Structural
Adjustment Credit, under preparation, will support policies to move forward programs in these areas.
The planned Banking Privatization Project will specifically address issues relating to the privatization of
the largest bank (Savings Bank), the creation of an environment conducive to the development of private
banking, as well as to capital market development. Major efforts are also underway to support public
administration reform and to strengthen the judiciary and judicial administration.
K.    Key Lessons Learned
70.   It is essential for effective program implementation that there be sustained Government
commitment, as well as IDA and Government staff continuity. While commitment was demonstrated, it
alone is not sufficient to build up the experience and expertise to implement and modify complex
adjustment and investment operations. High level staff need to be trained and retained by the
Government. This staff function did not exist before 1992, but it is being developed now. Likewise, it is
essential that IDA maintain staff continuity from project preparation through implementation so that
actions taken at one stage of implementation are fully understood and consistent with project design and
earlier actions, particularly project modifications.
71.   Although the objectives of both operations were clear and remain relevant today, the timetable
for reaching the desired goals was overly-optimistic. More realism should be built into the timetables.
Ultimate operational objectives should be defined by clear interim steps so that the Government can
readily assess whether it is on track for meeting its objectives or not. Better and more detailed monitoring
indicators, including interim steps and benchmarks, could have helped in this respect. Furthermore, when
dealing with countries with such limited experience, it is important that advice on project objectives,
offered by the Bank and by other donors, be specific rather than general.
72.   Intense supervision is required for technical support particularly for a low-income country with
little IDA, and other donor, experience.
73.   Although the Government was committed to implementing the programs agreed under the
EFSAC, constant support and guidance of IDA was requested to help maintain the momentum in



- 16-
implementing the agreed programs and to adhere to difficult decisions. Strong support from the Resident
Mission was an essential ingredient of this visible presence.
74.   Albania's difficulty in creating a modem banking system is not dissimilar to that of other
formerly socialist economies. Many countries which embarked on the transformation of their banking
systems much earlier than had Albania, continued to confront similar, basic problems many years later.
One of the main problems is that under state ownership the banks and bank managers do not have the
right incentives to become strong, effective lending institutions. Technical assistance, while useful, is not
sufficient to change bank operations rapidly.
75.   The built-in flexibility of the TA Project was a crucial factor in the successful outcome of this
operation. The TA Project was, however, not a general fund and care should be taken to ensure that this
is not the case. It was reasonably targeted towards certain activities and sectors with identifiable
components. The flexibility facilitated a quick response to address changing priorities as the country
situation evolved. IDA's willingness to be creative in dealing with changed circumstances has allowed
the activities to evolve through the process of amendment without any changes to the objectives and with
only a minor change to the TA Project description.



-17-
Part II. Statistical Tables
Table 1:   Summary of Assessment
Table 2:   Related. Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:   Project Timetable
Table 4:   Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:   Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:   Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:   Studies Included in Project
Table 8:   Project Costs and Financing
Table 9:   Economnic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions



- 18 -
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives        Substantial        Partial        Negligible      Not applicable
Macro Policies (1)                  Lj                                 l               IZ
Sector Policies (1)                 E                                 E                 El
Financial Objectives (3)            El              [                  ]                /
Institutional Development (2)        0                                E                 El
Physical Objectives (2)                                                                 /
Poverty Reduction                                                    []
Gender Issues (3)                   I                =               IIv
Other Social Objectives                                              El 0  0]
Environmental Objectives (3)        []              El               []
Public Sector Management (3)        El                                                  El
Private Sector Development (3)      [/                                                 Eli
Other (specify)                     El              El                El                0
B. Project Sustainability (3)         Likely                   Unlikely                  Uncertain
Highly
C. Bank Performance (3)             Satisfactory              Satisfactory               Deficient
Identification                      n                                                   E[
Preparation Assistance              El                                                  El
Appraisal                           El                                                  El
Supervision                         El                        /
(Continued)



- 19-
Highly 
D. Borrower Perfornance               Satisfactory          Satisfactory              Deficient
Preparation (3)                    I                                                [
Implementation (3)
Covenant Compliance                []
Operation (if applicable)          L                       iii
Highly                                           Highly
E. Assessment of Outcome (3)         satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory   unsatisfactory
Note:  (1)    EFSAC only
(2)    TA. Project only
(3)    Rating applies to both operations



- 20 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Credit Title              Purpose                      Year of               Status
Approval
Preceding operations
1. Agriculture Sector   Agricultural sector adjustment program  1993       Closed
Adjustment Credit     with line of credit for agricultural
investments and technical assistance
Following operations
1. Rehabilitation Credit    Single tranche policy based support for    1997  Completed
Governments economic recovery
program
2. Recovery Program     Institutional development and support for  1997    Ongoing
Technical Assistance    banking sector reforn, economic
management public administration and
judicial reform
3. Structural Adjustment   Structural adjustment focussing on public       Planned
Credit                administration, judicial, financial sector
reforms
4. Banking Privatization    Privatization of SB and promotion of           Planned
private sector banking
Table 3: Project Timetable
EFSAC             Technical Assistance for
Economic Reform
Steps in Project Cycle  Date Planned   Date Actual/  Date Planned  Date Actual/
Latest Estimate            Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)  09/92   09/30/92        11/92       11/92
Preparation                            12/92        12/18/92                    12/92
Appraisal                              05/94        05/27/94        03/01/93    03/01/93
Negotiations                           06/94        06/15/94        03/30/93    03/30/93
Letter of Development/Sector Policy    -            06/17/94        -           -
Board Presentation                     08/02/94     08/02/94        05/11/93    05/13/93
Signing                                08/94        08/22/94        05/93       06/07/93
Effectiveness                          08/94        01/05/95        06/93       10/07/93
First Tranche Release                  08/94        01/05/95        -           -
Second Tranche Release                 06/95        06/18/98        -           -
Mid-term Review                        -            -               3/31/94     03/29/95
Loan Closing                           12/31/96     06/18/98        06/30/96    12/31/98



- 21 -
Table 4: Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(SDR millions)
EFSAC                                 FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98           FY99
Appraisal eslimate                     5.3      10.6      10.6      10.6     10.6
Actual                                 5.1      5.3       5.1       5.1      10.6
Actual as % of estimate                96       50        48        48        100
Date of final disbursement            July 2, 1998
Note: Disbursements fluctuate between FY96 and FY97 as a result of
accounting adjustments.
Technical Assistance for     FY94      FY95    FY96    FY97    FY98  FY99
Economic Reform                                                             (projected)
Appraisal estimate            1.09     2.54      2.90     2.90      2.90    2.90
Actual                       0.36      1.24      1.82      1.95     2.81    2.90
Actual as % of estimate      33        49        63       67        97      100%
Date of final disbursement   Expected by December 31, 1998



- 22 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
EFSAC
Estimated Tranche Release              Actual Tranche Release (June 1998)
(December 1995)
Key implementation indicators in PR
Macroeconomic Reform:   Satisfactory progress in       Ongoing. Latest PIP covers 1998-2001
implementing agreed 1994-97 PIP
Enterprise Sector      Limited use of conservation funds  Government has taken a number of measures to reduce
Reform:            and operating subsidies to state    subsidies. Total budgetary expenditures to SOEs fell from Lek
enterprises in ERA and PIP     660 million in 1995 (0.3% of GDP) to Lek 395 million in 1997
(0.1 % of GDP)
Approval of ERA budget for     Budget of Lek 500 million approved in early 1995, declining
1995                          from Lek 1.8 billion in 1994. This further decreased to Lek 250
million in 1996, the final year of ERA's existence
Complete privatization or     By May 1998, 16 enterprises completely privatized, and 2
liquidation of at least 12 ERA  liquidated, 4 others effectively no longer existed (formal
enterprises                   liquidation awaiting completion of legal procedures). All but 3
of the remaining enterprises are partially privatized and mainly
non-operating
Privatization of SEs   Privatization of at least 12 large    Many enterprises were, after preparation of the EFSAC split
SOEs and an additional 200    into smaller parts. By March 1997, about 90 medium and large
small/medium SOEs              SOEs were totally privatized. Over 2,000 small/medium
enterprise privatized through Decree 248 in 1994, additional
3,000 enterprises privatized by March 1997 through the MPP
Legal Framework        Adoption by CoM of draft       New Bankruptcy Law adopted by Parliament: Oct. 1995. Loan
legislation on bankruptcy     recovery legislation: substantive legal basis for collateral
proceedings for all enterprises and  guaranteed by the 1994 Civil Code, Law on Immnovable
on loan recovery              Property Register adopted in 1994, and Law on the Bank Asset
Resolution Trust in March 1998
Restructuring of State-
owned Banks:
(i) Improve financial  Submission of an acceptable plan   New plan agreed in Sept. 1997, now under implementation.
situation of state-owned  to restructure/privatize NCB and   Included closing (by June 1998) operations of RCB;
banks                 privatize SB and RCB           privatization by end 1998 of NCB; and preparing SB for
privatization by end 1999. RCB ceased operations in Dec. 1997
Revision of lending ceilings for    Had been done on quarterly basis. Since late 1997, in
SB to be subject to perfornance    compliance with the prudent banking regulations of BoA, SB is
satisfactory to the Bank      currently forbidden from extending any credit
Clearing of NCB capital        Obligation settled with implementation of Government decision
obligation to BoA with equivalent  of Aug. 1995, by the issue of 5-yr interest-free State Bonds
value of equity of MoF
investment in NCB
(ii) Strengthen       Submission of external audit of    December 1995. Extemal auditors were appointed in
operations of banks   1994 accounts for state-owned  September 1995 to audit NCB and SB's 1994 accounts. Lack of
banks                         information and poor accounting practices limited the value of
these audits but they helped serve as a baseline for the
subsequent audit of the 1997 accounts
(iii) Strengthen bank  Satisfactory progress in      Substantial progress made in impToving supervisory capacity,
supervision and       strengthening BoA's supervisory    Resident Advisor in place 1994-96, but more needs to be done.
regulation            capacity and review of licensing    Several licensing requirement reviews carried out, including in
requirements for banks         1996 and early 1998
Introduction of new chart of   A new chart of accounts was introduced in 1998 and by April
accounts for all banks         1998 all banks were producing reports according to these
requirements



- 23 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Estimated                            Actual
1. Key implementation indicators in Memorandum of the President
1. Development and operation of   June 1994             Not yet completed.
new sunrey methodology
2. Preparation and updating of  July 1993               Delayed. Adviser provided support to DEDAC from
twice-yearly macroeconomic                              October 1996 to January 1998. Regular reports
forecast and different budgetary                        being prepared since beginning 1997.
scenarios
3. Establishment of reporting   January 1995            System in place. Assistance provided by US
system for local treasury offices                       Treasury 1993-96. Hardware procured mid-I 995
and manual of government
accounts
4. Preparation of draft PIP for  September 1993         First PIP produced in early 1994 covering 1994-96.
Donors meeting                                          PIPs have been updated regularly with support from
EU-Phare
5. Preparation of strategy for and   December 1995      Incorporated in the Mass Privatization Program,
privatization of most individual                        launched in mid-1995
medium and large non-strategic
state enterprises
6. Eliminate financial losses in  December 1995         By mid-1998, only 3 enterprises were still in
ERA enterprises, winding down a                         operation. Employment in former ERA enterprises
number of these enterprises as                          was about 3,000 (less than 20% of the 1993-94
required                                                level). In 1997, total budgetary expenditures for
these enterprises was only about Lek 93 million.
7. Managerial and technical     December 1995           Canceled since support was being provided directly
support to the ESU in the MoF to                        by Gtz and also it focussed more on restructuring
meet demand-driven needs of the                         before privatization. The ESU was dissolved in mid-
enterprise sector                                       1995.
8. Implementation of an         December 1994           A Bankruptcy Law was adopted in October 1995 but
accounting law and bankruptcy                           to date no bankruptcy proceedings have taken place
law                                                     and poor implementation of commercial laws in
general continue to create an impediment to the
development of private enterprise. Overall
implementation capacity of legal system was beyond
the scope of the TA Project but will be pursued in
subsequent IDA-financed operations. The
Accounting Law was approved in 1992 became
effective for the year beginning January 1994 for
productive, commercial and service activities, and
January 1995 for other businesses.
(cont)



- 24 -
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Estimnated                         Actual
9. Improved bank management and  December 1995         Reflecting delays in implementing the EFSAC
services in key areas, and improved                    program, improvements in bank management lagged.
supervisory capacity in BoA                            Support to the former RCB was provided from a
separate Credit (ASAC); EU-Phare is supporting a
program to improve govemance in the Savings
Bank. The NCB is currently benefiting from major
support to improve management and prepare the
bank for privatization by end 1998, from the follow
up Recovery Program TA Project. The project
provided limited support to improve BoA's
supervisory capacity as this was handled primarily
by the IMF and through assistance from
USAID/Treasury.
10. Establishment and operation of a   March 1994     Functioning effectively since mid-1995.
bank courier system                                    Procurement of vehicles took substantially longer
than planned. Under its agreement with the MoF,
BoA will start repaying for MoF the cost of
establishing this service. Courier system provides
only a rudimentary service, focus now is on
developing a more modem payments system for the
banks.
11. Development and equipping of    September 1993     Canceled. Intention was for EBRD to support
computer lab for Bankers Training                      development of this center, together with.a
Center                                                 curriculum. However, no agreement was reached on
the objectives or strategy for the BTC and
eventually, in agreement with BoA, it was decided
not to pursue this component as it was not providing
the banks with needed services.
12. Training and study tours for  December 1995        Over the implementation period, Government
MoF, and other government officials,                   officials participated in over 20 training programs to
BoA and state-owned commercial                         build up expertise in different areas of the MoF,
banks                                                  CoM and DEDAC, 7 programs were carried out
relating to banking supervision and commercial
banking practices, and 8 programs were completed in
relation to enterprise privatization. About 70
officials benefited from these difference programs.
II. Modified indicators (if applicable)
Support for winding down the      Appoint international  Task was separated into two phases. The first phase,
pyramid schemes (DCA amendment -  administrators of the   supported by the TA Project, completed in mid-
August 1997)                      5 major schemes      1998, provided an assessment of the assets and
which were still in    liabilities of the schemes and the likelihood of
operation at that   recovery. Subsequent phases and international
time.               audits are being financed from the Trust Funds set up
by other donors.



- 25 -
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Not applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Technical Assistance Project for Economic Reform
Study               Purpose as Defined at              Status               Impact
Appraisal/Redefined
Public Investment Plan    Preparation of a preliminary public   Since preparation of  Substantial. The
investment pipeline for prioritizing   initial PIP in 1994, they   most recent PIP was
investments that need to be     continued to be updated   presented at the
supported with scarce state budget   annually on a 3-year  October 1998
funds and donor financing       rolling basis. The most   Donors'
recent one was prepared  Conference.
in mid-1998 and the
quality has been
improving.
Sub-sector reviews and
preparation of business
plans for following ERA   Assistance in the preparation and  Completed         Substantial. These
enterprises:          implementation of business plans                        narrowly focussed
Coal              for ERA enterprises, including                          studies were used to
Glass             action plans for winding down                           guide ERA in its
PVC Factory       enterprises as appropriate                              decisions regarding
Textiles                                                                 the disposition of
Paper                                                                     enterprises.
Steel
Tires



- 26 -
Table 8: Project Costs and Financing
EFSAC
Appraisal estirnate             Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                     (US$ million)
Item                                     Local    Foreign    Total          Local    Foreign    Total
costs     costs                   costs     costs
IDA                                        -         15.0      15.0           -        15.0      15.0
Total                                      -         15.0      15.0           -        15.0      15.0
Technical Assistance for Economic
Reform
Appraisal estimate              Actual/latest estimates
(US$ million)                     (US$ million)
Item                                     Local    Foreign    Total         Local    Foreign    Total
costs     costs                   costs     costs
IDA                                    -             4.0       4.0            -        4.2       4.2
Government                             0.6            -        0.6          1.02        -         -
Cofmanciers'                           -              -         -             -        5.2       5.2
0.6           4.0       4.6          1.02       9.4      10.4
1      Covers Trust Funds established in early 1998 to help wind down the pyramid schemes
2      Local costs is an estimated amount attributed to items provided in kind by the Government during
implementation (office facilities and support, interpreters, etc.)
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Not applicable



-27 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
EFSAC
Covenant  Present   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant            Comments
Agreement  Section      T'ype    Status  Fulfillment Fulfillment
Date       Date
DCA        3.01(a)    09        C                               The borrower and the Association shall   None
from time to time, at the request of either
party, exchange views on the progress
achieved in carrying out the Program an
the actions specified in Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
DCA        3.02       10        C                               Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
DCA        3.03(b)    01        C        06/30/96               Furnish to the Association as soon as  Report for the 1996
(ii)                                               available, but in any case not later than   accounts was received
six months after the end of each such  12/31/97, in
year, a certified copy of the report of  accordance with
such audit by said auditors, of such scope Schedule agreed with
and in such detail as the Association  the Association. No
shall have reasonably requested.    disbursements were
made in 1997 and
accordingly no audit
report was required.



- 28 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Covenant Present   Original    Revised         Description of Covenant           Comrnents
Agreement  Section     Type    Status   Fulfillment  Fulfillment
Date        Date
DCA        3.03     09         CD      03/31/1994   3/25/1995   Government to carry out a mid-    None
term review evaluating the
progress of the project.
DCA        3.03 (d)   02        C       05/30/1995               Government to enter into relending  According to the May
arrangements with its Central   1995 agreement,
Bank, in order to carry out Part B   repayments are to start in
(ii) (development of bank courier  January 1999.
services), under terms and
conditions acceptable to the
Association.
DCA        4.01 (a)   01        C                                Government shall maintain or   None
cause to be maintained records and
accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting
practices the operations, resources
and expenditures in respect of the
Project.
DCA        4.01 (b)   01        Soon    06/30/1998               Government shall have the records  Report for 1997 accounts
and accounts for each fiscal year   was expected by end-
audited.... by independent auditors Sept. 1998 (as part of an
acceptable to the Association;  overall audit contract for
furnish to the Association ..... not  IDA-financed projects)
later than six months, after the end  but has not yet been
of each such year, a certified copy  received. Auditors
of the report of such audit.   indicate that report has
been completed and it is
expected by Nov. 16
DCA        5.01 (a)   10        C                                --  two additional staff have
been appointed to the Project
Implementation Unit in the MOF.
Covenant types:                                                                          Present Status:
1. = Accounts/audits                             8. = Indigenous people                  C = covenant complied with
2. = Financial performance/revenue generation from  9. = Monitoring, review, and reporting  CD  complied with after delay
beneficiaries                                 10. = Project implementation not covered  CP  complied with partially
3. = Flow and utilization of project funds          by categories 1-9                    NC  not complied with
4. = Counterpart funding                         I 1. - Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary
5. = Management aspects of the project or executing  or other resource allocation
agency                                        12. = Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/
6. = Environmental covenants                        regulatory/institutional action
7. = Involuntary resettlement                    13. = Other



- 29 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Not applicable
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
EFSAC              Technical Assistance
Project for Economic Reform
Actual                  Actual
Stage of project cycle            Weeks      US$          Weeks         us$
Preparation to Appraisal             259.8    778.7          10.2        34.3
Appraisal                             25.4     62.5           1.9         6.4
Negotiations through Board            12.5     38.1           3.7         11.2
approval
Supervision                          185.1    420.3         128.9       308.8
Completion'                            7.2     23.0           4.2         9.6
Total                       490.0   1322.6         148.9        370.3
I    Completion inputs are estimates
Note: Staff inputs for the TA Project do not include inputs for the MPP



- 30 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
EFSAC
Performance Rating2   Types of
Stage of project cycle   Month/    No. of Days in  Specialization'  Implem. Developm.  Proble 3
Year     Persons  Field                    Status   objectives
Through Appraisal
Identification           9/92         6
Preparation               11/92       2
Pre-appraisal             12/92       6
1/93        2
3/93        1
4/93        1
5/93        1
7/93        8
9/93        1       5
11/93       5      40
2/94        2       9    E
3/94        1       10   B
4/94        5            E, F, B, L
Appraisal through Board
approval
Appraisal                5/94         4      20   FE, F, E
9/94        4       26   FE, F,B, PO
Supervision              11/94        4      28   FE, F, L            S
1/95        4      25   FE, F, E             S
3/95        4            FE, O,F, E          S
5/95        3            FE, F,A             S         S
Updating mission        9/95         1      3
Updating mission        11/95       4       8
Updating mission        2/96        3       15
4/96        3            FE, F,A             S          S
Update without mission   6/96                                          S         S
11/96       1       3    FE                  S         S
5/98        4       18   F, O, P, L          S         S
Completion               10/98        3       15   0, P               S          S
I - Key to Specialized staffskills:                               2 - Key to Performnance Ratings:
A      Accountant                      L       Lawyer              HS      Highly satisfactory
FE     Financial Economist             B       Banking Sector      S       Satisfactory
F      Financial Sector Specialist     E       Economist           U       Unsatisfactory
0      Operations Officer              P       Project Officer     HU     Highly unsatisfactory



31 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE PROJECT FOR ECONOMIC REFORM
Performance Rating2     Typesof
Stage of project cycle   Month/   No. of Days in  Specialization'    Implem.    Developm   Problemso
Year      Persons  Field                      Status      objectives
Identification through pre-
appraisal carried out as part
of EFSAC preparation. No
separate information
available.
Pre-appraisal             12/92       3       12
Appraisal                 3/93        2        8   E, P
Supervision               6/93        2       15   0, F                   1            1
9/93        2       12   0, L                   1            1
3/94         1       6    0                    2             2
6/94         1       7    0                    U             S
3/95        4       10   0,P,E,FE               S            S
Update without mission    5/95                                            S            S
2/96        3        9    0,P,E                 S            S
Update without mission    6/96                                            S            S
9/96         1       5    0                     S            S
Update without mission    7/97                                           U             S       S-P, T
9/97        3       11   O, P                   S            S
5/98        2        8    O, P                 S             S
Completion                10/98       3        6    0, P                 S             S
Total
I - Key to Specialized staff skills:                                2 - Key to Performance Ratings:
A       Accountant                     L       Lawyer               HS      Highly satisfactory
FE      Financial Economist            B       Banking Sector       S       Satisfactory
F      Financial Sector Specialist     E       Economist            U       Unsatisfactory
0       Operations Of ficer            P       Project Officer      HU      Highly unsatisfactory
In addition, between January 1995 and September 1996, 9 missions were carried out under to help launch the MPP.



Appendix A
ALBANIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR ADJUSTMENT CREDIT (Credit 2649) and
TECHNICAL, ASSISTANCE FOR ECONOMIC REFORM PROJECT (Credit 2492)
Aide-Memoire of Implementation Completion Report Mission
1.    A Bank mission comprising Mmes. Yvonne Jones, Rochelle Hilton and Greta Minxhozi visited
Albania between October 26-November 2, 1998, to discuss preparation of a combined Inplementation
Completion Report for the Enterprise and Financial Sector Adjustment Credit (EFSAC) and the Technical
Assistance Project for Economic Reform (TA Project). The mission met with representatives of the
Ministry of Finance, Bank of Albania, Ministry of Privatization, Ministry of Economic Cooperation and
Trade and the National Privatization Agency. The mission would like to thank the various Albanian
officials for all the cooperation and assistance provided. The main findings of this mission are
summarized below and are subject to confirmation by Bank management.
Background
2.    The Government which took office in 1992 embarked on an ambitious program of reform to
transform the country, which was emerging from over 40 years of isolation and centralization, to a
market-based economy. The Government was faced with a daunting task which entailed virtually
building a new economy as the institutions, expertise and infrastructure required for a well-functioning
economy did not exist. It moved quickly with the initial stages, with extensive support from the
international donor community. The EFSAC and the TA Project were critical elements of this early
support.
Project Objectives
3.    The Government's reform program was designed to sustain the stabilization and address the most
pressing and necessary structural measures. In support of this program, the EFSAC was designed as a
quick-disbursing operation, with two tranches. Its principal objectives were the restructuring of state-
owned banks and the overall development of a market-based financial system; continued privatization or
liquidation of industrial enterprises; and strengthening of the legal framework for the enterprise and
financial sectors. The TA Project was designed to contribute directly to the preparation of the EFSAC
program by improving Government's ability to formulate and implement reforms in three critically
important areas: macroeconomic management, enterprise restructuring and privatization and financial
sector reform.
Summary Assessment
4.    The EFSAC conditionality was ambitious but comprised priority actions essential to begin the
transition to a market economy, move forward with the reforn program and form the basis for sustainable
growth. The TA Project was a necessary complement to the EFSAC because of the Government's weak
institutional capacity, lack of experienced staff and the paucity of knowledge about privatization, banking
sector reform and their consequences. The objectives of the two operations were necessarily a first step
to support the Government's program.  However, insufficient emphasis on strengthening public
administration, along with political instability, reflected in frequent changes of government, did not
permit the reforms to withstand the impact of the large-scale civil disturbances in 1997, arising from the
collapse of the pyramid schemes.



Aide-Memoire                                                              Page 2 of 4
5.    Although it took longer than originally anticipated to fulfill all of the EFSAC conditions and to
carry out the TA Project, by the time of second tranche release in June 1998, all conditions had been
substantially met. Overall both operations have been successfully implemented and have achieved their
development objectives. In retrospect, the conditionality of the EFSAC was appropriate and it recognized
that much more support would be needed in the future to help further advance the transition process. It is
noteworthy that implementation of the agreed strategy for the development of the banking sector has been
gathering momentum since mid-1997 and the Government and Bank are collaborating closely, in
consultation with other donors, to move as quickly as possible to the next phase.
Macroeconomic Management
6.    Improving macroeconomic management was an objective of the TA Project. The project focused
on reducing macroeconomic imbalances, developing capacity to prepare Public Investment Programs,
and reducing subsidies to state-owned enterprises. Through approval of an IMF ESAF, a macroeconomic
framework supportive of the objectives of the EFSAC has been restored after a period of macroeconomic
imbalances from early 1996 through late 1997. The Government prepared the first Public Investment
Program (PIP) in 1994 which focused not only on specific investment projects for 1994, but also
provided the economic context in which the investments were to be made and reviewed arrangements
within the Government for implementation, coordination, and management. A three year rolling
investment program was prepared in each of the subsequent years through 1996. After a one year hiatus
caused by the 1997 crisis, the Govemment reviewed the status of public investments and in early 1998
completed a new PIP, covering 1998-2001. The new PIP, presented at the October 1998 Donors'
Conference, takes into account Albania's post-crisis priorities, elaborates an appropriate resource
framework, and considers measures for improved coordination and management. Finally, the
Government has taken a number of measures to reduce subsidies to State-owned enterprises.
Enterprise Sector Reformn and Privatization
7.    The Government was committed early on to privatization, with substantial assistance from the
TA Credit and (as in other areas) support from other donors. The Government's prime objective was
speedy privatization to reduce the fiscal cost, and to encourage the development of a private sector. To
this end, the Enterprise Restructuring Agency (ERA) was created to dispose of 32 problematic
enterprises. A large number of small and medium enterprises were privatized first through Decree 248,
followed by the mass privatization program, most of which took place in 1995 and 1996. In late 1996,
the emphasis began to shift to preparing the larger, strategic enterprises for their eventual privatization,
but these activities were interrupted in early 1997 as a result of the economic and political crisis.
8.    The new Government which came to power following the June 1997 elections quickly acted to
reformulate the privatization strategy. In March 1998 a new privatization strategy, including plans for the
privatization of public utilities' resource-based enterprises on a sectoral basis, involving, among other
modalities, sales to strategic investors. Technical assistance in support of this ambitious program is being
provided with bilateral assistance from Italy in the framework of a program agreed between the
Government and the Bank. The Government is also committed to completing the privatization of the
remainder of the small and medium enterprises.



Aide-Memoire                                                                Page 3 of 4
Banking Sector Reform
9.     Refonn of the banking sector moved more slowly than that of the enterprise sector, due to a
combination of factors. In 1993, Albania had only a rudimentary banking system with little knowledge of
commercial banking, few bankers and very poor infrastructure. Until then, the banks had been used more
as fiscal agents of the Government than as independent financial intermediaries. Early implementation of
the privatization strategy was hampered by lack of reliable information on bank portfolios and operations,
and by the absence of full service private banks. The situation was exacerbated by a lack of interested
and qualified buyers for banks or branches. The Ministry of Finance was also unable to effectively
exercise its role as owner of the banks.
10.   The EFSAC included measures to strengthen banking supervision, regulation and infrastructure.
Assistance from many donors was provided to support all of these areas, including from the TA Project.
However, progress was mixed. With support from the IMF, banking supervision, licensing and prudential
regulation have been substantially strengthened, although more needs to be done. Progress on improving
infrastructure was mixed, in part due to inconsistencies in approach from different donors, and was
complicated by a lack of expertise on the part of the Government as well as a lack of experienced
bankers. There wets also a substantial delay in reaching an agreement between the Bank and successive
Govemments on a strategy for privatizing the banks.
11.   Delays in r eforming the banking sector and a lack of functioning commercial banks may have to
some extent facilitated the growth of the pyramid schemes. Following the 1997 crisis, the new
Government has mroved rapidly to exercise its ownership and oversight responsibilities and to implement
an agreed strategy for the development of a private banking sector, taking strong steps to deal with the
problematic state-owned banks. Policy advice and technical assistance to the financial sector from the
World Bank continues through the Recovery Program Technical Assistance and other policy based
operations are expected.
Legal Reform
12.   Substantial work has been done on legal reform and Albania has in place the bulk of the
necessary commercial legislation, including a Law on Bankruptcy Procedures. Work continues to be
needed to ensure consistency among the many pieces of new legislation. Additionally, the judiciary is ill-
equipped and inexperienced and there is limited capacity to apply the provisions of the new laws needed
to promote private sector development. A major challenge is now to strengthen enforcement capacity of
the legal system through significant training programs in all areas. This process is being strongly
supported by major donors, but it will necessarily be a long-term process that is outside the framework of
the EFSAC.
Project Management and Administration
13.   As the IA project was a complex operation with many different components, coordination
among the various beneficiary agencies was essential. Discussions with the participating institutions
indicated that the PIU was cooperative and provided needed assistance for procurement and payments on
a timely basis. Although initially well-staffed, the structure and status of the Project Implementation Unit
were substantially changed in 1997, which negatively affected the efficiency and effectiveness of the Unit.



Aide-Memoire                                                               Page 4 of 4
Borrower's Evaluation of Project Implementation
14.   The Borrower's responsibilities in the preparation of the ICR, as indicated in the Bank's
Operational Manual Statement, were discussed with the various officials and copies of the Bank's Good
Practices for ICR Preparation (GP 13.55 of April 1994, paras 4 and 5), were provided to the Ministry of
Finance and to the Bank of Albania.
15.   The Borrower agreed to prepare its evaluation of project implementation, in consultation with the
other concerned beneficiaries, and to provide this to the Bank by the first week of December 1998.
Operational Plan
16.   The Bank's guidelines for preparation of ICRs (April 1994) require the preparation of an
operational plan by the Borrower and the implementing agencies. This plan should indicate the actions
and measures to be taken by the Borrower, the relevant government agencies and the project entities to
ensure satisfactory fature implementation and operations under the project, and the achievement of the
project objectives.
17.   The new Government has confirmed its commitment to continued implementation of its
economic reform program, and its desire to continue to collaborate closely with international donors to
help achieve its objectives. Follow up operations financed with IDA support this effort. The Recovery
Program Technical Assistance Project is providing needed financing in a number of priority areas relating
to bank privatization and public administration reform. A number of policy-based loans have been
provided or are under preparation to continue this effort.
Outputs and Schedule
19.   It was agreed that the following timetable would be followed to enable timely completion of the
final ICR:
Bank to send draft ICR to MoF for its review by        November 21, 1998
MoF to provide its implementation evaluation by        December 4, 1998
Final report to Executive Directors                    December 31, 1998
Coordination of ICR Preparation
20.   The following persons will coordinate preparation of the ICR:
For MoF:                   Ms. Adriana Berberi
Mr. Rezar Turdiu
For the World Bank-        Ms. Greta Minxhozi
Tirana, Albania
November 1998



Appendix B
REPUBLIC OF ALBANILA
MISTRY OF FINANCE
The Minister's Office
Boulevard "Def hmoret c Kombit" Tirana            Tel. 2840S Fax. 355-42 28494
Tirana, December 16, 1998
Memorandum of the Government of Albania
on the implementason of te projects
Technical Assistance for Economic Reform
and
Enterprise and Financial sector Adjustment Credit
1. The two projects of the World Bank and the respective credit on Technical Assistance
for Economic Reform and Enterprise and Financial sector Adjustment Crediz, are
valuably considered in support of the govermnent program for the economic reform
generally, and the structural reform particularly. Initiated since at the beginning of the
reform in Albania and implemented during 1993-1998, they have supported the
fullfillment of the cointry strategy to creating a functional markst economy, for the
fiscal consolidation, to achiving a stable economic growth, as well as the reduction of
poverty.
2. At the time these projects were perceived, the albanian economy had started getting
out of the economic and politocal chaos of 199-1992. The economic growth had just
started, the inflation had been reduced drastically, even it was high, as a result of
liberalising the prices and trade. The budget deficit started to be under control, redusing
it from 44% at the first half of 1992 to 16% in 1993, as a result of the revenues increase
from the extension of the taxation and applying of the new tax, and in particular from
the reduction of the enterprise subsidies.
3. The peiod in which both projects were implemented was full of complex situation: a)
m-aroecononmic stability, high economic growth, inflation and budget deficit under
control, smootlae implementation of the programmed structural reform, including the
privatization of small and medium enterprises and agricultural land, and on the other
hand, too much fragility on the financial sector and low level of reforming of this sector
until the end of 1996; b) the year 1997, that clearly laid open the insdtutional weaknes
as well as the fragility of the previeus achivement; and recently in 1998, period in wich
the macroeconomic stability was succesfully recoverd, inflation and deficit under



control, and above all, it was redementioned the reform on the financial and banking
sector.
4. The events of early 1997 plunged Albania into the deepest crisis it had ever known.
Law and order broke down, a large proportion of the population acquired arms and
almost the whole of the country fell from government conlrol. To resolve this situation
required the establishment of a National Reconciliation Government and the active
participation of the international community. This involved the setng up and
deployment in Albania of the Italian led Multintional Protection Force. Close co-
operation between the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE)
and the Albanian National Reconciliation Goverrment enabled a general election to be
held in June 1997 which brought to power the five party centre left coalition.
5. The events of 13-14 September showed that democracy and its institutions in Albania
are still fragile. They also emphasized that democratic practices need not to be strictly
observed by all. This will require fundamental changes in some of the political parties so
that they can live up to their obligations in facilitating the development and prosperity of
the country.
6. Strengthening democracy, law enforcement, institutional reform and economic
consoIidation and development remain the four main challenges and priorities of the
new government.
6.1. Security and the rule of law and public order improved considerably during the
second half of 1997 and 1998. The rebuilding of the police forces has played a central
role in the restoring internal security. However, the govemment is fully aware that
achievements to date are limited and that there remains much room for improvement.
6.2. The slow progress made since 1991 in reforming public sector institutions was
identified in the Rome Conference as having been a major factor contributing to the
disturbances in early 1997. The Government recognises the urgency of removing
bottlenecks to institutional reform and for introducing effective measures during 1999.
6.3. The Government considered one of its most urgent priorities the approval of the
new Constitution which ensures the rights of Albanian citizens and provides the basis
for a stable political process. The public referendum for the approval of the Constitudon
was held in November 1998, and the Constiuion was approved by the majority of the
voters.
6.4. Between 1991 and 1994 considerable progress was made in establishing a modem
judicial system based on the separation of powers and the independence of the judiciaxy.
Subsequently, the judicial system became subject to increasing political interference and
abuse by the State. This contributed significantly to the conditions that led to the
eventual crisis in March 1997. In the aftermath of the 1997 crisis the judicial system was
faced with: (i) an almost total paralysis in its functions; (ii) a lack of moral integrity in
the judiciary and a more general absence of professionalism; (iii) excessive political and
criminal interference; and (iv) a total lack of public confidence.
The new government initiated a major reform of the judicial system involving: (i) the
approval of a new Constitution that protects the nghts of Albanian citizens; (ii) the
passing of other basic legislation including a law to protect the independence of the



judiciary; and (iii) measures to ensure more adequate financing with the establishment
of a separate budged for the judiciary.
6.5. The targets of the Post-Conflict Agreement, agreed upon with the 1MAF in the mid
1997, were naot only met but even exceeded in some areas, such as the revene
collection, bludgetary discipline, monetary position, and resolution of the pyramid
schemes. This made possible a successful negotiation and approval of the ESAF E
Agroement with the RAF. This provides a set of objectives to be met in the next three
years in the macroeconomic framework as well as in the field of institutional and
strucural reforms.
7. Strong measwures have been taken in the field of monetary policy and in the banking
system. The Bank of Albania has kept a tight monety stance to help fight inflation.
Broad money expansion has been consistent with fiscal targets and inflation objectives.
The Government of Albania proved its full commitment to modernise the banking
system of the country by maintaining and strengthening the independence of the Bank of
Albania, restructuring and privatisation of the second tier state banks, designing legal
and regulatory framework for promoting expansion of private banks, as well as
designing a new modem payrnent system. Rural Commercial Bank was liquidated as
non-performing bank. Its best assets and liabilities were tansferred to Savings Bank.
Bank Assets Resolution Trust was ceated to handle all non-performing loans. A foreign
management team was appointed to consolidate activities of the Savings Bank with
further aim of its privatization by late 1999. A foreign CEO and a privatization advisor
have been appointed for the National Commercial Bank, and the goverment has made a
formal decision to privatize the bank and Ias advertise it for sale. A law on privatization
of the bankc will be aproved by parlament by mid-January 1999. Credit ceilings have
been applied for state banks based on their non-performance loans. The Government and
Bank of Albania are continuously working to clarify, stengthen and improve the legal,
regulatory and supervisory framework under which banks operate. A new, modern Law
on Banking System was adopted by the Parliament in April 1998.
8. The implementation of the programme brought promising results as early as in late
1997. GDP decline and annual inflation was less than predicted. Progress in
macroeconomic consolidation during emergency post-conflict programme paved the
way for a 3 year ESAF arrangement with the 1MF. It provides for further reduction of
the domestically-financed deficit in 1998-1999. For the first year of the programme it
will be reduced to about 6.5% of GDP, and in 1999 to about 5%, with the aim of
reaching 3% level on 2001. External support to sustain budget deficit during 1998 will
be Lek 8 billion (1.75% of GDP). Inflation is expected to reach 10% in 1998 and 7% in
1999, while gross official reserves should be 370 million USD in late 1998 and 375
million one year later.
9. To achieve the above targets, the tax-to-GDP ratio must be raised, while kerping
expenditures on track. The main point of fiscal reform is the movement toward direct
taxation. The system of direct taxation is being currently revised (with the IMF
assistance), with the aim of starting reforms in 1999- No exemptions will be granted
during ESAF. On the expenditure side, in the view of a comprehensive civil service
reform, further budgetaxy manpower cuts will be explored during 1999. Within the
deficit limits, the government is determined to preserve, and possibly to strengthen
investment on infrastructure improvement and spending on social services, including
health and education. Budgetary procedures and public expenditures management will



be improved with the assistance of the IMF staff- A new organic law is being prepared
and will be submitted to the Parliament as soon as possible. Also, a system of cash
management will become operative by end of 199g. The government will conduct a
Pu,NIic Expenditure Review during 1998-99, in consultation with the World Bank, to
further improve expenditure administration.
10. In November 1997, Deloitte and Touche began the process of administration of the
five big pyramid schemes which had collected the majority of the savings of the
popuIation. The struggle of the authorities with the bosses of the pyramid schemes and
individuals or political forces supporting them became a real marathon which delayed
the process. The recommendations of Deloitte and Touche made in January 1998 made
it possible for the Government of Albania to proceed with the process of recovering
assets and giving them back to the creditors. In March-1 998, foreign administrators were
appointed for the remaining 12 companies identified by the Govemment as having
operated as pyramid schemes, all of which had ceased operation by February 1997. The
obstacles and the non-cooperation attitude of the pyramid bosses created many delays in
the process, but were basicaly concluded in May 1998. Thus, the full control over the
companies was assuned by the Administrator. Currently the process is going on and has
entered a stage of liquidation of assets and creation of funds to be distributed to the
creditors.
i 1. The Government considers privatisation as one of its priorities, it is committed to
improve the procedures and transparent character.
The focus of the privatisation programme is now on the sale of state-owned enterprise
and state shares of non strategic industies, as well as restructuring and moderriisation of
stutegic enterprises aiming at their privatisation through the sale of shares,
concessionary contacts or/and different partnership schemes. Ihe privatisation of non-
strategic industries includes 600 medium size enterprises. Currently around 300 such
enterprises have entered the privatisation process with the remainder included by the
end of 1998. Thus, the privatisation of non-strategic sectors is expected to be concluded
wthin the first 6 months of 1999.
Privatisation process of strategic sectors will continue with the restnuctuing of the
companies of those sectors and, simultaneously, a legal framework for this is under
preparation. Until now several enterprises such as the Albanian Telecom, Durres Port,
Albbaker etc. have been tansformed in joint-stock companies. A restructuring process
is initiated for Albpetrol which will transform it into three separate companies.
Similarly, the legal procedures have started to enable a management contract for the
Tirana and Durres water supply.
Deputy Minister
oAdriann



