CREDIT NUMBER 2492 ALB
Development Credit Agreement
(Technical Assistance for Economic Reform)
between
ALBANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPHENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                  , 1993


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2492 ALB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated            V        , 1993, between ALBANIA
(the Borrower) and INTEATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the part.es hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section   1.01.  The  "General   Conditions  Applicable   to
Development   Credit  Agreements"   of   the  Association,   dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional term has the
following meaning; namely, that "MOFE" means the Borrower's Ministry
of Finance and Economy.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the
Development Credit Agreement, an amount in various currencies
equivalent to two million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 2,900,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable


﻿-2-
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
(b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars a special deposit account in a bank on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this
Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1996 or such
later date as the Association shall establish. The Association shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as m.y be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the plrposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.


﻿-3-
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each February 15 and August 15
commencing August 15, 2003 and ending February 15, 2033. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on
February 15, 2013 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal
amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
(b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
(c)   If, at any time after a modification oi terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) bove.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.


﻿-4-
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices, and shall provide, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods and consultants' services required for the
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall
be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall:
(a)   maintain the Project Implementation Unit in the MOFE
with staffine and functions acceptable to the Association;
(b)   ensure that all staff employed under the Project shall
have qualifications and experience acceptable to the Association;
(c)   carry out a mid-term review not later than March 31,
1994 evaluating the progress of the Project; and
(d)   enter into relending arrangements with its Central Bank,
in order to carry out Part B (ii) of the Project, under terms and
conditions acceptable to the Association.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and
expenditures in respect of the Project of the de-artments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or
any part thereof.


﻿(b)   The Borrower shall:
(i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section including those
for the Special Account for each fiscal year
audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii)    furnish  to   the  Association,   as  soon   as
available, but in any case not later than six
months after the end of each such year, a
certified copy of the report of such audit by
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)    furnish   to   the   Association   such  other
information concerning said records, accounts
and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request..
(c)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)    maintain  or   cause  to   be  maintained,  in
accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
records    and   accounts    reflecting    such
expenditures;
(ii)    retain, until at least one year after the
Association has received the audit report for
the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
from the Credit Account or payment out of the
Special   Account   was   made,   all   records
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
and    other   documents)    evidencing    such
expenditures;
(iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
examine such records; and


﻿(iv)    ensure that   such  records and accounts    are
included in the annual audit referred to in
paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
report of such audit contains a separate opinion
by said auditors as to whether the statements of
expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
together with the procedures and internal
controls involved in their preparation, can be
relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement
within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
(a)   two additional staff have been appointed to the Project
Implementation Unit in the MOFE with experience and qualifications
acceptable to the Association; and
(b)   the Enterprise Restructuring Agency has been established
and its Director, with experience and qualifications acceptable to
the Association, has been appointed.
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance and Economy of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of tle General Conditions:


﻿-7-
For the Botrower:
Ministry of Finance and Economy
Bulevardi "Deshmorat e Kombit"
Tirana
Albania
Telex:
4295 Kamplan AB
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                 Telex:
INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (?TCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ALBANIA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Europe and Central Asia


﻿-9-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1) Goods                        900,000        100% of foreign
expenditures,
100% of local
expenditures
(ex-factory
cost) and 85%
of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2) Consultants' services      1,200,000        100%
(3) Training and study           500,000        100%
tours
(4) Unallocated                  200,000
TOTAL                     2,900,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and


﻿-10-
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
vithdrawals   shall be made in     respect of payments made     for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of
$400,000, may be made on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after April 1, 1993.


﻿SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in
formulating and implementing reforms in macroeconomic management,
enterprise restructuring and privatization, and financial sector.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Support enterprise privatization and restructuring,
private sector development, including support for
privatization of large firms, enterprise restructuring,
and   state  enterprise   management,   as  well   as
institutional support to the National Privatization
Agency and the Enterprise Restructuring Agency both in
the Prime Minister's office, and the Enterprise Support
Unit in the MOFE.
Part B:     (i) Support banking sector reform and development,
including reorganization of the banking system,
financial restructuring of banks, bank management
services, and training facilities; and (ii) development
of a bank courier service.
Part C:     Design   institutional   development  to   strengthen
macroeconomic management, including support to the
Economic Development Directorate, Budget Directorate and
Treasury Directorate of MOFE, support to the Central
Statistical Office in developing technical capacity for
undertaking a survey of private sector activities and
support to MOFE to carry out the review and preparation
of an investment program.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1995.


﻿- 12 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I. Procurement of Goods
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines). For fixed-price contracts, the
invitation to bid referred to in paragraph 2.13 of the Guidelines
shall provide that, when the contract awarded is delayed beyond the
original bid validity period, the successful bidder's bid price will
be increased for each week of delay by two predisclosed correction
factors acceptable to the Association, one to be applied to all
foreign currency components and the other to the local currency
component of the bid price. Such an increase shall not be taken into
account in the bid evaluation.
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be
grouped into bid packages estimated to cost the equivalent of
$200,000 or more.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods maiufactured in Albania may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of less than $200,000 per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $500,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers from at least three different countries
eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures
acceptable to the Association.


﻿2.    Items or groups of items for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $50,000 or less per contract, up to an aggregate
amount equivalent to $100,000, may be procured under contracts
awarded on the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from
at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in
accordance with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a)   With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in
paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the
Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to
the Association prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.    The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines,
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be


﻿- 14 -
satisfactory to the Association. Such consultants shall be selected
in accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by The World Bank as
Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Section,
the provision of the Consultants Guidelines requiring prior*
Association review or approval of budgets, short lists, selection
procedures, letters of invitation, proposals, evaluation reports and
contracts shall not apply to contracts estimated to cost less than
$50,000 equivalent each. However, this exception to prior
Association review shall not apply to the terms of reference for
such contracts nor to the employment of individuals, to single-
source hiring of firms, to assignments of a critical nature as
reasonably determined by the Association and to amendments of
contracts raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or above.


﻿SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)   the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set
forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provis ons of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)   the term   "Authorized Allocation" means an     amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association
requests for deposits into the Special Account
at such intervals as the Association shall
specify.
(ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
the documents and other evidence required


﻿-16 -
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
such request, the Association shall, on behalf
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and deposit into the Special Account
such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents
and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from
the Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of thr Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3      of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
(a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Article
V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of
this Agreement; or
(b)   once the total unwithdrawn    amount  of the   Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the


﻿- 17 -
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from-
the Association: (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association).
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
(d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs
6 (a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


