DOCUMENT OF INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Not For Public Use
FILE COPY
Report No. 97a-PAK
APPRAISAL OF
THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
PAKISTAN
June 4, 1973
Asia Projects Department
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not be published, quoted
or cited without Bank Group iuthorization. The Bank Group does not accept responsibility for the
accuraLcy or completeness of the report.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
1 Pakistan Rupee (PR)    =  US$0.10
PRs 100,000               =  US$10,101
PRs 1,000,000             =  US$101,010
US$1                      =  PRs 9.90
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Tons are metric tons of 2,205 pounds
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 to June 30
ABBREVIATIONS
KPT       -  Karachi Port Trust
PIA       -  Pakistan International Airlines
PWR       -  Pakistan Western Railway
EIU       -  Economist Intelligence Unit



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
SIMMARY  AND  CONCLUSIONS   ..............................                                             i-i
I.       INTRODUCTION   .........................................1
II.       BACKGROUND   ...........................................                                                    2
A.       General   .........................................                                               2
B.       The  Transport  Sector   ............................                                             3
C.       Transport  Planning   ..............................                                              4
III.        THE  PORT  OF  KARACHI   ..................................                                                 5
A.       Organization  and  Administration   .................                                             5
B.       Staff  and  Labor   .................................                                             6
C.      Port  Facilities   .................................                                               7
D.       Dredging   ........................................                                               7
E.       Operations   ......................................                                                7
IV.        INVESTMENT  PROGRAM  AND  THE  PROJECT   ...................                                               8
A.       Investment  Program   ..............................                                               8
B.       Description  of  the  Project   ......................                                            9
C.       Project   Cost  Estimates   ..........................                                           11
D.       Consultants'   Services   ...........................                                            12
E.       Procurement   .....................................                                              12
F.       Project  Execution   ...............................                                             12
G.       Disbursement   ....................................                                              13
H.       Ecology   .........................................                                              13
V.       ECONOMIC  EVALUTATION   ..................................                                                13
A.       General   .........................................                                              13
B.       Traffic   Forecast   ................................                                            14
C.       Economic   Benefits   ...............................                                            15
D.    Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis  .... ....                                                 16
This report was written by Messrs. Y. Akatsuka, J. Burns and R. H. Roberts.



-2-
Page No.
VI.   FINANCIAL EVALUATION .................................   17
A.  Tariffs   .........................................   17
B.  Present Accounting System and Past Earnings  .....   17
C.  Financial  Forecasts   .............................  19
D.   Financial Plan and Objectives ....     ...............   19
E.   Audit   ...........................................  22
F.   Insurance   .......................................  22
VII.   AGREDMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION ....    ............   22
ANNEXES
1. KPT Accounting System - Consultant's Recommendations
2. KPT - Organizational Changes Proposed by Consultants
3.  Description of Port Facilities and Equipment
4. Operational Performance of Railway System in Karachi Area
5.  Details of Project Items
6. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
7. Methodology of Economic Evaluation of the Napier Mole Road Bridge
TABLES
1. Average Ship Waiting Time
2.  Investment Program 1972 to 1980
3. Cost Estimates
4.  Dry Cargo Traffic
5. Karachi Port Trust - Revenue and Expenditure 1967-1971
6. Karachi Port Trust - Balance Sheet - June 30, 1971
7. Estimated Revenue and Expenditure 1972-1980
8.  Sources and Disposal of Funds 1972-1980
9.  Forecast Balance Sheets 1972-1980
CHART
Organization of Karachi Port Trust
MAPS
1. Pakistan - Transportation Network (10169)
2. Karachi Port (10171)
3. Karachi - Transportation Network (10170)



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
i.        The Association has been asked to help finance the further
expansion and improvement of the port of Karachi.  Bank Loans 126-PAK of
August 4, 1955 and 376-PAK of April 7, 1964 were made to Kairachi Port Trust
(KPT) to assist earlier reconstruction and development programs. Credit
S-9 PAK of April 7, 1970 provided for the engineering studies on which a
substantial part of the project under consideration is based.
ii.       Loan 126-PAK was completely disbursed, and the project satisfactorily
completed, by 1962.  The original closing date for Loan 376-PAK, March 31,
1969, was extended to June 30, 1972 and subsequently to June 30, 1974, as a
result of delays in construction arising from unsatisfactory foundation
conditions, the Indo-Pakistan hostilities and labor troubles. The construction
delays in no way reflect on KPT's competence in project implementation, which
is good.  The closing date for Credit S-9 PAK, December 31, 1972, has been
extended to December 31, 1973 to allow completion of detailed engineering.
The borrower's performance in relation to its various loan obligations has
been satisfactory.
iii.      The project consists of the reconstruction of lighterage berths
to provide four deep-water general cargo berths with transit sheds, pro-
curement of cargo-handling equipment, remodelling of a railway marshalling
yard and storage area, replacement of a road bridge access to the port and
consultant's services. The total cost is estimated to be US$34.2 million
of which US$17.1 million is foreign exchange.
iv.       Contracts for major works would be awarded through international
competitive bidding.  Tender documents are being prepared and bids could be
invited from prequalified contractors shortly after credit effectiveness.
v.        The present port complex consists principally of seventeen berths
on the East Wharf and seven berths on the West Wharf, three bulk oil piers,
various moorings, and lighterage facilities. Depths alongside vary from
24 to 34 ft at low water. The port has transit sheds, open storage space,
cargo-handling equipment and floating craft adequate to serve the
present berths.
vi.       Traffic has developed steadily, totalling 9.3 miLlion tons in
1972 compared with 5.6 million tons in 1963 and 2.5 million tons in 1949.
Bearing in mind the limited accommodation available, throughput has been
high, but has only been achieved at the cost of substantiaL ship waiting time.
vii.      The Association has made estimates of future traffic based on
detailed studies by the Economist Intelligence Unit (UK) and information
supplied by the Government, the oil companies, and Karachi Port Trust.
However, the project would be justified on the basis of present traffic
alone.



- ii -
viii.     The project will materially reduce transport costs through the
port of Karachi. The main objective is to provide additional capacity to
handle present and part of forecast future traffic through the reconstruction
of existing facilities. Project execution is expected to take about five
years and to be rompleted by June 1978.
:x.       Port administration and management are reasonably competent and
experienced, but certain organizational changes are necessary to ensure
proper coordination of functions and continuity in general management.
x.        Although the present financial situation is satisfactory, imple-
mentation of the proposed investment program will require a considerable
increase in cash generation. Karachi Port Trust has therefore agreed to
maintain the financial rate of return on net fixed assets at not less than
4% from 1976 to 1981 and 7% thereafter. KPT has further undertaken not to
incur additional long-term debt unless net cash revenue is at least 1-1/2
times the maximum debt service requirement.
xi.       The terms of Credit S-9 PAK provided that in the event of a
subsequent construction credit being made, it should be refinanced from the
proceeds of such a credit. Accordingly the outstanding balance of Credit S-9
PAK, estimated at US$880,000, has been included in the proposed credit of
US$18.0 million.
xii.      The project is suitable for a credit of US$18.0 million to the
Government on the usual terms. The Government would relend US$17,750,000
to Karachi Port Trust for a term of 25 years, including a five-year grace
period, at the prevailing Bank interest rate. The balance, US$250,000, is
the estimated foreign exchange cost of technical assistance for a review
of railway operations affecting traffic movements to, from and within the
Karachi port area.



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Government).
has requested the Association's assistance in financing the further expan-
sion and reconstruction of the Karachi Port Trust (KPT) facilities which
form part of Pakistan's Fourth Five-Year Plan. The project, which would
be partially financed by an Association credit of the equivalent of US$17.1
million, is based on engineering studies made by consultants appointed for this
purpose and financed under Credit S-9 PAK. The proposed credit includes the
outstanding balance of Credit S-9 PAK, estimated at US$880,000, in accordance
with the terms of that credit. The credit would be made to the Government
and US$17,750,000 would be relent to KPT at the prevailing Bank interest
rate. The balance, US$250,000 is for technical assistance for a review of
railway operations in the Karachi area.
1.02      KPT has received two Bank loans - 126-PAK in 1955 for US$14.8
million and 376-PAK in 1964 for US$17.0 million, and a credit, S-9 PAK,
for US$1.0 million in 1970.  The reconstruction  3n4lLEecW4pmen-_f-43
cargo berths financed by the l oan- eee  satisactoQrily corp1etein
1962, altho ugh the Bankw   -not satisfied with the capacity of the Chief
Engineer's D~aztmsat0o-mupervisW. projects and made the strengthening of
;hi Eoisfi c   -oa{tti6n of the second-loan. The major items included
in the second loan were construction of a new oil berth, three new cargo
berths, the reconstruction of four cargo berths and proviLsion of cargo-
handling equipment. As of April 30, 1973, US$14.2 million of the second
loan had been disbursed against commitments and orders oiE US$15.0 million.
The original closing date of the loan, March 31, 1969, was extended to
June 30, 1972 and subsequently to June 30, 1974, as a result of delays in
construction due to unsatisfactory foundation conditions, the Indo-Pakistan
hostilities and labor troubles. The construction delays in no way reflect
on KPT's competence in project supervision which is now ,good.  The borrower's
performance in regard to its loan obligations has been satisfactory.
The preliminary engineering studies financed under Credit S-9 PAK have been
completed and as of April 30, 1973, US$580,000 had been disbursed against
commitments of US$970,000. The closing date for this credit, December 31,
1972, has been extended to December 31, 1973, to allow completion of detailed
engineering.
1.03      Other loans/credits for the transport sector in Pakistan have
included three for highways, six for railways, including three made in the
1950s which were joint loans for Pakistan Eastern and Western Railways,
and four for pipelines. One highway loan was cancelled in July 1971
because bids received were greatly in excess of original estimates. All
other loans have progressed satisfactorily.



- 2 -
1.04      This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission
composed of Y. Akatsuka (engineer), J. Burns (financial analyst) and
R. H. Roberts (economist) which visited Pakistan in June 1972, and on inform-
ation supplied by KPT at meetings in New York in January 1973.
II. BACKGROUND
A.  General
2.01      Pakistan covers a land area of about 300,000 square miles, one
and a half times that of France. However, much of this area consists of a
barren plain stretching from the foothills of the Himalayas in the northeast
to the Arabian Sea in the southwest and agricultural activities, on which
much of the economy is based, are largely dependent on irrigation provided
by the important rivers. Pakistan is crossed by five great rivers - the Indus,
Jhelum, Chenab, Ravi and Sutlej - which, after their confluences, flow as the
Indus southwestwards to the sea. These rivers occasionally overflow their
banks and the floods cause serious interruptions to transport.
2.02      Pakistan has a population of about 64 million, about 70% of whom
live in rural areas. Some 50% of the urban population lives in the five
principal cities of Rawalpindi, Karachi, Hyderabad, Lahore and Lyallpur.
The population is believed to be increasing at the rate of about 2.9% per
year; the increase in urban areas is about 4.6% because of migration from
the countryside.
2.03      Pakistan's economy is primarily rural, with about one-third of the
gross national product stemming from agriculture, fishing and forestry.
Transport and communications account for about 7% of gross national product.
Principal agricultural exports include rice, cotton and oil seeds which move
by rail from the producing areas to the country's sole port of Karachi.
Cement produced in Hyderabad is also exported through Karachi. Principal
imports include iron and steel, wheat, fertilizers and general cargo. The
volume of wheat imports fluctuates according to the weather conditions in
the drought-prone wheat and rice producing areas of Pakistan. Drought
over the last few years has resulted in substantial imports but these are
expected to be greatly reduced, and perhaps eliminated, when the Tarbela
dam is completed. Imports of finished fertilizers have been rising rapidly
and will decline only as Pakistan's fertilizer production capacity increases.
Ilowever, any decline is likely to be more than offset by increased imports
of phosphate rock. Virtually all imports not destined for the Karachi area
move up-country from Karachi by rail. The main industries are centered in
and around Karachi, Hyderabad, Multan, Lyallpur and Lahore, and the chief
products are cotton yarn and textiles, cement, sugar, fertilizers and
leather goods.
2.04      Average annual per capita income in Pakistan in 1972 is estimated
at less than US$125. Following a period of sustained growth in excess of
6% per annum in the 1960s, gross domestic product at constant prices has
almost stagnated c `ng the past two years.  Labor unrest combined with



-3-
inflation and an uncertain business outloqk resulted in a substantial drop
in private sector investment.  Business confidence was further shaken and
the future of the Pakistan economy put in doubt by the loss of the East Wing
in 1971, and by the cost of hostilities with India. In May 1972, following
a long period of restrictive exchange controls, Pakistan devalued the official
Rupee rate of exchange of Rs 4.76 to the US dollar to Rs 11.00 and considerably
liberalized import policies (The subsequent 10% devaluation of the US dollar
chang-e-d--ta-iiF-et7oiRs 9.90 to the dollar).  These measures, combined with
vigorous and successful efforts to find alternative export markets for
products previously shipped to the East Wing, and assisted by a good cotton
crop and a return to industrial peace, have stabilized the economy and
provided a base for a resumption of economic growth. Many problems remain
to be solved, however, before the economy's considerable growth potential
can be realized: increased investment in both the private and the public
sectors is needed; vigorous efforts must be made to mobilize domestic
resources and to allocate them more efficiently, and to restrain the rate of
monetary expansion; means must be found to increase agricultural and
industrial production without introducing distortions through excessive
Government intervention.
B.   The Transport Sector
2.05      All transport modes, ranging from camel train to jet aircraft, are
represented in Pakistan. The main traffic flows serve the thickly populated
area in the northeast, of which Lahore is the center. This area generates
flows southwest to the port and industrial area of Karachi some 700 miles
away; west to the industrial and agricultural areas around Lyallpur, Sargodha,
and Khushab; and northwest to the administrative centers in Rawalpindi and
Islamabad, and to Peshawar and the Afghan border beyond. All these main
routes are served by rail, road and air transport and by a natural gas pipe-
line system based on the Sui field (Map 10169).
-2.06      Karachi is Pakistan's only major port and handles all its foreign
-trade.  The total of imports and exports has grown from 5.8 million tons in
1964 to 9.3 million tons in 1972. The portitjs__tensively used, with a berth
occupancy factor of almost 100%, achieved, in part, through doublekankLng
of ships and at the expense of substantial ship waiting time (Table 1). Each
of the 19 deep-water berths in use handled an average of 270,000 tons of dry
cargo in 1972, one of the highest throughput rates in the world. The port is
efficiently operated and is financially sound.
2.07      Pakistan Western Railway (PWR) is Government-owned and operated and
constitutes one of the largest and most important organizations in the coun-
try. For many years the railways provided the main means of mechanized trans-
port; recently an increasing proportion of transport has been carried by
road, and railway traffic has shown little overall growth. PWR's operations
and management have been studied by consultants who have made recommendations
for improvements in managerial and operational control.
2.08      Motorized road traffic is growing at about 10% a year and is the
principal means of transport in urban areas. While truck transport has been
free of significant Government regulation for more than a decade, bus



-4-
regulation was liberalized only in 1970. Since then there has been an
increase in the number of buses in operation and a substantial inprovement
in service. Animal-drawn traffic remains important in rural areas. The
overall condition of the road system ranges from fair to poor; the length
is about 48,000 miles of which about 15,000 miles are black topped, concrete
or water-based macadam.
2.09      Air transport is provided by the Government-owned IPakistan Inter-
national Airlines (PIA) which operates international and domestic services.
The number of passengers carried on West Pakistan domestic routes rose from
10q,000 in 1963 to 460,000 in 1971, an average annual growth rate of 11%.
Load factors were high and PIA operated profitably until the loss of East
Pakistan wBhich caused serious disruption of services.
C.   Transport Planning
2.10      A Government study carried out in 1971, with the help of Bank-financed
consultants, reviewed transport coordination in Pakistan and recommended the
establishment of a permanent institution for planning and coordinating trans-
port in Pakistan. The conditions of the loan (578-PAK) which financed the
study require the Government to consult with the Association on implementation
of its findings. The Government has recently asked a former ECAFE expert to
review the study's findings with a view to finding practical means of imple-
menting them. Following evaluation of this expert's recommendations the
Association intends to ask the Government to discuss concrete steps for
achieving effective planning, coordination and management of the transport
sector.
2.11      Further expansion of Karachi port beyond the present project will
require development of the Western Backwater area of the port (Map 10171).
Extensive studies of the engineering, economic and financial factors to be
considered in such a development have been undertaken with UNDP financing
and the Bank as executing agency, and a report by the consultants, van
Houten Associates (USA) has recently been completed. The latest traffic
trends indicate a need for additional general cargo berths by 1979 and there-
fore a project for developing the Western Backwater should be started in
1975. No alternative site could be developed in time to meet the need.
The precise scope of this project will depend on traffic trends and
Government plans for port development at alternative sites.
2.12      The Government is considering the desirability of developing
port facilities additional to those at Karachi, for deep-draft ships carrying
bulk commodities, such as oil and iron ore. The most promising location is at
Phitti Creek, ten miles east of Karachi, although a site at Sonmiani,
fifty miles northwest of Karachi (Map 10169), is being investigated under a
three-year hydraulic study financed through a bilateral aid agreement with
the Federal Republic of Germany. A prefeasibility study of the development
potential of Phitti Creek was completed in 1972 by a Japanese technical
assistance team. The Japanese study is based on a higher traffic forecast
and less complete hydraulic data than the Western Backwater study. The two



- 5 -
studies are therefore not comparable and it is not possible to draw
conclusions as to which development is the more economic.
2.13      The Government intends to construct in Phitti Creek unloading
facilities for imported raw materials for a proposed steel mill, to be
located at the head of the Creek. In view of the large expienditures required
to develop port facilities and supporting infrastructure at a virgin site,
and considering Pakistan's limited resources, it is essential that a thorough
evaluation of all the relevant technical and economic factors, based on
adequate hydraulic data, be undertaken of Phitti Creek before any substantial
investment is made. Furthermore, the costs of developing this site should
be compared with the alternative of constructing similar facilities in the
Western Backwater. At negotiations, the Government agreed to undertake such
an evaluation.
III. THE PORT OF KARACHI
A.  Organization and Administration
3.01      While it can be said that the Port of Karachi has been efficiently
managed and operated, certain managerial and operational improvements are
now proposed as indicated in paras. 3.04, 3.05 and 3.13.
3.02      The Karachi Port Trust Act of 1886, and its subsequent modi-
fications, Seate_ a Board called "The Trustees of the Port of Karachi",
commonly known as the iarachi Port TrusLt_(KPT)._ Section 79A of the Act
subjects all acts and proceedings of the Board to the control of the
Government.
3.03      The Board is a body corporate with perpetual succession and is
vested with the property of the port. It consists of elevetn trustees
representing shipowners, shippers, labor and the Government. The Chairman,
who is also a Trustee and chief executive of the port, is appointed by
the Government. He is responsible for day-to-day administration and
operations and for carrying out the general policy of the Bloard. The
Chairman's term of office is for such period as the Government may prescribe,
but is normally for three years. The trustees have a two-yrear term.
3.04      KPT has five functional departments assisted by service groups
and a secretariat (Chart). Of the service departments, the most important
ones are Accounting and Stores. The accounting problems related to these
departments have been studied by management consultants retained under
Credit S-9 PAK and their recommendations are set forth in AInnex 1. During
negotiations, agreement was reached as to implementaton-ef-a-rew--management
and cost accounting system by June=30, 1975.
3.05      The consultants have recommended changes in the organizational
structure (Annex 2) including the appointment---of-a C4Opexations--4anagex,



- 6 -
which would ensure effective coordination of KPT operational functions.
During negotiations, this proposal, together with the other proposed changes
in organization, was discussed and agreement reached as to implementation by
June 30, 1975.
3.06      KEX.h&4_b  Jurlsdietion -over the -land-, wa-ter and facilities
rith-teport boundarfie+.-_ These powers enable KPT to manage and operate
the port and waterways efficiently; to maintain, improve and regulate
their use; to provide terminal facilities for ships, cargo and passengers;
and to establish its rates and dues. The port area, including the
W1estern Backwater, is sufficiently extensive to meet all foreseeable future
expansion.
3.07      The Board has far-reaching powers and, subject to the overriding
authority of the Government, may raise money, enter into contracts, alter
tariffs, buy equipment, undertake construction and sell assets. There
has been no Government interference in the Board's exercise of these
powers which have been used prudently and to the benefit of the port and
its users.
B.   Staff and Labor
3.08      Sound procedures set up over many years are in operation for
the recruitment, promot-on, welfare and discipline of KPT staff. KPT
has difficulty in attracting and retaining high-caliber staff because it
is unable to offer salaries competitive with the private sector although
such fringe benefits as housing, medical care, school and other welfare
benefits help. A report by the National Pay Commission, which reviewed all
Government pay scales, was received by the Government in December 1972, and
is at present under consideration.
3.09      Labor relations are good, procedures for settling disputes are
sound and the port has been remarkably free from strikes. The total
strength of the establishment, including officers and supervisory staff,
is 10,300, and the average number of hourly employees has been about
2,000.
3.10      While KPT has a larger labor force than many simiLar ports in
developed countries, this may reflect the use of labor-intensive lighterage
for a substantial volume of cargo, through which it achieves a high cargo
throughput per berth. Moreover, in view of high unemployment in Pakistan,
labor unrest in Karachi, and the strength of the labor unions it would
be difficult to effect any reduction of the present labor force. There-
fore, although productivity could be significantly improved, measures
designed to increase it, such as increased mechanization, can only be
introduced gradually and to the extent that traffic growth permits. The
degree of mechanization prcGided by the project will be commensurate with
that of present facilities.



7-
C.   Port Facilities
3.11      The three-mile approach channel to Karachi has a limiting depth
of 29 ft at low water. The mean tidal range is about 7 ft:., so that vessels
drawing 33 ft. (25,000 deadweight tons) can enter port on any day of the year.
The port entrance is protected by the Manora breakwater and the Keamari
groyne from which a channel, about 1,100 ft wide, 34 ft deep at low water
and about two miles in length, leads to the berths at East: and West Wharves.
There are 17 berths at East Wharf including four berths reconstructed under
Loan 376-PAK and seven at West Wharf including three new berths provided
under the same loan.
3.12      The dry cargo berths are adequately provided with transit sheds,
open storage areas, electric portal cranes and other cargo-handling equipment.
Oil traffic is handled at three berths in the lower harbor. Further details
of the port facilities, ancillary services, plant and floating craft are
given in Annex 3.
D.   Dredging
3.13      KPT carries out maintenance dredging of the navigation channel
and alongside wharves with its own fleet of dredgers and barges. The
quantities dredged in recent years have been increasing arnd in 1971
amounted to over 1-1/2 million cu yd. Dredging carried out under the
Second Karachi Port Project has taken much longer than expected and this
appears to stem in part from poor fleet management and in part from poor
dredging techniques. During negotiations, KPT agreed to obtain technical
assistance to review dredging operations and improve performance, utilization
of plant and managerial control. The project includes funtds for this
purpose (para 4.03 (e)(iii)).
E.   Operations
3.14      The port normally works round the clock on a two-shift basis,
and on weekends and holidays as required. Stevedoring on board ship is
performed by private contractors but KPT personnel handle goods on shore
and operate the cargo-handling equipment.
3.15      All berths in the harbor are served by road and rail.  About
60% of the port's traffic is transported by rail and the rest is moved by
road mainly to and from points in the Karachi area.
3.16      Congestion of the dry cargo berths is evident from the fact
that 12 berths showed ship-day occupancy of over 365 days in 1971. This
was accomplished by mooring ships alongside one another (double banking)
and unloading them both onto the wharf and into lighters which were subsequently
unloaded at shallow draft berths. Cargo from ships moored at the anchorage
is also handled overside by lighters, which ply to and from the lighterage
berths. Heavy lift imports are handled by the floating cranes. Ships are
repaired at the moorings whenever possible.



- 8 -
3.17      During the past four years (1968 to 1971) the number of ships
calling at Karachi has increased from 1,405 to 1,565 and turnaround time has
increased from 5.7 days to 6.3 days. During the same period, average monthly
waiting time did not exceed three days. However, it increased significantly
in the 12 months to July 1972 and exceeded three days in four months out
of the 12 (Table 1). The commissioning of three new berths in 1972 and four
reconstructed berths in 1973 should bring about a substantial improvement
in these figures.  The average time for cargo operations was about 93 hours
per ship in 1971.  Allowing for the large proportion of older ships with
restricted working space, the port is efficiently operated and general cargo
haiidling rates are satisfactory.  Comparative figures for average tonnage
handled per berth, including lighterage, are:
1968                 274,000
1969                 236,000
1970                 285,000
1971                 278,000
1972                 272,000
IV.  INVESTMENT PROGRAM AND THE PROJECT
A.   Investment Program
4.01      KPT's investment program is designed to meet expected growth in
general cargo, oil and dry bulk commodities, excluding imports of iron ore
and coal for the planned steel mill (Table 2). This expected traffic growth
will require completion of additional berths in the Western Backwater area
by about 1979 since, with completion of the present project, the East and
West Wharves will be fully developed and there are no alternative sites
which can be developed in time to meet the need for additional dry cargo-
handling capacity. An additional marine oil berth will be required by
about 1977 and KPT's investment program assumes that it will be built in
Karachi port and that a sea-going dredger will be acquired to provide a
40 ft deep approach channel, thus permitting the use of much larger tankers
than at present.
4.02      The proposed four dry cargo berths would be ready for use by
June 1977. Construction in the Western Backwater would have to start by
1976 with an additional three berths, which would be completed by 1979,
and, if continued traffic growth justifies it, construction of a further
three berths in the Western Backwater may be started in 1977 for 1980
completion. These six berths in the Western Backwater would form one
project, the precise size and timing of which would be contingent upon the
Government's plans for developing Phitti Creek.



-9-
B.   Description of the Project
4.03      The project consists of:
(a) Construction of Four Dry Cargo Berths
(1) construction of four dry cargo berths by reconstructing
lighterage berths at West Wharf, 2,155 feet in length with
an alongside depth of 30 feet at low water;
(ii)  two transit sheds of 67,000 sq ft each;
(iii)  open storage areas, roads, rail sidings, other services
such as fresh water, drainage, electricity amd office
buildings.
(b) Remodelling of West Wharf Railway Yard (Mansfield Import Yard)
(i) permanent way tracks of 27,500 yd;
(ii)  roads, open storage areas and storage sheds totalling
1,870,000 sq ft;
(iii)  road over-bridge, 1,800 ft long by 60 ft wide for port
traffic;
(iv)  ancillary works including water and electric supply,
drainage and office buildings.
(c) Replacement of Napier Mole Road Bridge
(i) approach works;
(ii) bridge 1,400 ft long and 96 ft wide, having six traffic
lanes.
(d)  Procurement of Equipment
Cargo-handling equipment including 16 quay cranes and 190
units of road mobile equipment.
(e)  Consultants' Services
(i) supervision of construction of:
- four general cargo berths and two transit sheds,
- Napier Hole road bridge.
(ii)  detailed engineering of:
- marine oil terminal,
- six dry cargo berths in the Western Backwater.



- 10 -
(iii) technical assistance for:
- KPT's dredging operation,
- implementation of management accounting system
for KPT,
- improvement of operational performance of the
railway system in the Karachi area, including
training of personnel.
4.04      The items enumnerated in (a) to (c) above have been the subject
of preliminary engineering studies, financed by Credit S-9 PAK, which have
been satisfactorily completed. Detailed engineering for the cargo berths
and the bridge, also included in that credit, is underway. Assuming credit
effectiveness at the end of July 1973, construction could start by September
1974 and the project would then be completed by June 1978.
4.05      The additional berths are reauired to meet the present traffic
demands and the most economical way to provide them is to reconstruct the
existing lighterage berths.
4.06      The present railway yard on the West W4harf, which was laid out
during 1909 to 1921, and which includes warehouses and open storage facili-
ties for import and export cargo, is obsolete and unable to handle effi-
ciently present traffic passing through the West Wharf. The plans and esti-
mates prepared by KPT for the renmodelling of the yard were approved by
Pakistan Western Railway, reviewed by the consultants, Lackner and Partners
(Federal Republic of Germany), and subsequently accepted by the Association.
The capacity of the remodelled yard is sufficient to handle the maximum
operational throughput of all the West Wharf berths, including the proposed
berths. Government should undertake, with technical assistance (para 4.15),
a review of the operational performance of the overall railway system in the
Karachi area, including East and West Wharf yards and PWR's new Pipri Yard,
both to improve the present poor operational efficiency, thus reducing costs,
and to achieve optimum coordination of the functioning of KPT's and PWR's
railway systems (Annex 4). During negotiations the Government agreed to such
a review, the cost of which is included in the project.
4.07      The existing Napier Mole road bridge was completed in 1864 and
widened in 1914. It is in a dangerous condition due principally to over-
loading, corrosion and cracking of the cast and wrought iron members and
settlement of some piles. A structural failure could occur at any time.
The preliminary design and estimates for the proposed bridge were prepared
by the consultants, Scott, Wilson, Kirkpatrick and Partners (UK). The
design was accepted by KPT in consultation with the provincial and central
governments and approved by the Association. The existing bridge would be
replaced by a six-lane bridge to accommodate the present heavy traffic to
and from the East Wharf and to provide an allowance for future traffic
increase.
4.C,';    The project would provide for detailed engineering of the additional
oil berth at Keamari and of six dry cargo berths in the Western Backwater.



4.09      Details of the project are given in Annex 5.
C.   Project Cost Estimates
4.10      The total cost of the project is estimated at PRs 338.4 million
(US$34.2 million equivalent) with a foreign exchange component of PRs 169.4
million (US$17.1 million equivalent). The estimates are based on the
preliminary engineering studies financed under Credit S-9 PAK, and are
reasonable. The estimates for civil works include a 10% contingency allowance
for quantities and 6% p.a. allowance for increase in both foreign and
domestic prices. For procurement of cargo-handling equipment, the estimates
include a 5% allowance for physical contingencies and 5% p.a. allowance for
increase in prices. A 6% p.a. allowance is provided for increase in prices
for consultants' services. Details of the cost estimates are given in Table
3 and summarized below:
Rupee Million              US$ Million            % of
Local  Foreign  Total    Local   Foreigrt Total   Total
1. Construction of
Four Dry
Cargo Berths       43.33   58.26  101.59    4.38        5.91   10.29      30
2. Remodelling of
W4est Wharf Rail-
way Yard          46.83   24.09   70.92    4.73        2.38    7.11      21
3. Replacement of
Napier Mole Road
Bridge            35.25   23.07   58.32    3.55        2.35    5.90      17
4. Procurement of
Equipment          8.99   21.36   30.35    0.91        2.16    3.07       9
5. Consultants'
Services           4.07   12.10   16.17    0.42        1.22    1.64       5
Subtotal        138.47  138.88  277.35   13.99    14.02   28.01         82
Contingencies
Physical 10% on
1-3 and 5%
on 4                13.00   11.60   24.60    1.30        1.16    2.46        7
Price 6% p.a. on
1-3 and 5 and
5% p.a. on 4        17.49   18.95   36.44    1.78        1.94    3.72      11
Subtotal         30.49   30.55   61.04    3.08        3.10    6.18      18
TOTAL         168.96  169.43  338.39   17.07    17.12   34.19    100
The above cost estimates reflect recent exchange rate adjus-tments.



- 12 -
4.11      The estimated foreign exchange costs of the project assume that
contracts for the major civil works would be awarded to foreign contractors
ar1 that equipment would be purchased abroad. The foreign exchange required
is about 50% of the total estimated cost. KPT and the Government would
pr3ovide the remainder.
.12      The foreign exchange requirements for the consultants' fees
nave been estimated at 75% of the total fees on the basis of both foreign
personnel to be employed by them and the extent of work to be done abroad.
~~ 3   The costs of civil works and procurement of cargo-handling
e.,ipment are based on known costs of labor, materials, plant and equipment
and on current prices ruling in Pakistan. The cost of imported items
includes customs duties, but not port dues, as a local cost.
D.   Consultants' Services
4.14      During negotiations, KPT agreed to retain consultants acceptable
to the Association for the supervision and detailed engineering items
listed in para 4.03 (e); for improvement of dredging operations; and for
implementation of the management accounting system.
4.15      During negotir lons, the Government agreed to retain consultants
acceptable to the Assoc ation for the review of railway operations in the
Karachi area, including training of personnel.
Procurement
4.16      All contracts for civil works and procurement of eqtuipment and
Materials will be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding,
excent for the civil works shown in para 4.03 (a)(iii), (b)(ii), (b)(iii),
and (b) iv which will not be financed by the Credit and will be carried out
hv KPT using its own contracting procedures and its own funds.  Based on past
eamerience with Karachi port projects it is anticipated that the major items
ot construction would be awarded to international contractors. Most cargo-
hz-cndling equipment would have to be procured from abroad and, therefore, it
is not proposed to provide any domestic preference. Tender documents are
exipected to be completed by July 1973 and bids could be invited shortly after
credit effectiveness.
Project Execution
4-'       KPT, with the assistance of consultants acceptable to the
AsAociation, would be responsible for the execution of all project items,
eocept technical assistance for improvement of railway operations, for which
the Government would be resnonsible. In executing the projects financed
un`er the nrevious Loans 126-PAK and 376-PAK, KPT has satisfactorily
performed the obligations required under the agreements and proved its
tec -.cal coTipetence.



- 13 -
G.   Disbursement
4.18      Disbursement for the civil works financed by the Credit will be
on the basis of 100% of the direct foreign exchange costs and 15% of local
costs, representing the estimated indirect foreign exchange component. For
procurement of goods, equipment and consultants' services, financing will be
on the basis of the actual foreign exchange cost. Assuming; credit effectiveness
at the end of July 1973, the estimated schedule of disbursements is given
in Annex 6. No retroactive financing will be necessary.
H.   Ecology
4.19      The project will require dredging to be carried out alongside the
quay wall to increase the present depth of about 14 ft to 34 ft.  Most of
the dredged spoil, sand and gravel, will be dumped as fill behind the quay
structure.  About 200,000 cu yd, 25% of the total spoil, which is mostly
silt and clay, will be dumped five miles offshore at the mouth of the Malir
River which is about 50 miles away from any fishing grounds.  The project
will not adversely affect the ecological and environmental conditions of
Karachi.
V. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      Karachi port is the gateway through which the buLk of Pakistan's
imports and exports pass. It also serves part of Afghanistan's foreign
trade. The current shortage of berths is causing serious delays to shipping
(Table 1) and, in November 1972, two conference lines serving Karachi imposed a
12-1/2%/15% surcharge which was subsequently suspended pending evaluation of
measures by KPT to increase labor productivity. The main impact of a freight
surcharge is to increase the cost of Pakistan's imports and exports, thus
adversely affecting its balance of trade. In view of Pakistan's pressing
need to find alternative markets for exports the imposition of a freight
surcharge could be particularly serious. Although measures for increasing
labor productivity can alleviate the problem in the short-term, the only
satisfactory long-term solution is the construction of additional deep-water
berths, without which a surcharge is certain to be reimposed as congestion
develops with future traffic growth.
5.02      The economic evaluation treats the proposed railway marshalling
yard, and the proposed cargo-handling equipment, as integral parts of the
four-berth expansion since, without them, the four berths could not approach
their design capacity. The number of each type of equipment is based on
normal requirements, given the present mode of operation of the port.



- 14 -
5.03      Structural failure of the present Napier Mole road bridge would
substantially increase road transport costs in the Karachi area. Construc-
tion of the proposed new bridge would eliminate this risk.
B.   Traffic Forecast
h~04     It is difficult, so soon after the loss of the East Wing, to fore-
cast with any degree of accuracy the future growth rate of traffic through
'tarachi port.  The principal commodities which moved in interwing trade in
1971 were rice (240,000 tons), cement (200,000 tons), raw cotton (78,000 tons)
sugar (30,000 tons), all of which moved from West to East, and tea, jute
ari: paper (less than 100,000 tons in total) which moved from East to West.
The latest Karachi port traffic figures, for the year to June 1972, show
little change in total from the previous year (Table 4), mainly because
alternative markets have been found for substantial volumes of rice, cement
and cotton previously exported to the East Wing, and alternative sources
have been found of commodities previously imported from the East Wing. A
substantial increase in imports of wheat, due to persistent drought
conditions in Pakistan, has been a factor in raising traffic volumes in the
latest year.
5.05      The latest available traffic forecast for the port of Karachi was
prepared by the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) (UK) for the UNDP-financed
Western Backwater Study   The field work for this forecast was undertaken
in the fall of 1970 and, therefore, the forecast does not reflect changes
in traffic trends since June 1970, the most important being those arising
oLi of the loss of the East Wing.  In light of these changes the EIU
forecast has been substantially modified to reduce the initial volumes and
the overall growth rate of port traffic. A commodity-by-commodity review
of the forecast by the Association has resulted in a reduction in the
overall growth rate from an annual average of 5%, anticipated by EIU, to 2.5a.
This growth rate is based on an average zero growth to 1976 and 4.5% there-
after (Table 4).
5.06      An alternative high forecast has been developed by the Association,
based on the assumption of a better export performance and less success in
achieving self-sufficiency in food grains. This results in an annual
average traffic growth of 3.1% (Table 4). This forecast has, however, been
used only to test the adequacy of port capacity, after completion of the
proposed project, to handle a higher than expected throughput. The test
Lrcicates that, with the higher growth rate of traffic, the present degree
o congestion would again be experienced by 1980. At the lower growth rate
a   milar degree of congestion would be deferred until 1981-82.  At best,
therefore, the project would reduce congestion below the present level for a
period of five to six years; at worst, for three years only. However, a
larger project would have required development of the Western Backwater area
of the port, a project invoiving very heavy capital expenditure. Since
additional capacity will not be needed for at least two years after
corn-letion of the present project, a larger project could not have been
jus-ried at this time.



- 15 -
C.   Economic Benefits
5.07      The economic benefits of the four berths are derived from savings
in ship time and from a reduction in the volume of cargo lightered.
5.08      In 1972 ships waited an average of 2.4 days for a berth, a
moderate figure in view of the very high berth occupancy rate (in excess of
100% of the theoretical maximum), but one which resulted in a loss of 2,600
ship days, valued at US$5.2 million. The high berth occupancy was achieved
through mooring some vessels abreast of others ("double--banking") and
discharging their cargo into lighters. This is a high-cost procedure,
suitable only for providing marginal increments of capacity. Now that the
three new berths at West Wharf and the four reconstructed berths at East
Wharf are completed, the occupancy rate is expected to fall to less than 90%.
However, without the proposed project the occupancy rate will, once again,
approach 100%, by 1978. The project would reduce the 1978 occupancy rate to
about 80%.
5.09      It is estimated that, by 1980, the project would save 10,000
ship days per annum valued at US$20 million (at US$2,000 per ship day).
In addition, the project would avoid the need to lighter substantial and
increasing volumes of cargo. Without the project, lightered cargo would
increase to about 1.1 million tons in 1979; the project would reduce this
by 700,000-800,000 tons a year to the present level of about 300,000 tons.
The extra costs associated with such lighterage, arising from lower product-
ivity and the need for additional lighterage facilities, would thus be
avoided. The annual savings in 1979 are estimated at U'S$1 million (US$1.36
per ton). The costs of ship waiting time and lighterage would escalate
with traffic increases and, even if traffic were to be diverted to smaller
ships (for which waiting time is less costly and, therefore, more acceptable),
the economy would suffer the extra transport costs associated with the
smaller size of ship. The economic evaluation conservatively assumes that
the costs of ship waiting time could be stabilized at US$20 million per
annum through increased use of lighterage.
5.10      The benefits of the proposed Napier Mole road bridge are derived
from a comparison of road transport costs with and without the bridge.
Without the bridge, the traffic presently using it would be forced to travel
via longer routes. The extra costs so incurred, on the basis of present
traffic volumes, are estimated at US$2.1 million per annum. These are
the benefits of the project and, when compared with the cost of US$6.5
million for building a new bridge, clearly demonstrate that a bridge is
economically justified; the only question is whether it is better to
construct a bridge now, or to wait until the present br.idge collapses. The
costs of the latter alternative consist of the costs of traffic diversion
for the period of four years which would be required to construct a new
bridge (including detailed engineering, invitation and evaluation of bids).
These costs would be incurred regardless of when the br:Ldge collapses, and
would increase over time as bridge traffic grows and as congestion on the
alternative routes increases. The benefit of project deferral would be



- 16 -
derived from the time value (interest) of capital investment deferred, and
would be offset by the increased costs of traffic diversion when the bridge
eventually collapses. Thus, the return on the project would not be signi-
ficantly affected by its timing, and there is, therefore, no advantage in
delaying the project. Moreover, there is a danger of accident if the
project is deferred. Details of the methodology of evaluation are contained
in Annex 7.
D.   Economic Return and Sensitivity Analysis
5.11      The foregoing benefits yield an economic return of 40% on the
four berths, including the railway yard and cargo-handling equipment, and
16% on the bridge. These high returns reflect the fact that the project
is long overdue.
5.12      The economic returns were tested for sensitivity to changes in
the values of key variables and, within a feasible range, were found to be
sensitive only to changes in capital costs and the value of ship time. A
25% increase in capital costs would reduce the return on the berths and
railway yard to 35%. The value of US$2,000 per day used for ship time is
quite conservative for the mean size of vessel using the port of Karachi
(4,500 net registered tons). However, if a value of US$1,500 per day is
used the return is 34%. With a 20% increase in capital costs and using
US$1,800 per ship day the return is 34%.
5.13      A 25% increase in capital costs would reduce the return on the
bridge to 9%. The road transport costs used to calculate benefits of the
bridge are the minimum to be expected, since they do not allow for any
increase which might be expected to result from a steadily deteriorating
road surface.
5.14      The benefit of the project in terms of reduced ship waiting time
will be passed on directly to the Pakistan economy through a reduction
in demurrage fees on chartered ships and through increased productivity of
Pakistani ships. In addition, the project will enable Pakistan to avoid
the freight increases and surcharges which will be inevitable if the present
level of congestion continues.
5.15      In order to ensure that a reasonable proportion of the project's
benefits are transferred from the shipowners to Pakistan unequivocally and
as soon as the project becomes operational, the pricing of port services
will be such as to ensure the recovery of the project costs together
with a reasonable return on the invested capital (para 6.26).



- 17 -
VI. FINANCIAL EVALUATION
A.  Tariffs
6.01      The level of charges levied in the past has been adequate for all
requirements. Review of the tariff structure will be undertaken before
June 30, 1975, so that-any necessary adjustments can be made to ieefthe
financial objectives referred to in paragraph 6.26.
6.02      Wharfage and storage charges are levied on the owner of the cargo,
and berthage, mooring, cranage, water supply and pilotage charges on the
shipowner. Wharfage and storage charges represent the main income of the
port, about two-thirds of its total operating revenue.
6.03      KPT's operations were studied by consultants in 1959 and 1960 to
determine the cost of services and establish a costing system. Their recom-
mendations were partially adopted in preparing the revised and simplified
tariff which was introduced in July 1964. The new tariff rationalized the
major charges under fewer and broader headings and related charges in some
measure to the actual cost of providing the services. However, services
costs are not taken as the sole deciding factor and various commodities
which are included in Pakistan's export-promotion efforts benefit from
reduced rates. Similar advantages are offered to food graLin imports and
to certain materials required for developing industries.
6.04      The Government is expected to approve, by July 'I, 1973, KPT's
proposal for increases in rates and charges to meet the impact of the
devaluation of the Rupee on May 12, 1972.
6.05      The provision of incentives for port users, which would improve
throughput and hence result in more intensive use of port facilities, should
be considered; for example, a time-related berthing charge at the oil jetties
and rebates for unitized cargo. A review of the entire tariff structure,
with more emphasis on cost-related bases for charges, will be undertaken
in the light of data available once the new management and costing system
is installed. During negotiations assurances were obtained that these
incentives will be taken into consideration when the tariff review is
undertaken so that any necessary changes can be introduced by July 1, 1975
after consultation with the Association.
B.   Present Accounting System and Past Earnings
6.06      KPT's accounts have remained virtually unchanged over the last
thirty years, and the accounting system has many disadvantages, as outlined
in paras. 6.07, 6.08 and 6.09. The costing study referred to in para. 6.03
did not affect the basic accounting system to any extent and a review carried
out by a Government team in 1961 was designed to meet Government budgetary
requirements. However, a management accounting study was financed under
Credit S-9 PAK in 1970 and the recommendations of this study are to be



- 18 -
implemented under the proposed credit (see para. 3.04). Past port earnings
have been sufficient to provide a satisfactory return on net fixed assets
after meeting all expenditures and allocations to reserve funds. The present
financial position is sound.
6.07      KPT's accounts are based on a compromise between the traditional
form of income and expenditure account or "cash accounting" and the more
usual form of balance sheet and profit loss account used in commerce.
6.08      Appropriations are made from revenue to various reserve accounts
such as the depreciation and replacement fund on an ad hoc basis depending
on the financial results of the year. The expenditure accounts mainly
represent payments made during the year rather than the expenses incurred.
The purchase of stores, spare parts and materials is charged to expenditure
in the year in which the purchase is made, regardless of whether the items
are consumed in that year. Thus not only is the expenditure in any year
distorted but the balance sheet understates the value of unused materials
and spare parts. Income from wharfage and storage is only recorded when
goods are removed from the port area, frequently months after they were
it is therefore impossible to relate income earned in a period to
the expenditure incurred in earning it.
6.09      The present balance sheet does not provide a logical grouping of
assets and liabilities either by function or by liquidity. The various
operating and welfare funds should be separated from the main stream of
operational accounting and the individual balances of investments and cash
shown for each fund. The funds maintained for the welfare of employees
should be shown separately from those maintained for the repayment of loans
or for port operation in accordance with recommendations made by the
consultants.
6.10      Income and expenditure for the years 1967 through 1971 are shown
in Table 5 from which it will be seen that debt service has been adequately
covered and operating ratios have remained good although rising from 55 in
1966 to 77 in 1971. The return on net fixed assets which was 12.7% in 1967
fell to 4.9% in 1971.
6.11      The balance sheet as at June 30, 1971, is attached as Table 6.
As provided by the Karachi Port Trust Act of 1886, reserves are invested
in Government and municipal securities, which amount to about PRs 219.0 mil-
lion. Of these investments, PRs 139 million would be available for financing
the project but those for the provident and other welfare funds, totalling
PRs 26 million, would not. Cash amounting to PRs 80.0 million is held in
fixed deposit accounts in various banks. Investments and cash on fixed bank
deposits for the sinking fund amount to PRs 121.0 million, against the out-
standing long-term debt of PRs 109 million. The debt/equity ratio is 14/86
and the current ratio stands at 4.5:1.
6.12      By Government directive a revenue reserve fund is kept at
two-thirds of the average revenue of the past three years: this reserve at



- 19 -
June 30, 1971, stood at PRs 59.0 million with invested funds totalling PRs 53.0
million.
C.   Financial Forecasts
6.13      The underlying financial position up to 1980, though showing some
signs of deterioration, is sound. Assuming that KPT's proposals for increases
in rates and charges are approved by the Government and impLemented by
July 1, 1973, KPT will be able to achieve a satisfactory return on net fixed
assets, notwithstanding the impact of the capital investment program
(Table 2) and consequent borrowing.
6.14      Earnings expected to be realized during the period 1973-1980 are
given in Table 7. Operating revenues for 1973 are calculatied on the basis of
KPT's current tariffs, but from 1974 include the proposed increases referred
to in para 6.04. Dry cargo traffic volumes are assumed to remain constant
at 1972 levels up to 1976 and to increase at 4.5% per annum thereafter (Table
4). For oil traffic an increase of 8% per annum has been assumed. Operating
expenses in 1973 take into account a 10% reduction in total expenditure as
authorized by the Board to meet part of the effects of the devaluation and
normal anticipated increases in wages and salaries and other direct costs
thereafter. The 10% reduction in expenditure was determined after KPT officers
had reviewed in detail all items of expenditure in the 1973 budget and is
accepted by the Association as an attainable target. Depreciation has been
provided as calculated by KPT and is adequate.
6.15      Allowance has been made for the service of long-term debt, includ-
ing (i) Bank Loans 126-PAK and 376-PAK, (ii) Credit S-9 PAIK, (iii) loans
from consortium countries, (iv) the proposed IDA credit for the Third Port
Project (relending terms assumed to be 7-1/4% interest for 25 years including
a five years' grace period) and assumed loans for the proposed oil terminal,
including a dredger, and construction of three berths in the Western Backwater
on terms similar to those proposed for the Third Port Project.
6.16      On the basis of these forecasts the operating ratio will rise from
64% in 1972 to 69% in 1980. The debt coverage ratio will drop from 3.8 in
1972 to 1.3 in 1980. The interest-earned ratio will decline from 11.3 in
1972 to 2.0 in 1980, and the return on net fixed assets will rise from 4.9%
to 6.7%, and gradually decline to 4.8% in 1980, as new assets come into use.
D.   Financial Plan and Objectives
6.17      The capital investment program up to 1980 totals some US$93.8
million (Table 2) and includes:



- 20 -
PR Million             US$ Million
Second Port Project (ongoing)           90.50                   9.14
Engineering Services (ongoing)           7.62                   0.77
Third Port Project                     335.15                  33.85
;1 Terminal                            103.46                  10.45
Jestern Backwater (3 dry cargo
berths)                           277.83                  28.06
Other Minor Works mainly
replacement and renewals:
Hopper Barges and
Tugs                    32.75              3.31
Cargo-Handling
Equipment               17.33              1.75
Civil & Mechanical
Works                   63.84 113.92       6.45        11.51
928.48                  93.78
To be financed by:
Foreign Currency Loans            483.32     48.82         52%
Grant                              28.69      2.89          3%
KPT's Own Resource-               416.47     42.07         45%
928.48     93.78        100%
6.18      In view of the congestion occasioned by the present high traffic
volumes and the prospect of resumed traffic growth, KPT planning now includes
the construction of six berths in the Western Backwater. The capital invest--
ment program up to 1980 includes US$28.0 million of the cost of the first three
berths.
6.19      An additional oil terminal at Keamari will be required by about
1977. The consultants, Frederic R. Harris Inc. (USA), have been asked to
prepare revised estimates to include a sea-going dredger required for dredging
the approach channel. The investment program includes a provisional estimate
of US$5.7 million for the dredger and US$4.7 million for the oil terminal.
6.20      Other minor non-project items in the investment program include
US$3.3 million for hopper barges and tugs, US$1.7 million for cargo-handling
equipment and US$6.5 million for various civil and mechanical engineering
works.
6.21      The foreign exchange costs of the Second Karachi Port Project are
financed by Loan 376-PAK whiczh is expected to be fully disbursed by June 30,
1974. Foreign exchange costs of the renewals and replacement program are
being financed by the supplier countries (UK, Japan, Netherlands). The
fore-ign exchange costs of the Third Port Project would be financed by the
proposed IDA credit and in the financial plan it has been assumed that the
foreign exchange costs of the Western Backwater berths and of the oil terminal
would be similarly financed.



- 21 -
6.22      The local currency costs of all the expenditures in the investment
program will be met by KPT from accumulated reserves and future earnings and
from a grant by the Government of 40% of the total cost of the Napier Mole
road bridge included in the Third Port Project, estimated to amount to US$2.9
million equivalent. The Government agreed during negotiations to provide
this 40% grant.
6.23      The capital resources available to and required by KPT during the
eight-year period 1973 to 1980, which are detailed in Table 8, are summarized
below:
PRs '000
Investments and cash deposits realized          179,994
Internally generated funds                      483,020
Loans                                           483,325
Grant                                            28,692
1,1,7031
Capital expenditure                             928,480
Repayment of loans                              230,551
Increase in working capital                    _16,000
1,175,031
About 45% of the funds required for capital investment will be provided from
KPT's own resources, 3% from a grant and the remaining 52% from loans.
6.24      In assessing available resources, it has been assumed that the
investments and cash deposits in the various special reserve accounts
(Table 6) other than provident and welfare funds would be available to help
finance the program. KPT has confirmed that the investments and cash deposits
representing these reserve funds are available and that they will be used to
the extent required.
6.25      Loan 376-PAK, made in 1964, stipulated that cost studies be under-
taken periodically but no action was taken. To ensure that, in future,
adequate data would be available on which tariff policy decisions could be
based, Credit S-9 PAK provided for a management accounting study to be
undertaken. The consultants' recommendations for such a system and related
changes required in organization and management are contaLined in Annexes 1
and 2 and have been accepted in principle by KPT. Implementation of these
proposals, as agreed between KPT and the Association, will be completed by
June 30, 1975.
6.26      During negotiations KPT agreed to maintain a financial rate of
return on net fixed assets of not less than 4% from 1976 through 1981, and
7% from 1982 onwards. This return is required to ensure that sufficient
cash be generated to provide, after meeting operating and maintenance ex-
penses, full debt service coverage and make a reasonable contribution towards



- 22 -
the capital investment program and to recoup part of the benefits arising
from improved port efficiency for Pakistan. The increase from 4% to 7%
in 1982 is required to meet debt service on the Western Backwater development.
63.27     KPT has managed its finances well in the past.  However, to ensure
that a sound financial position is maintained, KPT agreed during negotiations,
not to undertake further long-term borrowing without Association approval
unless net cash revenue is at least 1-1/2 times future maximum debt service
requirements.
6.28      During negotiations KPT also agreed not to undertake capital
expenditures exceeding US$2 million equivalent in any fiscal year, other
than those incurred in carrying out the investment program, without Association
agreement.
E.   Audit
6.29      The present Government audit of KPT's accounts is satisfactory
except that it should be carried out more expeditiously and its scope
6.30      Section 68 of the KPT Act of 1886 provides for the receipts and
expenditure accounts to be audited and examined on a half-yearly basis by
auditors appointed by the Government. The audit is carried out by the
Auditor General's Department as is usual for Government agencies in Pakistan.
Tne audit is not being carried out promptly. For example, the accounts for
the half year ended December 31, 1970, submitted to the Auditor General in
April 1971, were returned to KPT in July 1972. KPT agreed during negotiations
that the audit will be carried out within six months of the end of the
fiscal year; that the scope of the audit will be broadened to embrace the
commercial aspects of the new accounting system; and that, if necessary to
achieve this, independent auditors, acceptable to the Association, will be
appointed in addition to the Auditor General.
F.   Insurance
6.31      KPT, with Government approval, carries its own insurance risks.
Past experience has shown that the cost of insuring assets against losses
would have greatly exceeded any losses sustained. In the event of a major
loss, the Government would make any funds required available.
VII.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
7.01      During negotiations agr6ement was reached on the following
principal points:



- 23 -
(a) a thorough evaluation of all the relevant factors to be
undertaken by the Government of port development in Phitti
Creek (para 2.13);
(b)  implementation by KPT of a management accounting system
(paras 3.04 and 6.25);
(c) implementation by KPT of changes in its organi2ational
structure (paras 3.05 and 6.25);
(d)  dredging operations and plant to be reviewed and consultants
retained by KPT (paras 3.13 and 4.14);
(e) a review of railway operations in the Karachi aLrea to be
undertaken by the Government with technical assistance
(paras 4.06 and 4.15);
(f) incentives to port users to be considered by KP'T and
tariff structure to be reviewed and rationalized on a cost-
related basis (para 6.05);
(g) the Government to provide a grant to KPT to cover 40% of
the total cost of the Napier Mole road bridge (para 6.22);
(h) return on KPT's net fixed assets to be not less than 4%
from 1976 through 1981 and 7% thereafter (para 6.26);
(i) no further long-term borrowing by KPT without Association
approval unless net cash revenue is at least 1-1/2 times
maximum debt service requirements (para 6.27);
(j)  prior agreement of the Association required for capital
expenditures by KPT outside its present investnent program
(para 6.28); and
(k)  the audit of KPT's accounts to be carried out more
expeditiously, and the scope broadened (para 6.30).
7.02      The proposed project is suitable for an AssociEation credit to the
Government of US$18.0 million equivalent on the usual terms. This sum
includes US$880,000 to refinance Credit S-9 PAK. The Government would
relend US$17,750,000 equivalent to KPT for a term of 25 years including a
five-year grace period, at the prevailing Bank interest rate. The balance,
US$250,000, is the estimated foreign exchange cost of technical assistance
for a review of railway operations.
June 4, 1973






ANNEX 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
KPT Accounting System - Consultant's Recoumendations
1.        Chief Accounts Officer's responsibilities to be widened and
designated to include:-
(a) the development and preparation of all management account-
ing information;
(b) responsibility for ensuring that, prior to submission
for approval, all expenditure proposals have bee-n pro-
perly assessed, by the department concerned, for their
financial and econoaic benefit, and that these tasessments
satisfy KPT's economic objectives;
(c)  full responsibility for all the present departmental
accounting units who should report directly to the
Chief Accounts Officer.
2.        Chief Accounts Officer's Department should be strengthened by the
recruitment of adequately qualified and experienced accowutants to supervise
the new systeme and prepare management information.
3.        Suitable mechanical accounting machines should be introduced to
accelerate the provision of information.
4.        For internal purposes, the accounting, budgeting and reporting
conventions of a modern conmercial enterprise should be adopted.
5.        The budgets and reports currently prepared for the central govern-
ment should continue to be presented, but representations should be made to
the government to accept the accounting conventions adopted by KPT for com-
mercial reasons.
6.        The form of management information report should be designed to
show the activities undertaken by KPT and their profitability.
May 31, 1973






ANNEX 2
Page 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
KPT - Organizational Changes Proposed by Consultants
Departmental responsibilities to be rearranged on functionaLl lines as per
chart attached as page 2 of this Annex.
(a) Operations Department controlling ship movements and services,
cargo-handling and storage, security and firefighiting, and
maintenauce of plant and equipment and assets used in port
operations.
(b)  Planning & Research Department concerned with port development
and new works.
(c)  Personnel Department embracing welfare, medical services,
education, establishment and industrial relations.
(d) Supply Department controlling purchase, issue recording and
custody of all stores, materials and spare parts.
Ce) Secretarial Department providing legal services, public
relations and property management.
(f) Finance & Accounts Department.
(g) Internal Audit & Organization and Methods section directly
responsible to the Chief Executive.
May 31, 1973






PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
PROPOSED ORGANIZATION OF KARACHI PORT TRUST
BOARD
OF TRUSTEES
CHAIRMAN
SECRETARIAT                                                            INTERNAL AUDIT
0 & M SECTION
PERSONNEL                 FINANCE               OPERATIONS               PURCHASING          PLANNING RESEARCH
& ACCOUNTS                                      AND STORES             & DEVELOPMENT
World Bank -7337






ANNEX 3
Page 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Description of Port Facilities and Equipment
1.   Description of the Port
The present port is located in the southern end of the city of
Karachi. The harbor is approached from the southwest through the access
channel about three miles long. Inside the harbor the main navigational
channel stretches about four miles long, and main berthing facilities are
located along the both sides of the innermost channel, known as the upper
harbor. The mooring buoys are located in the midstream of the channel and
the oil terminals are located in the downstream of the harbor, known as the
lower harbor (Map 10171).
The sand bar in the approach channel, 29 ft deep at mean low
tide, limits the approach to the harbor.
2.   Berthing Facilities
Berthing facilities consist of 24 deep water berths, lighterage
wharves and three oil piers. In addition, there are 15 mooring buoys, two
ship repair berths and boat wharves. Juna Bunder is the oldest section of
the port where goods are landed from and shipped on lighters and barges. It
is proposed to build four new dry cargo berths here under the third
project. The present main berthing facilities include:



ANNEX 3
Page 2
Sanctioned             Year
Location          Berths No.       Length (ft)   Depth (ft)            Constructed
(i) Shipping
Berths
East Wharf   No. 1-4              2,050          34                    /1
No. 5-7             1,520          28                   1960
No. 8                 550          31                   1960
No. 9-17            4,560          34                   1960
Sub-total            17            8,680
West Wharf    No. 18                 550          32                   1930
No. 19-21           1,800          34                   1930
No. 22                700          36                   1972
No. 23                630          38                   1972
No. 24                500          34                   1972
Sub-Total              7           4,180
(ii) Lighterage
Wharves
East Wharf  No. 17 A               120          10                   1960
West Wharf  No. 24 A & B           260          10                   1972
West Ligh-
terage Wharf                     1 240          24                  1968
Sub-total
(iii)Oil Piers
Keamari     No. 1                  700          36                   1966
No. 2                 644          31                   1956
No. 3                 403          31                   1910
(iv) Moorings
No. 1-5             5x325          20                   1971
No. 6                 900          34                   1972
No. 7                 750          34                   1972
No. 8-12            5x700          34                   1972
No. 13-15           3x600          27                   1971
(v) Ship Repair
Berths
East Wharf                        2x500          24                   1968
(vi)Boat Wharves
East Wharf   Return Wharf           370          24                   1970
Coinissariat          540          10                  1970
Boat Basin          1,250          8-10                 1910
NMB Wharf           1,820          12                   1914
Sub-total                          3,980
/1   To be commissioned in 1973.



ANNEX 3
Page 3
3. Transit Sheds and Storage Areas
The East or West Wharves are each backed up by six transit sheds
(one of which is under construction), open transit areas anw open storage
areas. A ppsseuger terminal is now being built on East Wharf to be completed
by 1974. Warehouses are asinly located in Thole Produce Ra:Llway Yard.  The
covered and open storage areas, including transit sheds, are: 1/
Transit Sheds Open Transit Areas Open Storage Areas Warehouses
Location   1,000 sq ft        1,000 sq ft        1,000 sq ft       1,000 sq ft
East Wharf      100 /a           -                   -                   -
East Wharf     555              705                1,240                330
West Wharf      700             350                  525                -
Thole Pro-
duce Yard     -                -                 1,880              1,260
Total        1,355            1k055                3.645              1,590
/a   Passenger terminal.
4 * Cranes, Cargto Handling Equipment and Plant
KPT owns and operates all the quayside cargo-handling appliances,
including:
Description                      Number                     Capacity
Electric Portal Cranes             96                       2 - 3 tons
Heavy Lift Portal Crane              1                         30 "
Road Mobile Cranes                 27                       2 -10 "
Motor Trucks                        26                      3 - 7 "
Towing Units                       114                      3 - 5
Fork Lifts                          63                      3 - 5"
Shunting Tractor                     9                        100
Trailers                          850                       3 - 5"
5.   Floating Craft
KPT owns and operates the following floating craft;
1/   Include those currently under construction.



ANNEX 3
Page 4
Description                 Number                Capacity           Age (years)
Floating Crane                 1                  30 tons             50
to                       2                  60 tons              9 & 28
to                       1                 125 tons              6
Bucket Dredgers               3                   50 ft-1250 tons/hr 7, 8 & 45
Grab Hopper Dredger            2                  50 ft-100 tons/hr  3 & 43
Cutter Suction Dredger         1                  50 ft-450 cu yd/hr 7
Trailing Suction Dredger       1                  50 ft-800 tons      4
Reclamation Plant              1              4,750 m3/hr             4
Steam Hopper Barges            2                800 tons              48
Diesel Hopper Barges           3                 800 tons             7, 2 & 12
Diesel Hopper Barges          2                1,000 tons             0
Dumb Cargo Barges            27                  250 tons             -
Dumb Water Barges             27                 300 tons
Dangerous Goods Barges         6             25-200 tons              -
Harbor Tugs                    6               10-20 tons             10 - 41
Barge Tugs                    4                    4 tons             -
Water Boat-s                   3                 200 tons             4, 9 & 13
The craft more than 30 years old are in very poor condition and
due for scrapping.
6.   Railway Facilities
KPT has provided a network of approximately 100 miles of broad
gauge railway tracks; by agreement the PWR operates the wagon and train
movements on this network.
The Keamari Yards laid behind the East Wharf, facilitates receiving
up-country export cargo at the storage areas and directly at the berths for
loading into the ships. Similarly the import cargo is railed either to
tdue storage areas or directly to the local and up-country destinations.
The Thole Produce Yard provides storage and railway facilities to
receive cotton and other export cargo, which can also be railed to the
ship-side whenever required.
The Mansfield Import Yard, laid during 1909 to 1912, provides
warehouses and open storage facilities for import and export cargo.  It is
obsolete and barely able to meet the present level of traffic demand at
the 13 berths of the West Wharf and, therefore, has been planned for remodel-
ing.
The tank farm of the Pakistan Refinery Limited, Pakistan Burush
Shell Limited and National Refinery Limited is located in the oil installation
plot, immediately behind the Keamari oil terminal. KPT and PWR provide it
with sidings and railway connection with Keamari Yard.



ANNEX 3
Page 5
7. Roads and Parking Areas
Service Roads
The roads in East Wharf have been substantially improved, amounting
to 7.5 miles in length and 40-62 ft in width, and have sufficient capacity
for future increase of road traffic within the wharf. However, on West
Wharf the improved 50-60 ft wide service roads are only a mile in total
and need further expansion, especially in the M. I. Yard, Juna Bunder and
Thole Produce Yard areas.
Parking Areas
A car parking area is being planned for about 300 cars and taxis
near the Passenger Terminal at berths No. 1 and 2. Truck terminals are
also being provided under the proposed Juna Bunder berths and M. I. Yard
remodelling scheme.
8.   Napier Nole Road Bridge
The East Wharf (Keamari) area contains seventeen shippiug berths,
three oil berths, two ship repair berths, one lighterage iwharf, bulk oil
installations and a boat basin. The Keamari area is connected to the mainland
by:
(a) The Pakistan Western Railvay (PWR) bridge which carries
three broad gauge railway tracks across the Chinana Creek.
(b)  A PWR broad gauge single track leading to the nainland Hump
Yard through the oil installation area, exclusively used
for oil traffic.
(c) The existing Napier Mole Road Bridge.
(d) A possible land route of poor quality through Clifton that
is not capable of heavy traffic without substantial improve-
ment.
The existing bridge was completed in 1864 and widened in 1914.
It carries four traffic lanes of a width of 57 ft 6 in, two footpaths
each approximately three ft wide, a raised pipe bay containing an 18 in
diameter water main, telephone cables and electric cables; the overall
width of the bridge is approximately 70 ft.
It is in a dangerous condition due principally to overloading,
corrosion and cracking of the cast and wrought iron members and settlement
of some piles. A structural failure causing considerable disruption of
traffic could occur at any time.



ANNEX 3
Page 6
9. Ancillary Services
Water Supply
The wacer supply for the port is obtained from the Karachi
Development Authority through mains provided by KPT. The supply is made
available for the entire port and ships alongside from the wharves and
water barges.
Fire Fightiag Services
Three fully equipped fire stations keep a 24-hour vigil in the
port area. In addition there is a fire engine and trailer pump located at
Manora. In the event of a fire aboard ship in the harbor, assistance can
be rendered by tugs and other craft filled with fire fighting pumps. In
view of the greater fire risk at the Thole Produce Yard where cotton is
stored, special measures have been taken to provide additional staff and
equipment together with an automatic fire alarm system.
May 31, 1973



ANNEX-4
Page 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL cF THIRD KARACHI PCRT PRoJEcr
O2erational Performance of Railvay System in Karachi Area
1.        Of the cargo traffic originated in and destined for Karachi port,
about two-thirds is trasported by railway. This is approxiiately a qaarter
of PIR's teital traffic. For this traffic., KPT has provided a network of
approximately 100 ai of railway tracks and by agreement PWR operates the
wagon and train movements on this system.
2.        In the earlier years follovdng the nation's independence in 1947,
PWR's traffic grow at a steady amual rate of about 5.3% for freight.
Since 196b4, however, the traffic has stagnated, while the nation's overall
land transport bas continued to increase. The recent traffic figures
clearly indicate that PWR's performance, particularly in freight car routing,
freight train scheduling and marshalling yard operations,, has beon unsatis-
factory. For ezample, as shown below, freight tens carried and the number of
freight trains operated remained unchanged during the past 13 years, although the
maber of freight oars increased by 48%. On the other hand, freight oar mi
per day decreased by 28% and freight car turnaround tinie increased 71%,
both indicating deterioratim in the railway operation.
1919        1971/T2  %    BA
A       ~BA
Freight toms carried (millions)               12.5         12.6      10
Number of freight trains per day             238          233         98
Nmber of freight care (units)             24,200      35,s901        148
Freight car miles per car/day                 47           34         72
Average net-3oad per loaded oar (toua)        14           17        121
Freight car turnarom d (days)                  7          12         171
30        In spite of the censiderable Increase in freight car fleet, the
daily nmber of unfilled requests for freight oars ranged between 3,000 and
14,000 agaist the average mber of cars effectively loaded of about 3,000
daily. The average tim  spmt by loaded cars in the mashaing yards is



ANlNEX 4
Page 2
abnormally long, 12 to 14 hours at Karachi City and Karachi Down Hump yards,
representing the chronic imobil.1ation of freight cars in these yards.
While the yards in the Karachi area (Karachi City., Karachi Down Hump,
Karachi Down Reception, East Wharf and West Wharf yards, each having their
own yard master) are very closely located and interrelated, thee in no
means of effective  ooaication to provide better cordination in their
functioning.
4.        The Goermrat and PWR have recently appointed consultants,
S(FRRAIL (Franc) under a railay loan, 621-PAK, with the Bank's concur-
renoe, for teohnioal assistace in implemnting the recoruaendations =de by
the consultants in 19l7. However, the consultants' srrices concerm PR'a
operation on the entire network, including both passenger and freight
traffic and no special attention has been given to the regional freight
trarsport in the Karachi area.
5.        To impove the present unsatisfactory operations of the railway
system in the Karachi area, close ooordination between NH and KPT and
integrated functioning of railway-oriented and port-oriented yards are
indispensable and, therefore, separate technical assistance is rsqeired.
May 31, 1973



ANNEX 5
Page 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Details of Project Items
1.   Construction of Four Dry Cargo Berths
(a) Four dry cargo berths at West Wharf of steel sheet
pile quay type, 2,155 ft in length with an alongside
depth of 30 ft at low water.
(b) Two transit sheds of 500 ft long by 134 ft wide each.
(c) Ancillary works including open storage areas, roads rail
sidings and other services such as water and electric
supply, drainage and office buildings.
2.  Remodelling of West Wharf Railway Yard
(a) Permanent way tracks of 25,500 yd open type and 2,000
yd flush deck type.
(b) Roads, parking area, open storage areas, road traffic
islands and storage sheds totalling 1,870,000 sq ft.
(c) A road over-bridge, 1,800 ft long by 60 ft wide, across
the yard.
Cd) Ancillary works including water and electric supply,
drainage and office building.
3.   Replacement of Napier Mole Road Bridge
(a) South and north approach works.
(b) Bridge, 1,400 ft long by 96 ft wide, having six traffic
lanes.
4.  Procurement of Cargo-handling Equipment
(a)  Sixteen electric luffing and sleving portal quay cranes
of 3-ton capacity.
(b) Eight 6-ton road mobile cranes.
(c) Eight 3-ton forklift trucks.



ANNEX 5
Page 2
(d) Twenty four 2.5-ton pull tractors.
(e) One hundred and forty-four 15-ton trailers.
(f) Four 5-ton trucks.
(g) Two shunting tractors.
5.   Consultants' Services
(a) Work supervision of:
(i) four dry cargo berths and two transit sheds,
(ii) Napier Mole Road Bridge.
(b) Detailed engineering of:
(4) marine oil terminal,
(ii) six dry cargo berths in the Western Backwater.
(c) Technical assistance for:
(i) KPT's dredging operations,
(ii) implementation of management accounting system for KPT,
(iii) improvement of operational performance of the railway
system in Vzrachi area.
r 3 1  19 7 3



ANNEY 6
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IBRD Fiscal Year
and Quarter                     Quarter                  Cumrulative Total
(-USt; '000)                 (US' 000)
1973/74
September 30, 1973                     2b0                           8601/
December 31, 1973                      160                        1,020
March 31, 197i                         460                        1,480
June 30, 1974                          990                        2,470
1974/75
September 30, 1974                   1,120                        35920
December 31, 1974                    1,480                        5,070
March 31, 1975                       1,600                        6,670
June 30, 1975                        1,660                        8,330
1975/76
September 30, 1975                   1,420                         9,750
December 31, 1975                    1,390                        11,140
March 31, 1976                       1,600                        12,740
June 30, 1976                        1,530                       14,270
1976/77
September 30, 1976                   1,220                       15,h90
December 31, 1976                      970                        16,460
March 31, 1977                         500                        16,960
June 30, 1977                          450                       17,410
1977/78
September 30, 1977                     210                        17,620
December 31, 1977                      140                        17,760
March 31, 1978                         140                        17,900
June 30, 1978                          100                       18,000
1/ Includes $620,000 disbursed under Engineering and Consulting Services.
Credit S-9 PAK, refinanced under the proposed Credit.
May 1973






ANNEX 7
Page 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Methodology of Economic Evaluation of the
Napier Mole Road Bridge
1.        The calculation of economic benefits of replacing the Napier Mole
road bridge is based on a comparison with the do-nothing alternative. The
bridge is in a state of acute physical deterioration and obsolescence and,
if nothing is done, it will either suffer a structural failure or be closed
to traffic because of danger.
2.        In that event, all vehicular traffic between Karachi and the East
Wharves and Keamari would have to be diverted via Clifton (Map 10170). It has
been assumed in the calculation of the costs of doing nothing that all
commercial vehicles and 30% of all other traffic (excluding buses) now using
the bridge would continue to operate via the longer route for the four-year
period required to construct a new bridge.
3.        Traffic surveys were conducted in the vicinity of the northern
end of the bridge to determine volumes, origins/destinations and movements
within the bridge zone. This information was processed to give origin/
destination matrices by purpose and vehicle type. Traffic growth factors,
obtained from analyses of economic trends, and trends of population growth
and vehicle registrations, were then applied to recorded traffic movements
to produce matrices of movements on the principal roads in the vicinity of
the bridge for the years 1980 and 1990.
4.        The present (1970) and forecast traffic for 1980 and 1990 was
assigned on the basis of minimum travel times and distances to the do-nothing
situation and the proposed bridge and the average annual vehicle operating
costs for each situation calculated by multiplying daily values by 300.
5.        Economic benefits of the proposed project are principally the
reduction in vehicle operating costs resulting from the project, including
the reduction in accident costs. Vehicle operating costs used are as
follows:



ANNEX 7
Page 2
Pakistan Vehicle Operating Costs (1970)
Distance Costs           Time Costs (PRs/min.)
Per     Per Passenger      Per        Per Passenger
Vehicle     Car Unit         Vehicle      Car Unit
Light Vehicle         0.123      0.123            0.131           0.131
Goods Vehicles        0.331      0.114            O0O74           0.026
Buses                 0.331      0.110            0.426           0.142
Source: "Social costs of operating motorized vehicles on two-lane paved
roads in West Pakistan" - Howard, Needles, Tammen and Bergendorf
Note: US$1.00 = PRs 4.76
Accident costs are estimated to be 5% of total vehicle operating costs in any
year.
6.        Annual benefits were calculated as:
PRO '000     US$'OO0
Costs of doing nothing                          31,295        2,845
Costs with the proposed bridge                   7,572          688
Annual Benefits                                 23,723         2,157
7.        The proposed project has the additional benefit that it would avoid
the need for reconstruction of the Clifton road which, being lightly constructed,
would be completely broken up by four years of heavy use. Accordingly, an
amount of US$2 million (US$200,000 per mile) has been included as benefit
in the fifth year of the project.
May 31, 1973



TABLE 1
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THE THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Average Ship Waiting Time (Hours)
Waiting Time
No. of Dry                                Average
Cargo Ships                 Total         Per Ship
1971
January                             116                    6, 264            54
February                             93                     1,674            18
March                               110                     2,530            23
April                               105                    4,095             39
May                                 118                     7,906            67
June                                 96                     3,552            37
July                                 95                     1,805            19
Auigust                             101                     1,818            18
September                           112                    4,592             41
October                             104                     5,3,04           51
November                             89                    4,628             52
December                             44                    3,476             79
Total - 12 months to
December, 1971           1,183                    47,644            40.3
1972
January                              62                     1, 860           30
February                             95                     5,510            58
March                                93                     7,533            81
April                                97                     9,118            94
May                                 105                     6,825            65
June                                 92                     5,152            56
July                                 91                     6,734            74
Total - 12 months to
July, 1972               1,083                    62,550            57.8
Source: Karachi Port Trust
December 6, 1972



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL (F TH RI) KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Investment Proj ram for Years Ending June_:
(PRs million)
Total
Sub-                                     IJS$ million
1973      1974       1975       1976       1977      1978       Total       1979       1980      Total    Equivalent
Second Port Project (ongoing)                            48.23      36.67       5,60         -          -         -        90.50         -          -        90.50       9.14
Engineering Services (ongoing)                            4.12       3.50         -          -          -         -         7.62         -          -         7.62       0.77
Third Port Project                                           -          -      30.17      85.23      95.51    101.36      312.27      22.88         -       335.15       33.85
Oil Terminal                                                 -                 18.17      21.98       6.11         -       46.26         -          -        46.26
10.45
Dredger                                                      -          -      33.00      24.20         -          -       57.20         -          -        57.20
Western Backwater (6 berths)-/                               -          -         -          -       39.69     39.69       79.38      99.22      99.23      277.83       28.06
Other Works
Replacement of Craft                                 5.30       0.93       6.52         -         -          -        12.75         -          -        12.75
Cargo-Handling Equipment                             1.13      10.70       5.50         -         -          -        17.33         -          -        17.33
Civil Morks                                          3.71       5.12       5.13       5.00      5.00       5.00       23.96         -          -        23.96 )    1151
Mechanical Works                                     1.62       3.26       2.50       2.50      2.50       2.50       14.88         -          -        14.88 )
2 Tugs                                                 -       10.00       6.00      4.00         -          -        20.00         -          -       20.00
Replacement of Drydock'                                -          -        6.00       6.00      6.00       2.00       20.00         -          -        20.00
64,11     70.18    118.59    148.91    154.81    150.55         707.15    122.10       99.23      928.48      93.78
1/ Western Backwater balance of estimated cost carried over PRs 118.20million.
2/ Phasing of expenditure not yet determined but assumed to be as shown.
May 25, 1973



TABLE 3
PAXISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI POrtT PROJBCT
Cost satimates
Rupee Million             US$ Mlllion
Total
Local  Foreign  Total     Local Foreign Total    Expenditure
1.  Construction of Four Dry Cargo Berths
(a)  Sheet-pile quay, 2,155 ft long with 30 ft depth            19.44   38.61   58-05       1.9'    3.90   5.87
(b)  Two transit sheds of 67,000 sq ft each                      8.94    8.21   17.15       0.90    0.85   1.75
(c)  Roads, open areaa, railway sidins, etc.                    14.95  .11.44   26.39       1.51    1.16   2.67
Sub-total                                     -h3735   58.26  101.        7b4F    5.91  10.29
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                       4.33    5.83   10.16       0.43    0.58   1.01
Price Contingencies, 6% p.a.                                     6.94    9       16.26      0.70    o.gh   1.64
Sub-total                                      11.27   1        2i                 1. 2   2.
TOTAL                                            * 0    5       21               _                    38
2. Remodelling of West Wharf Railway Yard
(a)  Permanent way tracks of 27,500 yds                         lh.65   13.72   28.37       1.48    1.38   2.86
(b)  Roads and storage areas totalling 1,870,000 sq ft           13.66    1.94   15.60      1.38    0.19   1.57
(c)  Roads over-bridge 1,800 ft long by 60 ft wide                8.22    3.84   12.06      0.83    0.38   1.21
(d)  iater and electric supply, drainage, office buildings      10.30    4.59    4.8        1.0      0.3   1.47
Sub-total                                      l.83   -2M       709        773        2     T.11
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                       4.70    2.39    7.09       O.h7    0.24   0.71
Price Contingencies, 6% p.a.                                      4.22    2.17    6          0.43    0.23   0.66
Sub-total                   _.52                                           09       0.47  7737
TOTAL                                            .7                          5    *-:B  -w       g    25
3. Replacement of Napier-Mole Road Bridge
(a)  Approach works                                               9.04    5.54   14.58       0.91    0.57   1.48
(b) Bridge 1,h00 ft long by 96 ft wide, having 6
traffic lanes                                             26.21   17.53   43.74        2.64    1.78   4.42
Sub-total                                      352-   23.07   5b3         T3.5       737   7. 9-0
Physical Contingencies, 10%                                       3.52    2.31    5.83       0.36    0.73   0.59
Price Contingencies, 6% p.a.                                       -      2.09    7.58       0.47    0.30   0.77
Sub-total                                       8.11  _5.30 1              0 4.3    0.53    7
rOTAL                     ;3                           267   71.73        7              _779         21
4. Procurement of Equipment
(a)  206 units of cargo-handling equipment                        8.,9   21.36   30.35       0.91    2.15   3.07
Physical. Contingencies, 5%                                       O-L5    1.07    1.52       0.04    0.11   0.15
Price Contingencies, 5% p.a.                                      1.17    2.78  -39          0.12    0.30   0.42
Sub-total                                       T        3    -57 2.7   8         O   .a
10.61                _~~~~L  0 1_--Vl--
TOTAL                                                                      10 5-  1  10  - 36         11
5. Consultants' Services
(a)  Engineering and Supervision                                  2.75    8.25   11.00       0.28    0.83   1.11
(b)  Dredging Operastion and Accounting System                    0.55    1.65    2.20       0.06    0.17   0.23
(c)  Oeerational Perfortr.ance of Railway System                  C.7-;   2.90    2.97       0.08    0.22   0.3C
Sub-total                                        :.P,   12.0 *16.i' 7      W07]    1.22  7
Price Contingencies, 6 p.a.                                      0.5"    1.69    2.26       0.o6    0.17   0.23
TOTAL                                                  11.7        4 n              17 1           5
Summary
Construiction of Four Dry Cargo 3erths                               43.33   58.26  101t.5       4.38    5.91  1o.2n        30
'emode'ling of West Wharf Railway Yard                               16.83  214.0o   70.92       1.73    2.38   7.11        21
1feplacement of Napier Mole Road Bridge                              35.25   23.0'  5B.32        3.55    2.35   5.,O        1
Proourernent of Equipmaent                                            8.99   21.36   30.3'5      0.91    2.16   3.0'         0
Oon3ultantsl Services                                                 4.07   12.10   16.17       0.42    1.22   1.6)1        5
Sub-total                                     13Z.147  137     7            .59   1l4.02 .2..01        U2
Ph.'sical Contingencl`es                                         13.0O   11.60   21.6o       1.30    1.16   2.136        7
Price Contingencies                                              17.15   18.95  _36.14       1.78    1.9I   3.72        ll
Sub-total                                      30.19   30     7. 6l.04             3T. 10   6.18      7
GRA?ID TOTAL                                  1611.'6  L6c . L3  336.39   17.07   172]2  31h.15       10l
_3.arce: 3ank Staff
"'d' ?, 1- 3



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OPF THE THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
D Car a  Traffic
'm6  tons)
A c t u a 1F o r e c a o t
Yearr ending June                                      1971        1972            1973    1974      1975      1976     1977      1978      1979      1980
ItNORTS
Iron & Steel                                          471.9       382.7           300       350       400      440       480       530       590      300
Sugar                                                   -          61.6             30            -         -        -         -              -         -
Wheat                                                  360.1      918.2           1000      730       400       200      120       100        -         -
Fertilizers                                            261.4      194.7            200      200       220      220       260       330       400      450
General Cargo                                         1640.3     1227.4           1270     1320      1380     1450      1540      1630      1730      1830
Total Dry Cargo Imports                            2733.7      2784.6          2800      2600      2400     2310      2400      2590      2720     2580
EEXORTS
Sugar                                                  160.0       -                -        80       160       180      180       180       180       180
Rice                                                   480.0      413.6            400      440       480       520      560       570       620      680
Oil seeds & cakes                                       95.3       68.0             50       60        60       60        70        70        70        70
Cotton                                                 153.3      281.0            300      350       370      400       450       450       500       550
Cement                                                 604.6      540.3            500      550       550      550       550       550       600      650
Salt                                                    37.7       49.7             60       70        80       80        90        90       100       100
Other                                                 1028.1      1030.0          1000     1050      1100      1100     1100      1100      1200      1300
Total Dry Cargo Exports                            2559.0      2382.6          2310      2600     2800      2890      3000      3010     3270      3530
'fCT^> RtA;^RGO                                       5292.7     5167.2           5110     5200      5200      5200     5400      5600      5990      6110
(EXCI. Steel Mill Traffic)
Growth Rate (%)                                                                   -1.3      2.0       0.0       0.0      4.5       4.5       4.5       4.5    Average 2.5%
Steel Hill Equipment                                                                -        -        120       120      130       130        -         -
Coal and Ore                                                                        -        -         -         -        -         -       1240      2800
TOTAl, (tntl. Steel Hill Traffic)                                                 5110     5200      5320      5320     5530      5730      7230      8910
Growth Rate (7)                                                                   -1.3      2.0       2.3       0.0      3.9       3.6      26.2      23.2    Average 7.0%
HIGH FORECAST - Total (Excl. Steel Mill Traffic)                                  5110     5200      5400      5600     5800      6100      6300      6600
- Growtb Rate                                                     -1.3       2.0       3.8       3.7      3.6       5.2       3.3       4.8    Average 3.1%
- Total (Incl. Steel Mill Traffic)                                 51 0     5200      5520      5720     5930      6230      7540      9400
- Growth Rate                                                     -1.3       2.0       6.2       3.6      3.7       5.1      21.0      24.7    Average 7.82
Source:  Bank Staff
November 24, 1972



TABLE 5
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Karachi Port Trust - Revenue and Expenditure
Years Ended June 30
(PRs 'C0OO)
1967     1968     1969I    1970       1971
Operating Revenues                83,620   84,307   85,128   91,267  103,519
Operating Expenditures            39,132   43,854   53,135   57,996   70,869
Depreciation                -       7,000    7,000    7,40t)    8,300    9,300
Total Operating Expenditures       46,132   50,854   60,535   66,296   80,169
Net Operating Revenue              37,488   33,453   24,593   24,971   23,350
Non-Operating Revenue               4,280    4,482    4,897    5,987    6,368
Net Revenue                        41,768   37,935   29,491)  30,958   29,718
Interest Paid                       3,775    3,643    3,635    3,211    3,028
Net Income                         37,993   34,292   25,855   27,747   26,690
Operating Ratio                     55       60        71       72        77
Interest Earned Ratio               11.0     10.4       8.1      9.6       9.8
Debt Service Coverage                3.8      3.6       2.8      3.0       3.0
Return on Net Fixed Assets          12.7     10.1       6.9      6.5       5.6
Deceuber 6, 1972



TABLE 6
PAKISMTN
APPPATISAL CE THIRD KABACHI PCRT PROJECT
Karachi Port Trust - Balance Sheet as at June 30, 1971
ASSETS       Current Assets
Cash                                 82,338
Debtors                              29, 028
Stores                               15, hh6
126 ,858
Investments
Provident & Other Funds              26,224
Reserve Fund                         53,431
Operating Reserves
Sinking Fund       54,513
Depreciation Fund  25,094
Revenue Account    27p672
Capital Account    32,172
139.453
Fixed Assets                        544,101 2l9,106
Less Depreciation                    72,26o
471 .805
TOTAL ASSETS                               817.805
1IABIIITIES  Current Liabilities                                    27,799
Long-Term Debt
World Bank                           90,919
Consortia Loans                      17,752
108,671
Equity & Reserves
Capital Account                     466,680
Revenue Reserve                      59,270
Provident & Welfare Funds            27,739
Sinking Fund                        121,325
Revenue Account                       6.321
TOTAL LIABILITIES                          817,805
Debt/Equity Ratio                                     14/86
Current Ratio                                         4.5:1
Source:  Karach2 Pcrt Trust
November 2L, 1972



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Estimated Revenue and Expenditure
Years Ended June 30
(PRs ' 000)
Actual
1972         1973         1974         1975         1976         1977         1978         1979         1980
Operating Revenues                    125,473       137,936      157,036      172,573     181,254      190,284      201,502      211,512      222,663
Operating Expenditures                 70,011        82,661       90,590       94,449     100,808      107,612      114,893      121,448      128,363
Depreciation                           10.200        14,371       15,700       17,000      19,000       21,000       23.000       25,000       25.000
Total Operating Expenditure            80,211        97,032      106,290      111,449     119,808      128,612      137,893      146,448      153,363
Net Operating Revenue                  45,262        40,904       50,846       60,124      61,446       61,672       63,609       65,064       69,300
Interest on Investments                 7,710         8,505        8,000        7,300        6,700       5,300        4,21"0       3,600        2,800
Net Revenue                            52,972        49,409       58,846       67,424       68,146      66,972       67,809       68,664       72,100
Interest Paid                           4,691         7,841        7,837       20,412       26,153      31,759       32,940       33,740       35,639
Net Income                             48,281        41,568       51,009       47,012       41,993       35,113      34,869        34,924      36,461
Operating Ratio                         64%           707          68%          65%          69.          67%          6Z%          69Z          69%
Interest Earned Ratio                  11.3           6.3          7.5          3.3          2.6          2.1          2.1          2.0          2.0
Debt Service Coverage                   3.8           2.0          2.4          1.9          1.7          1.4          1.4          1.3          1,3
Return on Net Fixed Assets             6.7%           5.6%        6.3%         6.3%         5.6%         4.9%         4,9%         4.8%        4.8%
Source: KPT and Bank Staff
May 24, 1973



TABLE 8
PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
Sources and Disposale of Funds
For Years Ended June 30
(PRs'000)
1973      1974       1975       1976      1977       1978       1979      1980           Total
Sources
Net Income                             41,568    51.009    47,012    41,993    35,113    34,869    34,924    36,461             322,949
Depreciatiorn                          14,371    15,700    17,000    19,000    21,000    23,000    25,000    25,000             160,071
Loars
376-PAK                           18,790    11,450              -         -          -          -               -           30,240
S-9 PAK                            2,520        -         -          -          -         -          -          -            2,520
Third Port Project                   -       14,652    51,381    60,093    41,778       5,301        -          -          173,205
Oil Terminal                         -          -      48,030    40,60         -          -         -          -           88,710
Western Backwater                    -          -         -          -       23,420    23,410    58,540    58,550          163,920
Consortia                          3.330    15,900      5.500                                                               24 730
24,640    42,002   104,911   100,773    65,198    28,711    58,540    58,550            483,325
Grant - Napier Mole Bridge                -        1,850      7,402     8,028      8,799      2.613        -         -           28,692
Reserves
Investments Realized                      -          -          -      15,094    44,513    16,172    23,431    17,672           116,882
Total Sources               80,579   110,561   176,325   184,888   174,623   105,365   141,895   137,683            1,111,919
Disposals
Capital Expenditure
Second Port Project               48,230    36,670      5,600        -          -          -         -          -           90,500
Engineering Services               4,120      3,500       -                     -                    -          -            7,620
Third Port Project                   -       30,170    85,230    95,510   101,360    22,880          -          -          335,150
Oil Terminal                         -          -      51,170    46,180       6,110        -         -          -          103,460
Western Backwater                    -          -          -         -       39,690    39,690    99,220    99,230          277,830
Other Works                       11.760    30.010    31.650    17.500    13,500        9.500        -          -          113,920
64,110   100,350   173,650   159,190   160,660    72,070    99,220    99,230             928,480
Repayment of Loans
S-9 PAK                            1,375        -         -          -          -          -         -          -            1,375
126-FAK                            8,635      9,042     9,482      9,944    10,417    10,912    11,472    11,962            81,866
376-PAK                            6,160      6,490     6,875      7,260      7,700     8,140      8,580      9,020         60,225
Third Port Project                   -          -         -          -          -          -       8,786      8,786         17,572
Oil Terminal                         -          -         -          -        4,436     4,436      4,436      4,436         17,744
Conseoria                          7,436      7.436     7.436      7,436      7,436     5.983      4.303      4,303         51.769
23,606    22,968    23,793    24,640    29,989    29,471    37,577    38,507             230,551
Invest.nent                               -          -          -         -          -          -          -         -              -
Increase in Working Capital             5,000      1,000      1,000     1,000      3,000      3,000     1,000      1,000         16,000
92,716   124,318   198,443   184,830   193,649   104,501   137,797   138,737           1,175,031
'ncrease (Decrease) in Resources           (12,137)  (13,757)  (22,118)          58   (19,026)       824      4,098    (1,054)        (63,112)
So.rce: KPT and Bank Staff
>1y 24, 1973



PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KAACHI PORT PROJECT
Forecast Balance Sheets as at June 30
(PRS'000)
Actual
1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
Fixed Assets                              751,285      815,395     915,745   1,089,395   1,248.585   1,409,245   1,481.315   1,580.535   1,679,765
Less Depreciation                     82.460       96.831     112.531     129.531     14B.531    169.531     192.531      217.531    242,531
Net Fixed Assets                668,825      718,564     803.214     959,864   1,100,054   1,239,714   1,288,784   1,363.004   1,437,234
Investments                               239,039      239,039     239,039    239,039     223,945     179,432     163,260     139.829     122,157
Current Assets
Debtors                               34,316       32,316      30,316      28,316      26,316      26,316      26,316      26,316     26,316
Stores                                18,235       19,235      20,235      21,235      22,235      23,235      24,235      25,235     26,235
Cash                                  77,865       65,728      51,971      29,853      2 1         10,885      11,709      15.807     14,753
130,416     117,279     102,522      79,404      78,462      60,436      62,260      67.358      67,304
Total Assets                  1,038,280    1,074,882   1,144,775   1,278,307   1,402,461   1,479,582   1,514,304   1,570,191   1,626,695
Deduct;  Current Liabilities          29,407       23,407      21,407      19,407      17,407      15,407      13,407      13,407      13,407
Capital Employed              1,008,873    1,051,475   1,123,368   1,258,900   1,385,054   1,464,175   1,500,897   1,556,784   1,613,288
Represented by:
LoqA-Term Debt                       265,616      266,650     285,684     366,802     442,935     478,144     477,384     498,347     518,390
Eclusty and Reserves
Capital Reserves                514,967      553,655     592,809     629,573     659,807     690,335     707,766     712,943     744,234
Other Reserves                  228.288      231,170     244.875     262.525     282,312    295.696      315.747     335.494     350,664
743,257     784,825     837,684     892,098     942,119     986,031   1,023,513   1,058,437   1,094,898
1,008,873    1,051,475   1,123,368   1,258,900   1,385,054   1,464,175   1,500.897   1,556,784   1,6.3,288
Debt/Equity                                 26/72      25/75         25/75       29/71       32/68       33/67       32/68       32/68       32/68
Current Ratio                               4.4:1      5.0:1         4.8:1       4.1:1       4.5:1       3.9:1       4.6:1       5.0:1       5.0:1
Source:  KPT and Bank Staff
May 24, 1973






PAKISTAN
APPRAISAL OF THIRD KARACHI PORT PROJECT
ORGANIZATION OF KARACHI PORT TRUST
BOARD OF
11 TRUSTEES
I                        -
CHAIRMAN          SCRETARY~
ACCOUNTS           STORES            MEDICAL                CIVIL           WATCH &            ETT
DEPT. 1           DEPT.             DEPT.               DEF~ENCE         WAD DEPT.            DEPT.
I                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~DEPT.
CIVIL         CONSTRUCTION       MECHANICAL          TRAFFIC            PORT
ENGINEERING          DEPT.         & ELECTRIC AL                                        Bank-7162
DEPT.                               DEPT.DETDP.
World Bank-7162






IBRD 10169
66- e                   70e                         74.   OCTOBER 1972
PAKI ST AN
TRANSPORTATION  NETWORK                                                          .R    /
PR~~~~~MARV w~~~~~~~~~os         I   ~~~~~~~~ ~326
.  .       E%X1PNARY ROADS-
""""""'"'''"'-  SECNARY ROAD'S"       ':.                                  +_           * 
t -----'-RAILWAYS                '.
A. .ORTS         '    -'-
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES                              'AMMU
'  ,, ,-   -   iNTERHATItoAL BONDARIES                           /                 ..    A ND
, .......... CEASE FIRE LINE                                      4(..A PROX C                      LINE
Peshowar                         SErR
RIVER5 . . .ABA
iSLA   KASMIR
- -. , ,0 - m 2X , , t. ! $' )$2~~~~~~~~~~~~~atwal1pindi R4/
KILOMETERS   -       ....  DISPTE   / ~
K. _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
|  78-                          pt    So ' s           4Kh                          ;      n La pu
iRAN  -   I^R>,uettc 
: 8 ~~~~~~~~~~Kolat                                               a& {/ aawalpur  N 1A
~~~-I                                                   RN  1U   ...-J R   by 
B A L U C HCEASI S/R
A / .. /A   /5lJSukku/- A                                           U. S.....R..    APO.RA
62~~                                                                 INDIAN              OCEBeaASIN
!  8elat      \  \W\ S [ N D    >)                i       4r       t      ~~~~~~~~BHUTAN
F<                e r a          b il~           ~    ~ ~~         ~      ~    ~       ~      ~~~derab1 NDd
---.A:RA        A BI AVS5   
.--,- "<.    ' ,"   "    ,   .-   k        t              ....                  OCEAI






IBRD 10171
OCTOBeR 1972
/ 4 // ~~~MsAzNsFYeDWM IMO
I,
WESTERN                                        DE'PwAti.   NAP/ER MO/ E
I                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~EARrSTE.4RN DG
BACKWATER                                                       c/, / / 2 /kti B ACKWATER
..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w~r..--r-
= _ _ - -  X |  I i Z Z 4 / / 17 S / w _
' =  =  _   ,  l \ \  / /   d/lS///           ~~~BAC KWATER   
--:z5/,.bt<l~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ o 0 C)  0S o 
OIL INSrALLATIONS
z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Ki~~
<    . ..... t   \ }    \        <\         /          /   PAKI STAN \
KARACHI PORT
-Z                                MR NtEW          Payed Roods
\- ,,   .-   Railwoy Tracks
------        Trov ng Walls
Transit Sheds
-;--\(  Mangrove Swamps
N t-   \\   \\   A    <   X   >    \  =, T-id. Mud Flots
- - 26/ \ \< ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0                    100>V  0  20[00   ,3000k
IRAN   L    . )~-                         Qe,       .     \  '
t \> INDIA                            i
SAUCDl~~~~~~~~~bi    o_wm t or ac~ljmce by    1.  ...the






1BRD 10170
67 xii                       I670'5'                                                OCTOBER 1972
-24055'                                                                                                                   24055 -
AIRPORT
Pi-  l                     i%   TE           
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
To Hyderabad
24050
TRANSPORTATION NETWORK~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ORN 
__  .oieR  MOl RoAd BrI9 NroOect         /    R                         Y/                       S S. R.
-     Major Roads                           City Areas                                IRAN           
"____- Secondary Road                                                                                                 4 wsme  Areks  /CEA
0    1     2     5     4
KILOMETERS Oeo             v#1                                                         INDIA
imply eAfowmr          Om l            SAUDI
TRANSPORTA NWO   k din 4-Sie                               ARABIA



