CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 422 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Karachi Port Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 19, 1973


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 422 PAK
Development Credit
Agreement
(Third Karachi Port Project)
BETWEEN
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JULY 19, 1973


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 19, 1973, between ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF
PAKISTAN, acting by its President, (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower and The Trustees of the Port of Karachi have
requested the Association to assist in the financing of the cost of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter
provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by The Trustees of the Port of Karachi
with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower, save
as hereinafter provided, will make available to The Trustees of the Port of Karachi
the proceeds of the Credit;
(C)   By a Development Credit Agreement dated June 10, 1970 between
the Borrower and the Association, the Association agreed to assist in financing,
inter alia, the final engineering of the expansion of Karachi Port capacity and,
in accordance with the provisions thereof, the parties hereto have agreed that such
financing should be refunded out of the proceeds of the Credit; and
(D)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a nroject agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and The Trustees of the Port of Karachi;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated January 31, 1969, with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein, subject, however, to the deletion of Sections 5.01 and
6.02(h) thereof and to the renumbering of Section 6.02(i) into 6.02(h) thereof
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, as so modified, being hereinafter called the General Conditions).


﻿4
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Board" means The Trustees of the Port of Karachi, a body corporate
established by the Karachi Port Trust Act, and any successor thereto;
(b)   "Karachi Port Trust Act" means the Karachi Port Trust Act, 1886
(Bombay Act No. VI of 1886) as amended to the date of this Agreement;
(c)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement, including all schedules
thereto, between the Association and the Board of even date herewith, as the same
may be amended from time to time;
(d)   "Grant" means the grant provided for in Section 2.09 of this
Agreement; and
(e)   "Engineering Credit Agreement" means the development credit
agreement between the Borrower and Association dated June 10, 1970, and
"Engineering Credit" means the credit provided thereunder.
ARTICLE II
The Credit and the Grant
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to 1nd to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to eighteen million dollars ($18,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the
Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement,
as such Schedule shall be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed under the
Development Credit Agreement; provided, however, that, except as the Association
shall otherwise agree, no withdrawal shall be made on account of expenditures
in the territories of any country which is not a member of the Bank (other than
Switzerland) or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, such territories.
(b)   The Association shall on the Effective Date withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay itself, on behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to refund


﻿5
the principal amount of the Engineering Credit withdrawn and then outstanding,
together with the service charges accrued thereon. Any amount not withdrawn
from the credit account for the Engineering Credit shall be cancelled on the same
date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit or the Grant shall be procured pursuant to the provisions set forth or referred
to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such other date
as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Servic-, charges shall be payable semi-annually on June 1 and
December 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each June 1 and December 1 commencing
December 1, 1983 and ending June 1, 2023, each installment to and including
the installment payable on June 1, 1993 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of
1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower agrees to pay to the Board in the currency
of the Borrower, by way of interest free, non-repayable cash grant, an amount
equivalent to 40% of the total expenditures incurred by the Board in respect of
the cost of goods and services required for Part III of the Project.
(b)   The Grant shall be promptly disbursed by the Borrower at the written
request of the Board, supported by appropriate documentary evidence, to or on
behalf of the Board against such percentage of expenditures as incurred by the
Board.
Section 2,10. The Chairman of the Board or such person or persons as he
shall appoint in writing are designated as representative of the Borrower for the


﻿6
purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions
of Section 2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project and Other Provisions
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
the Board to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement
all its obligations as therein set forth, shall take and cause to be taken all action
necessary or appropriate to enable the Board to perform such obligations, and
shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend out of the proceeds of the Credit an amount
in various currencies equivalent to seventeen million seven hundred and fifty
thousand dollars ($17,750,000) to the Board to assist in the financing of the cost
of Part I through V of the Project in accordance with Schedule 3 to this Agreement
and on such other terms and conditions as shall be satisfactory to the Association,
and shall apply the balance of the proceeds of the Credit to the financing of the
cost of Part VI of the Project.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall, promptly as required, take all steps
necessary on its part to enable the Board to set and maintain its tariff structure
and rates in accordance with Sections 4.05 and 4.06 of the Project Agreement.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall carry out, or cause to be carried out,
the railway operations study referred to in Part VI of the Project and for such
purpose shall appoint consultants acceptable to the Association upon terms and
conditions mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association.
(b)   The Borrower shall submit to the Association, together with its
recommendations in respect of the implementation thereof, the said railway
operations study by March 31, 1975.
Section 3.04. In the provision and operation, and in the planning of the
future development, of port facilities and services in its territories, the Borrower
shall observe, or shall cause to be observed, sound economic, financial, technical
and port policies and procedures.


﻿7
ARTICLE IV
Consultation, Information and Inspection
Section 4.01. The Borrower and the Association shall cooperate fully to
assure that the purposes of the Credit will be accomplished. To that end, the
Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at the request of either
party:
(a)   exchange views through their representatives with regard to the
performance of their respective obligations under the Development Credit
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit; and
(b)   furnish to the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Credit. On the part of the Borrower, such
information shall include information with respect to financial and economic
conditions in the territories of the Borrower, including its balance of payments,
and the external debt of the Borrower, of any of its political subdivisions and
of any agency of the Borrower or of any such political subdivision.
Section 4.02. The Borrower and the Association shall promptly inform each
other of any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere with, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the maintenance of the service
thereof, or the performance by either of them of its obligations under the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall afford all reasonable opportunity for
accredited representatives of the Association to visit any part of the territories
of the Borrower for purposes related to the Credit.
ARTICLE V
Taxes and Restrictions
Section 5.01. The principal of, and service charges on, the Credit shall be
paid without deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the laws of
the Borrower or laws in effect in its territories.
Section 5.02. The Development Credit Agreement and the Project Agreement
shall be free from any taxes on or in connection with the execution, delivery
or registration thereof, imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect
in its territories.


﻿8
Section 5.03. The payment of the principal of, and service charges on, the
Credit shall be free from all restrictions, regulations, controls and moratoria of
any nature imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws in effect in its
territories.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. If any event specified in Section 7.01 of the General Conditions
or in Section 6.03 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for the period,
if any, therein set forth, then at any subsequent time during the continuance
thereof, the Association, at its option, may by notice to the Borrower declare
the principal of the Credit then outstanding to be due and payable immediately
together with the service charges thereon and upon any such declaration such
principal and service charges shall become due and payable immediately, anything
to the contrary in the Development Credit Agreement notwithstanding.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   An extraordinary situation shall have arisen which shall make it
improbable that the Board will be able to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement;
(b)   The Board shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under
the Project Agreement in a manner materially and adversely affecting the
Association, the Project or the purposes of the Credit;
(c)   The Karachi Port Trust Act shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived in such a way as materially and adversely to affect
the ability of the Board to carry out its obligations under the Project Agreement;
(d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of the Board or for the
suspension of its operations;
(e)   A default shall occur in the performance of any obligation (other than
as mentioned in Section 7.01(b) of the General Conditions) either
(i)         on the part of the Borrower under either of the Guarantee
Agreements between the Bank and the Borrower respectively


﻿9
dated August 4, 1955 and May 14, 1964 or under the
Development Credit Agreement between the Association and the
Borrower dated June 10, 1970; or
(ii)       on the part of the Board under either of the Loan Agreements
between the Bank and the Board respectively dated August 4,
1955 and May 14, 1964, or under the Project Agreement
between the Association and the Board dated June 10, 1970
in a manner materially and adversely affecting the Association, the Project or the
purposes of the Credit.
Section 6.03. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)   the event specified in paragraphs (b) or (e) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreen',ent shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereot shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
(b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of Section 6.02 of this
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII
Effective Date; Termination
Section 7.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 10.01(b) of the General Conditions, namely, that:
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of the
Board have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action; and
(b)   arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have been made
between the Borrower and the Board in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.01(b) of this Agreement for the relending out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 7.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 10.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association, namely, that:


﻿10
(a)   the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by, and
executed and delivered on behalf of, the Board, and constitutes a valid and binding
obligation of the Board in accordance with its terms;
(b)   arrangements satisfactory to the Association shall have been made
between the Borrower and the Board in accordance with the provisions of Section
3.01(b) of this Agreement for the relending out of the proceeds of the Credit;
and
(c)   all necessary acts, consents and approvals to be performed or given
by the Borrower, its political subdivisions or agencies or by any agency of any
political subdivision or otherwise to be performed or given in order to authorize
the carrying out of the Project and to enable the Board to perform its obligations
under the Project Agreement have been so performed or given.
Section 7.03. The date October 19, 1973 is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 10.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.04. The obligations of the Borrower under Sections 3.02 and 3.04
of this Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development
Credit Agreement shall terminate or on a date twenty years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. The Secretary to the Government of Pakistan, Economic Affairs
Division is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
9.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
The Secretary to the Government
of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad
Pakistan


﻿11
Cable address:
ECONOMIC
Islamabad
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Ag.eernent to be signed
in their respective names and to be delivered in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By /s/ A. M. Mufti
Authorized Representative,
for and on behalf of the President
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ William Diamond
for Regional Vice President
Asia


﻿12
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of amounts of the Credit to each Category
and the percentage of eligible expenditures so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
I.    Civil Works included          7,100,000          100% of foreign
in Part I(a) and                                  expenditures and
Part III of the                                   15% of local ex-
Project                                           penditures
II.   Equipment and Goods            5,700,000          100% of foreign
expenditures
III.  (a)  Consulting                 970,000     )    100% of foreign
Services in                            )    expenditures
respect of                             )
Parts I through                        )
V of the Proj-                         )
ect                                    )
(b)  Consulting                  250,000    )
Services in                            )
respect of                             )
Part VI of                             )
the Project                            )
IV.  Refunding of the                 880,000          100% of foreign
Engineering Credit                                expenditures
V.   Unallocated                    3,100,000
TOTAL         18,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)  the term   "foreign expenditures" means expenditures for goods
produced in, or services supplied from, the territories, and in the currency, of
any country other than the Borrower.


﻿13
(b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
the Borrower, or for goods produced in, or services supplied from, the territories
of the Borrower.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement; and
(b)   payments for taxes imposed under the laws of the Borrower or laws
in effect in its territories on goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture,
procurement or supply thereof. To the extent that the amount represented by
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of any Category would exceed the amount payable net of all such taxes,
such percentage shall be reduced to ensure that no proceeds of the Credit will
be withdrawn on account of payments for such taxes.
4.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above:
(a)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category (which
expression shall include any sub-category) shall decrease, the amount of the Credit
then allocated to such Category and no longer required therefor will be reallocated
by the Association by increasing correspondingly the unallocated amount of the
Credit; and
(b)   if the estimate of the expenditures under any Category shall increase,
the percentage set forth in the third column of the table in paragraph I above
in respect of such expenditures shall be applied to the amount of such increase,
and a corresponding amount will be allocated by the Association, at the request
of the Borrower, to such Category from the unallocated amount of the Credit,
subject, however, to the requirements for contingencies, as determined by the
Association, in respect of any other expenditures; and
(c)   if the Association  shall have reasonably   determined  that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set
forth or referred to in Section 2.04 of the Project Agreement, no expenditures
for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and the Association
may, without in any way restricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy
of the Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the
Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable
opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which would otherwise have
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿14
5.    Notwithstanding the percentages set forth in the third column of the table
in paragraph I above, if the estimate of local expenditures under Category I shall
increase and no proceeds of the Credit are available for reallocation to such
Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, adjust the percentage
then applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals under such
Category m.iy continue until all expenditures thereunder shall have been made.


﻿15
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project comprises the further expansion and improvement of the Port
of Karachi and consists of the following parts:
Part I      Juna Bunder Cargo Berths
(a)   The construction at the Juna Bunder of a quay structure of approximately
2,155 feet in length to provide four adjacent dry cargo berths, the construction
of two transit sheds each of 67,000 square feet in area and the provision of cargo
handling equipment, including 16 quay cranes.
(b)   The construction of ancillary works, including open storage areas, roads, and
rail siding, the installation of water, drainage and electricity services and the
construction of administrative facilities.
Part H1     West Wharf Railway and Storage Yard
(a)   The provision of rails and associated goods.
(b)   The construction at the West Wharf Railway and Storage Yard of permanent
way track 27,500 yards long, of open storage areas and storage sheds of an aggregate
area of 1,195,000 square feet and of a road over-bridge 1,800 feet long and 60
feet wide, and the construction and installation of ancillary roads and parking areas
and of water, drainage, electricity and administrative services and facilities.
Part III    Napier Mole Road Bridge
The construction, to replace the existing Napier Mole Road Bridge, of a
bridge 1,400 feet long and 96 feet wide and of approach works thereto.
Part IV     Karachi Port Engineering and Consulting Services Project
The carrying out by the Board of the project described in the Engineering
Credit Agreement (including the final engineering designs, drawings, cost estimates
and tender documents for the fourth oil berth at Keamari) in accordance with
the provisions thereof and of the Project Agreement dated June 10, 1970 between
the Association and the Board.


﻿16
Part V     Consultants' Services to be used by the Board
The use by the Board of consultants' services
(a)   to carry out the detailed engineering for the construction of dry cargo
berths in the Western Backwater;
(b)   to carry out a study of the dredging operations of the Board, including
means of improving managerial control and plant utilization, and to
make recommendations to the Board in relation thereto; and
(c)   to assist in the implementation of the management accounting system
to be introduced by the Board.
Part VI    Consultants' Services to be used by the Borrower
The use by the Borrower of consultants' services to carry out by
December 31, 1974, a study of the railway system provided by Pakistan Western
Railway serving the Karachi area to improve the operational performan,e thereof,
including, but without limitation, the coordination of the operations of the Pipri
Marshalling Yard and of the railway yards on the East and West Wharf; to make
recommendations to the Borrower in relation thereto; and to provide training in
improved operational procedures.
The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1978.


﻿17
SCHEDULE 3
Subsidiary Loan Terms
1.   (a)   The Borrower will lend to the Board out of the proceeds of the Credit
on the terms and conditions hereinafter mentioned an amount in various currencies
equivalent to $17,750,000 (hereinafter called the Subsidiary Loan).
(b)  The Chairman of the Board, or such person as he shall appoint in
writing, will be authorized to make application to the Association for withdrawal
of the amounts which the Borrower is entitled to withdraw under the Credit
Agreement in respect of the reasonable cost of the goods and services required
for Parts I through V of the Project.
(c)  Upon each withdrawal under the Development Credit Agreement, an
amount equal to and in the currency or currencies of the amount so withdrawn
will be credited to and withdrawn from a Subsidiary Loan Account to be opened
in the books of the Borrower in the name of the Board.
2.    Whenever it shall be necessary for the purpose of this Agreement to determine
the value of one currency in terms of another, such vaiue will be reasonably
determined by the Borrower.
3.   The Board will pay to the Borrower interest on the principal amount of
the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at the rate
of 7-1/4% per annum in the currency of the Borrower.
4.    (a)  At the written request of the Board the Borrower will forthwith request
the Association to enter into special commitments in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods or services required for the Project. Such special commitments will
be upon such terms as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association
as provided in the Development Credit Agreement.
(b)  The Board will reimburse the Borrower in full in respect of all amounts
which the Borrower may be obligated to pay to the Association on account of
charges for such special commitments pursuant to Section 3.02 of the General
Conditions.
5.   Interest and other charges will be paid on June 1 and December 1 in each
year.
6.   Save as the Borrower, the Board and the Association may otherwise agree:


﻿18
(a)   the Board will repay the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan by
40 equal consecutive semi-annual payments, the first such payment to be made
on December 1, 1978; and
(b)   the principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan repayable will be the
equivalent (determined as of the date, or the respective dates, of repayment of
the Subsidiary Loan) of the value of the currency or currencies of the Credit
withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account and on-lent to the Board
in accordance with the provisions hereof.
7.   The Board will have the right at any time to make prepayment of the
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan without payment of premium.
8.   The on-lending arrangements herein provided for will contain provisions
entitling the Borrower to suspend, cancel or accelerate the Subsidiary Loan in the
event that the Credit should be respectively suspended, cancelled or accelerated
in accordance with the Development Credit Agreement.


